

401 of 785 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 17, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; PATIENT MONEY; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 954 words

HEADLINE: Losing Weight the Smartphone Way, a Nutritionist in Your Pocket

BYLINE: By LESLEY ALDERMAN

 BODY:
FOR most of us, the formula for losing weight is a simple one: eat less, exercise more. But humans are anything but simple, and the majority of Americans struggle endlessly with losing pounds and keeping them off.
''We really haven't come up with one good weight-loss solution,'' said Dr. James A. Levine, an endocrinologist at the Mayo Clinic. ''If we had, everyone would be using it.''
Consuming fewer calories is perhaps the most difficult part of the weight-loss equation; many dieters are daunted by the prospect of tabulating their daily intake. That's why many experts and consumers are excited about the new weight-loss programs available for iPhone, BlackBerry and other smartphones. 
The apps -- which are simple, fun and often free -- help users track the number of calories and nutrients they consume, as well as the number of calories they burn. Users learn to balance calorie intake and activity in real time.
Though there is no data on whether mobile apps are more effective than joining a traditional dieting program (apps are too new for long-term studies), their popularity is telling. Since LoseIt, now one of the most highly rated free apps, hit the iTunes store in November 2008, more than five million people have downloaded the program.
''We're linking weight loss to the coolest gadgets in the world,'' said Dr. Levine, who helped develop the Walk n' Play app, which calculates the total calories one burns each day.
Dennis Dodge, 67, and his wife, Carolyn, 68, recently started using LoseIt to shed weight and control their diabetes. The retired couple, who live in Hampden, Me., tapped their age, weight and goals into their iPod Touches, and the app told them how many calories they should eat each day. Every day they record what they eat and how much they exercise.
The couple, who are using LoseIt as part of a diabetes program run by a local hospital, said they were intimidated at first by the technology but had found the app remarkably easy and even fun to use. ''I am now more cognizant of my habits,'' Mr. Dodge said.
Mrs. Dodge added: ''With other diets you follow their regimen. With this, you set your own goal.''
When you track calories closely, you lose more weight, said Dr. Lawrence Cheskin, associate professor of health, behavior and society at Johns Hopkins Bloomberg School of Public Health. But dieters who simply write down their intake at the end of each day tend to underestimate the calories they have consumed (call it wishful thinking).
The beauty of mobile apps is that they work in real time. You eat lunch and immediately log in your meal on your phone. The apps rely on databases to record the calorie counts of thousands of foods, whether a single item like an apple or a prepared meal like a sub sandwich, which takes the guesswork out of totaling calories.
Weight-loss experts are hopeful that apps will help turn chronic dieters into healthy eaters. If you're looking at a menu wondering whether to order pasta primavera or a Caesar salad, an app can tell you on the spot which option has fewer calories.
Over time, this information becomes part of your own internal database and, the thought is, dieters begin to make healthier choices.
Dana Green, a diabetes specialist at St. Joseph Healthcare Diabetes Institute of Behavioral Medicine in Bangor, Me., has been testing the LoseIt program with a small group of his patients, including the Dodges. Since April, almost all of the 17 patients, ranging in age from 48 to 76, have lost weight and lowered their blood sugar. One man lost six pounds; two of the women in the program were able to reduce their insulin intake by 20 percent, Mr. Green said.
''Patients begin to see their patterns and habits and so make better decisions,'' he said. ''I'm extremely optimistic.''
With mobile apps, dieters also can better visualize the relationship between exercise and eating. A 30-minute walk burns about 100 calories, they learn, while jogging for the same time at 6 miles per hour burns four times that.
When the user realizes she's almost hit her daily calorie limit, she can opt to go to the gym -- or to eat carrots for dinner. ''We're teaching people to think like economic consumers,'' says Charles Teague, the chief executive of FitNow, which produces LoseIt.
If want to give a weight-loss app a try, there are a few things to bear in mind before you get started.
A HUMAN PERSPECTIVE It is always a good idea to check with your doctor before beginning a weight-loss plan. Your primary care physician can help you set reasonable goals and also take a look at the app you've chosen to make sure it seems legitimate and reasonable.
''Apps are not regulated,'' said Dr. Joseph Kim, founder of the Medical Smartphones blog. ''There is no certification process to vet which weight-loss apps are better than others.''
SIMPLICITY COUNTS Opt for an app that is basic and intuitive. ''The interactive part of these programs is what makes them successful,'' said Mr. Green, the diabetes specialist.
Losing weight is hard enough -- you don't also need to contend with a program that has an annoying interface, is slow or too complicated.
SHARE YOUR PROGESS Some apps, like LoseIt, let you share your dieting progress with friends or other users via Facebook or Twitter. Many apps are linked to Web sites where users can chat on forums and blogs. If human support is important to you, choose an app that has social networking built in.
Not all experts are convinced that will be enough, however. ''What we've learned over the years is that support from a real human, face-to-face, is essential to keeping weight off over the long term,'' said Dr. Cheskin of Johns Hopkins.
''It's worth trying something new,'' he added, ''but don't expect miracles.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Dennis and Carolyn Dodge, 67 and 68, are using a weight-loss app called LoseIt on their iPod Touches. (PHOTOGRAPH BY MATT MCINNIS FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: DIETING (91%); SMARTPHONES (90%); MOBILE APPLICATIONS (90%); NUTRITION (90%); MOBILE & CELLULAR TELEPHONES (90%); EXERCISE & FITNESS (89%); DIABETES (76%); ENDOCRINOLOGY (76%); DIETITIANS & NUTRITIONISTS (75%); PHYSICIANS & SURGEONS (72%); RETIREMENT & RETIREES (63%)

COMPANY: RESEARCH IN MOTION LTD (56%)

ORGANIZATION: MAYO CLINIC (57%)

TICKER: RIM (TSX) (56%); BBRY (NASDAQ) (56%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS334111 ELECTRONIC COMPUTER MANUFACTURING (56%); SIC3571 ELECTRONIC COMPUTERS (56%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: July 17, 2010



402 of 785 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 17, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 1009 words

HEADLINE: Poor Trading Results Take Toll on Profits At Both Citigroup and Bank of America

BYLINE: By ERIC DASH

 BODY:
Profit fell at Citigroup and Bank of America in the second quarter as weak trading results overshadowed the benefit they received from dwindling losses on loans to consumers and businesses.
Both companies reported lower revenue, largely from a drastic slowdown in the trading of stocks, bonds and currencies by investors rattled during the quarter by fears of a European debt crisis and by wild stock market swings in May.
Citigroup's net income declined 37 percent, to $2.7 billion, and Bank of America's net income fell 3 percent, to $3.1 billion, from a year earlier. Both banks padded those results with a big release of funds that had been set aside to cover future loan losses, with executives citing improvements in the economy. 
The results exceeded the expectations of analysts, but investors sent the banks' shares lower on concerns about their ability to weather still-stagnant economic conditions in the United States and new financial regulations that could lower revenue over the long haul.
Citigroup shares sank more than 6 percent, on par with the rest of the sector, and Bank of America was off 9 percent. Goldman Sachs, in the first day of trading since it announced on Thursday a deal to settle a federal civil suit for $550 million, was the lone winner among big banks, rising about 0.7 percent.
''Stocks are really taking a whack,'' said Frederick Cannon, co-director of research at Keefe Bruyette Woods in New York. ''Investors seem to be factoring in a tougher revenue environment.''
Banks dragged down the major stock indexes, with the Dow Jones industrial average losing about 2.5 percent and the broader Standard & Poor's 500-stock index dropping about 2.8 percent.
For the first time since the crisis began, Citigroup announced the release of $1.5 billion in loan loss reserves. Bank of America released $1.45 billion from its reserves.
The results of both banks painted a bifurcated picture of the global economy. In the United States, far fewer borrowers are falling behind on credit card payments, while the banks are aggressively working out troubled commercial real estate loans.
''Credit quality continues to improve in some cases faster than we anticipated,'' Brian T. Moynihan, Bank of America's chief executive, said in a conference call with investors.
Both banks indicated that home borrowers, despite loan modification efforts, remained under stress.
The American economy remains fragile, causing the domestic retail banking and corporate lending franchises of both banks to deliver lackluster results. Fewer consumers are seeking to refinance their homes, and fewer businesses want financing, executives said.
''Companies are telling us they are reluctant to expand given the uncertainty about the future,'' Mr. Moynihan said.
Overseas, however, the prospects looked brighter. At Citigroup, for example, executives said they saw consumer and corporate loan losses starting to ease in the emerging markets. In Asia and Latin America, revenue growth was robust.
''If you take a look at those two regions, they combined to produce 30 percent of the revenue and 70 percent of the firm's profit,'' Citigroup's chief financial officer, John C. Gerspach, said.
As a result, Citigroup said it planned to set aside about $100 million in the quarter to expand its franchise in Latin America and Asia. It is also spending about $1 billion a year to maintain its Global Transaction Services unit, which caters to multinational corporations.
''We have lots of these opportunities and we are going after them diligently,'' Citigroup's chief executive, Vikram S. Pandit, said in a conference call with investors.
Trading revenue declined sharply at both banks. At Citigroup, revenue from stock trading was cut in half from a slowdown in activity, while bond trading fell by about a third. Currency trading also posted a low double-digit drop. At Bank of America, trading revenue fell $800 million from a year ago.
Over all, Citigroup's revenue fell about 33 percent, to $22 billion, but would have been flat from a year ago if the previous period had not benefited from the bank's sale of the Smith Barney brokerage business. Bank of America's revenue declined to $29 billion, compared with nearly $33 billion a year ago.
Contrasting the results of both banks, JPMorgan Chase, the first bank to report during the period, beat expectations on Thursday, with its net income rising 78 percent despite an 8 percent decline in revenue. A big release of its loan loss reserves lifted results.
Citigroup and Bank of America said new financial regulations would hurt revenue over the long haul, although some of it will be made up elsewhere.
Citigroup officials estimated that the bank card rules could lower earnings by as much as $800 million in 2010, but they played down the impact of the new regulations affecting debit cards, because the company has a much smaller retail bank than its main rivals. Mr. Pandit said the new restrictions on overdraft fees were ''not material'' to the bank because it never relied on excessive overdraft fees, nor were debit card fees a significant part of its business.
Bank of America, the nation's biggest credit card lender and retail bank, said the new rules could have a drastic impact. Bank officials said the new restrictions on debit card fees could cost it as much as $2.3 billion annually, while the new overdraft limits could shave a further $1 billion off its bottom line. The new credit card regulations will cost it about $1 billion a year, bank officials said.
Meanwhile, Bank of America cited the new regulations as the reason it was taking a write-down of at least $7 billion in the value of its global credit card operation. Some analysts, however, said they doubted that the charge could be attributed solely to the rule changes. Bank of America, which bought MBNA for $35 billion in 2005, had been accused of overpaying at the time.
''Financial reform does change the economics model, but the write-down is related to how much of a premium Ken Lewis paid for MBNA,'' Mr. Cannon, of Keefe Bruyette Woods, said.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Vikram Pandit, the chief executive of Citigroup, said his bank would not be hurt by new regulations as much as some others. (PHOTOGRAPH BY DANIEL ACKER/BLOOMBERG NEWS) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); COMPANY LOSSES (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); COMPANY EARNINGS (90%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (89%); CORPORATE DEBT (89%); COMMERCIAL BANKING (89%); STOCK INDEXES (89%); COMMERCIAL LENDING (89%); REAL ESTATE (79%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (78%); SECURITIES TRADING (78%); STOCK EXCHANGES (78%); BONDS (78%); DEBT CRISIS (78%); RETAIL BANKING (78%); CREDIT BUREAUS (78%); PUBLIC DEBT (77%); EXECUTIVES (74%); COMMERCIAL MORTGAGES (73%); GLOBALIZATION (63%); COMMERCIAL PROPERTY (63%); MORTGAGE REFINANCING (60%); EURO CRISIS (56%); CONFERENCE CALLS (50%)

COMPANY: BANK OF AMERICA CORP (92%); CITIGROUP INC (92%); GOLDMAN SACHS GROUP INC (90%)

TICKER: BAC (NYSE) (92%); BAC (LSE) (92%); 8648 (TSE) (92%); C (NYSE) (92%); C (BMV) (92%); 8710 (TSE) (92%); GS (NYSE) (90%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (92%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (92%); SIC6712 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (92%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (92%); NAICS522210 CREDIT CARD ISSUING (92%); NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (90%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (90%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (90%); SIC6289 SERVICES ALLIED WITH THE EXCHANGE OF SECURITIES OR COMMODITIES, NEC (90%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (90%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (90%)

PERSON: VIKRAM PANDIT (58%); BRIAN MOYNIHAN (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: July 17, 2010



403 of 785 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 17, 2010
Correction Appended 
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section D; Column 0; Obituary; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 902 words

PERSON: David Blackwell 

HEADLINE: David Blackwell, Scholar of Probability, Dies at 91

BYLINE: By WILLIAM GRIMES

 BODY:
David Blackwell, a statistician and mathematician who wrote groundbreaking papers on probability and game theory and was the first black scholar to be admitted to the National Academy of Sciences, died July 8 in Berkeley, Calif. He was 91.
The death was confirmed by his son Hugo. 
Mr. Blackwell, the son of a railroad worker with a fourth-grade education, taught for nearly 35 years at the University of California, Berkeley, where he became the first black tenured professor.
He made his mark as a free-ranging problem solver in numerous subdisciplines. His fascination with game theory, for example, prompted him to investigate the mathematics of bluffing and to develop a theory on the optimal moment for an advancing duelist to open fire.
''He went from one area to another, and he'd write a fundamental paper in each,'' Thomas Ferguson, an emeritus professor of statistics at the University of California, Los Angeles, told the Berkeley Web site. ''He would come into a field that had been well studied and find something really new that was remarkable. That was his forte.''
David Harold Blackwell was born on April 24, 1919, in Centralia, Ill. Early on, he showed a talent for mathematics, but he entered the University of Illinois with the modest ambition of becoming an elementary school teacher. He earned a bachelor's degree in mathematics in 1938 and, adjusting his sights, went on to earn a master's degree in 1939 and a doctorate in 1941, when he was only 22.
After being awarded a Rosenwald Fellowship, established by the clothing magnate Julius Rosenwald to aid black scholars, he attended the Institute for Advanced Study at Princeton. After completing the one year fellowship, Mr. Blackwell left when, because of his race, he was denied the right to attend lectures or do research at Princeton University. At Berkeley, where the statistician Jerzy Neyman wanted to hire him in the mathematics department, racial objections also blocked his appointment.
Instead, Mr. Blackwell sent out applications to 104 black colleges on the assumption that no other schools would hire him. After working for a year at the Office of Price Administration, he taught briefly at Southern University in Baton Rouge, La., and Clark College in Atlanta before joining the mathematics department at Howard University in Washington in 1944.
While at Howard, he attended a lecture by Meyer A. Girshick at the local chapter of the American Statistical Association. He became intensely interested in statistics and developed a lifelong friendship with Girshick, with whom he wrote ''Theory of Games and Statistical Decisions'' (1954).
As a consultant to the RAND Corporation from 1948 to 1950, he applied game theory to military situations. It was there that he turned his attention to what might be called the duelist's dilemma, a problem with application to the battlefield, where the question of when to open fire looms large.
His ''Basic Statistics'' (1969) was one of the first textbooks on Bayesian statistics, which assess the uncertainty of future outcomes by incorporating new evidence as it arises, rather than relying on historical data. He also wrote numerous papers on multistage decision-making.
''He had this great talent for making things appear simple,'' Peter Bickel, a statistics professor at Berkeley, told the university's Web site. ''He liked elegance and simplicity. That is the ultimate best thing in mathematics, if you have an insight that something seemingly complicated is really simple, but simple after the fact.''
Mr. Blackwell was hired by Berkeley in 1954 and became a full professor in the statistics department when it split off from the mathematics department in 1955. He was chairman of the department from 1957 to 1961 and assistant dean of the College of Letters and Science from 1964 to 1968. He retired in 1988.
In 1965 he was elected to the National Academy of Sciences.
In addition to his son Hugo, of Berkeley, he is survived by three of his eight children, Ann Blackwell and Vera Gleason, both of Oakland, and Sarah Hunt Dahlquist of Houston; a sister, Elizabeth Cowan of Clayton, N.C.; and 14 grandchildren.
Mr. Blackwell described himself as a ''dilettante'' in a 1983 interview for ''Mathematical People,'' a collection of profiles and interviews. ''Basically, I'm not interested in doing research and I never have been,'' he said. ''I'm interested in understanding, which is quite a different thing. And often to understand something you have to work it out yourself because no one else has done it.''

CORRECTION-DATE: August 4, 2010, Wednesday

 CORRECTION:
This article has been revised to reflect the following correction: An obituary on July 16 about the statistician and mathematician David Blackwell gave an incorrect account of Mr. Blackwell's time spent as a member of the Institute for Advanced Study in Princeton, N.J., in 1941 and 1942. He was denied the right to attend lectures or do research at Princeton University; the university did not refuse to grant him the courtesy title of assistant professor, as Mr. Blackwell recalled in an interview in the 1980s. The obituary also referred incorrectly to his tenure at the institute. He completed a one-year fellowship; he did not leave early. And the obituary referred imprecisely to the institute's connection to Princeton University. While the Institute for Advanced Study is located in Princeton, it is not part the university.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: David Blackwell (PHOTOGRAPH BY UNIVERSITY OF CALIFORNIA, BERKELEY) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Obituary (Obit); Biography

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: DEATHS & OBITUARIES (92%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (90%); HISTORICALLY BLACK COLLEGES (89%); MATHEMATICS (78%); INVESTIGATIONS (77%); COLLEGES & UNIVERSITIES (77%); PRIMARY SCHOOLS (77%); PRIMARY & SECONDARY SCHOOL TEACHERS (76%); EDUCATIONAL INSTITUTION EMPLOYEES (76%); RESEARCH INSTITUTES (76%); GRADUATE & PROFESSIONAL SCHOOLS (76%); ACADEMIC TENURE (76%)

COMPANY: RAND CORP (60%)

ORGANIZATION: NATIONAL ACADEMY OF SCIENCES (84%); UNIVERSITY OF CALIFORNIA BERKELEY (83%); UNIVERSITY OF CALIFORNIA (56%)

INDUSTRY: SIC8732 COMMERCIAL ECONOMIC, SOCIOLOGICAL, & EDUCATIONAL RESEARCH (60%)

GEOGRAPHIC: SAN FRANCISCO BAY AREA, CA, USA (94%); BATON ROUGE, LA, USA (79%); LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (79%) CALIFORNIA, USA (94%); LOUISIANA, USA (79%); ILLINOIS, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%)

CATEGORY: Colleges and Universities, Science and Technology

LOAD-DATE: August 4, 2010



404 of 785 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 17, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; The Arts/Cultural Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1022 words

HEADLINE: Latest Accessory of a Well-Equipped Band: A Festival of Its Own

BYLINE: By SETH SCHIESEL

 BODY:
MARIAVILLE, N.Y. -- Around 2 a.m. on Friday on a wooded hillside here, about 30 miles northwest of Albany, a few thousand young music lovers poured into the humid summer darkness from a tent where they had just seen an up-and-coming band with a two-word name. The first word is Holy. The second is anything but.
Some of the fans had been seeing live music for almost 12 consecutive hours on the first of three days at Camp Bisco, the weekend celebration of the fusion of electronica and improvisational rock that has become one of the hottest small music festivals in the country. 
First staged by the Philadelphia jamtronica band the Disco Biscuits in 1999 for 900 fans, Camp Bisco drew close to 10,000 last year. By the time the music finally stops early Sunday morning, this year's camp is expected to attract as many as 15,000 on the strength of a bill that includes established headliners like LCD Soundsystem, Ween and Thievery Corporation, as well as hip electronica and groove music groups including Orchard Lounge, Brothers Past, Girl Talk and the New Deal.
''I hope you guys aren't getting tired yet because I'm just getting started,'' cried Jurawa Hallen, 25, as he left the tent, exhorting his crew of a dozen friends to additional early-morning shenanigans. A lithe, curly-haired nonprofit-event coordinator from Brooklyn's Williamsburg neighborhood, Mr. Hallen didn't really have anything to worry about.
Though the official events of the day were over, the forests and fields covered with thousands of tents were throbbing with the beats and bass grooves of innumerable homegrown dance parties.
''If you like this kind of music, with D.J.'s and the musical drive of electronica mixed with the spontaneity and energy of live musicians playing real instruments, this is clearly the best festival of the year,'' said Mr. Hallen, co-captain of New World Orange, one of several fan-organized teams for Camp Bisco's Color Wars, a series of contests based on traditional children's camp games (egg toss, relay races, limbo and such), as well as a bacon-cooking competition and Disco Biscuits trivia contest.
As the music business continues to shift from an emphasis on recorded-product sales and toward live performances and other kinds of direct engagement with fans, a successful festival of one's own has become a milestone for the sort of bands that don't play the same set list night after night.
''In the music business in the '70s you wanted the great FM radio hit,'' said Peter Shapiro, publisher of Relix magazine and the owner of Brooklyn Bowl. ''In the '80s you wanted the music video on MTV. In the '90s you wanted the big record deal, the big record advance and the big label, and now you want your own festival. The Biscuits have really demonstrated that.''
''Part of the reason is economic,'' Mr. Shapiro said in a telephone interview this week. (He was planning to arrive at the festival on Friday evening.) ''The big record deal doesn't really exist anymore. All bands make their living by touring now, and what's the epitome of touring? Your own festival. Instead of you going to your fans, they come to you. You can invite your base and also invite other bands that are aligned with your audience and build that way. Seriously, LCD Soundsystem is one of the hottest bands in the world right now and for them to play Camp Bisco is really an endorsement of what the Biscuits have built.''
With 10,000 to 15,000 fans generally paying around $150 each for weekend admission (plus concessions), Camp Bisco is expected to take in at least a few million dollars. ''I'll just say if it wasn't profitable, we wouldn't be doing it,'' said Kevin Morris, the Biscuits' co-manager.
Jon Gutwillig, the band's guitarist, said the festival originally stemmed from the band's desire to play late-night shows in the summer at an early moment in its career, when established festivals would schedule them only in the afternoon. ''No one would let us headline their festival,'' he said, ''so we made our own.''
Major corporations took notice of the festival's popularity for the first time this year. At the back of the main music field, a Coke Zero trailer offered an elevated view of the stage, and a Sony PlayStation compound included dozens of game kiosks with titles including DJ Hero, ModNation Racers (including a course modeled after the Camp Bisco landscape) and a preview of the coming Gran Turismo 5.
''Festivals like Camp Bisco provide us with the unique opportunity to interact with a diverse range of consumers who are passionate about music and entertainment, as well as our brand,'' said Ginger Kraus, the senior director for marketing alliances at Sony Computer Entertainment America.
Touring the PlayStation area on Thursday afternoon, the Biscuits' keyboardist, Aron Magner, said: ''We're not giving away shampoo to everyone or allowing in-your-face corporate marketing like that, but if sponsors are willing to deliver something that enhances the overall experience for the fans, that's something we can appreciate. I mean, look at this place, there's games everywhere. It's like a playground.''
(He was right; as a video-game reviewer, I felt right at home.)
In his mobile home backstage on Thursday afternoon, the Biscuits' bass player, Marc Brownstein, relished the fact that the jamtronica concept pioneered by bands like the Biscuits, Sound Tribe Sector 9, Lotus and Particle has become the dominant new wave within what was once called the ''hippie music'' scene.
As demonstrated at Camp Bisco, now the band is trying to establish itself as a force in the overall electronic music arena.
''Our goal is to be the best live electronica festival in the country,'' Mr. Brownstein said flatly. ''The crossover between these styles of music is a decade old; we're the only jam band here. Now we're starting to break through into the mainstream electronica market, and when we really do that, it will be like crashing through a wall.''
In the mist early on Friday morning, as the New World Orange team and friends made their way to the unofficial ''Rage Stage'' for a 3 a.m. set, it was tough to avoid hearing a few bricks fall.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: The Disco Biscuits Thursday at the ninth edition of Camp Bisco, their annual festival. (C1)
Above, Thursday night at Camp Bisco, in Mariaville, N.Y.
 right, Jurawa Hallen of New World Orange, one of the festival's Color Wars teams. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY TONY CENICOLA/THE NEW YORK TIMES)(C8) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MUSIC (91%); FESTIVALS (90%); ENTERTAINMENT & ARTS (89%); MUSIC INDUSTRY (89%); VISUAL & PERFORMING ARTS (78%); MUSIC GROUPS & ARTISTS (78%); ARTS FESTIVALS & EXHIBITIONS (78%); SINGERS & MUSICIANS (78%); SPORTS FANS (77%); YOUTH CLUBS & ACTIVITIES (77%); ARTISTS & PERFORMERS (73%)

GEOGRAPHIC: ALBANY, NY, USA (90%) NEW YORK, USA (90%) UNITED STATES (90%)

LOAD-DATE: July 17, 2010



405 of 785 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 17, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 576 words

HEADLINE: Consumer Prices Decline As Gasoline Goes Lower

BYLINE: By CHRISTINE HAUSER

 BODY:
Prices for consumer goods fell in June for the third consecutive month, mostly because of lower costs for gasoline, according to a government report released Friday.
The Consumer Price Index, which measures prices of a batch of common goods, declined 0.1 percent last month on a seasonally adjusted basis. Lower prices for gasoline, which showed a 4.5 percent decline, were a big factor for the decrease. The report, released by the Labor Department, is considered a benchmark measure of inflation.
Over the last 12 months, the index has risen 1.1 percent before seasonal adjustment. 
The lower energy and food prices offset increases for other items. Prices for housing, clothing, used cars, medical care, tobacco and recreation all rose, the department said. That meant the so-called core price index, which strips out food and energy prices, was up 0.2 percent in June, the largest gain this year and above analysts' forecasts for a 0.1 percent rise.
The core number is up 0.9 percent in the last 12 months.
With the rates well below the Federal Reserve's unofficial target of nearly 2 percent, some economists have said that there is more risk of deflation in the United States, like that seen in the Japanese economy for about two decades.
The minutes of the Fed's June meeting indicated that policy makers were divided on whether the weak economy faced deflation.
According to minutes released Wednesday, the Fed took note of the lower trend in underlying inflation amid price declines in energy and other commodities, saying that inflation would probably remain subdued for some time.
The muted inflationary pressures have allowed the Fed to keep rates at 0 to 0.25 percent. The Fed said it would expect the levels to remain ''exceptionally low'' for an extended period because of stable inflation expectations.
The current levels are the lowest inflation rates in five decades, said Steve Weiting, United States economist for Citi.
''There is amazing little price change,'' he said. ''The drag on consumer incomes of higher prices has diminished to a negligible level.''
Some economists pointed to a greater risk of deflation over time. With the unemployment rate at 9.5 percent in June and the recovery showing signs of faltering, the risk of deflation over the next few years is now greater then before, said Paul Ashworth, a senior United States economist for Capital Economics.
''The reality is that prices and wages react with a considerable lag to shifts in output and employment,'' he said in a research note. ''Accordingly, we would caution that the most recent rebound in core prices is no reason to declare victory over deflation. The threat will be with us for a number of years yet.''
The government figures showed that higher clothing, used car, medical and tobacco prices, as well as the first increase in homeowners' rents in 10 months, pushed up the core.
''With the economy slowing, and commodity prices falling, the main risk on the price front remains that inflation will be too low, not too high,'' said Nigel Gault, the chief United States economist for IHS Global Insight.
Much of the inflationary pressure has receded amid weak demand. ''We have enormous unused capacity in the economy,'' said Joshua Shapiro, the chief United States economist for MFR Inc.
Mr. Shapiro said he expected only modest increases in wages with a ''painfully slow'' recovery in the job market.
''Consumer spending growth will therefore be moderate at best,'' he said.

GRAPHIC: CHARTS: Consumer Prices: Percentage change, month to month, seasonally adjusted.
 U.S. and major metropolitan areas. (Source: Bureau of Labor Statistics) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (91%); OIL & GAS PRICES (91%); CONSUMER PRICE INDEX (91%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); PRICE CHANGES (90%); GASOLINE PRICES (90%); DEFLATION (90%); INFLATION (89%); PRICE INCREASES (79%); TRENDS (78%); PUBLIC POLICY (78%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (77%); FOOD PRICES (74%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (74%); HOUSING MARKET (74%); LABOR DEPARTMENTS (72%); BUSINESS FORECASTS (68%)

COMPANY: CITIGROUP INC (52%)

ORGANIZATION: BUREAU OF LABOR STATISTICS (59%)

TICKER: C (NYSE) (52%); C (BMV) (52%); 8710 (TSE) (52%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (52%); NAICS522210 CREDIT CARD ISSUING (52%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (52%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%); JAPAN (79%)

LOAD-DATE: July 17, 2010



406 of 785 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 17, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 834 words

HEADLINE: Goldman Was Regulators' First Prize, and It May Be the Last

BYLINE: By JULIE CRESWELL; Julie Creswell contributed reporting.

 BODY:
First, Goldman Sachs. Now -- what?
Up and down Wall Street, the government's $550 million legal settlement with Goldman -- to some, a slap in the face, to others, a slap on the wrist -- has banking executives running the odds.
Will other financial companies be called to account for the sins of the subprime era? Or was the mighty Goldman prize enough to satisfy Washington, if not the many ordinary citizens who blame Wall Street for the Great Recession? 
Officials at the Securities and Exchange Commission, as well as federal and state prosecutors, insist their jobs are far from over. They continue to delve into a variety of Wall Street practices, from how toxic mortgage investments like those in the Goldman case were created and sold, to how such investments got top-flight credit ratings.
Indeed, the Ohio attorney general said Friday that the American International Group and some of its directors and officers had agreed to a $725 million settlement to resolve claims of wide-ranging fraud laid out in a class-action suit led by three Ohio pension funds.
And yet the Goldman settlement -- both its size and its legal implications -- brought a palpable sense of relief on Wall Street. After two months of strident claims and equally strident denials, the matter was finally settled, and for a price Goldman could easily afford. The penalty amounted to about 15 days of profits. On Friday, as other banking shares tumbled along with the broad market, Goldman's share price rose again.
Many legal experts viewed the deal as a benchmark for any future Wall Street settlements, when or if they emerge. ''If'' is the operative word: Even trickier than collateralized debt obligations, the instruments at the center of the Goldman case, are legal cases involving such investments. Building civil cases around C.D.O.'s, let alone criminal ones, will be a formidable challenge, legal experts said.
Still, it is too early for Wall Street to send out the all-clear signal. In addition to continuing S.E.C. investigations, Andrew M. Cuomo, the attorney general of New York, has several active investigations into Wall Street. Among other things, his office is examining whether banks misled credit rating agencies, which themselves have been criticized for putting their own financial interests ahead of investors'.
But for now, it appears unlikely that the Goldman settlement will unleash a torrent of similar deals with other banks and financial companies. For one thing, the appetite for bringing another high-profile case has probably been diminished by the Goldman news, as well as Thursday's approval in Congress of an overhaul of the nation's financial regulations.
''The S.E.C. got its big check, the legislation was passed, what more do they need to do?'' asked Adam C. Pritchard, a securities law professor at the University of Michigan Law School.
To Wall Street's critics, the answer to that question is clear: a lot. But after the panic of 2008, many in Congress and, indeed, across the nation, wanted to hold someone responsible. That someone became Goldman Sachs.
''It didn't have to be Goldman, but my guess is within the inventory of cases that the S.E.C. had before it, this one was ripe enough and headline-worthy enough that the commission decided to bring it,'' said Donald C. Langevoort, a law professor at Georgetown University.
The S.E.C. filed its civil suit against Goldman in April, focusing on a single mortgage security called Abacus 2007-ACI. The security enabled a prominent hedge fund manager, John A. Paulson, to bet against mortgage bonds as the housing market was on the verge of collapse.
But from the very beginning, several aspects and nuances of some of the S.E.C.'s unusual claims raised eyebrows among legal scholars. A key question, now as then, is how much banks must disclose to sophisticated, institutional investors about the risks an investment might pose.
''The S.E.C. had very clear goals here,'' said Charles K. Whitehead, associate professor at Cornell Law School and a former associate in a law firm that represented Goldman Sachs. ''One of the things they were trying to do is establish what is inappropriate behavior and change the way Wall Street marketed financial products, even to sophisticated investors,'' he said.
The new financial legislation, which is expected to be signed by President Obama next week, gives the S.E.C. and other federal agencies the authority to keep close tabs on securities and the derivatives markets.
''The purpose of a villain is to create popular and political sentiment to achieve a legislative end,'' said Mr. Pritchard of the University of Michigan Law School.
In the 1930s, he noted, a Senate committee hauled in J. Pierpont Morgan Jr., which helped usher in legislation that reshaped Wall Street regulation. In the 1980s, the prosecution of Ivan Boesky and Michael Milken helped pass crucial changes at the time, Mr. Pritchard noted.
''And for financial regulation and reform in 2010, the villain was Goldman,'' Mr. Pritchard said.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: The S.E.C.'s Robert Khuzami announced Goldman's agreement to pay $550 million to settle civil fraud charges on Thursday. (PHOTOGRAPH BY JACQUELYN MARTIN/ASSOCIATED PRESS)
 Goldman Sachs's penalty accounted for about 15 days of its profits, and its shares rose while the broader market struggled. (PHOTOGRAPH BY BRENDAN McDERMID/REUTERS) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News Analysis

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: SETTLEMENT & COMPROMISE (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); SECURITIES LAW (89%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (89%); FINANCIAL RATINGS (89%); INVESTIGATIONS (88%); ATTORNEYS GENERAL (78%); LITIGATION (78%); CLASS ACTIONS (78%); BANKING & FINANCE AGENCIES (77%); TOXIC ASSETS (77%); EXECUTIVES (77%); BANKING & FINANCE REGULATION (77%); AWARDS & PRIZES (76%); SUBPRIME LENDING (76%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (75%); LEGISLATION (75%); CREDIT BUREAUS (73%); MORTGAGE INVESTMENTS (70%); SUITS & CLAIMS (68%); PRICE INCREASES (65%); COLLATERALIZED DEBT OBLIGATIONS (63%)

COMPANY: GOLDMAN SACHS GROUP INC (92%); AMERICAN INTERNATIONAL GROUP INC (69%)

ORGANIZATION: SECURITIES & EXCHANGE COMMISSION (83%)

TICKER: GS (NYSE) (92%); AIG (NYSE) (69%); 8685 (TSE) (69%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (92%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (92%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (92%); SIC6289 SERVICES ALLIED WITH THE EXCHANGE OF SECURITIES OR COMMODITIES, NEC (92%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (92%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (92%); NAICS524126 DIRECT PROPERTY & CASUALTY INSURANCE CARRIERS (69%); NAICS524113 DIRECT LIFE INSURANCE CARRIERS (69%)

PERSON: ANDREW CUOMO (53%)

GEOGRAPHIC: OHIO, USA (92%); NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: July 17, 2010



407 of 785 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 17, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; WHITE HOUSE MEMO; Pg. 9

LENGTH: 883 words

HEADLINE: The Shifting Politics of a Presidential Vacation

BYLINE: By SHERYL GAY STOLBERG

 BODY:
BAR HARBOR, Me. -- It has been 100 years, the local newspaper reports, since a sitting president chose this picturesque seaside village as his vacation spot. When William Howard Taft arrived in July 1910, he sprained his ankle playing golf, the captain of his yacht got ''a terrible sunburn'' and the townsfolk made such a ruckus about who would entertain him that Mr. Taft decided to give a speech from the bandstand on the village green.
President Obama faces pressures of a different sort. 
Mr. Obama arrived here Friday for a summer weekend getaway with his wife, Michelle, and their daughters, Malia, 12, and Sasha, 9 -- a precursor to a longer family vacation they are planning next month on Martha's Vineyard. But what sounds like a much-needed family escape from the literal and political heat of Washington to some sounds like hypocrisy to others, given recent statements by both the president and first lady urging Americans to spend their vacation time and money along the shores of the oil-stricken Gulf of Mexico.
''Michelle Obama: Take your Vacation in the Gulf, America -- If You Need Us, We'll be In Maine,'' blared the headline on the Web site of Michelle Malkin, the conservative commentator, on Monday, the day Mrs. Obama toured the gulf. ABC News served up similar, if more muted fare: ''First Lady Encourages Americans to Vacation on Gulf -- But Obamas Head to Maine Instead.''
A trip to the Gulf Coast, of course, would hardly be much of a vacation for Mr. Obama, whose political fortunes were undercut by the spill. But the flap does point up how politically fraught the modern presidential vacation -- or, for that matter, presidential leisure time in general -- has become.
Bill Clinton and his family traveled to Jackson Hole, Wyo., in the summer of 1996 after polling showed that Americans viewed Martha's Vineyard as too elitist. George W. Bush caught so much flak for spending a month at his ranch in Crawford, Tex., in the summer of 2001, said his former press secretary, Ari Fleischer, that his staff printed T-shirts listing all the work-related side trips he had taken. Mr. Fleischer may disagree with Mr. Obama's policies, but he said he was protective of the president's right to ''recharge his batteries'' wherever it suited him.
''I just think that people should leave the president alone and not make a political issue of where he takes vacation or how he takes vacation,'' Mr. Fleischer said. ''He and his family are perfectly entitled to do whatever works for them.''
What suits the Obamas, it seems, are national parks; they so enjoyed a trip to Yellowstone last summer, said Robert Gibbs, the White House press secretary, that ''it was natural'' for them to do it again. They settled on Acadia National Park on the shores of Mount Desert Island, with its rocky coastline, rugged peaks and historic carriage roads, built by the philanthropist John D. Rockefeller Jr.
Within an hour after Air Force One touched down at the local airport Friday afternoon, the Obama family was exploring those roads on bicycle. After a 90-minute ride, the presidential motorcade took them up Cadillac Mountain, at 1,500 feet the highest peak on the Atlantic Coast. There the family strolled the paths along the mountain's edge as tourists were held at bay in the parking lot. Mr. Obama later surprised some fellow visitors by greeting them. Later, he stopped in downtown Bar Harbor and took the girls for ice cream.
Politics and perception are never far from a president's leisure decisions. Ronald Reagan rode his horse every morning while visiting his Santa Barbara ranch, and in the afternoon he chopped wood, activities designed to reinforce his public image as a rugged Westerner. It also helped him escape criticism that he was luxuriating too much.
''From an East Coast perspective it didn't look like a fun vacation -- here he was, chopping wood,'' said Martha Joynt Kumar, a professor at Towson University in Maryland who studies presidential image-making.
Every president's calculus is different. Mr. Bush quit playing golf after the August 2003 bombing of the United Nations headquarters in Baghdad; he later said, ''Playing golf during a war just sends the wrong signal.'' Mr. Obama, too, is a wartime president, yet he does not conceive of himself as one in the way Mr. Bush did. He is also an avid golfer, and has maintained a steady diet of the sport, despite its appearance as a rich man's endeavor in economic hard times.
For Mr. Bush, the remote Crawford ranch made vacation decision-making easy; he went each summer, though he also trekked to Maine to visit his parents in Kennebunkport. Mr. Obama tends to spend Christmas in Hawaii, where he grew up, but has no similar retreat. He is arranging his summer travel around Malia's month at sleep-away camp (her first time, he told NBC) and chose Martha's Vineyard because the family vacationed there before he became president, Mr. Gibbs said.
There is one kind of vacation that Mr. Obama is highly unlikely to take: an international one. European leaders cross borders on vacation all the time -- President Nicolas Sarkozy of France went to New Hampshire a few years ago -- but Mr. Fleischer said Americans would not stand for it. ''We're a little bit funny about that,'' he said. ''That would be one boat, or plane, too far.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: President Obama, Michelle Obama and their daughters, Sasha and Malia, hiking on Cadillac Mountain in Acadia National Park.
 President Obama, coconut ice cream cone in hand, greeted fellow visitors in Bar Harbor, Me. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY LUKE SHARRETT/THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: POLITICS (90%); LEISURE TRAVEL (89%); TRAVEL HOSPITALITY & TOURISM (89%); US PRESIDENTS (78%); FAMILY TRAVEL (78%); CONSERVATIVE MEDIA (73%); NATIONAL PARKS (73%); GOLF (72%); PLATFORMS & ISSUES (70%)

PERSON: MICHELLE OBAMA (92%); BARACK OBAMA (90%); BILL CLINTON (58%); GEORGE W BUSH (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: MARTHA'S VINEYARD, MA, USA (92%) MASSACHUSETTS, USA (92%); MAINE, USA (90%); WYOMING, USA (79%); GULF OF MEXICO (79%); ATLANTIC OCEAN (79%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: July 17, 2010



408 of 785 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 17, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; OP-ED COLUMNIST; Pg. 19

LENGTH: 1006 words

HEADLINE: Dog Days of Obama

BYLINE: By CHARLES M. BLOW

 BODY:
This summer has not been kind to this president.
A CBS News poll released on Tuesday found that ''a majority of Americans have a negative impression of the economy and expect the effects of the recession to linger for years.''
One of the most stinging findings: ''Only 13 percent of Americans say Mr. Obama's economic programs, among them the stimulus package, have helped them personally. Twenty-three percent say they have hurt, while 63 percent say they have had no effect.'' Ouch. That's an abysmal favorability return on an enormous financial investment. 
A Gallup poll released on Friday found that satisfaction with the direction of the country among members of the president's own party has dropped by a fourth since last month.
The BP disaster poisoned the waters of the gulf and sent saddening waves of tar balls and dead animals washing up onto its beaches. One of the president's responses was to call for a moratorium on new deep-water drilling. Not cool, say gulf residents. An ABC News/Washington Post poll released on Wednesday found that 3 in 5 residents from the areas most affected disapproved of the moratorium and 7 in 10 disapproved of the government's overall response to the disaster.
Polls continue to find that more people disapprove than approve of the Justice Department's decision to sue over Arizona's immigration law, a move that Hillary Clinton let slip was being made under Obama's direction.
And, the N.A.A.C.P. scratched an old wound this week when it called on the Tea Party to expel racists from its ranks. The Tea Partiers protested -- too much methinks -- because the racism is a rap they can't seem to beat.
Mark Williams, a spokesman for the Tea Party Express, went so far as to proclaim, ''It's impossible for there to be a racist element in the Tea Party.'' Yes, Mr. Williams, and it's impossible that the ocean is composed of water. Sarah Palin, with her deliciously loopy logic, called on Obama to ''set the record straight.'' No dice, Sister Sarah. Race is a subject that candidate Obama said he believed ''this nation cannot afford to ignore right now,'' but it's also a subject that President Obama careens away from like it's Kryptonite, particularly since jumping blindly and recklessly into the Henry Louis Gates Jr. arrest imbroglio.
The president has yet to jolt the economy into recovery, he's made some unpopular decisions and circumstances have not always favored him. But a presidency is a never-ending series of choices. Seasons change, winds switch directions, bad times don't last always.
In November, voters will blow off some steam, and the dust will settle. Obama will have survived it all, and not in as bad a position as many claim. As another ABC News/Washington Post poll released on Tuesday said: ''The president's solace may be his comparison to Ronald Reagan -- the last president to take office in the midst of a recessionary gale. In an ABC/Post poll at about his year-and-a-half mark, and with unemployment then at 9.8 percent, Reagan's approval rating was 49-47 percent -- almost precisely the same as Obama's now.'' Reagan went on to a second term and to become the gold standard of the G.O.P.
Soon Obama should get a magnificent gift: the beginning of Republican jockeying to challenge him in 2012. The list of current suspects is littered with characters, including Palin, the Tea Party Princess. A Gallup report released on Friday found that Palin is the ''best known and most positively rated of five possible contenders for the 2012 Republican presidential nomination.'' That alone speaks volumes about the vacuousness of the Republican Party. Palin is all cheer and no leader.
But, now that Levi Johnston, Palin's daughter's baby-daddy, has announced plans to join the family, and presumably bury the hatchet, a major loose end has been tied down for her.
Then there's Newt Gingrich who decided to test the waters and stir the pot this week by saying that he has ''never been this serious'' about running for president.
It's not clear to me that he's serious, but the very thought of Newt and Sarah squaring off thrills me to no end. I keep imagining the scene from ''Clash of the Titans'' (the original movie, not that awful new one) when the Kraken meets the head of Medusa. Cheesy and awesome! (In case you didn't see it, they're both destroyed by the demigod, golden boy who grew up with an absentee father.)
Newt once said, ''I think one of the great problems we have in the Republican Party is that we don't encourage you to be nasty. We encourage you to be neat, obedient, loyal and faithful and all those Boy Scout words, which would be great around a campfire but are lousy in politics.'' Ha! That's rich, and wrong. It certainly isn't true today as some Republicans, including Gingrich, casually toss around Nazi references.
I'm betting that the battle for the Republican nomination will be beyond nasty. Not only are we likely to have Sarah and Newt, but bungling Bobby Jindal; the devastatingly boring Mitt Romney; and Mike Huckabee, who reminds me of Floyd the barber from ''The Andy Griffith Show.'' He once told an N.R.A. group that he couldn't wait to get to heaven for the duck hunting. It wasn't enough that Jindal last week signed the Louisiana ''gun-in-church'' bill. Huckabee wants guns in heaven.
And if there is a God, and he answers earnest prayers, then he will do one small thing that will complete my life in 2012: He will nudge the endlessly embarrassing Michael Steele into the race. Please, God, please!
A campaign will require these candidates to air out their hollowness in full view, explaining why they see a phantom in every corner, a plot behind every policy, doom along every horizon. They will have to take positions instead of just give grief. They will have to develop a plan instead of simply picking apart Obama's. And they will have to point out the pox on their opponents, which will be great to watch.
When this sideshow begins, Obama will be able to pass the popcorn and enjoy the frostiness. The summer will be a distant memory.

GRAPHIC: GRAPHICS: The Leader Board: Favorable ratings for possible 2012 Republican presidential contenders. (Source: Gallup) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: POLLS & SURVEYS (91%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); RECESSION (90%); TEA PARTY MOVEMENT (89%); US PRESIDENTS (78%); VOTERS & VOTING (78%); US ECONOMIC STIMULUS PLAN 2008-2009 (77%); ECONOMIC POLICY (72%); RACE & RACISM (68%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (65%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (64%); IMMIGRATION (50%); IMMIGRATION LAW (50%); ARIZONA IMMIGRATION LAW (50%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (89%); HILLARY RODHAM CLINTON (79%); SARAH PALIN (56%)

GEOGRAPHIC: ARIZONA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: July 17, 2010



409 of 785 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 17, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; YOUR MONEY; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1262 words

HEADLINE: 3 Auto Dealer Tactics The Overhaul Missed

BYLINE: By RON LIEBER

 BODY:
Sometime next week, President Obama will finally sign a financial reform bill. Plenty of banks will have to deal with messy new rules, but one big winner in the ''spare me from further regulation'' sweepstakes was auto dealers.
Mr. Obama wanted the new consumer financial protection agency to oversee dealers and the loans they arrange for consumers. So did many consumer groups and military organizations, because crooked dealers have taken advantage of many young soldiers.
But the dealers prevailed, winning exemption from oversight by the new agency, in part through the efforts of Senator Sam Brownback, Republican of Kansas. Mr. Brownback said in a May statement on his Web site that ''auto dealers are a part of Main Street, not Wall Street.'' That makes sense as long as you ignore that Wall Street firms bundle into bonds many of the loans that dealers help originate and conveniently forget that lots of dealers are actually owned by publicly traded companies.
Mr. Brownback also noted that ''more than 90 percent of auto loans are financed not through the dealer, but through an outside financial institution.'' In fact, people apply for their car loans at an auto dealer about 80 percent of the time, according to J. D. Power & Associates. 
Still, Mr. Brownback and the dealers won out, and now that they have, it's worth examining some of the practices that had consumer groups so exercised. Think of this as a guide to the issues that the new agency may have tackled if it had only been able to.
THE YO-YO PROBLEM The yo-yo phenomenon is rare, but truly insidious and will probably escape oversight by the new agency because auto dealers, not banks, perpetrate it.
Here's how it often occurs. Consumers sign contracts agreeing to an interest rate and price and drive away from a dealership thinking a deal is done. Not long after, they get a call asking them to come back to the dealership. Once dealers reel them back in (hence yo-yo), they say the financing has fallen through and try to get consumers to sign new contracts with higher interest rates.
This happened to KeyAnn Gladden at a Hall Automotive dealership in Virginia Beach, Va., two years ago. When she refused to sign new paperwork or return her car, citing her original contract and the fact that the sales staff had told her she was approved for financing, she said the dealership tried to have her arrested at her job at a day spa.
''This is a nightmare,'' said Ms. Gladden, who is now 30 years old. She added that she lost her job in part because of the police visit and is suing the dealership. ''It's about my credit history and the credibility of my character.'' A representative of Hall Automotive refused to comment on Ms. Gladden's allegations.
Why does this sort of thing happen? ''Many times it has to do with errors on the consumer's application for credit, whether intentional or an accident,'' said Bailey Wood, a spokesman for the National Automobile Dealers Association.
Consumer advocates and plaintiff's lawyers, however, point to a different problem. Often, a dealer will quote an interest rate from a bank or finance company to a consumer, and the buyer signs a contract. Only then does the dealer get official approval from the lender who provided the rate quote. Every so often, lenders change their mind (or dealers do, lawyers say, because they may be able to make more money by arranging a higher-interest loan elsewhere and shoving it down the throat of a frightened buyer who needs the car to get to work).
The best way to avoid this is to get your loan from a bank or credit union in the first place, but that might mean missing out on zero percent financing at the dealer if your credit is good enough to qualify.
So pick your dealer carefully. ''It's important to note that not all dealers are shysters,'' said David Julian, the director of the Defense Department's office of personal finance who added that many dealers near military bases sign a code of ethics.
You can also try to put a dealer on notice that it's probably best to pick on someone else. Demand to know who has agreed to provide the loan, for instance, and ask to know if the financing is, in fact, truly approved. Or make a point of refusing to sign a sales contract that says that the sale is conditioned upon financing approval, a consumer tactic that the dealers association endorses.
THE MARKUP PROBLEM One thing consumers may not realize when applying for an auto loan through many dealers is that it's often the dealers, not the company providing the loan, that ultimately decide how much you'll pay. A bank quotes a wholesale rate to the dealer, and then the dealer is free to mark it up by as much as 3 percentage points. The dealer's ultimate profit on any deal depends in part on how much it marks up this rate.
That spread used to be higher, before a number of lawsuits using data from as recently as 2004 revealed that blacks and Hispanics were paying more for their loans, even when they had the same credit scores as whites. And in case you didn't believe that everyone's a little bit racist sometimes, lawyers in one lawsuit determined that minority-owned dealers had the biggest markups, according to Stuart Rossman of the National Consumer Law Center in Boston, who was co-counsel on the cases.
It's not clear what the numbers are today, but remember that on many parts of the Internet, no one knows you're black. So get preapproved for an auto loan via a bank's or credit union's online application process before going to a dealer to discuss financing. Then, no matter what your skin color, ask the dealer to beat that rate.
THE ADD-ON PROBLEM If you've gotten a good price on the car and arrived with cash or a loan from someplace else, dealers will try to find some other way to make money off you. In fact, lawyers for the finance companies that supply dealer loans promised Mr. Rossman as much when he was in the middle of suing them. ''I would see them at legal conferences, and they would tell me that if we stopped them from doing what they were doing, they would just move their profit margins someplace else,'' he said.
And so the dealers try to sell you window etchings and service contracts, or disability and other insurance. Or, they try to force you to buy these things by implying that the add-ons are a condition of getting a loan or getting a good rate on one.
Mr. Bailey of the dealers association says that this is illegal, but some dealers do it anyway. The Oregon Justice Department has taken action twice in the last two years against dealers like this. In August 2008, it reached a $100,000 settlement agreement with Salem Nissan in Salem, Ore., after finding that the dealership had added all sorts of products to almost all its contracts without the buyers knowing they didn't have to buy them. As is standard in these sorts of agreements, the dealership admitted no violation of the law.
Most of these products are of questionable value or available in better, cheaper versions elsewhere. Keep a careful eye on your paperwork to see if they've ended up on your bill.
Feeling dirty yet? I do. Many dealers have now successfully stood up in public and persuaded legislators to shoo away new regulators in an area that needs better oversight. That, for better or for worse, will make all dealers suspect in the eyes of many consumers.
So I eagerly await word from independent dealers who have built a campaign around a promise of no yo-yo schemes ever, upfront (and not fine print) disclosure that interest rates are often negotiable and an end to useless or overpriced add-ons.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: About 80 percent of buyers apply for loans at auto dealers, who were exempted from the finance bill. (B1)
 Consumer and military organizations wanted auto dealers covered in the financial overhaul bill. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY STEVE DYKES FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) (B5) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: NEW CAR DEALERS (92%); AUTOMOBILE FINANCING (90%); CONSUMER LENDING (90%); CONSUMER LAW (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); CONSUMER PROTECTION (90%); AGENCY RULEMAKING (90%); US PRESIDENTS (78%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); SWEEPSTAKES (78%); MOTOR VEHICLE & PARTS DEALERS (77%); PERSONAL FINANCE (77%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (75%); BONDS (74%); APPROVALS (72%); ARMED FORCES (71%); INTEREST RATES (62%); ECONOMIC NEWS (62%); DISMISSALS (60%); LITIGATION (60%); SUITS & CLAIMS (50%)

COMPANY: J D POWER & ASSOCIATES (55%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS541910 MARKETING RESEARCH & PUBLIC OPINION POLLING (55%); SIC8732 COMMERCIAL ECONOMIC, SOCIOLOGICAL, & EDUCATIONAL RESEARCH (55%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (88%); SAMUEL BROWNBACK (79%)

GEOGRAPHIC: VIRGINIA BEACH, VA, USA (52%) VIRGINIA, USA (79%); KANSAS, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: July 18, 2010



410 of 785 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 17, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; POLITICAL MEMO; Pg. 12

LENGTH: 1089 words

HEADLINE: Some Democrats Have More Money, but Republicans Are Raising It Faster

BYLINE: By JEFF ZELENY

 BODY:
WASHINGTON -- While Democrats were locked in an unseemly intramural squabble this week, bickering about whether they could lose control of the House in the fall, Republicans were unusually quiet.
It turns out that they had a bigger task: tabulating an impressive set of midyear fund-raising figures.
In red states and blue states -- nearly a dozen competitive Senate races in all -- Republicans raised more money over the last three months than their Democratic challengers. Yes, Democrats will argue, some of their candidates have more money in the bank. But the financial reports filed Thursday offer the latest indication of the momentum and enthusiasm advantage that Republicans carry four months before Election Day. 
Take, for example, Sharron Angle, who is trying to defeat the Senate majority leader, Harry Reid of Nevada. In 42 days, after winning the Republican primary, she raised $2.29 million.
''I am absolutely overwhelmed that in an economy where people are hurting, they are supporting our campaign with their money and their time,'' Ms. Angle said in a statement. ''That's how much people want to retire Harry Reid.''
To be sure, raising money to unseat the Democratic majority leader is hardly the best measure of Republican intensity. (There is no better Republican motivational tool than the prospect of helping to knock off Mr. Reid, except perhaps the notion of defeating the House speaker, Nancy Pelosi.) Mr. Reid ended June with nearly $9 million on hand, but he fell slightly short of Ms. Angle in second-quarter fund-raising.
Yet the more ominous signs of Democratic fund-raising troubles could be found elsewhere.
In the Illinois Senate race, where six years ago Barack Obama easily won the seat, the Republican candidate, Mark Kirk, has nearly four times as much on hand as his rival, Alexi Giannoulias. Even though Mr. Kirk spent much of the last two months apologizing for exaggerating his military record, he still raised $2.3 million. Mr. Giannoulias, meanwhile, brought in $900,000, despite a parade of Obama administration officials going to Chicago to help raise money.
In the Ohio Senate race, where the Republican George Voinovich is retiring, Rob Portman, the former Republican congressman and budget director for President George W. Bush, raised $2.65 million and has more than eight times as much money in the bank as his Democratic challenger, the state's lieutenant governor, Lee Fisher.
In the Indiana Senate race, where the Democrat Evan Bayh is stepping down, Daniel R. Coats, a former Republican senator-turned-lobbyist, raised more than twice as much as his Democratic rival, Brad Ellsworth. Democrats were quick to point out that Mr. Ellsworth has slightly more money in the bank, yet it was difficult to argue that the trend lines were good for Democrats.
The news was so bleak for the Democratic Senate candidate in Louisiana, Representative Charlie Melancon, that his campaign waited until Thursday night to report that he had raised $415,000, which is less than some aggressive House candidates raise. He ended June with $2.3 million in the bank, compared with David Vitter, the Republican incumbent, who has $5.5 million.
On its own, of course, money can neither win nor lose a political race. And it does not answer the question of which party will control Congress after November.
But Democratic fund-raising officials have been quietly expressing concern over the struggle that many of their candidates have had raising money over the last three months. The health care debate may have been a Democratic legislative victory, but it became a Republican fund-raising boon in the wake of the new law in April and May. A weak economy also has cut into political contributions.
In two of the most competitive House races in Ohio, the Democratic incumbents raised less money than their Republican challengers. The story was repeated in several districts across the country. (Republicans conceded, though, that at least some veteran Democrats who also had been seen as vulnerable, outpaced their Republican challengers, and appeared to be in a better position for Election Day.)
In even the best of circumstances, polls can be fleeting, so midyear fund-raising reports offer another way to gauge the state of play in races.
Not all news was disappointing to Democrats. Senator Barbara Boxer of California raised $4.6 million and ended June with $11.3 million on hand -- a figure that outpaced her Republican rival, Carly Fiorina, who finished a challenging primary and ended the second quarter with $950,000 in the bank.
Senator Blanche Lincoln of Arkansas, who survived a bruising Democratic primary and a runoff election, raised $2.7 million over the last three months and has $1.8 million on hand. Her Republican rival, Representative John Boozman, raised $623,000.
Senator Michael Bennet of Colorado, who faces a Democratic primary next month, raised $1.25 million over the last three months and has $2.6 million in the bank, nearly three times as much as his leading Republican rival.
The importance of having more money in the bank -- many vulnerable Democratic candidates still do -- cannot be overstated. Why? A large share of political contributions is spent on television advertising, so a financial advantage in July means that candidates can air their ads sooner, trying to capitalize on -- or fight against -- the fall political winds.
''There's no doubt that this fund-raising success is fueled by the increasing national enthusiasm from Republican and independent voters who are prepared to hold the Democrats accountable,'' Rob Jesmer, executive director of the National Republican Senatorial Committee, wrote in a memorandum to supporters on Thursday evening.
Until now, Democrats have enjoyed a financial edge, particularly thanks to the aggressive fund-raising at the Democratic Congressional Campaign Committee, the Democratic Senatorial Campaign Committee and the Democratic National Committee. And when their respective financial reports are filed on Tuesday, the groups are still likely to outpace their Republican counterparts.
But as Republicans work to win control of Congress, the less-than-stellar fund-raising by some Democratic candidates means that the party's re-election committees will have to step in to lend a hand. But there is never enough money to go around, particularly in a year with so many competitive races, so party leaders must decide which candidates to prop up and which to cut loose.
And the latest financial reports could provide a road map for how to proceed.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Supporters of Sharron Angle, the Republican who is challenging Senator Harry Reid of Nevada. (PHOTOGRAPH BY ETHAN MILLER/GETTY IMAGES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: POLITICAL PARTIES (91%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); CAMPAIGN FINANCE (89%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (89%); FUNDRAISING (89%); PRIMARY ELECTIONS (78%); TRENDS (78%); ELECTIONS (78%); VOTERS & VOTING (77%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (76%); BUDGETS (76%); FINANCIAL RESULTS (70%); US PRESIDENTS (68%)

PERSON: HARRY REID (89%); ROB PORTMAN (58%); EVAN BAYH (58%); BARACK OBAMA (58%); GEORGE VOINOVICH (58%); BRAD ELLSWORTH (58%); CHARLIE MELANCON (58%); MARK STEVEN KIRK (57%); NANCY PELOSI (57%); GEORGE W BUSH (53%)

GEOGRAPHIC: CHICAGO, IL, USA (53%) NEVADA, USA (92%); ILLINOIS, USA (79%); INDIANA, USA (79%); LOUISIANA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: July 17, 2010



411 of 785 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 17, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 520 words

HEADLINE: West Virginia Governor Picks Ex-General Counsel to Succeed Byrd

BYLINE: By BERNIE BECKER

 BODY:
WASHINGTON -- West Virginia's governor, Joe Manchin III, announced on Friday that he had chosen Carte P. Goodwin, his former general counsel, to temporarily fill the Senate seat long held by Robert C. Byrd. 
Mr. Goodwin, 36, will serve until a special election is held, which will probably be later this year. Mr. Manchin has expressed interest in being a candidate in that race.
At an event announcing his appointment in Charleston, Mr. Goodwin said it would be impossible to fill the shoes of Mr. Byrd, a Democrat who died last month after serving more than a half-century in the Senate.
''But what I can do, and what I will do, is try my best to emulate his work ethic and his commitment to the law, the Constitution and this great state,'' said Mr. Goodwin, who will become the youngest member of the Senate.
Mr. Goodwin will also be the 59th member of the Senate's Democratic caucus, joining it just days after Democrats struggled to cobble together the votes needed to pass an overhaul of financial regulations.
Senator Harry Reid of Nevada, the majority leader, said Thursday that the new senator would be sworn in on Tuesday, after which the Senate is expected to approve a long-stalled extension of unemployment benefits.
While Mr. Goodwin seems likely to help the Democrats break that stalemate, he sounded less open in general to a comprehensive energy bill than Mr. Byrd did in his final months and criticized energy legislation the House passed last year.
''You don't have to live too far from earshot of any radio or newspaper to know how strongly West Virginians feel about that issue, and how important it is that we protect our economy and protect our jobs,'' Mr. Goodwin said.
Senate Democrats and the White House signaled recently that they were looking to pass a more modest energy measure.
The member of a prominent West Virginia family, Mr. Goodwin now works as a lawyer in Charleston, after serving as Mr. Manchin's general counsel from 2005 to 2009. His wife, Rochelle, is the state director for John D. Rockefeller IV, a Democrat who holds West Virginia's other Senate seat.
At the Friday announcement, Mr. Manchin, a Democrat in his second term as governor, indicated that Mr. Goodwin's experience in his administration helped persuade him to make the appointment. ''I've worked shoulder to shoulder with him for four years,'' Mr. Manchin said. ''I know the man. I know that West Virginia is better off because he's passed this way.''
Representative Shelley Moore Capito, a West Virginia Republican who is mentioned as a potential Senate candidate, congratulated Mr. Goodwin on his appointment Friday, but also said it smacked of politics.
''Based on the person chosen from the rumored field of candidates to fill the U.S. Senate vacancy on an interim basis, it is once again evident that political ambition was the key factor in the selection,'' Ms. Capito said in a statement.
Mr. Goodwin said on Friday that he would not be a candidate in the special election for the seat. The West Virginia Legislature, now in a special session, is expected to approve a bill that would allow a special election this year.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Carte Goodwin with his wife, Rochelle, and son, Wesley. (PHOTOGRAPH BY LAWRENCE PIERCE/CHARLESTON GAZETTE, VIA ASSOCIATED PRESS) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); LAWYERS (90%); CORPORATE COUNSEL (90%); GOVERNORS (89%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (89%); POLITICS (89%); ENERGY REGULATION (87%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (79%); ELECTIONS (78%); LEGISLATION (77%); CAUCUSES (77%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (77%); ETHICS (74%); APPROVALS (70%); BANKING & FINANCE (69%); UNEMPLOYMENT INSURANCE (65%); NATURAL GAS & ELECTRIC UTILITIES (64%)

PERSON: ROBERT BYRD (90%); JOE MANCHIN (89%); JAY ROCKEFELLER (58%); JOHN SUNUNU (57%); HARRY REID (57%); SHELLEY MOORE CAPITO (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: CHARLESTON, WV, USA (93%) WEST VIRGINIA, USA (98%); NEVADA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (98%)

LOAD-DATE: July 17, 2010



412 of 785 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 17, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; LETTERS; Pg. 18

LENGTH: 668 words

HEADLINE: Social Security in a Sluggish Economy

 BODY:
To the Editor:
Re ''Make Social Security Pay, Today,'' by Donald B. Susswein (Op-Ed, July 10):
Mr. Susswein's proposal to cut workers' Social Security payroll taxes by, say, $1,000 doesn't mention essential facts. Withholding such revenues would endanger the benefits for retired workers and thereby reduce their ability to buy goods and sustain our economy.
Also, paring payroll taxes would not ease the federal deficit, because general revenues are not used to finance Social Security, and payroll taxes cannot be expended by law for anything but benefits. When the Treasury borrows from the trust fund surplus, it must honor its bonds, thus raising the deficit. 
Truly to stimulate the economy, Congress should extend unemployment benefits to allow the unemployed to buy necessities.
To decrease the deficit, lawmakers should restore income taxes that the very wealthy paid before 2001 and should eliminate federal subsidies for very profitable corporations.
Howard Pierson Framingham, Mass., July 10, 2010
To the Editor:
Donald B. Susswein writes, ''No actual investment [of trust fund assets] is separately maintained.'' But the yearly trustees report does list every Treasury bond held in physical form for the trust fund (at the Bureau of Public Debt), showing market rates of interest and maturity dates.
Mr. Susswein says the fund receives a ''small amount of interest'' from the bonds. In fact, they have paid over $900 billion to the trust fund since 2000. That's real money available to pay retirement benefits.
Social Security is not just a good deal for American working people. It is the one and only retirement system they can fully depend on. It should not be fooled with.
Malcolm Mitchell Editor, Investment Policy Magazine New York, July 11, 2010
To the Editor:
Donald B. Susswein's proposal to ''temporarily exempt a portion of wages from the Social Security taxes imposed on workers'' is a sure formula for bankrupting the Social Security fund. Where is the money to come from to finance the retirement benefits of the current retirees?
I was taught that the contributions of today's workers financed the benefits of the current generation of retirees. And what guarantee is there that the exempted wages would then be spent to stimulate the economy?
Many workers, fearing that their retirement benefits would be affected, might sensibly put the money into an investment account.
And then wouldn't the amount of the Social Security reduction be subject to withholding tax?
Mr. Susswein's proposal is magical thinking, not economics.
Gloria Rudetsky Palm Desert, Calif., July 10, 2010
To the Editor:
Donald B. Susswein's policy proposal to stimulate the economy by temporarily exempting a portion of wages from Social Security taxes is one of the most equitable, rational economic proposals I've seen in years that should also pass the political litmus test of whether Republicans would be willing to sign on.
It would bring immediate paycheck benefits to the millions of Americans who desperately need extra cash to stay afloat, and it would bring money into the economy from all economic strata.
Karen DeMoss Washington, July 10, 2010
To the Editor:
Donald B. Susswein makes an excellent suggestion on how to boost our sluggish economy, for the tax savings would surely be spent. There is also an opportunity to solve the Social Security financing problem.
Couple the tax suspension with the permanent extension of the Social Security tax to the income above the current payroll tax limit.
Just as the $50,000 earner must pay Social Security tax on his full earnings, so should the $500,000 earner, and the $5 million earner. This would stimulate the economy with the tax suspension and solve Social Security financing by adding appropriate payments.
But the low-income earner should not lose benefits, now or ever. A portion of the new monies from the new, full payers should be credited to the ''suspended'' accounts.
Let's use this opportunity to stimulate and resuscitate.
Charles Goodman New York, July 10, 2010

GRAPHIC: PHOTO (PHOTOGRAPH BY HARRY CAMPBELL) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PUBLIC FINANCE (90%); SOCIAL SECURITY (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); TRUST ARRANGEMENTS (90%); BONDS (90%); LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (90%); US SOCIAL SECURITY (90%); TAXES & TAXATION (90%); CORPORATE TAX (90%); PENSION & RETIREMENT PLANS (89%); WAGES & SALARIES (89%); RETIREMENT & RETIREES (89%); TAX LAW (89%); PUBLIC POLICY (78%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (78%); COMPANY PROFITS (77%); UNEMPLOYED PERSONS (77%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (77%); UNEMPLOYMENT INSURANCE (77%); NATIONAL DEBT (76%); PUBLIC DEBT (76%); TREASURY SECURITIES (75%); GOVERNMENT BONDS (74%); GOVERNMENT GRANTS & SUBSIDIES (68%); INTEREST RATES (65%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (59%)

GEOGRAPHIC: MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: July 17, 2010



413 of 785 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 17, 2010
The New York Times on the Web

SECTION: Section ; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 

LENGTH: 262 words

HEADLINE: Major News Publisher Gannett Doubles Its Profits

BYLINE: By THE ASSOCIATED PRESS

 BODY:
The Gannett Company, the nation's largest newspaper publisher, said on Friday that its second-quarter profit more than doubled from a year ago, helped by a rebound in broadcast revenue, a one-time tax gain and a less severe drop in print advertising. 
But revenue at the company, which publishes USA Today, and owns more than 80 other daily newspapers and 23 TV stations, fell more than was expected and its share price fell 11 percent.
As at other publishers, the rate of decline in the print ad business at Gannett has tapered off as the recession fades. At the same time, its TV stations have started to rebound, helped by an uptick in automotive advertising and ads tied to political campaigns.
Gannett, based in McLean, Va., has also cut expenses sharply through layoffs and consolidation of operations such as printing plants. Second-quarter expenses fell 12 percent from a year earlier.
That helped Gannett report net income of $195.5 million, or 81 cents a share, up from $70.5 million, or 30 cents a share, a year earlier.
Excluding one-time items, Gannett earned 61 cents a share. That was better than analysts' forecast of 53 cents, according to a survey by Thomson Reuters.
Revenue in the period, which ended June 27, slipped 1.6 percent, to $1.37 billion, from $1.39 billion a year earlier. It was the smallest decline in three years. A 20 percent increase in broadcast revenue helped offset a 6 percent decline in publishing. In the month of June, Gannett's newspaper advertising was down by just under 4 percent, the least erosion in that category since early 2007.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: INTERIM FINANCIAL RESULTS (90%); PRINT ADVERTISING (90%); PUBLISHING (90%); ENTERTAINMENT & ARTS (90%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING (90%); COMPANY PROFITS (90%); NEWSPAPER ADVERTISING (90%); NEWSPAPER PUBLISHING (90%); PUBLISHING SECTOR PERFORMANCE (90%); RECESSION (78%); ECONOMIC NEWS (78%); DAILY NEWSPAPER PUBLISHING (78%); COMPANY EARNINGS (78%); TELEVISION INDUSTRY (77%); PRINTING INDUSTRY (75%); LAYOFFS (73%); POLLS & SURVEYS (71%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (66%)

COMPANY: GANNETT CO INC (98%)

TICKER: GCI (NYSE) (98%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS511110 NEWSPAPER PUBLISHERS (98%); SIC2711 NEWSPAPERS: PUBLISHING, OR PUBLISHING & PRINTING (98%)

GEOGRAPHIC: VIRGINIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: July 17, 2010



414 of 785 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 17, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; LETTER; Pg. 18

LENGTH: 166 words

HEADLINE: Women in High Heels

 BODY:
To the Editor:
Re ''On the Heels of a Recession,'' by Penelope Rowlands and Christine Berrie (Op-Art, July 15): 
A woman wears sky-high shoes to gain sex appeal. Heels change her posture and make her body look curvaceous. Her legs seem longer and her gait becomes sexier. There's a reason sex symbols always wear heels.
But the trend to go higher and higher flies in the face of common sense after Sept. 11, 2001. We all remember, among other horrible images from that day, the women in downtown Manhattan who had taken off their heels and desperately fled barefoot. This extreme case exposes the impracticality of many women's shoes. Aren't shoes supposed to offer mobility, or at least not inhibit it?
Ladies, save your stilettos for special occasions. When you have to pound the pavement, put head over heels so that you can walk to your job interviews or workplace with a jaunty, confident gait.
Leora Tanenbaum New York, July 15, 2010
The writer is the author of ''Bad Shoes & the Women Who Love Them.''

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: FOOTWEAR (90%); LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); RECESSION (78%); ECONOMIC NEWS (78%); WRITERS (78%); WOMEN (77%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (74%); EMPLOYMENT SEARCH (71%); INTERVIEWS (71%); RECRUITMENT & HIRING (66%); EMPLOYMENT (64%); EMPLOYMENT INTERVIEWS (51%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (55%) NEW YORK, USA (55%) UNITED STATES (55%)

LOAD-DATE: July 17, 2010



415 of 785 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 17, 2010
The New York Times on the Web

SECTION: Section ; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 

LENGTH: 1038 words

HEADLINE: Canada's Defense Chief Rejects Criticism of F-35 Jet

BYLINE: By IAN AUSTEN and CHRISTOPHER DREW; Ian Austen reported from Ottawa and Christopher Drew from New York.

 BODY:
OTTAWA -- Canada's defense minister rejected suggestions on Friday that the F-35 fighter jet was unnecessarily sophisticated and costly for the country's relatively small air force.
After confirming that Canada will spend about 9 billion Canadian dollars, or $8.7 billion, to buy 65 F-35s from Lockheed Martin and to cover deployment costs, Peter MacKay said that the Conservative government would not compromise on military equipment.
''This aircraft is the best that we can provide our men and women in uniform and this government is committed to giving them the very best,'' Mr. MacKay told a news conference while standing in front of a full-size model of the fighter jet. 
The announcement of a multibillion-dollar commitment by the Canadian government should bolster a program that has been plagued with delays and substantial price increases.
Even before the announcement, the purchase had become the source of political controversy. Aside from its cost, which may reach 16 billion Canadian dollars once maintenance and parts contracts are signed, opposition politicians are angry about the lack of a competitive tender process.
On Thursday, the Liberal Party said that it would oppose the purchase. An alliance of opposition parties could stall or block the deal.
''I'm not suggesting that this may not be the best fighter aircraft for the Canadian forces,'' said Ujjal Dosanjh, a Liberal member of Parliament responsible for military issues. ''But we don't know that without going through a process.''
''It's nice to have the latest and the greatest,'' said Jack Harris of the New Democratic Party. ''But do we need that to protect our country? We're not, as we were in the cold war, facing off against the Soviet military.''
Canada is one of eight countries helping the United States build the fighter, which will be less detectable by radar than older planes and versatile enough to attack ground targets. The Canadian government has announced that it will phase out its recently updated fleet of CF-18 jets beginning in 2017.
Kim M. Testa, a spokeswoman for Lockheed Martin, said that Canada would complete the procurement in 2014 and begin accepting delivery two years later.
Other nations have also debated the necessity of an aircraft as costly and sophisticated as the F-35. Opposition leaders in Denmark and the Netherlands are questioning whether they can afford to buy the plane at a time when their economies are under pressure. Lockheed, however, needs to hold onto the foreign sales to lower the cost of the planes.
The American defense secretary, Robert M. Gates, recently revamped the F-35 program and removed the general in charge, after the Pentagon's projected costs soared 64 percent to $382 billion for 2,457 planes. The eight allies have invested a total of $4 billion in developing the plane and could buy hundreds of the planes through specific orders, most of which remain to be negotiated.
But Lockheed Martin's chief executive, Robert J. Stevens, said in June that the company was cutting its costs and improving the efficiency of its production.
Though recent Pentagon estimates have placed the cost of a single F-35 as high as $112 million, Mr. Stevens said Lockheed believed it could lower the cost, by 2014 or 2015, to be comparable to updated and fully loaded versions of older fighters, like Boeing's F/A-18 and Lockheed's own F-16. That would reduce the price of each F-35 to about $65 million.
During the news conference, Mr. MacKay would not say how much Canada would pay for each jet. Although he did indicate that the 9 billion Canadian dollar figure includes other costs like training, improvements to airbases as well as simulators.
A Canadian procurement official, who spoke on the condition he not be identified, said that the government was assuming that it would pay 90 million Canadian dollars for each F-35 although it anticipated that the final cost would be much lower.
Tom Burbage, a top Lockheed manager for the program, said the company expected to sell the planes to Canada for $60 million to $65 million each, not accounting for maintenance, parts or inflation.
One factor that may determine the political fate of the deal is Lockheed's willingness to buy parts from Canadian suppliers.
Unlike other major military contracts given to foreign companies by Canada, Lockheed is not required to spend any money in Canada. By agreeing to purchase the planes, however, Canadian aerospace companies, many of which are American owned, can now bid on supplying the global F-35 project.
Ms. Testa said that Lockheed would buy about $10 billion of components and parts from Canadian aerospace companies as part of the deal. Canadian officials anticipate that the final amount will be higher.
While Canada did not call for tenders, Boeing has been lobbying the Canadian government and opposition politicians to consider the F/A-18, an update of the aircraft that is the basis of the government's current CF-18s. And a consortium of European manufacturers has been promoting the Eurofighter Typhoon.
During the news conference, Rona Ambrose, the minister of public works, said that the government considered asking for bids at one point but rejected the idea after concluding that the F-35 was the only aircraft capable of meeting its needs.
She also suggested that the process during the 1990s that ultimately led Lockheed to provide the United States with its next fighter jet was a surrogate for traditional tendering by Canada. Canada, like the other partner nations, had a role in that review.
The Canadian military has been remarkably absent from the public debate. While it is believed that its leadership is not opposed to the government's plan to buy new aircraft, there are indications that some have concerns about the F-35.
Canada's air force rarely flies combat missions, arguably making some of the F-35's advanced features, like radar-evading stealth, seem like frills.
Unlike the twin-engine CF-18, the F-35 has only one engine. Its failure could leave pilots exposed to the harsh Arctic environment as they await rescue. But military officials in a briefing on Friday said they were not seriously concerned about that issue and noted that CF-18s had crashed in the Arctic, if for other reasons.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: DEFENSE DEPARTMENTS (90%); ARMED FORCES (90%); POLITICS (90%); AIR FORCES (90%); FIGHTERS & BOMBERS (90%); DEFENSE CONTRACTING (89%); POLITICAL PARTIES (89%); COLD WAR (78%); CONTRACTS & BIDS (77%); LIBERALISM (76%); DELAYS & POSTPONEMENTS (73%); PRESS CONFERENCES (69%); PRICE INCREASES (68%)

COMPANY: LOCKHEED MARTIN CORP (93%)

TICKER: LMT (NYSE) (93%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS336414 GUIDED MISSILE & SPACE VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (93%); NAICS336411 AIRCRAFT MANUFACTURING (93%); NAICS334511 SEARCH, DETECTION, NAVIGATION, GUIDANCE, AERONAUTICAL & NAUTICAL SYSTEM & INSTRUMENT MANUFACTURING (93%)

PERSON: PETER MACKAY (74%); ROBERT M GATES (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: CANADA (98%); UNITED STATES (92%); NETHERLANDS (79%)

LOAD-DATE: July 17, 2010



416 of 785 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 18, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section MM; Column 0; Magazine Desk; THE ETHICIST; Pg. 19

LENGTH: 659 words

HEADLINE: When Helping Out Is No Help

BYLINE: By RANDY COHEN

 BODY:
I coach a youth all-star baseball team. After tryouts, our league director chose the 13 best players for our team, leaving about six kids unselected. Among those is a boy whose father recently died of cancer. The boy is not very good at baseball, about the worst among those who tried out. The community is pressuring the director to ''do the right thing'' for the boy and a family coping with tragedy. They say some things transcend baseball skill. But what about the better player whose spot he would be taking? What is ''the right thing''? NAME WITHHELD, CALIFORNIA
Your community's desire to respond to a family's misfortune is admirable, but I'm not persuaded that they have found the best way to do so. This well-intended gesture could be seen as condescending to the boy who is to be helped -- it says he can't succeed on his merits -- and unfair to the better player, whose spot on the roster is simply not the community's to bestow elsewhere. 
Assuming this boy isn't stuck on the end of the bench and actually gets into a game, it will take him about three pitches to realize he's not good enough to hold his own among the all-stars. It will not be a pleasant moment. His well-wishers may be setting him up for failure, accompanied by the queasy sensation of his not deserving to be there, along with the resentment of teammates who genuinely earned their place on the squad. Some gift.
The community should consider alternatives that will bring this boy more satisfaction and do the other children less harm. Perhaps there's another way he could be involved with the team: practicing but not playing, for example, or working with the coaches. His benefactors should discuss this with his family and find out what the boy would most enjoy. Excluding my TV set. That, too, is not theirs to give.
UPDATE: The league director put this boy on the all-star team. League rules say that all on the roster must bat, but only nine will play in the field. In his first few games, he never got a hit and did not field. In recent games, he has gotten on base and caught a fly ball. He enjoys playing, and his teammates -- and coach -- have accepted him.
A freelance project manager, I was hired to find someone to fill a highly specialized job. When I asked an impressive candidate her pay rate, she named a figure far below the industry standard. I could have rejected her for this lack of sophistication or exploited her low bid. Instead, I coached her to a figure nearly twice her bid yet about 30 percent below my client's budget. I did not inform my client about the discrepancy, and she was hired at the rate I recommended. Did I do wrong by either party? NAME WITHHELD,NEW YORK
You did right by both, matching client and candidate at a fair price. You would not serve the candidate well by taking advantage of her ignorance of the prevailing pay in this field. Nor would you serve your client well by lowballing the candidate. People eventually learn the going rate, and nobody likes feeling taken advantage of. Any economic benefit to your client would have been, at best, temporary, and perhaps more than offset by the cost of finding a replacement, which, as I'm sure you know, isn't easy. In general, it's more economical to retain current employees than recruit new ones.
You might have avoided this conundrum if, instead of asking the candidate to name her price, you began negotiations by proposing a figure at around the industry norm.
You would have been in a more precarious position if your client had instructed you to find a good-enough client at the lowest possible pay, perhaps by recruiting at the gates of a Honda factory in China. But as things stand, you fulfilled your duty to the client, the candidate, your own integrity and the people of Mars. (Scratch that last; it's a sci-fi idea I've been fiddling with: freelance project managers in outer space.)
UPDATE: One year later, the new employee is still on the job, and everyone is happy.

GRAPHIC: DRAWING (DRAWING BY MATTHEW WOODSON) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Question

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BASEBALL (91%); CHILDREN (78%); FREELANCE EMPLOYMENT (60%)

GEOGRAPHIC: CALIFORNIA, USA (57%) UNITED STATES (57%)

LOAD-DATE: July 18, 2010



417 of 785 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 18, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section MM; Column 0; Magazine Desk; THE WAY WE LIVE NOW; Pg. 15

LENGTH: 945 words

HEADLINE: The Long Payback

BYLINE: By ROGER LOWENSTEIN. 
Roger Lowenstein, an outside director of the Sequoia Fund, is a contributing writer and author of ''The End of Wall Street.''

 BODY:
Last month, my wife and I refinanced our mortgage. Though the rate was lower and we could have afforded more debt, we paid down a chunk of the balance. Don't ask me why -- it just felt better to owe less money. Time was, such thrift would have been hailed as patriotic. Now it threatens the economic recovery. Less borrowing means less to spend.
Suppose everybody did this? Well, it turns out, everybody has. Eschewing trips to the mall, Americans are paying off credit-card balances and home-equity lines. Despite low rates, mortgage demand has plummeted. 
Some people have no choice but to pare their debts (indeed, some are being foreclosed on). For others, call it morning-after sobriety or late-blooming prudence. Losing income tends to bring on a case of the nerves, and half of American workers have suffered a job loss or a cut in hours or wages over the past 30 months. And, need we add, people's stock portfolios are not what they were.
The economic term is ''deleveraging''; it means that, as opposed to the normal state of affairs, in which, each quarter, people borrow more money and banks issue more loans, credit in the economy is shrinking. Remarkably, this deleveraging has been going on for nearly two years. Ordinary Americans are behaving just as the banks they love to excoriate -- having, formerly, assumed too much risk, they are going into hibernation. If credit, in the words of the writer James Grant, is money of the mind, people have become psychologically indisposed to minting it.
Such restraint, even if sensible individually, does not augur well for the gross domestic product. Total household credit has contracted for seven straight quarters. Mortgage debt is down $462 billion from the peak, which it reached in November 2008. Bank-card borrowings, which peaked two months later, are off $126 billion. Auto loans have fallen $122 billion; home-equity lines, $77 billion.
To peruse such figures is to get a whole new sense of America's economic crisis. The bank failures and bailouts of the fall of '08 called to mind a great and terrible battle. The drone of falling credit numbers since then suggests a ponderous army in drawn-out retreat. As Stephanie Pomboy, publisher of the newsletter MacroMavens, has pointed out, government transfers like stimulus spending and tax credits masked the effects of diminishing credit for a while. That is to say, even if people were unwilling to borrow, they were happy to spend money they got from the government. Now that government supports are being pulled away, the effects of deleveraging are in plain view. Home and car sales are plummeting again. Job growth has shrunk to a sliver. Personal bankruptcies are soaring. Deflation, a dangerous state of economic dead air, when prices fall from lack of demand, is a distinct possibility.
Credit and inflation are really two sides of the same coin. When credit expands, people have more money to pay for goods, and prices go up. The Federal Reserve Board has kept short-term interest rates at nearly zero, effectively jamming the credit-creation pedal through the floor. But it hasn't persuaded people to take out their wallets or their credit cards, stoking fears of a Japan-like deflation. Core inflation (which measures price increases of everything but energy and food) has fallen to its lowest level in 44 years. As people pay back loans rather than take out new ones, they exert a drag on business. As Pomboy writes, ''The U.S. economy is in the grips of a powerful but silent undertow.''
Some of the deleveraging is being forced by banks. Underwriting standards have toughened, making it harder for people to get loans. (This is a good thing, by the way. The reason we got into trouble is that banks were too easy.)
Indeed, the underlying cause of deleveraging is that Americans got too leveraged. This excess was decades in the making. In the aftermath of World War II, the average family earned far more, each year, than the total of its borrowings. But beginning in the 1970s or so, the culture relaxed. Credit cards and mortgage options proliferated. By 2001, household debt reached a par with annual after-tax household income. (The average family owed what it earned.) By the peak of the bubble, in 2008, borrowings had surged to 36 percent more than income.
Which raises the issue: how much of that debt will have to be repaid before people return to their customary, and stimulative, profligacy? Thus far, we have undone only a portion of the excess. Household debt now stands at 26 percent more than income -- still very high by historical standards. ''There is no magical level where it should be,'' says David Resler, an economist with Nomura Securities. ''There is no clear equilibrium.''
Absent a massive federal stimulus (and maybe even with one), the economy is not likely to show much life until deleveraging ends. The conventional view is that we are almost there. That assumes that the average American will resume borrowing and spending before the prior excesses are fully washed out. To return to the status quo of before the housing boom -- say, back to debt to income ratios prevailing in 2000 -- it would take five more years of deleveraging at the current rate. Deleveraging cycles are rare, notes David Rosenberg, an economist with the Toronto firm Gluskin Sheff, but five to seven years is typically what they take. The Conference Board, which asks consumers every month whether they anticipate buying a home, a car or an appliance within the next six months, reported plummeting numbers in June. Consumers used to get their kicks from new Sub-Zero refrigerators; now they chip away at their balances. The turn is yet to come.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO (PHOTOGRAPH BY BRIAN ULRICH) GRAPHIC: 12.5% is the share of HOUSEHOLD after-tax income devoted to repaying DEBTS. (GRAPHIC BY DATA SOURCE: THE FEDERAL RESERVE BOARD, 2010)
 DRAWING (DRAWING BY HUMAN EMPIRE) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MORTGAGE LOANS (89%); PERSONAL DEBT (89%); MORTGAGE REFINANCING (78%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (78%); ECONOMIC RECOVERY (78%); FORECLOSURE (78%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (78%); BAILOUTS (78%); HOME EQUITY CREDIT LINES (78%); BANKING & FINANCE (78%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (78%); WAGES & SALARIES (78%); ECONOMIC NEWS (76%); AUTOMOBILE FINANCING (76%); DEFLATION (76%); GROSS DOMESTIC PRODUCT (76%); BANK FAILURES (71%); WRITERS (69%); DISMISSALS (68%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (68%); AUTOMOTIVE SALES (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: July 18, 2010



418 of 785 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 18, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section BU; Column 0; Money and Business/Financial Desk; THE SEARCH; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 826 words

HEADLINE: The True Calling That Wasn't

BYLINE: By PHYLLIS KORKKI. 
E-mail: thesearch@nytimes.com

 BODY:
WHAT if you're not happy in your job? Is it possible that you're in the wrong career entirely?
This conundrum is all too common. The pressure to ''be'' something starts early in life. Many children move past wanting to be professional athletes, rock stars or astronauts, but then their parents, peers and teachers begin to exert influence -- maybe before young people even know where their inclinations lie.
''The way that people pick careers is incredibly primitive,'' said Nicholas Lore, founder of the Rockport Institute, a career coaching firm, and author of ''The Pathfinder.'' It's no wonder, then, that so many people are dissatisfied with their jobs, he said. 
Consider the mother who helps persuade her son to become a lawyer, the father who urges his daughter to train to be a doctor or the student who picks a college major nearly at random because it's time to declare one, or because it may lead to a job with a high salary.
In these cases, education may well lead to internships, first jobs and, soon, experience and decent money in careers that seem unstoppable. Except for one thing: The work doesn't feel like a true calling.
Disillusionment can seep in quickly as a job plays out day to day. You may realize that your tasks don't mesh well with your personality or talents. Thus, a research scientist with a vivid imagination may have to focus on one particular area for years and may conclude that there is little room for creativity, Mr. Lore said. Or a doctor may consider the work to be overly repetitive, he said, or a lawyer may see no enjoyment in arguing and dealing with paperwork.
Often, Mr. Lore said, people place too high a value on the external rewards of a job, like money, prestige and power. While these can be important, he said, a job's intrinsic nature -- the types of tasks you do, the skills these require and the perceived meaning and value of your work -- are more vital to a sense of fulfillment.
Questioning your career choice is different from not being in the mood to work, finding your work difficult or not liking your boss or your co-workers. But it isn't always easy to tell the difference between disliking a job and disliking your work environment.
''A lot of people who say that they hate what they do actually hate who they do it for,'' said Barbara Safani, owner of Career Solvers, a career management firm in New York. In that case, she said, they need to work on managing their relationships rather than changing careers.
Unhappiness with your career choice goes to the root of your identity and your sense of authenticity, said Robert I. Sutton, a professor and organizational psychologist at Stanford.
People whose careers aren't the right fit often feel like impostors, even if they are very skilled at their jobs, he said. Another symptom is constant annoyance with the demands being made of them, even though these are reasonable for the business they're in, he said.
An additional warning sign is a feeling that their current work doesn't rank very high in their value system, he said. For example, some people are uncomfortable with the profit motive of the corporate world and would be happier in the nonprofit sector.
''I'm not ready to say there's a true calling, but I think there's a better calling for many of us,'' he said.
If you think a career change is in your future, he recommends saving diligently so you have some ''take this job and shove it'' money that allows you to make a switch.
At some point, decide whether you're just going to put up with your current job or whether you're committed to change, Mr. Lore said.
His firm conducts extensive testing on clients to determine their personality traits, natural talents and values. Some people are oriented toward the future and possibilities, so a career in marketing or advertising may be a good fit, he said, but a person who prefers dealing with the present and what's right in front of her may succeed as a chef. People with highly developed spatial awareness may do best as architects or engineers, while people who are more conceptual in their thinking may gravitate toward being psychologists or economists, Mr. Lore said.
Most people assume that if they change careers, they'll have to start at the bottom of the ladder and accept a lot less money, he said. That is sometimes true, he observed, but people can often carry pieces of their former careers along with them and gain a higher salary and position as a result.
If you do find a better career fit, don't expect it to be a panacea. Your new job won't always be fun-filled and satisfying. Beyond the money it provides, ''I think it's safe to say that work is overrated,'' Professor Sutton said. Much of work is spent performing tedious activities that would not be at the top of your list if you had a choice, he said.
Still, people who find a ''better calling'' will experience fewer of those moments -- and will be happier knowing that what they do is compatible with who they are.

GRAPHIC: DRAWING (DRAWING BY SEAN KELLY) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: EMPLOYMENT (89%); EDUCATIONAL INSTITUTION EMPLOYEES (78%); APPRENTICESHIPS & INTERNSHIPS (78%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (77%); CHILDREN (77%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (76%); PSYCHOLOGY (73%); WAGES & SALARIES (73%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (70%) UNITED STATES (70%)

LOAD-DATE: July 18, 2010



419 of 785 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 18, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section MM; Column 0; Magazine Desk; Pg. 38

LENGTH: 4692 words

HEADLINE: When Funny Goes Viral

BYLINE: By ROB WALKER. 
Rob Walker writes the Consumed column for the magazine and is the author of ''Buying In.''

 BODY:
One weekend this spring, close to 1,000 people gathered on the campus of the Massachusetts Institute of Technology to attend a sold-out conference devoted to the question ''What is awesome on the Internet?'' While the event included presenters and moderators with respectable research credentials from the Berkman Center for Internet and Society at Harvard and the like, what they had gathered to examine, more or less seriously, is what might be called the ROFL universe. ROFL, which became familiar in the age of texting, stands for ''rolling on the floor, laughing'' and can serve as a shorthand response to the most ephemeral, silly and frankly unimportant-seeming manifestations of pop entertainment in the early 21st century: absurdly captioned pictures of cats, goof-off remixes of YouTube videos, unlikely Web celebrities, quick-hit visual jokes with unprintable punch lines and sporadic references to Rick Astley. 
Tim Hwang, a clean-cut, 23-year-old go-getter from New Jersey, was an organizer of this event, called ROFLCon II, as well as its predecessor two years ago. Back then he was finishing up degrees in economics and political science at Harvard, and he, Christina Xu, who was a fellow student, and other friends began hashing out their definition of ''Internet awesome.'' They were partly inspired by Randall Munroe, creator of the online comic XKCD, who used a coded message to invite fans to gather in a certain park at a certain time. Hundreds of people showed up. To Hwang, who later became a Berkman Center researcher, there was something curiously powerful about hundreds of strangers gathering in physical space to bond over a shared Internet obsession that most people had never heard of. ''Wow, this is a culture in a real sense,'' he recalls thinking. ''It's not just people fooling around online.''
That said, much of what is discussed at ROFLCon events are in fact the artifacts of people fooling around. What the ROFLCon organizers meant by ''awesome'' was, for instance, Tron Guy, a man who is famous online because he posted pictures of himself dressed in an elaborate custom-made costume inspired by a 1980s sci-fi movie. Tron Guy received the first invitation to the first ROFLCon. He accepted. So did a variety of people who attracted cultish online audiences via YouTube or off-kilter sites like Chuck Norris Facts. A young man then known only as ''moot,'' founder of the notoriously profane Web site 4chan, agreed to appear, as did a clutch of academics and researchers to present papers that dealt with cultural co-optation and online status hierarchies -- viewed through the lens of ROFL.
Hwang concedes the metajoke aspect of that first conference in 2008: wouldn't it be funny and weird to create an event about things on the Internet that are funny and weird? The punch line is that their idea was prescient. Moot, the 4Chan.org founder, who has since revealed his name as Christopher Poole, recently gave a talk at a TED Conference, a gathering of tech and business insiders. There, he explained the origins of Internet foolishness like Lolcats and Rickrolling to its well-heeled, big-thinking audience. Hwang spoke at this year's South by Southwest Music and Media Conference on the subject of ''homemade-flamethrower videos'' on YouTube. The department of media, culture and communication at New York University brought in a trio of performers for the main event at its undergraduate conference this winter to give a presentation called MemeFactory, a fast-paced talk with three slide projectors running simultaneously, addressing practically every stupid joke -- or Internet meme, to use the common catch-all term -- that's ricocheted across the Web in the past 10 years.
Like practically everything else, people fooling around is transformed by the online context. Consider Rickrolling. As many (but probably not all) of you know, this involves suggesting that a point being made online will be backed up, or refuted, if you click on what appears to be a relevant link; instead, the link takes you to a video for Rick Astley's 1987 hit, ''Never Gonna Give You Up.'' This prank became such a fad that it was referenced in the 2008 Macy's Thanksgiving Day Parade, with Astley himself on hand to live-Rickroll the audience. Or consider Lolcats (LOL meaning ''laugh out loud''), which even the most casual Internet user has probably come across: funny pictures of cats, made funnier by a pidgin-English phrase in big block letters, joined in what's referred to as ''image macro.'' The Mona Lisa (or maybe the Duchamp ''Fountain'') of Lolcats shows a chubby feline with a plaintive expression, asking, ''I can has cheezburger?'' A Seattle entrepreneur named Ben Huh, who now owns icanhascheezburger.com, has made Lolcats the cornerstone of a multimillion-dollar business, producing several books and a slew of similar sites. Not coincidentally, mainstream publishers have paid six-figure advances to total unknowns in hopes of converting ROFL to revenue; CBS is turning some guy's crude-humor Twitter feed into a sitcom.
So, yes, young people have been messing around forever. But the results have seldom ended up attracting deals with major media companies, sparking discussions at confabs like TED or been included alongside Kermit and Santa Claus in a literal parade of broadly recognizable iconography.
There is, has been and will be no shortage of grand talk of the Internet's potential. In his recent book ''Cognitive Surplus,'' Clay Shirky, the New York University lecturer and Web pontificator, suggests that the shift from passive media consumption to active and democratized media creation means we will all work in previously impossible concert to build astonishing virtual cathedrals of the mind, solving the world's problems instead of vegging out in front of ''Gilligan's Island.'' As it happens, he even mentions Lolcats. Because Lolcats are both made and shared by the Internet-connected masses, they are examples of how Web tools have ''bridged that gap'' between passivity and activity. But this lasts only a few paragraphs (in which Lolcats are characterized as ''dumb,'' ''stupid'' and ''crude''). He quickly pivots back to the more high-minded stuff about how ''the wiring of humanity lets us treat free time as a shared global resource.''
Shirky is among the thinkers engaged in the popular debate over whether the Internet makes us smarter or dumber. And that question is interesting, but let's face it: it's not awesome. What Tim Hwang and his cohorts basically hit upon was the conclusion that, while that debate drags on, funny cat pictures and so on are really, really popular. And maybe another question to consider is what that means -- to consider the Web not in terms of how it might affect who we become but rather in terms of how it reflects who we are. ROFL, after all, is not a seductive theory about what enlightened things democratized culture may one day produce; it is a pervasive fact on the ground. This is how sizable chunks of our cognitive resources are actually being deployed, so it's worth trying to figure out why that is, what functions this stuff serves and how it differs from or falls in line with more familiar forms of entertainment. Perhaps, in other words, it's worth taking ROFL seriously. Or at least sort of seriously.
People get hung up on whether it's good or not; that's not really important,'' says Diana Kimball, one of ROFLCon's original student organizers, who now works for Microsoft. ''The best corollary is just regular popular culture. Is pop culture good? That's debatable. But there's a whole subset of people for whom the Internet is their pop culture.''
Some people enjoy common knowledge of ''American Idol'' or the Mets or rumors about Brad Pitt's love life; some share common knowledge of Tron Guy or YouTube remixes or funny pictures of cats. Maybe this stuff doesn't debut Thursday night at 9 p.m. on a broadcast network, but it is frequently amplified by megasites like boingboing.net and Fark.com, which in turn are picked over by everyone from FM-radio shock jocks to staid newspapers looking for stories about the next nutty Internet fad. This is the pop-material side of Internet memes.
And at this point, it can't really be described as just something the Web-crazy kids are doing. At ROFLCon II, I stood in the registration line with a guy in a suit who turned out to be a woodworker living in Maine. At first he was modest about his ROFL knowledge, but soon he was pointing out the various Web celebrities in the room. Plenty of people were college age, but many were a generation or more older than that. Of course, a number of attendees in all age groups were probably marketers, because it turns out that some people are taking the pop-material dimension of ROFL seriously by building businesses around it.
The Lolcat entrepreneur Ben Huh -- recently crowned ''the Internet's meme maestro'' by Wired magazine -- says he thinks the market potential is vast. ''What interested me the most was there's this entire community of people devoted to following the rules and the system behind the framework of Lolcats,'' Huh, who is 32, told me. ''No one ever said, 'These are the rules.' But everybody said, 'I know the rules.' '' Huh has a degree in journalism and was in the touchscreen-software business before he persuaded financial backers to help him buy a popular blog devoted to Lolcats in 2007. Today his Cheezburger Network has 45 employees and owns dozens of sites where the goofing-off masses can submit their image macros or other bits of Web humor organized around various themes. The company makes money from advertising, and a couple of its Lolcat books have been best sellers.
To people under 30 or so, Huh contends, these tiny pieces of seemingly trivial Internet-specific culture are more relevant than most of what's on television. ''Just as the sitcom or the 30-minute news broadcast or the soap opera from radio were the hallmark of how a certain generation understood entertainment and culture -- the Internet meme is one of those things,'' he says.
Huh is not the only person eyeing Internet memes through the lens of the profit motive. Hwang told me that while ROFLCon II was being organized, various marketing professionals and social-media experts pitched themselves as featured guests who could (supposedly) explain how to make brand-building memes. A lot of people who come to ROFLCon or are part of the ROFL universe or whatever you want to call it are worried about or uncomfortable with that. Hwang says: ''There's been this weird push around 'Did ROFL culture sell out? Who owns all these spaces? What's Ben Huh doing? This isn't cool anymore because there's people making money off it.' '' And is it turns out, Hwang himself recently took a job at the Barbarian Group, a branding firm known for its keen interest in meme culture.
If one function of ROFL in the online ecosystem is to bring people together around something funny, it also draws lines. The memes of the moment change constantly; new variations are added to its language and older material is recombined to shift or add to its meaning. A MemeFactory presentation I caught at New York University was a dizzying blur: Boxxy, David After Dentist, Star Wars Kid, ''Downfall,'' Advice Dog, ''Imma chargin mah lazer!'' Crasher Squirrel, ''This is Sparta!'' multiple Japanese cartoon clips, a new Chat Roulette prank, Weegee and so on. Your reaction to that list -- incomprehensible? kind of played out? -- says something about your relationship to ''Internet culture.''
This was a running theme at ROFLCon II. Internet memes are basically an endless series of in-jokes, a few of which occasionally cross over into the mainstream (where their origins are rarely known and probably a matter of indifference). A speaker, Kenyatta Cheese of the Web site Know Your Meme, passingly referred to those unfluent in ROFL (or ''our culture,'' as he called it) as ''civilians.'' Gabriella Coleman, an assistant professor at N.Y.U. and an anthropologist whose work has focused on hacker culture, law and technology, suggests that knowing your memes helps define ''a geeky bunker of Internet culture.'' That is to say, each bit of apparent idiocy is an in-group/out-group marker.
The most notorious in-group on the Web today is probably the ''/b/'' forum on 4chan.org. It has a somewhat unpleasant reputation, for several reasons. One is its association with so-called trolls, malevolent hackers who deploy dazzling technical skill to bully and harass strangers. Some critiques of 4Chan take on a ''Reefer Madness'' hysteria, but there's no question that /b/ is obscene and frequently barely literate -- a nonstop stream of language and imagery that's often racist, sexist and homophobic. Its participants are fiercely protective of their bunker. I should note that /b/ has a reputation for responding to interest aroused by attention from, say, magazine articles by flooding the board with the most vile and repulsive material it can come up with, for the explicit purpose of repelling curious newbies.
Christopher Poole, the 22-year-old founder of 4Chan, is a trim, unassuming and articulate guy, who looks more like a young Ron Howard than the slovenly malcontent archetype of a hacker-geek. But if Ben Huh is a figurehead for ROFL as cheery, commodity pop culture, Poole stands for the value of online expression that defies all reasonable standards of taste and even the notion of authorship -- let alone the traditional marketplace.
Poole did not set out to create a space for meme generation. He founded 4chan in 2003, when he was 15 and interested in Japanese pop culture. He discovered a Japanese site called 2Chan and was dazzled by the multiple-posts-per-second discussion, even though he couldn't follow it. He built 4Chan, which continues to include boards devoted to coherent discussions of Japanese pop culture. But 4Chan's ''random'' board, /b/, took on a life of its own; it accounts for about a third of the site's traffic and is, Poole says, ''the beating heart of the Web site.''
/B/ requires no registration, and many of its nearly 10 million monthly users simply call themselves Anonymous. It generates something like a million posts a day but has no archive, and this anonymous and ephemeral space has created a nothing-is-sacred attitude that can result in things both weird and offensive. Partly there's a willingness to wallow in what many people might look away from, to riff on and one-up one another -- roaring for ''moar,'' as spelled by /b/ participants, when a thread or meme takes off internally. It looks crude and reads dumb, but there is also technical skill and raw wit in the /b/ mire. Again, it's largely young males blowing off steam via harebrained behavior, but doing so in massive numbers and egging one another on in a way that causes some of the results to spill out into the broader culture. If you like the upbeat metaphor of the Internet as a hive mind, then maybe /b/ is one of the places where its unruly id resides.
4Chan is not the only source of ROFL with no known ''author'' or the only Web site that is provocative. It's hard to say, for instance, who should really get credit, or blame, for ''Downfall,'' also known as ''Hitler reacts'' or ''the Hitler meme.'' This involves a dramatic scene from the 2004 film ''Downfall,'' in which the actor Bruno Ganz, as Hitler, realizes his defeat is imminent and begins screaming at his subordinates. It's in German, but the ROFL versions are each recaptioned so that instead of the fall of the Third Reich, Hitler is freaking out about, say, being banned from Xbox Live or the vuvuzela racket at the World Cup or the news that the film's production company is trying to have all the ''Downfall'' parodies taken off YouTube for copyright reasons. Each video was of course made by somebody, but a conversation about the creation of any particular ''Hitler Reacts'' video with its maker, even if that person could be identified and located, would be meaningless. Only by way of the hundreds of videos and their collective thousands or millions of viewers does it enter the ROFL canon.
Internet anonymity has many critics, but Poole's argument is that the pockets of anonymous space are crucial for the online ecosystem, particularly as Web users yoke their online activities directly to their real-world identities through services like Facebook. As awful as /b/ can be, its lawless-seeming atmosphere has ''fostered creativity,'' Poole insists; sometimes it's when people are hidden away, unconcerned about their reputation or social identity, that they ''say and do very interesting things.''
''Let's go back to 1840,'' Jason Scott, a digital archivist and documentarian, said to his audience at the first ROFLCon in 2008. Scott titled his talk ''Before the LOL,'' and a big part of his message was that interesting people have been doing curious, quirky, playful or offensive things with technology, outside the mainstream, since well before the phrase ''the Internet changes everything'' was coined.
The talk moved briskly from mid-19th-century catchphrases to telegraph-specific shorthand to ham-radio hacks to amateur Teletype art (nudes included) to Xerox 914-enabled images of Mickey Mouse making obscene gestures. A 1989 list of popular online bulletin-board slang included terms like L8ER and, yes, LOL. Scott's point is not that nothing new or interesting has happened online since the mid-1990s, but rather to reject the commonplace assertion that contemporary Web culture has created unprecedented expression. There may be changes in degree and scale, but having fun by using technology in warped ways is more of a tradition than a revolution. ''The biggest problem if you're trying to figure out 'What is this stuff? What are they trying to do?' is that I think even they don't completely have a grip on it,'' Scott says. ''This thing -- the Internet, online culture -- allows you to engage with interesting people who you otherwise might not be aware of or interesting people who are, themselves, unaware that they're interesting.''
Internet expression coming from outside traditional media culture could simply be considered as a form of folk or outsider culture, but it's more typically described as a kind of threat: political blogs opposing the mainstream media or Wikipedia serving as an alternative to the Encyclopedia Britannica. There was some talk along these lines at ROFLCon, but the way Internet memes work suggests a more comfortable synthesis, maybe even a codependency. Many riff off or simply appropriate familiar mainstream-media material. And these days the interesting things done by people who don't know they are interesting can be instantly referenced on ''South Park'' or ''Family Guy'' or just reported as news.
Jonah Peretti knows something about this. Nearly a decade ago, his e-mail exchange with Nike about why its customizing site wouldn't let him put the word ''sweatshop'' on his sneakers was passed around so much that he ended up on the ''Today'' show. Later he created an intentional bit of Internet humor with a site called ''Black People Love Us!'' Today his view is essentially that ROFL is just another element of the information cycle: he is the founder of BuzzFeed.com, a news-and-entertainment aggregator that's partly devoted to these new sources of memey entertainment. BuzzFeed flings the mainstream and the grass roots together, so that an item about sea turtles dying in the Gulf of Mexico appears right next to one headlined ''Kittens vs. Dinosaurs: A Comparison.'' In fact, BuzzFeed is organized by its readers' shorthand response to what they view -- sections include LOL and OMG. ''The way people interact with media is more about someone's reaction, an emotional or even intellectual reaction,'' Peretti says. ''That is a kind of cultural shift. It's not 'I love to read the Style section,' it's 'I love all the LOL stuff.' ''
And current events don't merely sit next to LOL material; current events often become LOL material. Thus, Joe Biden's hot-microphone gaffe, expressing the import of health care legislation in salty terms, instantly became the jumping-off point for BuzzFeed readers to submit their own satirical image macros. The results were too profane (or stupid) to share here, but I can tell you that they fell into the LOL category. ''You see the news break,'' Peretti says, and ''the next day or 12 hours later, people are hungry for the parody of it or the comic relief.''
This stream of bite-size distractions is just the sort of thing that Nicholas Carr, in his book ''The Shallows,'' maintains is undermining serious and sustained thought. In another recent book, ''You Are Not a Gadget,'' Jaron Lanier, the technology pioneer and writer, pointedly laments the ''vapid video pranks'' and ''lightweight mashups'' that mark what he argues is the disappointing lack of progress in the Web 2.0 era, part of a devolution into a culture of schlock and juvenilia, where recycling mass-media artifacts trumps true individual originality.
But maybe juvenilia has its purpose. ''There's something excellent about freeing the 10-year-old boy in all of us,'' says Theresa Senft, a University of East London lecturer, who is writing a book about Internet microcelebrity. Senft's work deals seriously with the politics and power dynamics of online identity and representation -- and she loves ROFL without apologies. ''It's the doofus, the kid who dances in the rain and makes 10,000 fart jokes and laughs at every single one,'' she says. ''It's very joyful.'' People have a hard time, she added, acknowledging the irrational laughter that the body produces even when the mind isn't sure why. ''How come we can't think of this stuff as 'O.K., it's stupid -- but it's also beautiful in some way'?'' she asks. ''It's beautiful to be in the middle of 5,000 e-mails and stressing about your taxes and having someone send you an idiotic video -- and just laugh.''
The closing panel discussion at ROFLCon II was ''Mainstreaming the Web,'' and it included Ben Huh, the Lolcat entrepreneur; Christopher Poole, the 4Chan founder; and Kenyatta Cheese of Know Your Meme, among others. The discussion was surprisingly earnest. (And despite some rumors about troublemakers from /b/ who were planning to disrupt things, it was almost disappointingly civilized.) There was musing about whether memes signify a subculture and, if so, whether that could last; speculation about the nature of the meme consumer that would have fit in easily at a more traditional Web confab; and audience feedback making the inevitable suggestion that mainstream attention is ruining awesome meme making. Mostly there was consensus. Cheese said that Know Your Meme was founded in part because more mainstream sources (he mentioned Wikipedia) weren't documenting Internet memes, despite the fact that ROFL material is ''fast becoming our common language.''
Earlier, on an afternoon when I was supposed to be calling up media scholars and technology experts to get their take on this fast-growing form of culture, I instead sought a little entertainment online. I wasn't consciously seeking out the happy distractions of ROFL material, but after the usual flitting around, I paused on a post on HipsterRunoff.com, titled ''Keut Hipster Girl Watches White Guy Beat Up Black Guy on Public Bus.'' HipsterRunoff frequently comments on Web culture in the texting-speak patois of an idiot-savant ''author'' named Carles. It can be read as nihilistic, searingly critical or just sort of ROFL. In any case, this post was about a recent ''youtubable fight'' on a bus in Oakland, in which ''an old white guy wearing a fanny pack'' pummels a younger black man. ''The fight seems racially motivated,'' Carles deadpanned, adding: ''A cute lil hipster girl watches on, trying to pay attention to her surroundings, but more importantly, she is enjoying the music on her large headphones. Her purple American Apparel outfit and Converse lowtops clash violently with the racial tensions on the bus.'' The video itself was as described -- and fairly depressing.
But it was clearly getting sucked into the ROFL vortex. The anonymous users of 4Chan's /b/ forum renamed the older white guy ''Epic Beard Man.'' They also created a nickname for the indifferent-seeming young woman in the headphones, ''Amber Lamps,'' inspired by the younger black man's slurred request for an ambulance. A slew of image macros incorporated these figures and phrases from the clip into visual jokes using every conceivable ROFL trope, collected on Know Your Meme and Encyclopedia Dramatica. Many of the jokes turned on racist language, and the 75,000-plus comments posted to the original YouTube video (which soon had more than four million views) were a carnival of coarseness. The video was linked from BuzzFeed, and the crowd classified it as LOL and OMG. Somebody made a video of Hitler reacting to the incident. Somebody else created an animated version and someone started a site, Epicbeardmanfacts.com. Traditional media sources and ''citizen journalists'' interviewed both men, and videos of those conversations circulated and became part of the iterations online. The Huffington Post ran an item titled ''Why 'Epic Beard Man' Is the Fastest Growing Public Fight Meme Ever.''
Awesome? Or appalling? Either way, the Epic Beard Man meme seemed like a good example of one last thing worth considering about ''Internet culture.'' Among the academics I eventually called was Gabriella Coleman, the N.Y.U. professor. Her research into hacker identities stretches back to the era of 1970s ''phreakers'' who figured out how to manipulate the phone system and continues through the contemporary trolls who rain grief on Web users they find stupid or bothersome or simply easy to pick on. A mantra in the latter group is that they do it all ''for the lulz,'' meaning for the LOLs, just because they can. The ''for the lulz'' attitude can be more broadly thought of as a rationale for the idea that everything is worth making fun of, nothing should be taken seriously, not even a guy getting punched in the face until he bleeds.
Coleman has a particular interest in the different and interlocking ethical codes of the groups she studies. One of the variations she has explored is the ''informational trickster,'' a formulation that relies in part on the writer Lewis Hyde's exploration of creative troublemaking figures in the folklore and mythology of multiple cultures in his book, ''Trickster Makes This World.'' The trickster figures that Hyde writes about break rules, ignore mores and commit prankish acts of mayhem or mischief for selfish reasons. Sometimes the trickster goes too far and pays a price; sometimes the trickster reveals the hypocrisy of the game he just cheated. But invariably, the actions of tricksters bridge two previously divergent worlds, revealing each to the other and changing their relationship permanently.
The more traditional pundits and gurus who talk about the Internet often seem to want to draw strict boundaries between old mass-media culture and the more egalitarian forms taking shape online -- and between Internet life and life in the physical world. But I wonder if the trick that converts a bus fight into hilarious entertainment for millions isn't revealing such boundaries as false. Sometimes the pointless-seeming jokes that spring from the Web seem to be calling a bluff and showing a truth: This is what egalitarian cultural production really looks like, this is what having unbounded spaces really entails, this is what anybody-can-be-famous means, this is how the hunger for ''moar'' gets sated, this is what's burbling in the hive mind's id. But the real point is that to pretend otherwise isn't denying the Internet -- it's denying reality. In some cases, then, maybe the payoff of ROFL isn't just the pleasure of laughter, though that surely happens. Trickster expression, intentional or otherwise, doesn't propose a solution but jolts you to confront some question that you might prefer to have avoided. Like what, exactly, am I laughing at?

GRAPHIC: DRAWINGS: DRAWINGS (MM38-MM39)
SAD KEANU REEVES: One day, Keanu sat on a park bench, looking, perhaps, sad. His photo, taken by a paparazzi, was appropriated by Web pranksters and inserted in hundreds of unlikely scenes. (MM40)
LOLCATS: Cute cats with dumb captions. ''No one ever said, 'These are the rules,' '' Ben Huh says. But people followed the rules nonetheless. (MM41)
DRAWING (MM 42)
 OOLONG: The pet rabbit of a Japanese photographer became an early Internet sensation for its ability to balance objects on its head. The rabbit, Oolong, died in 2003, but the images live on. (DRAWINGS BY JIM STOTEN) (MM43) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CATS (90%); INTERNET SOCIAL NETWORKING (89%); INTERNET & WWW (78%); POLITICAL SCIENCE (72%); TEXT MESSAGING (70%); SCIENCE FICTION & FANTASY FILMS (50%)

ORGANIZATION: MASSACHUSETTS INSTITUTE OF TECHNOLOGY (84%)

GEOGRAPHIC: MASSACHUSETTS, USA (73%) UNITED STATES (73%)

LOAD-DATE: July 18, 2010



420 of 785 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 18, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section BR; Column 0; Book Review Desk; Pg. 17

LENGTH: 1280 words

HEADLINE: Family Albums

BYLINE: By SUSANN COKAL. 
Susann Cokal, the author of the novels ''Mirabilis'' and ''Breath and Bones,'' is a frequent contributor to the Book Review.

 BODY:
LEAVING ROCK HARBOR
By Rebecca Chace
292 pp. Scribner. $25.
THE HOUSE ON SALT HAY ROAD
By Carin Clevidence
285 pp. Farrar, Straus & Giroux. $25.
Long ago and far away, Aristotle called poetry (by which he meant imaginative writing in general) ''a more philosophical and serious business than history; for poetry speaks more of universals, history of particulars.'' He was describing the difference between the events we know to have happened to such-and-such a person on such-and-such a date and the wide scope of human reactions to those events. And, by extension, of the way imaginative writing can grab at our hearts to make history live beyond the limits of facts. 
The best historical novels recreate the past as a series of intimate interactions and reflections punctuated by the wars, economic booms and busts, and acts of God that are readily checked by scholars. Recently, Hilary Mantel's ''Wolf Hall''; Colm Toibin's ''Brooklyn''; and ''The Help,'' by Kathryn Stockett, have, in their very different ways, brought history home, and without the gimmicks of ''Abraham Lincoln: Vampire Hunter.'' Now Rebecca Chace and Carin Clevidence are exploring the intersection of self with history in the first half of the 20th century, in ''Leaving Rock Harbor'' and ''The House on Salt Hay Road.'' Both novels are moody, with ominous beginnings and plucky protagonists who struggle for happiness despite the intrusion of outside forces. And both succeed as forays into small lives buffeted by great events.
Chace, the author of a previous novel, ''Capture the Flag,'' and a memoir, ''Chautauqua Summer,'' opens ''Leaving Rock Harbor'' on a note of despair. It is 1916, and Frankie Ross's father has attempted suicide, prompting his family's hasty relocation from upstate New York to the prosperous city of Rock Harbor, Mass. While her father readily finds work in a cotton mill, the fresh start is difficult for 15-year-old Frankie, who narrates the novel (sometimes distractingly) from the perspective of grown womanhood. Lonely and stifled, she's relieved to attract the attention of the wealthy Winslow Curtis, son of a conservative (and prurient) politician, and his friend Joe Barros, a Portuguese millworker who is also the star of the high school basketball team. In ''Jules and Jim'' fashion, these three share picnics and scantily clad swims. But when Frankie talks the boys into giving her a tour of the Curtis mill, the visit ends in disaster: through Frankie's carelessness, a young girl is pulled into a loom, mangling one of her feet.
''There are such nights,'' Frankie reflects, ''when everything changes either by accident or intention.'' Nobody, she adds, ''actually chooses how they behave at a time like that.'' At first, Frankie makes few choices, and the accident has scant consequences. She and Winslow and Joe have fun until World War I plucks Joe away to Europe -- and Frankie quickly abandons both corset and chastity to Winslow, who soon becomes her husband. But the image of that little millworker, mouth open in a scream drowned out by the machinery, haunts the rest of the novel, especially since the victim will make her adult presence felt at pivotal moments.
Chace's novel shows earnest ambition as it addresses the history of the labor movement and factory reform in the years after the war. As the Massachusetts cotton industry lags, beleaguered workers protest pay cuts and factory conditions, and Frankie's father finds his calling in agitating for their cause. As Winslow Curtis's wife, Frankie is, naturally, placed in a difficult position, but Chace's social conscience seems stronger than her narrator's. Frankie may help her father in small ways, but she remains unengaged in the larger political struggles, eager to shrug off her responsibilities and her painful memories. The novel's descriptions of the mill are painstakingly thorough, and exposition intrudes into the dialogue as Chace's characters inform one another (and us) of what's happening in the wider world. Frankie is predominantly invested in her love life -- for Joe, wounded in the war but no less alluring, has returned to become a labor organizer, still unmarried and still in love with his childhood friend. Cue fireworks and sticky situations.
The fireworks in Carin Clevidence's first novel, ''The House on Salt Hay Road'' come early, but the novel keeps a steady flame burning until its final scenes. When an explosion in a fireworks factory rattles a Depression-era Long Island coastal community, 12-year-old Clayton Poole sets out on a panicked search to find his older sister, Nancy. The orphaned siblings are the central figures in a narrative that will be shaped by mourning and rescue. These two are deeply attached to each other, to the exclusion of their late mother's father, brother and sister, who have welcomed them to the now crowded house on Salt Hay Road.
On the day of the explosion, Nancy is distracted by a young museum curator from Boston, visiting the mansion where her aunt works as a cook. Their subsequent love affair, which Nancy is determined to bring to the altar (via the bedroom if necessary), disrupts the household's uneasy equilibrium. Clayton, for one, is devastated when Nancy announces her engagement. Taking refuge in the outdoors, he sketches dead animals, trying, his sister notes, ''to understand the meaning of . . . loss by studying the mechanics of decay.''
Clevidence's Long Island is a lushly described place of wild marshes, shallow bays and beckoning beaches. The people who live here hunt, fish and sail not for amusement but as a way of life that brings its own hardy pleasures. There may be a bit too much local color for some readers' tastes, but the eccentric characters we expect of a small town are evoked with a reverence that lifts them from the precious to the pageworthy. On a warm day, pet cockatoos roost in a tree outside a bird fancier's house. Clayton's crusty grandfather plays cribbage while telling tales of his former career rescuing shipwreck victims. Still grieving over a lost love, Uncle Roy begins a new courtship while his sister, Mavis, bakes with Depression-defying abundance and tries to bring religion and superstition to an understanding of her own failed marriage.
Driven gently by these tensions, and a few Nancy discovers in her own impetuous romance, the story creeps toward disaster, which arrives with the great hurricane of 1938. Again family members are separated as the storm demolishes homes and rearranges the landscape. Who will rescue whom? Are the family members defined by their responses to crises like the hurricane or by the small moments that make up most of their lives? The answers are wrenching, melancholy -- and yet, for some, surprisingly hopeful.
Clevidence has a gift for creating images that express the unspeakable. When Clayton walks along the beach just before the storm, he notices orange-and-black butterflies trying to fly while ''mixed with the salt spray.'' Then ''tumbling over the sand were bright scraps of butterflies that had been ripped apart in the wind.'' A storyteller with this fine an eye might put more trust her own powers and avoid plot-based fireworks. Clevidence's invented emotional lives convey truths that lurk below the surface of historical events, truths that, like those butterflies, bring pleasure even as they remind us how easily they can be torn to bits.

GRAPHIC: DRAWINGS (DRAWINGS BY JONATHAN BARTLETT) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Review

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BOOK REVIEWS (92%); POETRY (90%); NOVELS & SHORT STORIES (89%); WRITERS (77%); BIOGRAPHICAL LITERATURE (77%); HISTORY (76%); PROFILES & BIOGRAPHIES (74%); RELOCATIONS (73%); TEXTILE MFG (65%); SUICIDE (62%); BASKETBALL (60%); HIGH SCHOOL SPORTS (50%)

COMPANY: FARRAR STRAUS & GIROUX INC (58%)

INDUSTRY: SIC2731 BOOKS: PUBLISHING, OR PUBLISHING & PRINTING (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (70%) NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

TITLE: Leaving Rock Harbor (Book); House on Salt Hay Road, The (Book)

LOAD-DATE: August 1, 2010



421 of 785 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 18, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section BU; Column 0; Money and Business/Financial Desk; STRATEGIES; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 1013 words

HEADLINE: Head for the Hills? No Way, He Says

BYLINE: By JEFF SOMMER

 BODY:
LONG before he began studying economics, Jeremy J. Siegel charted the ups and downs of the Dow Jones industrial average on the walls of his childhood bedroom. That fascination with stocks has never ebbed.
Now a professor of finance at the Wharton School of the University of Pennsylvania, Mr. Siegel, 64, knows that not everyone shares this passion -- but says he believes that nearly everyone should invest in the stock market and keep their money there as long as they can.
That was the theme of his influential book, ''Stocks for the Long Run,'' first published in 1994 and now in its fourth edition. Have the unsettled markets of the last few years softened his view? ''Not at all,'' he said. 
In fact, in several phone conversations, he said that this is a great moment to be an investor. ''It's exactly times like this, when bearish sentiment has brought down valuations, that your chance of strong returns in the following years is greatest.''
Professor Siegel emphatically rejected the warnings of extreme bears like Robert Prechter, the Elliott Wave theorist, whose predictions of an epochal market collapse were discussed in this column two weeks ago. To the contrary, he said, the future is bright, and the possibility of a double-dip recession ''minimal.''
He pointed to significant economic problems -- including the European debt crisis, the possibility that the Chinese juggernaut will stumble, and persistent high unemployment in the United States. But he said that here, at least, the Federal Reserve, under the former Princeton economics professor Ben S. Bernanke, would do what it took to maintain financial stability.
As for the stock market, Professor Siegel said, ''there is every reason to believe that mean reversion will continue'' -- that is, that despite sometimes excruciating declines, the market over the long run will produce average real returns of more than 6 percent annually. ''The shocks of the recent past shouldn't alter investors' belief in the future,'' he said.
The spine of ''Stocks for the Long Run'' was a study of the United States market going back to 1802, using data from several sources. Over that period, he found that the stock market outperformed every other asset class. In stretches as long as 20 years -- including the last 10 and 20 years, according to data provided to Sunday Business by Morningstar -- long-term government bonds have sometimes outperformed stocks. But as holding periods lengthened, he found, the stock market has almost always pulled ahead. Other studies have found similar results in other countries.
Emphasizing dividend-paying value stocks and investing globally will bolster your chances, he said.
What's more, when stocks are cheaper than average, as measured by the price-to-earnings ratio, positive returns became more probable in subsequent years. That is very encouraging for the current market, in which earnings have been rising despite widespread skepticism, keeping the P/E of the Standard & Poor's 500-stock index at a modest level. Based on consensus estimates, it stands at 13. That compares with an annual average of 15.2 since 1945, he said.
If post-World War II patterns hold for the future, he calculated last week, prospects for stock investments are excellent: there would be a 96.6 percent probability of a positive return for the next 5 years, going up to 100 percent for 10- and 20-year periods. Average real returns would be stellar -- about 11 percent annually in holding periods from 1 to 20 years.
But is he too optimistic? Many bears think so.
His views run counter to those of analysts like David A. Rosenberg, the former Merrill Lynch economist, now with Gluskin Sheff & Associates in Toronto, who said in a market commentary last week that ''the fundamental trend remains negative,'' both for stocks and the economy. The chance of deflation is rising, Mr. Rosenberg said, and stock prices can't be justified by expected earnings or economic growth.
In fact, the P/E ratio is low only if forecasts for rising earnings are borne out -- as Professor Siegel expects. And if investors are sufficiently worried, they may push prices down, regardless of earnings. The market ''is priced inaccurately much of the time,'' Professor Siegel said, but over the long term, this will balance out.
Then there's a more basic question: Does the past -- represented by all those years of market returns -- actually predict the future?
Maybe not, said Lubos Pastor, a finance professor at the University of Chicago. Along with Robert F. Stambaugh, who, like Mr. Siegel, is a finance professor at Wharton, Professor Pastor wrote a paper last year implying that investors should be careful in assessing retrospective calculations of market performance.
USING an approach known as Bayesian analysis, they showed that uncertainty compounds as the horizon grows longer. ''The possibility of climate change, nuclear war, events like that -- they don't show up at all'' in retrospective calculations, Professor Pastor said.
Still, in practice, he agreed with many of Professor Siegel's conclusions. At 35, Professor Pastor said, he is a tenured professor with a steady income, so he has put much of his retirement assets into stocks, which he expects to produce a high return. Still, he added, ''It's important to realize that stocks should produce higher returns, because they're riskier.''
Professor Siegel concedes the point but says that if the probability of uncertainty increases over time, it would do so for all asset classes. Stocks remain the best choice over the long term, he said.
But then, he has always been comfortable with stocks. His younger brother, Jon, a New Hampshire wood turner with no particular interest in finance or economics, remembers that as boys in Highland Park, Ill., they would listen to radio news. ''As soon as the market numbers came up,'' Jon recalled, ''Jer would say, 'Shhh, I have to get this.' He'd run into his bedroom'' and start scribbling on his stock market chart.
Computers generate the numbers and charts for him today, and he says they give him hope for the future.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: To Jeremy J. Siegel, it's still a great time to be in the stock market. ''The shocks of the recent past shouldn't alter investors' belief in the future,'' he says. (PHOTOGRAPH BY DENIS DOYLE/BLOOMBERG NEWS) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BUSINESS EDUCATION (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (89%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (78%); STOCK INDEXES (78%); RECESSION (78%); BONDS (78%); DIVIDENDS (77%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (73%); DEBT CRISIS (73%); FOREIGN INVESTMENT (72%); COMPANY EARNINGS (68%); EURO CRISIS (66%); GOVERNMENT BONDS (50%)

ORGANIZATION: UNIVERSITY OF PENNSYLVANIA (58%)

PERSON: BEN BERNANKE (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: PENNSYLVANIA, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: July 18, 2010



422 of 785 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 18, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section WE; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; ARTS WESTCHESTER; Pg. 12

LENGTH: 599 words

HEADLINE: Celebrating Summer, Sunsets and the Sounds of Jazz

BYLINE: By PHILLIP LUTZ

 BODY:
BACK in 1979, when Mark Morganelli was presenting jazz in his East Village loft, he inadvertently gave the drummer Jimmy Cobb a check that bounced. Mr. Cobb -- who was already a prominent figure in jazz, having appeared with Miles Davis on classic records like ''Kind of Blue'' and ''Sketches of Spain'' -- was unaccustomed to receiving bad checks.
But the incident did not sour the men's relationship. On Aug. 19, Mr. Morganelli, who said he and Mr. Cobb are now fast friends, will again present the drummer, this time in a tribute to the pianist Hank Jones, who died at 91 in May. The concert promises to be a highlight among 30 free summer shows that Mr. Morganelli is producing in Westchester and Connecticut this year, the 25th anniversary of his organization, Jazz Forum Arts. 
Mr. Cobb's concert is one of four sunset shows Mr. Morganelli is staging on Thursdays in August at the 67-acre Lyndhurst estate in Tarrytown, a national landmark rich in cultural history. At the concert, Mr. Cobb said, he will be leading a quartet that includes Javon Jackson on saxophone, George Cables on piano and John Webber or Buster Williams on bass.
The group, Mr. Cobb said, will draw material from ''West of 5th,'' an album that Mr. Cobb released in 2006 with Mr. Jones, with whom he had a long relationship. The album includes popular standards, bebop and a ballad Mr. Cobb wrote for his sister, ''Eleanor,'' which he said the band was almost certain to play.
But Mr. Cobb said his tribute might not be limited to music from that album. ''Anything we play, he probably played anyway,'' Mr. Cobb said of Mr. Jones, a deeply knowledgeable artist who, along with his late brothers Elvin, a drummer, and Thad, a trumpeter, formed a celebrated musical triumvirate. ''When you played with one of the Jones boys, you knew it was going to be an experience.''
While Mr. Cobb's concert is attracting plenty of attention, the summer series, which began in late June, will offer many other players of interest in the coming weeks -- among them, the modern-jazz pianist Don Friedman at Dobbs Ferry's Waterfront Park, the Brazilian percussionist Vanderlei Pereira at Sleepy Hollow's Kingsland Point Park and the jazz-funk saxophonist Joey Berkley at Tarrytown's Pierson Park. Closing the series on Aug. 29 will be the saxophonists Alexander McCabe and Andrew Beals in a Charlie Parker tribute at the Beczak Environmental Education Center in Yonkers.
The series also includes lunchtime shows on a stage set up near the Chase bank branch on Prospect Street in Stamford, Conn. Quartets led by the saxophonist Ray Blue (this Thursday) and the drummer Joe Corsello (July 29) are the last two in the four-part series, which represents a return to Connecticut for Mr. Morganelli, who, after expanding to three towns in the state in 2008, pulled back amid the recession last year.
But it is the concerts at Lyndhurst, a new site for Jazz Forum Arts, that Mr. Morganelli said could become the crown jewel of his summer series. In addition to Mr. Cobb, performers booked for Lyndhurst this year include the Westchester Jazz Orchestra and groups led by the percussionist Bobby Sanabria and the bassist Nilson Matta, a bossa nova master with whom Mr. Morganelli, a flugelhornist and frequent collaborator, may sit in.
''My thought is if I hit a home run there,'' he said, ''I want to come back next year and parlay this into every Thursday in July and August.''
Jazz Forum Arts Summer 2010 Free Concerts, on various dates through Aug. 29 at six locations in Westchester and Stamford, Conn. Information: (914) 631-1000 or jazzforumarts.org.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: SALUTE: The drummer Jimmy Cobb in New Orleans last year. He will perform at a tribute concert to the pianist Hank Jones in Tarrytown. (PHOTOGRAPH BY CHERYL GERBER FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: SINGERS & MUSICIANS (90%); JAZZ & BLUES (90%); MUSICAL INSTRUMENTS (90%); WIND INSTRUMENTS (89%); KEYBOARD INSTRUMENTS (89%); PERCUSSION INSTRUMENTS (78%); MUSIC (74%); HISTORY (73%); ARTISTS & PERFORMERS (73%); HISTORIC SITES (72%); ANNIVERSARIES (68%); PARKS & PLAYGROUNDS (64%); CLOSINGS (60%); BANK BRANCHES (50%); ENVIRONMENT & NATURAL RESOURCES (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW ORLEANS, LA, USA (79%) LOUISIANA, USA (79%); CONNECTICUT, USA (71%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: July 18, 2010



423 of 785 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 18, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section WK; Column 0; Week in Review Desk; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 787 words

HEADLINE: Honk if You Love the Canada Goose

BYLINE: By JAMES GORMAN

 BODY:
When 400 Canada geese that lived in Prospect Park in Brooklyn were rounded up and gassed last week, there was a predictable uproar. The geese were compared to rats and cockroaches. The humans who wanted them killed were called bloodthirsty and callous. Certainly the move, by the United States Department of Agriculture, raised a lot of questions about geese and humans, one of the less polite being, ''What good are geese, anyway?''
''What good are people?'' might be the obvious retort, but the question can't be so easily dismissed. 
People own the parks and the golf courses that geese carpet with droppings, and people fly on the airplanes that are forced to ditch in the Hudson River when geese get sucked into their engines. And while we may know that we are one species among many, and must share the planet, we take exception when asked to share our parks.
Nor can much of a case be made for the ecological importance of geese, since the environments in question are artificial, and designed for human benefit.
Finally, when humans do come to the defense of geese, they don't always do it with a lot of spirit. I don't want to be critical of the fine work done by the Fish and Wildlife Service, but poets they are not. Take this example from a recent scientific paper: ''Wildlife provides economic, recreational and aesthetic benefits and, to many people, the knowledge that wildlife exists is a positive benefit in itself.''
True, but you could fall asleep before you reach the end of that sentence.
The geese do have their poets. Joni Mitchell wrote the classic goose ballad, ''The Urge for Going'' which refers to their inspiring ''chevron flight.'' That's an aesthetic benefit if I've ever heard it, but she is talking about migratory geese, the ones that leave eventually. The single distinguishing characteristic of resident Canada geese in a park is that they never leave. I'm not sure that song was really about geese anyway.
John James Audubon, the great American naturalist and painter of birds, had some good things to say about geese. He considered them very tasty. This is beside the point if we don't eat them, but he had other good things to say. In ''The Birds of America,'' he stated, without qualification, ''It is extremely amusing to witness the courtship of the Canada Goose in all its stages.'' I bet. In fact, he describes it in highly entertaining fashion. If only he had been an anthropologist.
Again, however, he was referring to migratory geese. As Audubon wrote, ''The greater number of those which visit us from still more northern regions, return in the vernal season, like many other species, to the dismal countries which gave them birth.'' Those dismal countries, apparently, would be Canada, which is where Joni Mitchell migrated from. Audubon was not anti-Canada, though he must have been grumpy when he wrote the goose entry. He also refers to ''the dismal 'Everglades' of the Floridas.''
He was, however, inspired by the essential character of the goose. He described geese as courageous, loyal, devoted, fierce in the protection of their families -- all qualities humans are known to prize.
I called a living naturalist for confirmation. Bernd Heinrich, professor emeritus at the University of Vermont, wrote ''The Geese of Beaver Pond'' and is a committed lover of geese.
He returned my call from his back porch, where he was relaxing with two resident Canada geese that his children raised from chicks. I asked him what geese were good for.
''What a question!'' he said. ''They're just wonderful animals.'' He said they were playful and social, bond closely with people who raise them, and bond with each other to care for their young. His current companion geese range free during the day and sleep in a crate at night.
Eventually they will grow up, find goose mates and fly away, he said. But then they will return, as others before them have. ''It's just like they never left. They come up and eat out of my hands.'' In his recent book, ''The Nesting Season,'' he describes a woman in Idaho who loved her geese to distraction. They slept with her and had favorite videos ( ''Fly Away Home'' ), which they watched with her, but they ventured off into the world of other geese, mated and had goslings. They would, however, return, even after years, to her home. The human/goose love affair was mutual.
What good are geese? Clearly, a goose or two is delightful. You can focus on the bravery, the loyalty, the highly amusing mating behavior. When hundreds of them get together, that's when it's harder to convince people how great a goose can be. My suggestion for the pro-goose faction -- take a hint from Audubon and emphasize the amusing mating behavior. That's always a crowd pleaser.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: THE REAL QUESTION: Ask not what's good for the goose, but what good are geese? (PHOTOGRAPH BY ROBERT F. BUKATY/ASSOCIATED PRESS) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: INSECTS & ARACHNIDS (90%); WILDLIFE (89%); BIRDS (89%); ECOLOGY & ENVIRONMENTAL SCIENCE (74%); NEWS BRIEFS (74%); POETRY (70%); WRITERS (70%); AGRICULTURE DEPARTMENTS (57%)

ORGANIZATION: US DEPARTMENT OF AGRICULTURE (58%); US FISH & WILDLIFE SERVICE (55%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (90%) NEW YORK, USA (90%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: July 18, 2010



424 of 785 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 18, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section BU; Column 0; Money and Business/Financial Desk; ECONOMIC VIEW; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 938 words

HEADLINE: What Germany Knows About Debt

BYLINE: By TYLER COWEN. 
Tyler Cowen is a professor of economics at George Mason University.

 BODY:
IN many countries, including the United States, there are calls for the government to spend more to jump-start the economy, and to avoid the temptation to cut back as debts mount.
Germany, however, has decided to cast its lot with fiscal prudence. It has managed rising growth and falling unemployment, while putting together a plan for a nearly balanced budget within six years. On fiscal policy and economic recovery, Americans could learn something from the German example.
Twentieth-century history may help explain German behavior today. After all, the Germans lost two World Wars, experienced the Weimar hyperinflation and saw their country divided and partly ruined by Communism. What an American considers as bad economic times, a German might see as relative prosperity. That perspective helps support a greater concern with long-run fiscal caution, because it is not assumed that a brighter future will pay all the bills. 
Even if this pessimism proves wrong more often than not, it is like buying earthquake or fire insurance: sometimes it comes in handy. You can't judge the policy by asking whether your house catches on fire every single year.
Keynesians have criticized fiscal caution at this point in the economic cycle, arguing that fiscal stimulus will give economies more, not less, protection against adverse events. But is that argument valid?
Certainly, in Germany, the recent history of fiscal stimulus wasn't entirely positive. After reunification in 1990, the German government borrowed and spent huge amounts of money to finance reconstruction and to bring East German living standards up to West German levels. Millions of new consumers were added to the economy.
These policies did unify the country politically but were not overwhelmingly successful economically. An initial surge was followed by years of disappointing results for output and employment. Germany's taxes remain high, and overall West German living standards failed to rise at the same rate as those of most other wealthy countries.
Persuading former East Germans to spend more as consumers turned out to be less important than making sure that they had the skills to mesh with the economic expansion of the country. It is no surprise that many Germans are now skeptical about debt-financed government spending or excessive reliance on domestic consumers.
In recent times, Germany has shown signs of regaining a pre-eminent economic position. Policy makers have returned to long-run planning, and during the last decade have liberalized their labor markets, introduced greater wage flexibility and recently passed a constitutional amendment for a nearly balanced budget by 2016, meaning that the structural deficit should not exceed 0.35 percent of gross domestic product.
Amid the sluggish economies of much of Europe, Germany has booming exports and is nearing full capacity utilization. And many of its workers are postponing vacations to produce, and earn, more. The unemployment rate in Germany is 7.5 percent -- below that of the United States -- and falling.
Far from embracing this social democratic model, American Keynesians have criticized it for relying too heavily on exports and not enough on spending and debt. Yet it is not just the decline in the euro's value that supports the German resurgence.
Most of the other euro-zone economies are not having comparable success because they did not make the appropriate investments and reforms. Moreover, the euro is still stronger than its average value since 2001, which suggests that the recent German success is not attributable only to a falling currency.
In any case, the Germans are exporting much quality machinery and engineering (not just glitzy autos), which can help other nations recover. It is an odd state of affairs when the relatively productive nations are asked to change successful policies because of an economic downturn.
The German government is also making credible long-term commitments to reduce its debt. Germany's ratio of debt to G.D.P. has been hovering in the unhealthy range of more than 70 percent, and the country has one of the lowest birth rates in the developed world, which raises the question of how to pay for future pensions.
Yet many investors consider German bonds a haven, in part because the government has a reputation for addressing fiscal issues promptly and responsibly. It is working to cut government spending, although not in crucial long-term areas of research and education.
Germany is likely to continue having a higher relative level of government spending than the United States. But the German civil service has a stronger hand in writing legislation -- a role that limits the sort of waste and short-term thinking that Congress injects into American law. It is also well understood in German political discourse that tax cuts need to be paid for.
THE German economy is far from perfect. In addition to high taxes and a low birth rate, there are potential solvency problems in German banks, and these institutions lack transparency. Furthermore, poorer countries may need a looser monetary policy from the European Central Bank than Germany wishes to support.
Nonetheless, it's a common German attitude that adding debt, whether private or public, will not solve those problems. In fact, debt can provide the illusion of relief and thus postpone their resolution. Increased spending is a quick fix for what are very often more fundamental difficulties.
The point is not that Americans can or should copy Germany. But are German policy makers so wrong in their long-term orientation? We can lecture, or we can listen. The choice is ours.

GRAPHIC: DRAWING (DRAWING BY DAVID G. KLEIN) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); ECONOMIC POLICY (90%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (89%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (89%); BUDGETS (89%); PUBLIC POLICY (89%); PUBLIC FINANCE (89%); LIVING STANDARDS (89%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (89%); ECONOMIC RECOVERY (78%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (78%); GROSS DOMESTIC PRODUCT (78%); BUDGET DEFICITS (77%); LABOR SECTOR PERFORMANCE (77%); PROPERTY & CASUALTY INSURANCE (76%); PLANT CAPACITY (68%); MANUFACTURING OUTPUT (68%)

GEOGRAPHIC: GERMANY (98%); UNITED STATES (95%); EUROPE (79%); CENTRAL EUROPE (73%)

LOAD-DATE: July 18, 2010



425 of 785 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 18, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section BU; Column 0; Money and Business/Financial Desk; FAIR GAME; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1023 words

HEADLINE: Holding Bankers' Feet To the Fire

BYLINE: By GRETCHEN MORGENSON

 BODY:
KUDOS to the Federal Housing Finance Agency, overseer of Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac, the crippled mortgage finance giants. While some in Washington have continued to coddle the big banks even after they drove our economy into the ditch, this agency seems serious about recovering money for taxpayers by holding bad financial actors to account.
The agency announced last Monday that it had issued 64 subpoenas to a throng of unidentified financial services institutions, seeking documents related to mortgage securities that Fannie and Freddie bought from Wall Street during the boom years. 
The subpoenas are designed to tell the agency what many of us want to know: How did Wall Street package and sell private-label mortgage securities to investors, even though the nature and quality of some of the loans crammed inside those tidy little packages were, at best, suspect?
Once that question has been answered, Fannie and Freddie can force the institutions that sold the securities to repurchase the improper loans, allowing taxpayers to recover some of the losses they've swallowed on Fannie's and Freddie's federal bailout.
Investigating this aspect of the mortgage mess seems a pretty logical step for a regulator. But in the topsy-turvy world of Washington, the housing finance agency's move is unusually aggressive. Edward J. DeMarco, its acting director, seems to be that rarity -- a regulator who not only talks about looking out for the taxpayer, but actually does something about it.
The subpoenas went to companies that act as trustees for mortgage pools or that service the loans in them. The housing finance agency wants to see loan files and transaction documents related to those pools, including mortgage applications and property appraisals. Recipients of the subpoenas have 30 days to produce the requested documents. Additional subpoenas may follow, it said.
The agency had to resort to subpoenas, it said, because when it asked the institutions for the records it got nowhere for many months. ''Difficulty in obtaining the loan documents has presented a challenge to the enterprises' efforts'' to ascertain whether losses at the companies are the responsibility of others, its press release said.
Fannie and Freddie bought only the highest-rated pieces of these deals, but they bought buckets of them. During 2006-7, these entities bought $294 billion of so-called private-label securities. Not all of these purchases are under scrutiny, the agency said.
It is clearly turning up the heat on the major players in mortgage servicing and securitization. Among the bigger trustees in the business are Deutsche Bank and the Bank of New York, while loan servicers include Bank of America and many more. None of the banks would confirm if they had received subpoenas.
Fannie and Freddie played pivotal roles in the housing market by buying mortgages from banks that issued them so the banks could turn around and lend even more. After both companies overindulged in the mortgage frenzy they nearly collapsed, prompting the federal rescue. Since then, the government has continued to use the firms to buttress a shaky housing market.
In the immediate aftermath of a government takeover of Fannie and Freddie, the companies were persistent in seeking to recover money from the estates of Lehman Brothers and other defunct lenders related to dubious loans. But more recently, they have ratcheted up their buyback requests of the banks with which they continue to do business. Last March, for example, Freddie said it had submitted $4.8 billion in repurchase requests to such banks, up from $3.8 billion at the end of 2009.
Generating actual money from these requests, however, takes time and effort. While Fannie and Freddie can point to a borrower's misstatements on a loan application as reason for a buyback, the banks often counter these requests with arguments that some borrowers are defaulting because they have lost their jobs or suffered other woes -- not because they originally lied on their loan applications about their income and finances. As a result, these can be lengthy and testy negotiations.
But there is a big difference between recovering on loans that were contractually improper versus those that involved fraud. And the subpoenas suggest that officials at the Federal Housing Finance Agency believe that there are large numbers of loans that fall into the latter category.
Mr. DeMarco would not comment further on the subpoenas. But he appears to be taking a fairly literal approach to the agency's role as conservator of Fannie and Freddie -- because the taxpayers own these companies, it must conserve their assets and get money back where it is owed.
''Most or all of our conservatorship actions are taken to minimize further taxpayer losses,'' Mr. DeMarco said last week in an interview. He pointed to the agency's effort on foreclosure prevention, which ''minimizes losses on seriously delinquent loans and provides greater stability to neighborhoods.''
But Mr. DeMarco has also barred Fannie and Freddie from entering new businesses and, according to people briefed on the discussions, was behind Fannie's new and aggressive approach to combat so-called strategic defaulters -- borrowers who can afford to pay their mortgages but stop doing so to get out of their obligations. Last month, Fannie said it would deny access to a government-backed mortgage for seven years to those defaulters.
A CAREER government official, Mr. DeMarco was appointed acting director of the agency in September 2009; he spent 10 years at the Treasury Department, beginning in 1993.
For seven of those years he oversaw public policy analysis involving Fannie, Freddie and other financial institutions. As a result, he had a front-row seat for Fannie's and Freddie's aggressive growth years, when they routinely strong-armed their regulators and bashed their critics.
Those days are over, thankfully, but taxpayers are still on the hook for the mess those practices wrought. At least we now seem to have a strong cop on the Fannie and Freddie beat, someone who genuinely cares about the taxpayers' losses and is working hard to stanch them.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Edward J. DeMarco is the acting director of the Federal Housing Finance Agency. (PHOTOGRAPH BY MARY CALVERT FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) (BU2) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (90%); MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (90%); MORTGAGE INVESTMENTS (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); MORTGAGE BACKED SECURITIES (90%); SECONDARY MORTGAGE MARKET (90%); SUBPOENAS (90%); RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (78%); INVESTIGATIONS (78%); REAL ESTATE (78%); SECURITIZATION (78%); MORTGAGE BANKING (78%); MORTGAGE SERVICING (78%); HOUSING MARKET (78%); CREDIT CRISIS (78%); BAILOUTS (77%); SECURITIES TRADING (76%); REAL ESTATE APPRAISALS (73%); PRIVATE LABELS (69%); FRAUD & FINANCIAL CRIME (68%); MORTGAGE LOANS (58%)

COMPANY: FEDERAL HOME LOAN MORTGAGE CORP (FREDDIE MAC) (93%); FEDERAL NATIONAL MORTGAGE ASSOCIATION (FANNIE MAE) (92%); DEUTSCHE BANK AG (58%); BANK OF AMERICA CORP (58%); BANK OF NEW YORK MELLON CORP (58%)

ORGANIZATION: FEDERAL HOUSING FINANCE AGENCY (91%)

TICKER: DEUT (JSE) (58%); DBK (FRA) (58%); DBK (BIT) (58%); DBETN (JSE) (58%); DBA (ASX) (58%); DB (NYSE) (58%); BAC (NYSE) (58%); BAC (LSE) (58%); 8648 (TSE) (58%); BK (NYSE) (58%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS522292 REAL ESTATE CREDIT (93%); SIC6162 MORTGAGE BANKERS & LOAN CORRESPONDENTS (93%); SIC6111 FEDERAL & FEDERALLY-SPONSORED CREDIT AGENCIES (93%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (58%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (58%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (58%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (58%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (58%); SIC6081 BRANCHES & AGENCIES OF FOREIGN BANKS (58%); NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (58%); SIC6712 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: July 18, 2010



426 of 785 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 18, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section WK; Column 0; Editorial Desk; EDITORIAL; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 301 words

HEADLINE: Jobs for the Picking

 BODY:
The United Farm Workers union has issued a call to unemployed American citizens:
''Job may include using hand tools such as knives, hoes, shovels, etc. Duties may include tilling the soil, transplanting, weeding, thinning, picking, cutting, sorting & packing of harvested produce. May set up & operate irrigation equip. Work is performed outside in all weather conditions (Summertime 90+ degree weather) & is physically demanding requiring workers to bend, stoop, lift & carry up to 50 lbs on a regular basis.'' 
It is safe to conclude that few if any Americans will take up the offer, no matter how hungry they are. The campaign is a sly attempt to draw attention to the push for immigration reform, particularly an effort to legalize undocumented farm workers. With anti-immigrant resentment running hot, many accuse immigrants of stealing American jobs. The union replies: How can immigrants steal jobs nobody else wants?
There are, of course, industries besides agriculture in which immigrant labor dominates, and it is fair to note that more Americans would take dirty, difficult jobs if they offered better pay and benefits. Still, it is hard to imagine the native-born work force itching to return en masse to housekeeping, landscaping, car washing, meatpacking, poultry plucking and street-corner day labor.
The answer is not to eradicate immigrants so American sons and daughters can have the low-wage economy all to themselves. It is to have those jobs filled by a legal immigrant work force, and to raise the floor on wages and working conditions so no American industry gets to run on cheap, exploited labor. That is the reform that President Obama and some members of Congress have been pushing for, against the objections of those who would rather complain about immigrant workers than fix the system.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Editorial

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: FARM LABOR (92%); IMMIGRATION (91%); AGRICULTURE (90%); EMPLOYMENT (90%); LABOR UNIONS (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); LABOR FORCE (89%); WAGES & SALARIES (89%); IMMIGRATION LAW (88%); HAND & POWER TOOLS (78%); FOREIGN LABOR (78%); WEATHER (76%); ANIMAL SLAUGHTERING & PROCESSING (72%); FOOD INDUSTRY (65%); POULTRY (65%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (63%)

ORGANIZATION: UNITED FARM WORKERS OF AMERICA (91%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (54%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (96%)

LOAD-DATE: July 18, 2010



427 of 785 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 18, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section WK; Column 0; Week in Review Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 897 words

HEADLINE: A Spill Into the Psyche

BYLINE: By PETER S. GOODMAN

 BODY:
Out on the Gulf of Mexico, where the surface has come to resemble a floating intensive-care unit -- all those hulking ships laden with specialized machinery, bobbing in wait for the next emergency -- something good finally happened last week. If only provisionally, oil stopped spewing into the sea.
As BP ended its string of futility and affixed a cap to the wellhead, the news comforted a battered American psyche, a counterpoint to a ceaseless narrative of plans going spectacularly awry. 
More than an environmental catastrophe, the disaster playing out in the gulf has become a festering reminder of the disarray afflicting so many areas of national life, from the cancerous political culture to the crisis of unemployment to an intractable war in Afghanistan, seemingly impervious to whatever plans are dreamed up in Washington.
As oil has burst from a hole in the seabed into our homes and offices via television screens, here was palpable evidence of that disarray and -- worse -- the fecklessness of the countermeasures deployed to contain it. Oil seeped visibly into the broader ecology with who knew what toxic effects, and the imagery insinuated itself into our collective consciousness -- gnawing evidence that something enormous and confounding was still operative, despite the labors of our brightest engineers and our most expensive machinery.
Even the measures that were supposed to limit the damage, the chemical dispersants poured with abandon onto the burgeoning slick, seemed only to make the dangers more unsettling, breaking the spill into tiny globules that spread like an unseen river of poison.
''It was almost a kind of bleeding that you couldn't stop,'' said Robert A. Bjork, a psychologist at the University of California, Los Angeles. ''You had this oozing out of this valuable stuff and people's livelihoods getting harmed, and it was 'try this,' and 'try that,' and nothing seemed to stop the flow. It was sort of a loss of confidence in America's can-do attitude.''
Much like the body count in a war in a faraway place like Vietnam or Iraq, the toll piled up, along with confusion about its origins, and dismay that nothing could be done to stop it. And like a war fought for reasons in dispute, the spill blunted the swaggering sense of mastery that Americans like to claim for ourselves.
Vietnam, it is said, taught a gruesome lesson about the limits of American power, as plans crafted by the brightest minds in the world's richest nation were undone by the realities on the ground in a poor and little-understood country. The spill in the gulf landed like a rebuke to those celebrating the all-encompassing magic of technology. Yes, Google can make us all astronauts with its views of the Earth from space. But try as they might, doctors of geology armed with robots and submarines could not stop the flow of something we could all see with our own eyes down here on Earth.
Until last week.
Here was a rare piece of good news to moderate the stream of ugly developments that have become the national wallpaper. And yet, say those who examine minds for a living, it may have come too late to provide a substantial salve.
The deepest damage of the spill may be the loss of confidence in institutions, like the federal government and a multinational oil company that held itself up as a beacon of environmental sensitivity. Combine that with public exhaustion over two wars, economic insecurity and disgust over the return of bonuses on Wall Street. This tears against the relief presented by the knowledge that, at least for a bit, the gulf was not being further sullied.
''All of these things work together,'' said Nadine Kaslow, a psychologist at Emory University. ''The national psyche is very depressed. The spill has been going on for so long and there have been so many attempted fixes that people become less trusting that things will really improve. So this becomes a little less front-page news, if this really works, but there's some sense that some other disaster will take its place.''
The tentative containment of one disaster came just as the Senate took action on another still fresh in the national consciousness, adopting a bill aimed at limiting the next financial crisis. Both on the long-running debate over financial regulatory reform and on the torturous search for a solution to the burst well, the process itself may have undermined what confidence could have resulted from quicker action.
''There's this feeling in both cases that you were forced to watch them make sausages for several months,'' said Mark Blyth, a professor of international political economy at Brown University. ''You don't want to see what goes into the process of regulatory reform. It's just awful and sordid, with the lobbying and the compromises. And then you see BP, this supposedly brilliant company that's getting beyond petroleum, and at the end of the day they are a bunch of bankers and shysters trying to clean up a mess that they made and they have no idea what they're doing.''
Both BP and high finance ''were creating a world that they thought they understood very well,'' Dr. Blyth added. ''It blew up in their faces.''
As a fresh law emerges that is supposed to prevent the next crisis, and as a cap lands on a well to keep the oil out of the water, no one really knows whether they will hold.
And yet the mere possibility feels better than the alternative.

GRAPHIC: DRAWING (DRAWING BY YAREK WASZUL) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: INTENSIVE CARE UNITS (78%); NEWS BRIEFS (76%); WAR & CONFLICT (75%); ENVIRONMENTAL ACCIDENTS & DISASTERS (75%); ECOLOGY & ENVIRONMENTAL SCIENCE (72%); GEOLOGY & GEOPHYSICS (67%); PSYCHOLOGY (63%)

COMPANY: GOOGLE INC (50%)

TICKER: GOOG (NASDAQ) (50%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS519130 INTERNET PUBLISHING & BROADCASTING & WEB SEARCH PORTALS (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (79%) GULF OF MEXICO (92%); ATLANTIC OCEAN (92%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (95%); AFGHANISTAN (79%); IRAQ (79%)

LOAD-DATE: July 18, 2010



428 of 785 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 18, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section WK; Column 0; Editorial Desk; EDITORIAL; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 463 words

HEADLINE: Meanwhile in Basel

 BODY:
The new financial reform will go a long way to limit the vast new risks created by modern finance. The banks, which fought the legislation tooth and nail, are not giving up. They are now working to weaken new international banking rules. 
Following the financial meltdown, the Group of 20 big economies asked the Basel Committee on Banking Supervision -- made up of regulators from 27 countries, including the United States -- to come up with new rules to moderate the banks' wanton risk-taking and strengthen their balance sheets. The goal is to have a complete package ready for the November G20 summit meeting in Seoul.
The rules will tighten capital requirements for the world's biggest banks -- requiring them to set aside a larger cushion of cash and other easy-to-sell securities -- and set stricter limits on banks' leverage and liquidity.
That means banks will have to raise and hold more rather than invest it in risky and profitable assets. But it will improve banks' ability to withstand another sudden drop in the value of their loans and investments. And by requiring more capital to cover more risky investments, it will reduce the incentive to take on excessive risk.
Banks claim that a proposal to force them to hold enough liquid assets to cover all their liabilities coming due over one year would be prohibitively expensive. They are objecting to a requirement that they amass a capital buffer when banking regulators deem credit in the economy to be growing too fast. They are resisting calls to limit the ratio of their total assets to total capital, regardless of the risk of their portfolio. This would set a common bar for banks in different countries, which often have different standards for what is a risky asset.
Bankers, of course, are predicting calamity if the rules are tightened ''excessively.'' The Institute of International Finance, the lobby group for big banks, claims the new rules would trim 3.1 percent off gross domestic product in the United States, Japan and the euro area of Europe by 2015.
Jaime Caruana, the head of the Bank for International Settlements, rejected those warnings in a speech last month. ''According to preliminary results, the reforms will not undermine economic growth,'' he said, while ''the long-term benefits of lowering the probability and cost of financial crises are substantial.''
Unfortunately, the scare tactics may be working. The banks appear to have already persuaded regulators to grant them a transition period of up to 10 years to raise whatever new capital they need under the new standards. The lesson of the last few years is that the banks do not have the best interest of the financial system at heart. The Basel committee should do its job and come up with tough rules needed to prevent another meltdown.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Editorial

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BANKING & FINANCE (92%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (89%); BANKING & FINANCE REGULATION (89%); AGENCY RULEMAKING (89%); REGULATORY COMPLIANCE (89%); BANKING & FINANCE AGENCIES (78%); COMPANY PROFITS (78%); BANKING & FINANCE ASSOCIATIONS (78%); ECONOMIC NEWS (77%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (77%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (77%); GROSS DOMESTIC PRODUCT (77%); LOBBYING (73%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (72%); EURO ZONE (72%); TALKS & MEETINGS (71%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (66%)

COMPANY: BANK FOR INTERNATIONAL SETTLEMENTS (52%)

ORGANIZATION: GROUP OF TWENTY (G20) (90%)

INDUSTRY: SIC6099 FUNCTIONS RELATED TO DEPOSITORY BANKING, NEC (52%)

GEOGRAPHIC: SEOUL, KOREA, REPUBLIC OF (57%) UNITED STATES (92%); SWITZERLAND (91%); KOREA, REPUBLIC OF (79%); EUROPE (79%); JAPAN (79%)

LOAD-DATE: July 18, 2010



429 of 785 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 18, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section BU; Column 0; Money and Business/Financial Desk; THE BOSS; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 603 words

HEADLINE: Still Minding the Mill

 BODY:
I'M 81 and have been working since I was 13. In junior high school, I ripped old fabric off of chairs and sofas for a furniture re-upholsterer. This was during World War II, so the men had gone to war, the women were taking the men's jobs, and kids could be hired because there was still more to do. I think I made as much money finding coins in the creases of the furniture as I got paid.
At 16, I worked unloading boxcars in a warehouse. One day, the boss asked me to run a whole department, including the inventory, the accounting and managing the people. That gave me a lot of confidence, to hear him say he believed I could do it. 
My dad and I used to spend hours at the kitchen table, talking late into the night about all kinds of ideas. My mom used to call from her room for us to ''Go to sleep already!'' We planned to start a company together when I grew up. I loved my father dearly and nothing would have made me happier than setting up shop with him.
My dad smoked three packs of cigarettes a day; he died from lung disease in his 40s. My mom died soon after -- she was a smoker, too. My biggest regret in life was that we didn't have time to start that business. My father's death inspired me to start a company that would help people lead healthier lives -- I wanted to get on the positive side of things.
After time in the Army and different jobs, I picked up a book one day called ''John Goffe's Mill.'' It was about a fellow inheriting an old flour mill and rebuilding it. By that time, my wife, Charlee, had discovered whole grains and healthy foods. The combination of her knowledge and that book inspired us to start a business -- Moore's Flour Mill -- in 1972 in Redding, Calif.
I bought some millstones from a company that was going out of business in North Carolina and stored them in my garage in Redding until I was ready to start the company. My wife, two of my sons and their wives all pitched in. We learned to grind grains through those lovely stone mills and made muffin and pancake mixes.
After four years of growth and success, the small town of Redding could not support three families in such a specialized food business. Charlee and I moved to Portland, Ore., refurbished an old mill building and started up again as Bob's Red Mill Natural Foods, with several employees. The boys bought out my share of the original operation and now supply us with granola and polenta.
It's been more than 30 years, and I still have some of the same employees. We have more than 400 products now, sold all over the world. Our growth has been amazing. Even during the recession, people are looking for healthy foods to feed their families.
I have grown to view mistakes and bad luck differently over the years. At one point, when my sons were young, I went broke owning a gas station at a ski resort that didn't get any snow. That was a tough five or six years. When I was 60, an arsonist burned down our mill. I was thinking of retiring after that happened, but stayed with the business to help my employees. One had just put money down on his first house. I couldn't leave them without jobs. The company's best years came after that.
I decided this year to give my company to my employees through an employee stock ownership plan. Anyone who has been there three years or longer will have a piece of the business. I could have sold it. We get plenty of offers. But my employees, including the sales staff all over the world, have really made it what it is today. I'll take credit for being the energy and spirit behind it, but they deserve to own the company.
I'm 81, after all, and I can't take it with me.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: BOB MOORE: Founder and C.E.O., Bob's Red Mill Natural Foods, Milwaukie, Ore. AGE: 81. INSTRUMENTS HE OWNS AND PLAYS: Steinway grand piano and a 200-year old Italian violin. (PHOTOGRAPH BY NANCY GARNER) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: WAR & CONFLICT (90%); MIDDLE & JUNIOR HIGH SCHOOLS (78%); WORLD WAR II (77%); FOOD & BEVERAGE (72%); ENTREPRENEURSHIP (72%); SMOKING (71%); BREAKFAST CEREAL MFG (68%); FLOUR MILLING (68%); FOOD INDUSTRY (67%); TOBACCO PRODUCTS (66%); NUTRITION (65%)

COMPANY: BOB'S RED MILL NATURAL FOODS INC (60%)

GEOGRAPHIC: PORTLAND, OR, USA (51%) NORTH CAROLINA, USA (79%); OREGON, USA (65%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: July 18, 2010



430 of 785 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 18, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 13

LENGTH: 1098 words

HEADLINE: For Long-Term Unemployed, a Shaky Safety Net

BYLINE: By MICHAEL LUO

 BODY:
CARLISLE, Ky. -- In her well-thumbed, leather-bound Bible, Terri Sadler recently highlighted in bright pink a passage in the Gospel of Matthew.
In it, Jesus urges his followers not to ''worry about tomorrow, for tomorrow will worry about itself.''
But Ms. Sadler's tightening throat and halting breath when she tries to read the words aloud make it clear that she is having trouble mustering enough faith to follow them.
Ms. Sadler, who lost her job at an automotive parts plant in October 2008, learned last month that her unemployment insurance had been cut off. She is one of an estimated 2.1 million Americans whose benefits have expired and who are waiting for an end to an impasse that has lasted months in the Senate over extending the payments once more to the long-term unemployed.
Times have changed politically, however, and opposition is growing in Washington and abroad to deficit-bloating government spending, even for those who are hurting. 
For Ms. Sadler, and many like her, each passing day has become an excruciating countdown of debts and deadlines.
''I'm basically applying for everything, trying to get something,'' said Ms. Sadler, 52, who since early June has not received an unemployment check, which used to be about $388 a week before taxes. ''If I don't, I'm going to lose everything. I'm not going to have a roof over my head. I'm just going to have to walk away with what I have on my back, and my dog.''
She is down to $44 in her purse and a quarter-tank of gas. She says she has exhausted the help of family and friends.
Members of her tiny Baptist church just up the road from her cramped mobile home pooled their money on Sunday to come up with her car payment and insurance. A county ministerial association paid her water bill. A nonprofit organization covered her last two electric bills.
A notepad on her refrigerator lists the other outstanding bills: $102 cellphone, $79 cable and Internet, which she relies on for job-hunting; $15 for her credit card; and $30 for an end table she had bought on layaway. Not listed was $275 for her rent this month, which she still owes.
Every morning, after Ms. Sadler takes her dog out and turns on the coffee maker, she switches on the television to C-Span. Then she cracks open her laptop to resume a job hunt that has become frantic.
But as she has run low on money, her search has also become increasingly circumscribed. She used to drive to drop off resumes with businesses; now she is mostly limited to scanning online listings.
Ms. Sadler eagerly tuned in to C-Span last Monday, mistakenly believing that Senate Democrats returning from recess would quickly take up the unemployment insurance extension. But they remain a vote short of being able to block a Republican filibuster, forcing them to wait for Carte Goodwin, the successor to Senator Robert C. Byrd, who died last month, to be sworn in. The Senate majority leader, Harry Reid, said the vote on an extension would occur on Tuesday.
The measure is now expected to pass, but advocates for unemployment insurance are hardly declaring victory yet. Fears about the country's skyrocketing deficit, which are at the heart of Republican objections, have gained growing prevalence, even with moderate Democrats. Economic arguments that additional government spending is needed to spur the economy have been swamped.
Some Republican politicians have argued that continuing to extend unemployment benefits offers a disincentive for the jobless to find work. Supporters of unemployment insurance counter that job openings remain in short supply.
Ms. Sadler estimates that she used to spend six hours a day searching for work; now it is at least double that amount of time.
''There's been times I've had to make myself stop looking for jobs because it was driving me nuts,'' said Ms. Sadler, who admitted that she had contemplated suicide.
Every day has become a tense scramble, highlighting just how thin the governmental safety net for the jobless becomes beyond unemployment benefits. After Ms. Sadler was cut off from jobless benefits, she qualified for $200 a month in food stamps, but food stamps do not pay her bills, nor do they cover other necessities.
She recently wrote to Tom's of Maine, because she uses the company's toothpaste, mouthwash and deodorant, asking whether it might be able to donate some products to her. But she was informed that the company usually gives only to nonprofit organizations.
Ms. Sadler lives alone here in this small town in the northern part of the state, where Amish are sometimes spotted heading down the main road with horse and buggy. She has only her 2-year-old dog, Tootie-muffin, for company.
Before she lost her job, she had enrolled in community college to study medical billing and coding. She finished the program in May, but most of the medical billing jobs she has applied for require experience. The framed certificate, and another one for data entry, on her bedroom wall are just decorations at this point.
How she landed in this predicament is a product of both mistakes she made and forces beyond her control. She dropped out of high school and had her daughter, Chastity, at age 15. She started working in factories soon after and eventually earned her G.E.D. She had managed to scratch out a relatively comfortable life before she lost her job, making $14.65 an hour at Vuteq, in Georgetown, Ky., a company that makes sun roofs and windshields for Toyota.
But she never accumulated much savings, besides $3,000 she had socked away in a 401(k) account, which she quickly ran through. She has always had a thing for Ford Mustangs and bought a used red one in 2006 that she now admits was a bad decision.
She filed for bankruptcy in March 2009 and was allowed to keep her car on a reduced payment schedule, but she was barred from selling it.
After moving several times, she finally found her mobile home here, with cheap green siding and outdated wood paneling, at a monthly rent she could afford on unemployment insurance.
She had used up 79 weeks of benefits but was expecting an additional 20 weeks under the extended federal program.
On Tuesday, Ms. Sadler scored just her third interview since 2008, for a $7.50-an-hour job at a check-cashing business that is an hour's drive from her home. It would have paid less than she received on unemployment benefits and left her still unable to cover her expenses, but she had little choice.
It took all her willpower not to reach across the table to shake her interviewer and beg for a chance. The company said she would know by Thursday, but as of Friday she had not heard back.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Terri Sadler watching C-Span last week at home in Carlisle, Ky. She has been out of work since October 2008 and was down to the money she had left in her purse. (A13)
 Terri Sadler of Carlisle, Ky., listening to C-Span for news of Senate action on an extension of federal unemployment benefits. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY ANDREW SPEAR FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) (A18) GRAPHIC: Expiring Benefits: Unemployment benefits have expired for more than two million Americans. About a million more will have theirs expire in the coming weeks. (Source: Labor Department) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: UNEMPLOYMENT INSURANCE (90%); RELIGION (90%); EMPLOYMENT SEARCH (89%); CHRISTIANS & CHRISTIANITY (88%); PROTESTANTS & PROTESTANTISM (78%); NONPROFIT ORGANIZATIONS (74%); DISMISSALS (70%); UNEMPLOYED PERSONS (70%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (69%); PUBLIC FINANCE (69%); NATURAL GAS & ELECTRIC UTILITIES (63%); MOBILE & CELLULAR TELEPHONES (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: July 18, 2010



431 of 785 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 18, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section WK; Column 0; Week in Review Desk; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 1928 words

HEADLINE: Oh, Look, More Glimmers of Good News

BYLINE: By STEVEN LEE MYERS, DENISE GRADY, DAVID E. SANGER, ERIC WILSON, KATE TAYLOR and AMY HARMON

 BODY:
Yes, the cap seemed to have at least temporarily helped. Still, times are dreary -- in the economy, in the national mood, overseas. Isn't anything positive happening? We tried hard to find better news out there.
A Clear Route to Mecca
In a 120-degree swelter in Basra, Iraq's second city and its gateway to the Persian Gulf, a Boeing 777 landed on Thursday. This would be a no-news moment anywhere else in the world, but the flight was the first to Iraq by a Saudi Arabian passenger airline since Saddam Hussein invaded Kuwait 20 years ago.
Basra, like most places in Iraq, is a wreck of a city these days -- tense and polluted, short on electricity, long on despair. Protests last month ended with a clash with the police and two funerals. In Baghdad, there's still no new government more than four months after parliamentary elections, a political torpor that befits the summer's heat. 
With the flight, though, one more blast wall of Iraq's isolation has toppled, opening a route for regular service in and out of a country that remains on a slow road to recovery after seven years of war and decades of dictatorship. In this case, the flights are operated by Alwafeer Air, a charter company based in Jeddah, Saudi Arabia, that specializes in pilgrimages to Mecca and Medina. Its mission, according to its Web site, is ''setting the standards of excellence for the guests of Allah.''
''I ask God to bless this step in both countries,'' Alwafeer's deputy manager, Montasar al-Gisan, said at a ceremony on arrival that included dozens of Iraqi officials. A bit later the jet took off for Mecca, ferrying 450 passengers on their holy journey.
Flying to Iraq is no longer the corkscrew-landing adventure it was when the violence made even driving to the main airport, in Baghdad, a tense race through enemy territory.
Baghdad International Airport offers regularly scheduled commercial flights to and from Amman, Jordan; Beirut; Cairo; Tehran; and Abu Dhabi. I travel on Turkish Airways via Istanbul, a commute that feels increasingly normal, even if the destination isn't.
The airport in Baghdad is dingy, worn in the way old Soviet-era airports are, and the checkpoints make the security screening in America seem like a soft once-over. The terminal is clean, though. There are cafes and duty-free shops, of a sort. I haven't lost a bag yet.
''We hope all countries will start journeys with us,'' said the manager of Basra's airport, Abdul Amir Ganim.
Wishful thinking for now, but at an uncertain moment in Iraq's history, even the thought counts for something. STEVEN LEE MYERS
Fewer Teensy Babies
Here's an overdue date. For the first time in almost three decades, fewer American babies are arriving too early.
Year after year, the rate of premature births in the United States had crept ever upward. With that rate grew the risk of death and disability -- and of course huge hospital bills. But in 2007 and 2008, prematurity rates finally fell, the first two-year decline since 1981, health officials reported in May. In 2006, the rate was 12.8 percent; in 2008, it was 12.3 percent.
Half a percentage point may not seem like much, but it translates into about 21,000 fewer babies born too early in 2008.
The reason for the dip in early births is not certain. Researchers suspect that some credit belongs to campaigns by medical groups persuading doctors not to perform Caesareans or induce labor before the 39th week unless there is urgent medical need (pregnancy normally lasts 40 weeks; a premature birth is one that occurs before 37 weeks). However, the report noted that the prematurity rate was down for all types of births -- Caesarean, normal and induced.
Programs to treat women's illnesses and help them with problems like drinking, drug use and smoking before and during pregnancy have also been shown to help prevent prematurity.
Even with the recent decline, more than half a million babies are born prematurely every year. Their care costs $26 billion. DENISE GRADY
Iran Is a Slow Student
It's hard to find much good news about the Iranian nuclear program -- until you recall the predictions of a few years ago. If they had come true, Tehran might well be the capital of a nuclear-armed state already.
In fact, beyond the stories of defectors who un-defect, or the democracy movement that has, for now, been strangled on the streets, there is a less-told story of Iran -- that its engineers are having trouble making nuclear material.
Exactly why is a subject of debate in Washington. Some experts there say that for all their vaunted skills, the Iranians are simply not very good at this. Others argue that United Nations sanctions are working, making it ever harder for Iran to get the components it needs for centrifuges, the tall, silvery machines that spin at nearly the speed of sound, enriching uranium. Or the cause could be the not-so-secret covert American program to undermine the Iranian effort, by messing with the project's computer systems and secretly inserting flaws into vital components shipped into the country.
Whatever the reason, fewer than half of the 8,000 or so centrifuges now installed in Natanz, the main nuclear site, are spinning, according to recent estimates from the International Atomic Energy Agency. Nuclear fuel is being produced steadily, but at nowhere near the pace American intelligence officials, just a few years ago, were guessing it might be by now.
In other words, according to American officials, all of this effort seems to be buying some time -- a year or two, maybe three, before Iran has the material with which it could build a bomb. As one official put it recently, ''At this pace, will they get to a bomb capability? You bet. But it's been 20 years, and they are not there yet.'' DAVID E. SANGER
American Fashion Perks Up
The mall-ification of Manhattan took a breather in the last two years as the global recession claimed stores from both the high end and the low. Meanwhile, European fast-fashion retailers, including Desigual, Topshop and AllSaints Spitalfields, have invaded lower Broadway like bedbugs, taking advantage of the lowered rents.
But American designers appear to be making a retail comeback, with more than half a dozen projects opening by September. And some are coming from a new wave of fashion stars.
Alejandro Ingelmo, who makes swanky shoes favored by the Conde Nast set, announced last week that his first store would open by the end of August in SoHo. This month, the fashion blog ThreadNY reported that Alexander Wang, the coolest kid in the current crop of emerging designers, has his eye on one of Yohji Yamamoto's recently vacated downtown storefronts. And Rag & Bone, which just won the men's designer of the year award from the Council of Fashion Designers of America, plans to open its fourth store in Manhattan this week.
Also on tap is a J. Crew men's shop on Madison Avenue, close to its women's, children's and bridal stores (all opened in the last two years), as well as new megastores down the street from the well-established designers Carolina Herrera and Ralph Lauren. Back downtown, Michael Kors said last week that he hoped to have a new Kors store opening in time for the holidays on Bleecker Street, where there are already so many Marc Jacobs, Ralph Lauren and Tommy Hilfiger stores that you could rename it the Mall of the Americans. ERIC WILSON
We're Loving the Art
People in the art world must be feeling a little glum these days. Collectors are holding their wallets tight -- slowing business for dealers, auction houses and anyone trying to unload a Picasso (or, heaven forbid, a Damien Hirst). Meanwhile, museums have been forced to make cuts, after declines in government, foundation and corporate financing.
But here's a not-so-small consolation:
Americans seem to care about art more than ever -- at least as indicated by high attendance at museums. The Metropolitan Museum of Art had 5.2 million visitors in the fiscal year that ended June 30, its highest number since 2001. The Museum of Modern Art welcomed 3 million people, its highest attendance ever. (Just consider: visiting either museum is substantially more expensive than going to a movie. MoMA's admission is $20, as is the Met's, though it is technically a suggested donation.)
MoMA's numbers were buoyed by blockbuster exhibitions, including Monet's ''Water Lilies'' and retrospectives of the filmmaker Tim Burton and the performance artist Marina Abramovic. The latter, which included nude performers ''reperforming'' old works of Ms. Abramovic's and an endurance performance by Ms. Abramovic herself, who sat at a table inside the museum every day throughout the six of the exhibition, was a succes de scandale. A visitor, arriving the day after the show closed, asked a staff member plaintively where ''the naked people'' were.
Nationally, in a survey by the Association of Art Museum Directors, almost half of museums reported an increase in attendance from 2008 to 2009. Twenty-nine percent reported a decrease.
Those who had to fight the crowds to see the Abramovic show might not think the rush was such a good thing. But these numbers will certainly be valuable ammunition when museums go back to their donors, looking for support. KATE TAYLOR
Send in the Robots
Human failings of one kind or another may have led to terrorism, economic decline and environmental disaster, but hey, at least we've invented robots to save us from ourselves. Fourteen of them, gyrating 5,000 feet underwater, capped the well spewing crude into the gulf. In May, a robot disarmed the bomb planted in Times Square. Robots are dropping bombs, too, so soldiers in Afghanistan don't have to. And the military is working on more exotic machines: the BigDog Project, for instance, features a device that can go anywhere people and animals can go, carrying 200 pounds of supplies through fields and up steep hills.
Skyrocketing demand for hip and knee replacements attributable largely to an obesity epidemic? Never fear, robotic surgery is here -- possibly cheaper, less painful and more efficient than the old-fashioned kind. Bacterial infections from fresh food? Robots that do not get colds or fail to wash hands are increasingly being deployed in its processing. Aging population? Robots to flip elderly people in their beds, urge them to take medicine and cuddle up when they are lonely are all either here or coming soon.
We may have scrapped plans to revisit the moon ourselves, but NASA plans to launch the first humanlike robot into space this year as a resident of the International Space Station. And you could say that robots are saving jobs from being outsourced by making United States manufacturing more efficient.
Driving the proliferation of robotic devices is the falling price of key parts, the rising power of computing and, perhaps, the human instinct to push boundaries, technological and otherwise.
''They are enabling us to do things we have never done before,'' said Henrik I. Christensen, director of the Center for Robotics and Intelligent Machines at the Georgia Institute of Technology.
That's a good thing. Right? AMY HARMON

GRAPHIC: DRAWINGS (DRAWINGS BY YAREK WASZUL) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: AIRPORTS (89%); AIRLINES (89%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (78%); RELIGIOUS PILGRIMAGES (77%); NEWS BRIEFS (77%); COMMERCIAL & GENERAL AVIATION AIRCRAFT (76%); PASSENGER & CARGO AIRCRAFT (76%); HISTORY (75%); AIR CHARTER SERVICES (75%); TRAVELER SAFETY & SECURITY (75%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (73%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (73%); ELECTIONS (73%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (68%); WEB SITES (50%)

COMPANY: AL MUDON INTERNATIONAL REAL ESTATE CO KSCC (57%); BOEING CO (57%)

TICKER: ALMUDON (KUW) (57%); BOE (LSE) (57%); BAB (BRU) (57%); BA (NYSE) (57%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS531110 LESSORS OF RESIDENTIAL BUILDINGS & DWELLINGS (57%); SIC6513 OPERATORS OF APARTMENT BUILDINGS (57%); NAICS336414 GUIDED MISSILE & SPACE VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (57%); NAICS336412 AIRCRAFT ENGINE & ENGINE PARTS MANUFACTURING (57%); NAICS336411 AIRCRAFT MANUFACTURING (57%); SIC3761 GUIDED MISSILES & SPACE VEHICLES (57%)

PERSON: SADDAM HUSSEIN (56%)

GEOGRAPHIC: BAGHDAD, IRAQ (91%); CAIRO, EGYPT (79%); AMMAN, JORDAN (71%); ISTANBUL, TURKEY (52%) INDIAN OCEAN (72%) IRAQ (95%); SAUDI ARABIA (92%); GULF STATES (88%); KUWAIT (79%); JORDAN (79%); TURKEY (79%); EGYPT (79%); UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: August 1, 2010



432 of 785 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 18, 2010
Correction Appended 
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section TR; Column 0; Travel Desk; IN TRANSIT; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 333 words

HEADLINE: Double-Decker Jets From Dubai Will Resume

BYLINE: By LIONEL BEEHNER

 BODY:
Emirates Airlines is planning to reintroduce its Airbus A380 double-decker jumbo jet to the United States by resuming flights between Kennedy and Dubai on Oct. 31. The flight's amenities include fully enclosed suites for first-class passengers, five-course meals prepared in a private kitchen in Dubai for first- and business-class passengers, and on the upper deck, showers and a full-service cocktail lounge. 
Round-trip economy fares between New York and Dubai start at $1,350.
The A380 flight to New York was introduced in August 2008 but was rerouted to Toronto last summer because of a drop in demand.
''Our flights to and from New York are running at very high-load occupancy,'' said Nigel Page, senior vice president of the airlines' commercial operations in the Americas and Africa, ''and we're getting a greater number of bookings from the U.S.''
Emirates Airlines ordered 32 A380 jets from Airbus in June, bringing its total to 90.
Correction: Because of an editing error, a report in the In Transit column on July 18 about Emirates Airlines' reintroduction of double-decker jumbo jets on flights between Kennedy Airport and Dubai on Oct. 31 misidentified the entity that ordered 32 A380 jets from Airbus in June. Emirates Airlines, which is owned by the government of Dubai, part of the United Arab Emirates, ordered the jets; United Arab Emirates did not order them.
This is a more complete version of the story than the one that appeared in print.

CORRECTION-DATE: August 1, 2010, Sunday

 CORRECTION:
This article has been revised to reflect the following correction: Because of an editing error, a report in the In Transit column on July 18 about Emirates Airlines' reintroduction of double-decker jumbo jets on flights between Kennedy Airport and Dubai on Oct. 31 misidentified the entity that ordered 32 A380 jets from Airbus in June. Emirates Airlines, which is owned by the government of Dubai, part of the United Arab Emirates, ordered the jets; United Arab Emirates did not order them.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Web Log

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: AIRLINES (90%); PASSENGER & CARGO AIRCRAFT (90%); AIR FARES (78%); AIRPORTS (78%)

COMPANY: EMIRATES GROUP (93%); AIRBUS SAS (55%)

ORGANIZATION: NEW YORK JETS (84%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS481111 SCHEDULED PASSENGER AIR TRANSPORTATION (93%); SIC4512 AIR TRANSPORTATION, SCHEDULED (93%); NAICS336411 AIRCRAFT MANUFACTURING (55%); SIC3721 AIRCRAFT (55%)

GEOGRAPHIC: DUBAI, UNITED ARAB EMIRATES (94%); NEW YORK, USA (93%) UNITED ARAB EMIRATES (97%); UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: August 5, 2010



433 of 785 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 18, 2010
Correction Appended 
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; POLITICAL TIMES; Pg. 15

LENGTH: 1051 words

HEADLINE: When It's About Race, It's Probably About Age, Too

BYLINE: By MATT BAI

 BODY:
WASHINGTON -- Newt Gingrich woke up last week with an idea to heal America. This is not a remarkable event; Mr. Gingrich, the former speaker of the House, wakes up with about five new ideas most days, many of which are instantly snuffed out by the cold reason of daylight. In this case, though, he had an intriguing idea for his brethren in the Tea Party movement, which the N.A.A.C.P. had just accused of brooking racism: he suggested that they reach out to local chapters of the civil rights group and propose a series of joint town-hall-style meetings around the country.
Mr. Gingrich's thinking here is that the two groups could bury their differences by focusing on a common economic agenda to ''bring all Americans together.'' He could be on to something -- if, by ''all Americans,'' he means predominantly those who are old enough to remember when cigarettes were harmless and Strom Thurmond was a Democrat. The Tea Party and the N.A.A.C.P. represent disproportionately older memberships. And herein lies a problem with so much of our discussion about race and politics in the Obama era: we tend not to recognize the generational divide that underlies it. 
The question of racism in the amorphous Tea Party movement is, of course, a serious one, since so much of the Republican Party seems to be in the thrall of its activists. There have been scattered reports around the country of racially charged rhetoric within the movement.
But such incidents -- or, maybe more accurately in some cases, an utter indifference toward racial sensitivities --shouldn't really surprise anyone. That's not necessarily because a subset of these antigovernment ideologues are racist, per se, but in part because they are just plain old -- at least relatively speaking. According to a survey by the Pew Research Center in June, 34 percent of Americans between the ages of 50 and 64 -- and 29 percent of voters 65 and older -- say they agree with the movement's philosophy; among Americans 49 and younger, that percentage drops precipitously. A New York Times/CBS News poll in April found that fully three-quarters of self-identified Tea Party advocates were older than 45, and 29 percent were older than 64.
This does not mean that there aren't hateful 25-year-olds coming to Tea Party rallies and letting fly racial slurs. What it does mean is that a sizable percentage of the Tea Party types were born into a segregated America, many of them in the South or in the new working-class suburbs of the North, and lived through the marches and riots that punctuated the cultural and political upheaval of the 1960s. Their racial attitudes, like their philosophies of governance, reflect their complicated journeys. (This is true for a lot of older, urban Democrats, too, who consider themselves liberal but whose racial commentary causes their grandchildren to recoil.)
White Americans of that generation are not the only ones whose longstanding views on race seem increasingly dated. The N.A.A.C.P. has over the years lost its currency among younger, more educated African-Americans, whose sense of opportunity is such that they are less convinced of their need for a traditional civil rights organization (let alone one with the word ''colored'' in its title). A lot of older civil rights leaders and black politicians have been frustrated with President Obama for not advancing a specific agenda for his fellow black Americans, a grievance that seems not to bother many younger African-Americans, for whom the civil rights movement is a chapter in a history text, rather than a searing memory.
In other words, we are living at an unusual moment when the rate of progress has been dizzying from one generation to the next, such that Americans older than 60, say, are rooted in a radically different sense of society from those younger than 40. And this generational tension -- perhaps even more than race or wealth or demography -- tends to fracture our politics.
Nowhere is this more evident than in our judgment of the president, who, at 48, stands right at the fulcrum of this generational teeter-totter. Sure, Mr. Obama fares better among black voters than among white ones, and better among poorer voters than wealthier ones, as you would expect with a Democratic president. But his presidency is largely defined in the public mind by the age of the beholder. To put it simply, the older you are, the less likely you are to support Mr. Obama, and vice versa.
According to Pew, there is nearly a 20-point spread between Mr. Obama's approval ratings among voters younger than 30 and those older than 65. Among independent voters older than 50, Mr. Obama gets passing marks from only 35 percent, while about half of those voters 49 and younger say they approve of his performance in office.
These numbers probably do reflect some profound racial differences among the generations, but they are more indicative of how young and old Americans approach the issues of the day, generally. Older Americans now -- no longer the New Deal generation, but the generation that remembers Vietnam, gas lines and court-ordered busing -- are less enamored of expansive government than their parents were. They fear changes to their entitlement programs, even as they denounce the explosion in federal spending. They are less optimistic about the high-tech economy, more fearful of the impact of immigration and free trade.
If our leaders want to mend the rift in our political fabric, they might be better served convening meetings not between the white Tea Party advocates and their black contemporaries, but between estranged retirees and so-called millennials. Our national challenge is to reconcile vastly different American experiences. Race is a part of that disconnect, but it is not the whole.

CORRECTION-DATE:  July 25, 2010

 CORRECTION:
This article has been revised to reflect the following correction: The Political Times column last Sunday, about a generational divide over racial attitudes, erroneously linked one example of a racially charged statement to the Tea Party movement. While Tea Party supporters have been connected to a number of such statements, there is no evidence that epithets reportedly directed in March at Representative John Lewis, Democrat of Georgia, outside the Capitol, came from Tea Party members.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Newt Gingrich has suggested that Tea Party advocates and the N.A.A.C.P. hold joint meetings. (PHOTOGRAPH BY THAO NGUYEN/ASSOCIATED PRESS) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TEA PARTY MOVEMENT (90%); RACE & RACISM (89%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2012 (89%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (79%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (79%); POLITICS (78%); PLATFORMS & ISSUES (76%); POLLS & SURVEYS (72%); POLITICAL PARTIES (72%); CIVIL RIGHTS (70%); HUMAN RIGHTS ORGANIZATIONS (70%); RESEARCH INSTITUTES (64%)

ORGANIZATION: NATIONAL ASSOCIATION FOR THE ADVANCEMENT OF COLORED PEOPLE (91%)

PERSON: NEWT GINGRICH (91%); BARACK OBAMA (51%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (98%)

LOAD-DATE: July 25, 2010



434 of 785 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 18, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section WK; Column 0; Editorial Desk; OP-ED CONTRIBUTORS; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 3965 words

HEADLINE: How Can Obama Rebound?

BYLINE: By DAVID FRUM, STANLEY B. GREENBERG, DONNA BRAZILE, BILL HILLSMAN, BOB KERREY, MARK PENN, ELIZABETH EDWARDS, EDWARD J. ROLLINS, KATHLEEN HALL JAMIESON, MARK BLUMENTHAL, GRAY DAVIS, HAROLD FORD Jr. , ROBERT SHRUM, JONATHAN ALTER and ARI FLEISCHER

 BODY:
Though BP managed to stop the spread of oil from its broken well last week, President Obama has been able to do little to stop the drop in his public approval ratings, which now, according to a new ABC News-Washington Post poll, hover just above 40 percent. Add these numbers to the comment by Robert Gibbs, the president's press secretary, that Democrats could lose control of the House in the November elections, and it equals trouble for the president in 2012. So what does Mr. Obama need to do to shore up his base, woo back independent voters and win a second term? The Op-Ed editors asked political experts to suggest a few plans of attack.
Legislation Can't Save You
Politicians believe in magic. They are always searching for the incantation or the mystic strategy that will connect them to voters. But Americans want one thing from their elected officials and especially their presidents: success. 
President Obama has certainly pushed through some landmark legislation. But the success voters want is tallied not by laws passed, but by wars won and prosperity enhanced. Who passed more important laws than Lyndon Johnson? And look what happened to him.
President Obama has placed big bets on the board: the $787 billion stimulus plan to generate employment, the Afghan surge to fight the Taliban, a bailout fund to cushion the financial crisis, diplomacy to stop the Iranian bomb. These are actions of historic scale; if they fail no spin doctor can explain them away.
But thus far, they are failing. And, especially with domestic policies, there is little reason to believe that will change.
Anti-Bush feeling among Democrats pushed the party to the left over the past eight years. Then the economic crisis created a seeming opportunity for a Franklin Roosevelt-style 100 Days. President Obama's own rhetoric of hope and change overcame all inhibitions, and the administration committed itself to fighting the recession with pork-barrel spending and one-time tax rebates; stricter regulation of finance, health care and energy producers and users; and imminent increases in the tax burden on work, saving and investment. It has not worked.
What this president needs is not new messaging. It is new thinking.
-- DAVID FRUM, editor of the Web site FrumForum and author of ''Comeback: Conservatism That Can Win Again''
The G.O.P.'s Dismal Future
It's early 2011, Republican Congressional leaders are driving back from the White House after a bipartisan leadership meeting with the president, and blurt out almost together, ''We're doomed!'' The president will have already told the country from the Oval Office after the Democratic losses: ''You don't have to take me behind the woodshed a second time. I heard you. These pointless partisan battles keep us from bringing the change you need.''
The president will send up four big initiatives that have to be taken up on a bipartisan basis -- or not at all. A Deficit Reduction Act that endorses his deficit commission's proposed spending freeze, entitlement reforms, the purging of corporate loopholes and tax increases. An Energy Independence and Climate Change Act that includes off-shore oil drilling but also the trading of carbon emissions, renewable energy and an end to oil company subsidies. An Expanded Trade and Export Act that embraces new Asian and Latin American trade agreements, but also ends tax breaks for companies that export jobs, and invests in the infrastructure that future industries will need to create jobs here. A Comprehensive Immigration Act that seals the borders and creates a new national identity card but also includes a path to citizenship for those here illegally.
The Republican leaders will choke on ''poison pills.'' Polls show that half of those who identify as Republicans today are supporters of the Tea Party movement, and 90 percent of Tea Partiers say that Barack Obama is steering the country toward ''socialism.'' That is why the House and Senate Republican caucuses will shun the president's outstretched hand. ''No tax increases, no cap-and-trade, no amnesty,'' will be the new mantra. But voters will know whom to blame when nothing gets done.
For the president, this is either an immense opportunity to bring change or to win re-election in a 1964-like Lyndon Johnson landslide. Either would be O.K.
-- STANLEY B. GREENBERG, Democratic pollster
Poetry and Policy
Barack Obama the candidate achieved success through a large and enthusiastic grassroots operation, a tightly controlled political organization and an intensely personal campaigning style. Barack Obama the president has been more comfortable with a close group of advisers, a largely advisory and deferential style of policymaking and message crafting that, while still suspicious of Washington, isn't quite populist either.
But these styles, though successful, have created a gap between what both his base and swing voters expect of him and what he actually delivers. To win in 2012, President Obama and the Democrats must use the 2010 midterms to remind voters why they picked them in the first place. Present a personalized and retrospective look at the incredible benefits for the average American that were created by the legislation of the last two years. Reinforce the image of Republicans as the ''party of no'' on everything from unemployment benefits to new jobs in the green sector to stronger financial regulations.
President Obama, the great communicator of 2008, presented the public with a compelling platform. Having accomplished many of his goals, he must now couple the intensity of his rhetoric with the wonkish policy detail of his administration. If he can manage it, there won't be a Tea Partier in the world who can stop him in 2012.
-- DONNA BRAZILE, campaign manager for Al Gore in 2000
Exiling Main Street
Barack Obama's historic election depended largely on independent voters buying into his message of hope and change.
So far, all they've received is the hope.
Independents are not prompted by party fealty to vote for a particular candidate. They decide on the basis of which candidate's promises they most believe. And they become unforgiving when an incumbent for whom they voted doesn't deliver.
For most independents, the bailout of Wall Street was a grave injustice. While the Obama administration has been engrossed in worthy long-term issues -- health care, the environment, terrorism -- it has let Main Street down. Unemployment is still rampant, there is little money flowing to small businesses, entrepreneurship has been stifled.
Independents believe in a level playing field, and have no faith in big business or big government. And they absolutely have no patience for ''too big to fail'' arguments while their families and neighbors consistently find themselves overlooked in the president's economic palliatives.
The president's supporters are fond of saying that ''elections have consequences.'' As Mr. Obama and his team try to figure out how to re-engage independent voters in 2012, they will discover just how true that is.
-- BILL HILLSMAN, president of North Woods Advertising, which did commercials for former Gov. Jesse Ventura and Senator Paul Wellstone of Minnesota
Shift, Cut, Balance, Innovate
President Obama can do four things to restore his standing with independent voters and increase his chances of re-election.
First, he should revive Ronald Reagan's New Federalism initiative, which tried to have Washington take over Medicaid, whose costs are rising, in exchange for the states financing things like roads and education. This is the only way to help the states solve their fiscal problems, and, assuming he could use federal control of Medicaid to bring down medical costs, it would give him the means to finance either a new public works program or a tax cut to create private-sector jobs.
Second, the president should downsize the federal government. Don't let anyone say it cannot be shrunk by at least 10 percent; there is always room to cut. He should connect this with his efforts to make policymaking more open and transparent and use the savings to finance a small-business recovery plan.
Third, President Obama should start a campaign to promote private-sector innovation, which would both create programs and highlight many of the things he has already done -- encouraging high-speed rail, health-information systems and alternative energy -- to keep America on the high road to greater prosperity. And he shouldn't be afraid to look for good ideas from Republicans; this is an area where they are more often right than wrong.
Finally, he should take seriously the forthcoming recommendations of his Bowles-Simpson commission investigating the national debt. He was right to begin tackling this issue, and he should pursue serious debt reduction no matter what his pollsters say. It is the only way to make sure the country has the resources to tackle the challenges ahead of us.
-- BOB KERREY, former Democratic senator from Nebraska and president of the New School
Middle Man
THE most important thing President Obama can do, as Bill Clinton did during his first term, is retake ownership of the center -- the voters who elected him but now feel he has moved too far to the left. That means making a real down payment on the deficit, revamping the health care act to address the cost issue, opening up new markets overseas and creating jobs by promoting innovation through spending on basic research.
Rather than cut the space program, he should double its size. He should make sure that every American with a broadband connection has access to online education. He should offer research grants and tax incentives to promote investment in our coal, natural gas and biofuel resources, as well as wind and solar energy.
Voters will re-elect President Obama only if they believe that America is on the move, creating and building things. Homeownership is still a vital part of the American dream and must remain a goal of his administration, despite the housing crisis. And he should work with both parties to come to a reasonable compromise on immigration reform, one that would create a clearer path to citizenship for undocumented immigrants and effectively control the borders.
After the midterms, President Obama will likely face the same decision that President Clinton faced in 1994 -- to stay the course on the left or return to the center. His choice could be the difference between a one-term presidency and four more years governing with the coalition that elected him.
-- MARK PENN, adviser and pollster to the 1996 Clinton campaign and chief executive of Burson-Marsteller
Fight Cancer, Win Elections
Before Ted Kennedy died, he and his fellow senator Kay Bailey Hutchison of Texas proposed a renewed war on cancer. President Obama should take up that proposal.
Cancer touches nearly every American family, creating emotional, physical and financial hardship. Each of those families would be cheerleaders in this fight, rooting for earlier detection, improved treatments and -- dare we dream -- cures. And unlike the debates over health care and financial reform, there are no cheerleaders on the other side, no monied interests hoping to retain the status quo, no lobbying groups working to mute every victory with so many concessions that it seems like a loss.
With a renewed war on cancer, the president could change -- there is that word again -- the lives of millions of Americans and their families. And a nation would cheer him on again.
-- ELIZABETH EDWARDS, senior fellow at the Center for American Progress and author of ''Saving Graces''
Stop the Blame
President Obama has spent two years blaming President George W. Bush and the Republicans for the mess he inherited. Lincoln, the Roosevelts and many other previous presidents also had messes sitting on their desks when they came to office, but they focused on fixing the problems instead of placing the blame.
Now Mr. Obama should ask himself what he wants to accomplish in the next two years -- keeping in mind that the country will measure him on whether the economy improves, whether Americans go back to work and whether he reduces the staggering deficit.
He should campaign hard this fall for vulnerable members of Congress, but make the message positive. He shouldn't hammer the Republicans. There are going to be a lot more of them next year, and he's going to need them.
-- EDWARD J. ROLLINS, manager of Ronald Reagan's 1984 presidential campaign and White House political director in the early 1980s
Explain Broken Promises
President Obama needs to reassure Americans that the country is on the (long) road to recovery. One problem: Even as the $787 billion stimulus creates jobs, roads and bridges, public confidence in the spending program is eroding. And as long as we believe the stimulus isn't working, it won't.
He should emphasize its successes and also offer other vivid images of a better economic future, including expanded drug coverage for the elderly, insurance for those with pre-existing conditions and extended health coverage for children.
Also, when he breaks campaign promises, the president should candidly defend his decisions to do so. For example, despite his pledges to the contrary, some who earn less than $250,000 a year will pay a new tax -- if they don't buy health coverage -- and most ''typical families'' are unlikely to see their health costs fall by the promised $2,500 a year. Rather than get into a cynicism-inducing debate about the definitions of ''tax,'' ''typical family'' and ''reduction,'' he should explain how he and Congressional Democrats created change that the country both needed and can believe in.
Finally, before the tarred beaches disappear from the evening news, President Obama should make a cogent argument for climate-change legislation -- bringing all the vision and artistry he demonstrated in the speeches that got him elected. Not having the votes is no excuse for not making the case.
-- KATHLEEN HALL JAMIESON, director of the Annenberg Public Policy Center at the University of Pennsylvania and co-author of ''The Obama Victory: How Media, Money and Message Shaped the 2008 Election''
No Jobs, No Votes
Conventional Beltway wisdom holds that President Obama is experiencing a failure of salesmanship and communications. But as he begins his campaign for re-election in 2012, his challenge will be less about persuasion than about delivering tangible results on the issues that Americans care about the most.
Above all, that means improving the economy. According to the most recent CBS News survey, 82 percent of Americans believe the economy is in a bad condition, 74 percent believe it is staying the same or getting worse and 75 percent expect the effects of the recession to last an additional two years or more. It is no surprise that nearly three out of four Americans believe the stimulus package has had ''no impact'' or ''made things worse,'' or that only 40 percent approve of President Obama's handling of the economy.
True, a case can be made for the efficacy of the administration's economic stimulus policies. But that matters little when unemployment remains high and wages remain stagnant. If and when Americans perceive a significant economic turnaround, their judgment of President Obama and his policies will improve.
Getting there, however, will take more than salesmanship or symbolic action. Real progress on unemployment is essential.
-- MARK BLUMENTHAL, senior polling editor for The Huffington Post
Just Follow California
I am pleased we have a president who supports making our economy grow through innovation, but I would encourage President Obama to do even more by promoting public-private partnerships in applied research and science.
California could serve as a model. In my state, universities worked with entrepreneurs and venture capitalists to foster the information and biotechnology revolutions, which generated more than 200,000 well-paying jobs. As governor, I helped conceive and create four Institutes for Science and Innovation within the University of California system. From an initial state investment of $400 million, these have grown into a public-private partnership in excess of $1 billion and produced pioneering research in green energy and medicine. President Obama should push to make similar strides on a national scale.
As President Eisenhower, after Sputnik, rallied a generation of young people to become engineers and paid for their education, President Obama should challenge our youth to study math, engineering and science, forgiving all the student debt for those who do so. America's prosperity and innovation depend on the next generation. By rewarding rigorous study and investing in our youth, President Obama could reignite America's spirit of leadership.
-- GRAY DAVIS, former governor of California
Feel the Turnaround
Let's be clear: President Obama wants to hold our party's Congressional majorities. In normal times, his historic achievements -- from saving the car industry and banking system to health care and financial reform to successes against Al Qaeda -- would form the backbone of a winning midterm-election campaign.
But too many families and businesses are facing hardship. Careers and homeownership have been upended. Young graduates can't start careers. President Obama and Congress need to do three things immediately to help the private sector create jobs and restore confidence in our economy.
First, extend the current capital gains, dividend tax and middle-income tax rates for two years; grant a six-month payroll tax holiday for American businesses; and accelerate tax breaks for companies that purchase new equipment, build new factories and hire workers in the United States.
Second, establish clear regulations for companies that are poised to build critical infrastructure like broadband and power grids so that they know their costs from the start. With that certainty, these industries would be better able to invest and create hundreds of thousands of jobs in the coming years.
Finally, raise the retirement age to 70 for those under 50, and cut benefits for the wealthiest. We have to begin controlling long-term spending.
There's a lot more to do, not least of all ending the Republicans' cruel blockade of extended unemployment benefits for the hardest hit. But these three steps would help President Obama invigorate the economy and reassure Americans that Washington is working for them. And the president might just improve his and Congress's fortunes in the process.
-- HAROLD FORD Jr., former representative from Tennessee and author of the forthcoming ''More Davids Than Goliaths''
Stay Cool
After a period of transformative change in his first two years in office, Ronald Reagan saw his approval rating sink to 35 percent amid a deep recession. In the 1982 midterm election, Republicans, already a minority in the House of Representatives, lost 26 seats. Soon afterward, Democrats confidently began challenging President Reagan's re-election, denouncing his determination to ''stay the course.'' Yet in 1984 Reagan was returned to office in a landslide.
During his first term, joblessness had soared to nearly 11 percent, but by the time voters considered him for a second term, it had dropped to 7.2, a bit lower than when he first took office. Reagan carried 49 states because Americans knew that while the country had not yet reached an economic high noon, it was truly ''morning again in America.''
President Obama is ideally suited to stay his own course. He's been criticized for being too cool. But that's exactly the quality this difficult time demands. By 2012, the decisive test will be not some level of growth and job creation, but public perception of whether the economy and the nation are doing better.
Mr. Obama needs only to be himself.
President Obama could maneuver his way to re-election without a mandate. But he promised in the speech that propelled him to victory in the Iowa caucuses to lead ''not by calculation, but by conviction.'' ''Triangulating and poll-driven positions,'' as he said, ''just won't do.''
-- ROBERT SHRUM, senior fellow at the Wagner School of Public Service at New York University and author of ''No Excuses''
Sound Bites for Bold Plans
Many presidents' biggest achievements came in the second half of their first terms, often with Congress controlled by the other party: think of Franklin Roosevelt (Social Security, the Works Progress Administration), Dwight Eisenhower (the Interstate Highway Act) and Bill Clinton (welfare reform).
So President Obama shouldn't -- and won't -- be content to rest on his big victories on health care and financial regulation. But ''putting points on the board'' (his preferred basketball metaphor for politics) requires harder thinking on how to frame the debate around every issue.
For instance, Mr. Obama could push through a payroll-tax holiday that would benefit both business and workers -- then fashion himself as the ''innovation president'' and his tax credits and other economic policies as an ''innovation agenda.'' Then he should repeat those phrases ad nauseam until they sink in.
He could replace ''cap and trade'' with ''cap and rebate'' -- a crowd pleaser that would put thousands of dollars into the average American's pocket, often offsetting higher energy prices. We should transform the tax system, as Al Gore says, to ''tax pollution, not payroll.''
President Obama has taken Mario Cuomo's line about how politicians ''campaign in poetry and govern in prose'' too much to heart. To succeed, he needs to not just present bold plans; he needs to write, and repeat, the catch phrases that will allow his initiatives to capture the public imagination.
-- JONATHAN ALTER, Newsweek columnist and author of ''The Promise: President Obama, Year One''
Pork and Duck
President Obama has four months left to pass his agenda because, after November, he'll no longer be able to get his way, especially on domestic matters. Even if Republicans don't take the House or the Senate, their gains will halt the president's agenda.
The White House strategy to reverse this trend is to energize the liberal base, alternate between vilifying Republicans and pledging to work with them, and hope the economy recovers.
I of course do not want Barack Obama to win in 2012. But I do want the resurgent Republicans to succeed, and I think there's a path the president can pursue that's good for him, good for my party and good for the country. He should start by declaring his opposition to a lame-duck session of Congress after November in which Democrats, ignoring the voice of the people, ram through major legislation.
The president should also make amends for his failure to fight pork. If he had vetoed the heavily earmarked spending bill that the Democrats sent to him in 2009, he would really have brought change to Washington. It's not too late -- he should tell Congress no more earmarks or he'll use his veto.
Then he should steal a page from Bill Clinton's book. President Clinton, dealing with Republican majorities, supported initiatives that were vital to the party, like a capital gains tax cut and welfare reform. In exchange, Republicans gave him tax cuts for college savings and refundable tax credits that went to people who didn't earn enough to pay income taxes.
Officials of both parties objected to letting the other side ''get its way''; but compromise was achieved and voters were pleased. Entitlement reform, meaningful tort reform and an extension of the soon-to-expire George W. Bush tax rates are issues ripe for compromise.
Democratic leaders, especially Speaker of the House Nancy Pelosi, will howl if the president moves to the center and works sincerely with Republicans. Maybe that's just what the president needs.
-- ARI FLEISCHER, former spokesman for President George W. Bush

GRAPHIC: DRAWINGS (DRAWINGS BY ABBOTT MILLER AND KRISTEN SPILMAN) (WK8
 WK9) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US PRESIDENTS (90%); VOTERS & VOTING (90%); LEGISLATION (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (89%); POLITICAL PARTIES (89%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (87%); US ECONOMIC STIMULUS PLAN 2008-2009 (78%); POLITICS (78%); ELECTIONS (78%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (77%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (76%); CONSERVATISM (76%); TAXES & TAXATION (75%); TALIBAN (74%); TAX LAW (72%); RECESSION (70%); ECONOMIC NEWS (70%); BAILOUTS (70%); TAX RELIEF (70%); HEALTH CARE (69%); WRITERS (69%); ELECTRIC POWER PLANTS (65%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (92%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: July 18, 2010



435 of 785 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 18, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section MM; Column 0; Magazine Desk; Pg. 24

LENGTH: 4947 words

HEADLINE: Digital Diplomacy

BYLINE: By JESSE LICHTENSTEIN. 
Jesse Lichtenstein has written for The New Yorker, Slate, The Economist and n + 1; this is his first article for the magazine.

 BODY:
It was a Wednesday night in San Francisco's SoMa neighborhood, and Jared Cohen, the youngest member of the State Department's policy planning staff, and Alec Ross, the first senior adviser for innovation to the secretary of state, were taking their tweeting very seriously. Cohen had spent the day in transit from D.C.; Ross hadn't eaten anything besides a morning muffin. Yet they were in the mood to share, and dinner could wait. It wasn't every day they got to tweet about visiting the headquarters of Twitter.
''Exactly 140 characters,'' Cohen said.
''What a ninja you are,'' Ross said. 
They looked at each other, thumbs poised above their BlackBerries.
''Whenever we do this, we get called out on it,'' Cohen said. They did it anyway, in unison. ''Three . . . two . . . one. . . .'' Tweet. Upward of 500,000 people instantly learned that the Twitterers had been to Twitter.
On Twitter, Cohen, who is 28, and Ross, who is 38, are among the most followed of anyone working for the U.S. government, coming in third and fourth after Barack Obama and John McCain. This didn't happen by chance. Their Twitter posts have become an integral part of a new State Department effort to bring diplomacy into the digital age, by using widely available technologies to reach out to citizens, companies and other nonstate actors. Ross and Cohen's style of engagement -- perhaps best described as a cross between social-networking culture and foreign-policy arcana -- reflects the hybrid nature of this approach. Two of Cohen's recent posts were, in order: ''Guinea holds first free election since 1958'' and ''Yes, the season premier [sic] of Entourage is tonight, soooo excited!'' This offhand mix of pop and politics has on occasion raised eyebrows and a few hackles (writing about a frappucino during a rare diplomatic mission to Syria; a trip with Ashton Kutcher to Russia in February), yet, together, Ross and Cohen have formed an unlikely and unprecedented team in the State Department. They are the public face of a cause with an important-sounding name: 21st-century statecraft.
To hear Ross and Cohen tell it, even last year, in this age of rampant peer-to-peer connectivity, the State Department was still boxed into the world of communiques, diplomatic cables and slow government-to-government negotiations, what Ross likes to call ''white guys with white shirts and red ties talking to other white guys with white shirts and red ties, with flags in the background, determining the relationships.'' And then Hillary Clinton arrived. ''The secretary is the one who unleashed us,'' Ross says. ''She's the godmother of 21st-century statecraft.''
Traditional forms of diplomacy still dominate, but 21st-century statecraft is not mere corporate rebranding -- swapping tweets for broadcasts. It represents a shift in form and in strategy -- a way to amplify traditional diplomatic efforts, develop tech-based policy solutions and encourage cyberactivism. Diplomacy may now include such open-ended efforts as the short-message-service (S.M.S.) social-networking program the State Department set up in Pakistan last fall. ''A lot of the 21st-century dynamics are less about, Do you comport politically along traditional liberal-conservative ideological lines?'' Ross says. ''Today it is -- at least in the spaces we engage in -- Is it open or is it closed?''
Early this year, Ross and Cohen helped prop open the State Department's doors by bringing 10 leading figures of the tech and social-media worlds to Washington for a private dinner with Clinton and her senior staff. Among the guests were Eric Schmidt, the chief executive of Google; Jack Dorsey, co-founder and chairman of Twitter; James Eberhard of Mobile Accord; Shervin Pishevar of the mobile-phone-game-development company SGN; Jason Liebman of Howcast; Tiffany Shlain, founder of the Webby Awards; and Andrew Rasiej of Personal Democracy Forum, an annual conference on the intersection of politics and technology. Toward the end of the evening, Clinton delighted those assembled by inviting them to use her ''as an app.''
A few days later, they did. On Jan. 12, the Haiti earthquake struck, and within two hours, Eberhard, working with the State Department, set up the Text Haiti 90999 program, which raised more than $40 million for the Red Cross in $10 donations. Jan. 12 was significant for supporters of 21st-century statecraft for another reason. It was also the day Google announced that Chinese hackers tried to break into the Gmail accounts of dissidents. In response, Google said that it would no longer comply with China's censorship laws and for a few months redirected Chinese users to its Hong Kong search engine. The dispute rose to a high-level diplomatic conflict, but it also gave added resonance to the 45-minute ''Internet freedom'' speech Secretary Clinton delivered a little more than a week later, in which she placed ''the freedom to connect'' squarely within the U.S. human rights and foreign policy agenda.
Within weeks, Ross and Cohen found themselves dining in San Francisco on the eve of a State-sponsored diplomatic mission to Silicon Valley.
''Dude, tomorrow is going to be awesome,'' Ross said.
AT THE GOOGLEPLEX, in Mountain View, the next day, Ross and Cohen took the director chairs next to Schmidt, the C.E.O., for one of Google's ''fireside chats.'' Dozens of Google employees were seated in the room, most with laptops open, while Schmidt quizzed the two in a slightly impish tone about their new methods (''Is it like calling up all the ambassadors and saying, Please use Facebook, Twitter and Google?'') and appreciatively referenced the Internet-freedom speech (''The Chinese are not so happy with me right now,'' Ross said, ''but they're madder at you'').
At Google, and later at YouTube's headquarters, Ross and Cohen stressed the political power of viral videos and the potential for mobile phones to become widespread public tools for education, banking and election monitoring (an idea borrowed from Sierra Leone and Montenegro, where volunteers used S.M.S. to report on voting irregularities). It is fair to say that Ross and Cohen are obsessed with mobile phones; they speak at length about telemedicine, tele-education and something called telejustice (the details of which they haven't quite worked out yet). At an early-morning meeting in Palo Alto with mobile-banking experts, they looked for ways to expand a successful pilot program used to pay policemen via mobile phones in Afghanistan to another conflict zone in Congo. In both cases, as truckloads or planeloads of cash meant to pay policemen dwindled on their way from the capital cities to the provinces, so did the chances for lawful governance. Mobile banking is well established in places like Kenya, and cellphones are ubiquitous worldwide, even in poorly developed regions. Here was a way to use technology to address diplomacy, development and security concerns at once: direct payments to officers' phones, which would be transferable to the phones of their distant families, could become a powerful tool for stability, even in Congo. Or at least that was the hope.
After the fireside chat, Schmidt sat in on a meeting with Google.org (the company's nonprofit arm) in which Ross and Cohen described the difficulty U.S. embassies have in keeping track of services and resources in countries where the U.S. hopes to spur development -- tracking, for example, nongovernmental organizations in Kenya.
''It would be fascinating to transform one of our embassies,'' Cohen said, ''and see if we can create a virtual aspect to make it a one-stop shop for everything that's out there.''
''NGOs keep asking for a way to be able to understand, in a country like Kenya, who's doing clean water, who's doing education,'' one Google employee said.
Several engineers chirped back and forth about the virtues of user-generated feedback and the challenges of multilayer mapping technology, until Schmidt cut them off. ''We have a big operation in Kenya,'' Schmidt said. ''We have the smartest guy in the country working for us. Why can't we just do this?''
This new marriage of Silicon Valley and the State Department can, at times, seem almost giddy in its tech evangelism. While it's hard to argue with the merits of helping nongovernmental organizations communicate with one another, there's a danger that close collaboration between the government and the tech world will be read as favoritism or quid pro quo. Anne-Marie Slaughter, director of the policy planning staff, acknowledged as much: ''So Google sits here, and Microsoft and Twitter and Facebook, but for all those household names, there are others -- and what are the guidelines to make sure that you're being evenhanded, as government has to be? We're just at the outset. Those are issues that are important but can be dealt with -- we're going to have to deal with them.''
AS MUCH AS Ross and Cohen extol the benefits of mobile banking and Silicon Valley partnerships, they admit that not every problem is best addressed with an app. Clinton, Ross assured me, ''doesn't believe you can sprinkle the Internet on something and everybody grows up to be healthy, wealthy and wise.'' As the recent Wikileaks scandal suggests, new technologies may usher in as many diplomatic catastrophes as breakthroughs. (In June, a former U.S. Army intelligence analyst claimed to have given 260,000 diplomatic cables to Wikileaks, a Web site dedicated to publishing confidential material.) When I asked Cohen whether sites like Wikileaks made the kind of diplomacy he advocates harder, he allowed that they posed a challenge: ''All of these tools can be utilized by individuals for everything from Wikileaks to other negative purposes'' -- at least as the State Department sees it -- ''but that technology isn't going anywhere. So we can fear we can't control it and ignore the space, or we can recognize we can't control it, but we can influence it.''
A series of events last year helped Ross and Cohen's work gain traction by showing that connection technologies have become inextricably entwined with the challenges of foreign policy. In April 2009, there was the so-called Twitter revolution in Moldova. In July 2009, there was China's regional-information blockade, including a total shutdown of the Internet, following the Uighur uprisings (''full'' Internet usage was restored to Xinjiang 10 months later). And then, of course, Iran, beginning in June 2009, when the organizing power of cellphones and social media -- and their ability to capture and disseminate images like the death of a young Iranian woman, Neda Agha-Soltan -- arrested the world's attention. (On the visit to YouTube in February, Cohen described the Neda video as ''the most significant viral video of our lifetimes'' and told the site's senior management that YouTube is in some ways ''better than any intelligence we could get, because it's generated by users in Iran.'')
Most of the news that reached the West from Iran came via YouTube and Twitter. In June of last year, three days into the postelection protests, a Twitter post by the opposition candidate Mir Hussein Moussavi alerted Cohen that Twitter was scheduled to go down for maintenance. Cohen sent an e-mail message to Dorsey, the site's 33-year-old chairman, without running it up the chain of command. Dorsey went to work -- ''I was definitely raising my voice'' trying to find a way for the service to stay up, Dorsey told me. The New York Times broke the story of Cohen's e-mail message. A flurry of public speculation ensued as to whether keeping Twitter up contradicted the president's stated policy of nonintervention in the Iranian election. The same debate was under way among the secretary's senior staff.
''There's no precedent for what it meant to keep a social-media network up in a postelection environment,'' Ross told me later. ''There's no casework. There's no legal statecraft precedent for such things.'' Secretary Clinton's decision not to condemn Cohen's actions was an example of her willingness to ''ride the wave,'' Slaughter told me. ''Things were happening very fast; the stakes were very high. We didn't put out propaganda to try to influence what was going on there. We simply made it possible for people to continue communicating.
''We weren't set up to think about what we would do in that situation,'' Slaughter went on. ''Now we would be.''
The State Department recently cut financing for some activist groups based outside Iran that promote democracy and began to focus on providing information technologies that would facilitate communication among dissidents in Iran. Restrictions imposed by U.S. sanctions were lifted to allow for the export of instant-messaging and antifiltering software. But it's not clear how easy it will be for companies to enable Iranians to download applications while keeping government censors at bay; even if they can, not everyone agrees that Twitter's revolutionary power has lived up to the hype.
Evgeny Morozov, an academic at Georgetown and perhaps the fiercest critic of this brand of diplomacy, published an op-ed in The Wall Street Journal in February, charging that the State Department has been all too willing to sweep the dangers of Twitter diplomacy under the rug. ''Facebook and Twitter empower all groups -- not just the pro-Western groups that we like,'' he wrote, pointing out that the Iranian government was also active online: ''Not only did it thwart Internet communications, the government (or its plentiful loyalists) also flooded Iranian Web sites with videos of dubious authenticity . . . that aimed to provoke and splinter the opposition.'' (The Iranian government later used Facebook to track Iranian dissidents around the world.)
When I brought up the op-ed, Cohen dismissed Morozov's complaint. ''The problem with his thinking,'' he said, ''is it neglects the inevitability that this technology is going to spread -- so he advocates a very dangerously cautious approach that says it's dangerous and we shouldn't play in that space. What the Evgeny Morozovs of the world don't understand is that whether anybody likes it or not, the private sector is pumping out innovation like crazy.''
In other words, the U.S. gains nothing from shunning the social media everyone else uses. ''The 21st century is a really terrible time to be a control freak,'' Cohen said. ''Which is a quote Alec and I often use when explaining this.''
Yet control -- over the message, who delivers it, who originates it -- is still a cherished tenet of foreign policy. Morozov no doubt voiced the concerns of many when he wrote: ''Diplomacy is, perhaps, one element of the U.S. government that should not be subject to the demands of 'open government'; whenever it works, it is usually because it is done behind closed doors. But this may be increasingly hard to achieve in the age of Twittering bureaucrats.'' (The fracas over Ross's and Cohen's seemingly frivolous Twitter posts during a recent trip to Syria, a country some lawmakers feel the U.S. should not be speaking with at all, would seem to bear him out. )
When I spoke to Clinton in March, she maintained that the benefits of connection technologies far outweighed the risks. ''That doesn't mean that there won't be problems,'' she said, ''and there are a lot of people who are very risk-averse.'' Clay Shirky, a New York University professor who has engaged in an ongoing debate with Morozov, has given similar advice to members of the State Department. ''The loss of control you fear is already in the past,'' he told me. ''You do not actually control the message, and if you believe you control the message, it merely means you no longer understand what's going on.''
It's one thing for our diplomats to accept that they can't be control freaks; it's another to expect the rest of world to believe that they aren't -- or that social-media companies have no responsibility for how users interact with their services and with one another. What if governments don't make a distinction between a user's message and the message service? In May, Pakistan blocked access to Facebook after a user set up a page promoting ''Everybody Draw Muhammad Day.'' Even longstanding allies of the United States -- South Korea, Italy, Saudi Arabia and Australia -- hold widely divergent views on rights of online assembly and what constitutes protected speech.
Then there's the chance that, say, Twitter will be seen in some quarters as an extension of the U.S. government. On this point, State Department officials I talked to were philosophical. ''This may be a huge difference between the governments that control information -- or try to -- and governments that don't,'' Slaughter says. ''They have a harder time understanding the limits of our power. We can't shut down CNN!'' Still, there are real dangers when companies are conflated with states. ''The risk,'' Carlos Pascual, the U.S. ambassador to Mexico, told me in February, ''is if and when in a particular country -- whether that's China or Iran or Cuba or North Korea -- there's a perception that Twitter or Facebook is a tool of the U.S. government. That becomes dangerous for the company, and it becomes dangerous for people who are using that tool. It doesn't matter what the reality is. In those circumstances, I think it's still better to allow the tool to exist. But there is some sort of a line there, and we have to respect that line.''
LAST SPRING, Ross and Cohen began leading technology delegations abroad. These trips -- or techdels, as they're now called -- to Iraq and elsewhere (Russia, Congo, Haiti) have since become a staple of American diplomacy. Software engineers, entrepreneurs and tech C.E.O.'s are asked to think of unconventional ways to shore up democracy and spur development. Though the delegations function as traveling idea labs, both Ross and Cohen are obsessed with producing ''deliverables'': giving tech leaders specific assignments to work toward, like building support networks in the U.S. for fledgling Iraqi I.T. companies or finding ways to use crowd-sourcing to stop human trafficking in Russia.
In October 2009, Ross and Cohen jointly led a techdel to Mexico City. The idea was to generate novel solutions for countering narcotics crime, an enormous internal problem for Mexico but also an expensive and politically explosive border issue for the U.S. (The U.S. will spend more than $3.5 billion on drug interdiction this year, much of it in Mexico.) In 2009, Ciudad Juarez alone had 2,600 homicides; given the frequent collusion between gangs and the police, witnesses to crimes fear coming forward, which contributes to a kind of narcostate just the other side of the U.S. border. ''The lack of trust in the police is a big part of the problem,'' Ross says. ''The whole concept of anonymous crime reporting has been lost.''
The techdel's highlight was a meeting with Carlos Slim, the telecom giant and currently the richest man in the world (as well as a major stockholder and creditor of The New York Times). Pascual later told me that in the meeting, James Eberhard of Mobile Accord pointed out that even in the lowest-income neighborhoods of Ciudad Juarez, Monterrey and Mexico City, people have cellphones and use S.M.S. all the time. Why not have a free short code for text messages so that anyone could report a crime? All personally identifiable data would be stripped from the S.M.S. before it entered a centralized database. From the database, the information would be fed into federal and municipal police systems, then could be monitored by a third-party NGO and mapped on the Internet publicly -- in essence bringing anonymity and transparency to crime reporting. Just as important, the actions taken (or not taken) by municipal police forces would also be publicly traceable and monitored.
''I think there was a personal reaction on the part of Slim,'' Pascual says. ''He's fascinated by these 30-year-old entrepreneurs that are two generations behind him.''
According to Ross: ''He went around the room and asked us all of our ages. He started nodding, and he goes, 'This is wonderful.' And he pushes this button and calls in his sons.''
The meeting was scheduled for 40 minutes but lasted two hours. Slim offered, on the spot, to sponsor the free nationwide short code.
The program, which is to be implemented this fall, has some easily recognizable challenges. How do you weed out false reports? How do you gain trust in the anonymity of reporting? Recently, Mexico attempted to register all cellphone users in order to counter telephone extortion rackets, but the personal data, which was to be held confidentially, was soon available for purchase at a Mexico City flea market. ''If you get people using these cellphones and reporting crimes and it results in retribution toward somebody because the data really isn't stripped away, then people will never touch it,'' Pascual says. ''We've got to work with our Mexican counterparts and NGOs, the government and outside of government, so that this is something that they adopt and they want and they sustain.''
THE UNDERPINNING PHILOSOPHY of 21st-century statecraft -- that the networked world ''exists above the state, below the state and through the state'' -- was laid out in a paper in Foreign Affairs in 2009 by Slaughter, before she became head of the policy planning staff. Cohen rereads the paper all the time. Ross gives it to all new U.S. ambassadors. It is crucial to how Cohen and Ross see themselves: equal parts barnstormers and brainstormers, creating and sustaining networks of networks. Ross and Cohen share all their contacts and remain in touch constantly, though they're often on opposite sides of the globe. (''Jared and I divide and conquer,'' Ross says.) Their closeness might come as something of a surprise: Cohen was appointed by Condoleezza Rice and still considers her a mentor; Ross was deeply embedded in the Obama campaign. And they pursued very different paths to the State Department.
Cohen, who sprinkled his undergraduate years with trips to Africa (his senior thesis was on the Rwandan genocide), managed to set up a meeting with Rice, then national security adviser, when he was only 22. As a Rhodes scholar, Cohen had ditched England for extended travel through Syria, Lebanon, Iraq and Iran, where he interacted daily with a younger generation closely interconnected through social media and wireless technology. ''He had insights into Iran that frankly we didn't have in the government,'' Rice recalled when I spoke to her in March. ''He was so articulate about it, I asked him to write up a memo that I could send to the president.''
When Rice became secretary of state, she tapped Cohen, then 24, for the policy planning staff, with an emphasis on youth outreach, counterradicalization and counterterror. In February 2008, large-scale protests against the Revolutionary Armed Forces of Colombia (FARC) sprang up there and in close to 200 cities around the world, organized through Facebook and Skype and instant messaging. ''It was the largest protest against a terrorist organization in history,'' Cohen says. ''In what I'm sure was the very first diplomatic engagement via an online social network, I found the group One Million Voices Against FARC, and I sent a message to the organizer of it. I said: 'I'm with the State Department; are you the one that did this? I'm going to come down to Colombia and see you.' People thought this was weird -- like, almost eerily reminiscent of an Internet date.''
Rice told me: ''He started social networks of people who could talk about how to combat terrorism worldwide. He put that together really pretty much on his own.''
Nearly a decade older than Cohen, Alec Ross spent his early postcollege years as a Teach for America recruit and was slower to join political life. In 2000, he helped found One Economy, a nonprofit dedicated to closing the digital divide that was instrumental in pushing Arabic-language content onto the Web. Ross was particularly successful in getting titans of business and technology, from Bill Gates to the former F.C.C. chairman William E. Kennard, to support his cause. Impressed, the current F.C.C. chairman, Julius Genachowski, picked Ross to run the day-to-day operations for Obama's technology, media and telecommunications policy. In April 2009, Ross joined State.
As a Bush-era appointee, Cohen had been walking on eggshells. ''There were all these haters trying to get this guy shot in the head,'' as Ross puts it. ''I read what he'd written, and I'm like, This guy's actually brilliant; he's going to be my partner.''
One apparent paradox of 21st-century statecraft is that while new technologies have theoretically given a voice to the anonymous and formerly powerless (all you need is a camera phone to start a movement), they have also fashioned erstwhile faceless bureaucrats into public figures. Ross and Cohen have a kind of celebrity in their world -- and celebrity in the Twitter age requires a surfeit of disclosure. Several senior members of the State Department with whom I spoke could not understand why anyone would want to read microdispatches from a trip to Twitter or, worse, from a State Department staff member's child's basketball game. But Secretary Clinton seemed neither troubled nor bewildered. ''I think it's to some extent pervasive now,'' she told me in March. ''It would be odd if the entire world were moving in that direction and the State Department were not.'' Half of humanity is under 30, she reminded me. ''Much of that world doesn't really know as much as you might think about American values. One of the ways of breaking through is by having people who are doing the work of our government be human beings, be personalized, be relatable.''
Just such an effort was under way one recent morning in Washington, where Ross and Cohen were meeting with Farah Pandith. Pandith is also the holder of a newly created position: special representative to Muslim communities for the United States Department of State. Born in Kashmir, Pandith emigrated to the U.S. at a young age. Now in her early 40s, she is a vibrant presence in a room and, since she was sworn in in September, has been to 25 countries trying to broaden the scope of U.S. interaction with Muslim communities. She had just returned from India, Pakistan, Qatar and the Netherlands, and she and her deputy, Karen Chandler, were ready for Ross and Cohen's pitch.
''Here's the problem we're solving for,'' Ross said. ''It's physically impossible for one office to engage 1.4 billion people across the planet in a way that involves a lot of air travel. We've got to work with you to build out a connection-technology strategy.''
''Wherever you go,'' Cohen said, ''there should be a trail of Muslim engagement behind you.''
''It's the BOF strategy,'' Ross said, pronouncing it boff. ''Blowing out Farah.''
Pandith and her staff laughed.
For the next half-hour, Ross and Cohen riffed on BOF: how to take the undoubted asset that is Pandith -- an articulate, attractive female speaking on behalf of the United States to a large, diverse population that continues to suspect this country's motives -- and scale her presence with technology so that her job promises more than a Sisyphean series of intercontinental flights.
''What you did in Doha with the secretary,'' Ross said. ''There's nothing to have kept us from Ustreaming that, and going from an intimate meeting with Farah Pandith, the secretary of state and 12 civil-society actors to something thousands of times larger.''
''What you need is a really good hash tag,'' Cohen said.
After a moment everyone agreed that ''#muslimengagement'' was too long.
''We don't have to come up with that right now,'' Ross said. ''You have a body of great material. We ought to have somebody go through it and do grabs. Figure out over the course of whatever it is you've said, those things that can be encapsulated in 140 characters or less. Let's say it's 10 things. We then translate it into Pashto, Dari, Urdu, Arabic, Swahili, etc., etc. The next thing is we identify the 'influencer' Muslims on Twitter, on Facebook, on the other major social-media platforms. And we, in a soft way, using the appropriate diplomacy, reach out to them and say: Hey, we want to get across the following messages. They're messages that we think are consistent with your values. This is a voice coming from the United States that we think you wanted to hear. So we get the imam. . . .''
''. . . the youth leader. . . .'' Pandith said.
''We get these other people to then play the role of tweeting it, and then saying, 'Follow this woman,' and/or putting it on whatever dominant social-media platform they use.''
To do the translation, Ross and Cohen suggested the Muslim engagement office bring in 10 bilingual members of the Virtual Student Foreign Service, an internship program Cohen developed to assist U.S. embassies in dealing with social media. Pandith's deputy sat mostly quiet through the meeting but then voiced a concern that must reverberate throughout the diplomatic ranks. College kids translating diplomatic messages from the State Department? In languages their supervisors can't read?
''How do you make sure that what they're posting is vetted?'' she asked.
''In the 21st century, the level of control is going to be decreased,'' Ross said, reiterating what Clinton told me earlier. ''The young woman from Saudi who translates something to Arabic, what she's translating is language that's been vetted, but it's not being handed over to a State Department translator, who's handing it over to State Department public affairs, who's approving it. We're past that.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Jared Cohen, left, and Alec Ross with mobile devices at the ready. (PHOTOGRAPH BY MICHELE ASSELIN) (MM24-MM25) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: INTERNET SOCIAL NETWORKING (90%); STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (89%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (87%); DIPLOMATIC SERVICES (78%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (78%); FOREIGN POLICY (78%); SOCIAL MEDIA (77%); POLITICS (68%)

COMPANY: TWITTER INC (92%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS519130 INTERNET PUBLISHING & BROADCASTING & WEB SEARCH PORTALS (92%)

PERSON: HILLARY RODHAM CLINTON (78%); BARACK OBAMA (58%); JOHN MCCAIN (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: SAN FRANCISCO, CA, USA (92%) CALIFORNIA, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (92%); SYRIA (79%)

LOAD-DATE: July 18, 2010



436 of 785 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 18, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Foreign Desk; Pg. 10

LENGTH: 333 words

HEADLINE: W.T.O. Ruling Upsets Chief Of Jet Maker

BYLINE: By NICOLA CLARK

 BODY:
LONDON -- The chief executive of the parent company of Airbus expressed frustration over the weekend at a recent decision by the World Trade Organization to delay a report on European claims that Boeing has received billions of dollars in federal subsidies. 
''We are in an abnormal and increasingly unfair situation,'' Louis Gallois, the chief of the European Aeronautic Defense and Space Company, said on Saturday in an interview ahead of the Farnborough International Airshow, which opens Monday near London. He added later, ''We are in a very defensive mood.''
The report, originally expected last week, was postponed until mid-September after members of the organization's dispute panel asked for more time to review the case, which is one of the most complex ever brought.
EADS formally submitted its bid this month for a $35 billion contract to supply aerial refueling tankers to the United States Air Force. Boeing is also bidding for the contract.
Last month the W.T.O. ruled that Airbus had received illegal subsidies -- in the form of loans from European governments at below-market interest rates -- to build its commercial airplanes.
The European Union is expected to appeal that ruling. However, the decision has fueled calls by Boeing's political supporters for the Pentagon to add to the EADS bid the estimated value of the subsidies Airbus received.
Mr. Gallois lamented the timing of the W.T.O.'s delay ahead of a Defense Department deadline of Nov. 12 to choose a winner.
The European Union estimates that Boeing has received more than $20 billion in illegal support from the United States government since the 1980s, of which $5 billion went to Boeing's latest plane, the 787 Dreamliner, which is due to enter service next year.
EADS sees the Air Force tanker contract as crucial to its goal of expanding its revenues in the United States to $10 billion by 2020 from just over $1 billion today.
''It is the biggest market in the world,'' Mr. Gallois said. ''Clearly we have to be there.''

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (91%); GOVERNMENT GRANTS & SUBSIDIES (90%); AIRCRAFT MFG (90%); HOLDING COMPANIES (90%); PARENT COMPANIES (90%); AEROSPACE INDUSTRY (90%); DEFENSE SECTOR PERFORMANCE (89%); CONTRACTS & BIDS (89%); AEROSPACE SECTOR PERFORMANCE (89%); AIR FORCES (89%); EUROPEAN UNION (89%); SPACE INDUSTRY (78%); DEFENSE INDUSTRY (78%); MILITARY AIRCRAFT (78%); INTERVIEWS (78%); EXECUTIVES (78%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (77%); DELAYS & POSTPONEMENTS (77%); DEFENSE CONTRACTING (76%); DEFENSE DEPARTMENTS (76%); APPEALS (74%); COMMERCIAL & GENERAL AVIATION AIRCRAFT (73%); INTEREST RATES (52%); ECONOMIC NEWS (52%)

COMPANY: AIRBUS SAS (92%); BOEING CO (92%); EUROPEAN AERONAUTIC DEFENCE & SPACE CO EADS NV (84%)

ORGANIZATION: WORLD TRADE ORGANIZATION (84%); US AIR FORCE (56%); EUROPEAN UNION (55%)

TICKER: BOE (LSE) (92%); BAB (BRU) (92%); BA (NYSE) (92%); EAD (PAR) (84%); EAD (MCE) (84%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS336414 GUIDED MISSILE & SPACE VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (92%); NAICS336411 AIRCRAFT MANUFACTURING (92%); SIC3721 AIRCRAFT (92%); NAICS336412 AIRCRAFT ENGINE & ENGINE PARTS MANUFACTURING (92%); SIC3761 GUIDED MISSILES & SPACE VEHICLES (92%); NAICS334511 SEARCH, DETECTION, NAVIGATION, GUIDANCE, AERONAUTICAL & NAUTICAL SYSTEM & INSTRUMENT MANUFACTURING (84%)

PERSON: LOUIS GALLOIS (78%)

GEOGRAPHIC: EUROPE (93%); UNITED STATES (93%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: July 18, 2010



437 of 785 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 18, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 14

LENGTH: 966 words

HEADLINE: Changing Stance, Administration Now Defends Insurance Mandate as a Tax

BYLINE: By ROBERT PEAR

 BODY:
WASHINGTON -- When Congress required most Americans to obtain health insurance or pay a penalty, Democrats denied that they were creating a new tax. But in court, the Obama administration and its allies now defend the requirement as an exercise of the government's ''power to lay and collect taxes.''
And that power, they say, is even more sweeping than the federal power to regulate interstate commerce. 
Administration officials say the tax argument is a linchpin of their legal case in defense of the health care overhaul and its individual mandate, now being challenged in court by more than 20 states and several private organizations.
Under the legislation signed by President Obama in March, most Americans will have to maintain ''minimum essential coverage'' starting in 2014. Many people will be eligible for federal subsidies to help them pay premiums.
In a brief defending the law, the Justice Department says the requirement for people to carry insurance or pay the penalty is ''a valid exercise'' of Congress's power to impose taxes.
Congress can use its taxing power ''even for purposes that would exceed its powers under other provisions'' of the Constitution, the department said. For more than a century, it added, the Supreme Court has held that Congress can tax activities that it could not reach by using its power to regulate commerce.
While Congress was working on the health care legislation, Mr. Obama refused to accept the argument that a mandate to buy insurance, enforced by financial penalties, was equivalent to a tax.
''For us to say that you've got to take a responsibility to get health insurance is absolutely not a tax increase,'' the president said last September, in a spirited exchange with George Stephanopoulos on the ABC News program ''This Week.''
When Mr. Stephanopoulos said the penalty appeared to fit the dictionary definition of a tax, Mr. Obama replied, ''I absolutely reject that notion.''
Congress anticipated a constitutional challenge to the individual mandate. Accordingly, the law includes 10 detailed findings meant to show that the mandate regulates commercial activity important to the nation's economy. Nowhere does Congress cite its taxing power as a source of authority.
Under the Constitution, Congress can exercise its taxing power to provide for the ''general welfare.'' It is for Congress, not courts, to decide which taxes are ''conducive to the general welfare,'' the Supreme Court said 73 years ago in upholding the Social Security Act.
Dan Pfeiffer, the White House communications director, described the tax power as an alternative source of authority.
''The Commerce Clause supplies sufficient authority for the shared-responsibility requirements in the new health reform law,'' Mr. Pfeiffer said. ''To the extent that there is any question of additional authority -- and we don't believe there is -- it would be available through the General Welfare Clause.''
The law describes the levy on the uninsured as a ''penalty'' rather than a tax. The Justice Department brushes aside the distinction, saying ''the statutory label'' does not matter. The constitutionality of a tax law depends on ''its practical operation,'' not the precise form of words used to describe it, the department says, citing a long line of Supreme Court cases.
Moreover, the department says the penalty is a tax because it will raise substantial revenue: $4 billion a year by 2017, according to the Congressional Budget Office.
In addition, the department notes, the penalty is imposed and collected under the Internal Revenue Code, and people must report it on their tax returns ''as an addition to income tax liability.''
Because the penalty is a tax, the department says, no one can challenge it in court before paying it and seeking a refund.
Jack M. Balkin, a professor at Yale Law School who supports the new law, said, ''The tax argument is the strongest argument for upholding'' the individual-coverage requirement.
Mr. Obama ''has not been honest with the American people about the nature of this bill,'' Mr. Balkin said last month at a meeting of the American Constitution Society, a progressive legal organization. ''This bill is a tax. Because it's a tax, it's completely constitutional.''
Mr. Balkin and other law professors pressed that argument in a friend-of-the-court brief filed in one of the pending cases.
Opponents contend that the ''minimum coverage provision'' is unconstitutional because it exceeds Congress's power to regulate commerce.
''This is the first time that Congress has ever ordered Americans to use their own money to purchase a particular good or service,'' said Senator Orrin G. Hatch, Republican of Utah.
In their lawsuit, Florida and other states say: ''Congress is attempting to regulate and penalize Americans for choosing not to engage in economic activity. If Congress can do this much, there will be virtually no sphere of private decision-making beyond the reach of federal power.''
In reply, the administration and its allies say that a person who goes without insurance is simply choosing to pay for health care out of pocket at a later date. In the aggregate, they say, these decisions have a substantial effect on the interstate market for health care and health insurance.
In its legal briefs, the Obama administration points to a famous New Deal case, Wickard v. Filburn, in which the Supreme Court upheld a penalty imposed on an Ohio farmer who had grown a small amount of wheat, in excess of his production quota, purely for his own use.
The wheat grown by Roscoe Filburn ''may be trivial by itself,'' the court said, but when combined with the output of other small farmers, it significantly affected interstate commerce and could therefore be regulated by the government as part of a broad scheme regulating interstate commerce.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (90%); HEALTH INSURANCE (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (90%); LEGISLATION (90%); TAXES & TAXATION (90%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (90%); INSURANCE LAW (90%); HEALTH CARE REFORM (89%); US PRESIDENTS (89%); SUPREME COURTS (89%); DECISIONS & RULINGS (89%); CONSTITUTIONAL LAW (89%); HEALTH CARE POLICY (89%); TAX LAW (89%); SETTLEMENTS & DECISIONS (89%); US SOCIAL SECURITY ACTS (79%); PUBLIC HEALTH & WELFARE LAW (78%); FINES & PENALTIES (78%); TAX INCREASES (78%); OBAMA HEALTH CARE REFORM (78%); INSURANCE PREMIUMS (78%); NATIONAL HEALTH INSURANCE (78%); HEALTH CARE LAW (78%); COMMERCIAL LAW (76%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (72%); INTERSTATE COMMERCE (72%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (68%); GOVERNMENT GRANTS & SUBSIDIES (55%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (89%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: July 18, 2010



438 of 785 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 18, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section TR; Column 0; Travel Desk; IN TRANSIT; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 169 words

HEADLINE: Double-Decker Jets From Dubai Will Resume

BYLINE: By LIONEL BEEHNER

 BODY:
Emirates Airlines is planning to reintroduce its Airbus A380 double-decker jumbo jet to the United States by resuming flights between Kennedy and Dubai on Oct. 31. The flight's amenities include fully enclosed suites for first-class passengers, five-course meals prepared in a private kitchen in Dubai for first- and business-class passengers, and on the upper deck, showers and a full-service cocktail lounge. 
Round-trip economy fares between New York and Dubai start at $1,350.
The A380 flight to New York was introduced in August 2008 but was rerouted to Toronto last summer because of a drop in demand.
''Our flights to and from New York are running at very high-load occupancy,'' said Nigel Page, senior vice president of the airlines' commercial operations in the Americas and Africa, ''and we're getting a greater number of bookings from the U.S.''
Emirates Airlines ordered 32 A380 jets from Airbus in June, bringing its total to 90.
This is a more complete version of the story than the one that appeared in print.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Web Log

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: AIRLINES (90%); PASSENGER & CARGO AIRCRAFT (90%); AIR FARES (78%)

COMPANY: EMIRATES GROUP (93%); AIRBUS SAS (55%)

ORGANIZATION: NEW YORK JETS (84%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS481111 SCHEDULED PASSENGER AIR TRANSPORTATION (93%); SIC4512 AIR TRANSPORTATION, SCHEDULED (93%); NAICS336411 AIRCRAFT MANUFACTURING (55%); SIC3721 AIRCRAFT (55%)

GEOGRAPHIC: DUBAI, UNITED ARAB EMIRATES (93%); NEW YORK, USA (92%) UNITED ARAB EMIRATES (95%); UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: July 18, 2010



439 of 785 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 18, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section BR; Column 0; Book Review Desk; Pg. 22

LENGTH: 292 words

HEADLINE: Editors' Choice: Recent books of particular interest

 BODY:
A VISIT FROM THE GOON SQUAD, by Jennifer Egan (Knopf, $25.95.) In her centrifugal, unclassifiably elaborate narrative, Egan creates a set of characters with assorted links to the music business and lets relentless time have its way with them. 
THE GOOD MAN JESUS AND THE SCOUNDREL CHRIST, by Philip Pullman (Canongate, $24.) Pullman's Gospel retelling outbids Monty Python in profanity, with Mary giving birth to the twins of the title.
WIDE AWAKE: A Memoir of Insomnia, by Patricia Morrisroe (Spiegel & Grau, $25.) A personal quest for better sleep shapes Morrisroe's look at the science, economics and sociology of insomnia.
YOUNG ROMANTICS: The Tangled Lives of English Poetry's Greatest Generation, by Daisy Hay (Farrar, Straus & Giroux, $27.50.) This group biography of the Byronic circle -- the women and children suffered mightily -- is a triumph of artful synthesis.
NO WAY DOWN: Life and Death on K2, by Graham Bowley (Harper/HarperCollins, $25.99.) A Times reporter's account of Aug. 2, 2008, a disastrous day on the world's second-highest mountain.
FAITH, INTERRUPTED: A Spiritual Journey, by Eric Lax (Knopf, $26.) Lax, who not only respects but envies his still-religious friends, has written a steady, quiet love letter to the Christianity he abandoned.
THE LOVERS, by Vendela Vida (Ecco/Harper-Collins, $23.99.) Vida's heroine, an American widow visiting Turkey, is less interested in her exotic surroundings than in the mysterious terrain of her past.
WORK SONG, by Ivan Doig (Riverhead, $25.95.) Doig's novel imagines Butte, Mont., in 1919, under the baleful sway of the Anaconda mining company.
THE NOBODIES ALBUM, by Carolyn Parkhurst (Doubleday, $25.95.) This novel's novelist tries to rewrite her own life after her son is suspected of murder.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: List

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BOOK REVIEWS (92%); RELIGION (91%); CHRISTIANS & CHRISTIANITY (88%); NOVELS & SHORT STORIES (86%); MUSIC INDUSTRY (77%); ENTERTAINMENT & ARTS (77%); PROFILES & BIOGRAPHIES (75%); BIOGRAPHICAL LITERATURE (75%); WRITERS (74%); SOCIOLOGY (74%); MOUNTAINS (72%); TWINS & MULTIPLE BIRTHS (71%); POETRY (69%); MURDER (67%)

COMPANY: FARRAR STRAUS & GIROUX INC (56%); ANACONDA MINING INC (53%)

TICKER: ANX (TSX) (53%)

INDUSTRY: SIC2731 BOOKS: PUBLISHING, OR PUBLISHING & PRINTING (56%); NAICS212221 GOLD ORE MINING (53%); SIC1041 GOLD ORES (53%)

GEOGRAPHIC: MONTANA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: July 18, 2010



440 of 785 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 18, 2010
National Edition

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Chicago ; Pg. 23A

LENGTH: 1267 words

HEADLINE: Chicago Draws Up Plan To Prosper in 2040

BYLINE: By TOM HUNDLEY

 BODY:
As the Chicago Metropolitan Agency for Planning sees it, Chicago in 2040 will no longer be battling its suburban neighbors for growth and prosperity opportunities.
Instead, the city will be part of a super-region competing with areas like China and Brazil. Two million more people will probably be crammed into the area, and Chicago may be served by a new, huge transportation hub in the West Loop with high-speed trains and other new transportation ideas.
If all goes according to the agency's ''Go to 2040'' plan, the Chicago area 30 years from now will have a different look and feel. But much of the plan's momentum and vision might seem familiar, thanks in large part to Daniel Burnham, Chicago's original uber-planner.
His influence is on display, both in the strategy the planning agency has put together for the city's future, and literally -- in the shrine-like glass display case in its office reception area, which holds a well-thumbed and slightly faded copy of Mr. Burnham's 101-year-old ''Plan of Chicago.'' 
''When you think about planning in the city of Chicago, you can't ignore Daniel Burnham's shadow,'' said Randall S. Blankenhorn, the planning agency's executive director.
Mr. Burnham was the architect who designed some of Chicago's earliest skyscrapers and oversaw construction of the 1893 World's Columbian Exposition. But his greatest contribution to Chicago may have been the 1909 plan that gave the city its broad boulevards, its miles of lakeshore park and an enduring sense that Chicago is still destined for great things.
''The main legacy of the Burnham plan is that it got people to believe in the idea of planning itself,'' said Carl Smith, an urban history scholar at Northwestern University. ''It convinced them that you can intervene in history and remake a city.''
The planning agency is inviting public comments on the 404-page draft through Aug. 6, and the formal start is scheduled for October.
''Go to 2040'' and the Burnham plan share a pedigree: Both were created at the behest of the Commercial Club of Chicago, an invitation-only conclave of the city's business leaders.
In 1996 the club set up a group called Chicago Metropolis 2020, which in 1999 published a plan so elegant that it was sold as a coffee-table book. One recommendation was the establishment of a regional planning agency, and acting on that suggestion, the Illinois legislature created the Chicago Metropolitan Agency for Planning.
The agency's 2040 draft envisions Chicago as the hub of an integrated region that, in order to prosper, will need to add two million people and one million jobs over the next 30 years.
That is the view of many experts who foresee a 21st-century global economy that revolves around a dozen or so megaregions spread across Asia, Europe and the Americas. Mr. Blankenhorn said his job was to make sure the Chicago area was one of those regions.
''It's no longer Chicago against Joliet and Waukegan and Elgin,'' he said. ''It's us against India and China and Brazil.''
Architects of the 2040 plan also share Mr. Burnham's belief that Chicago's principal purpose is to serve as a transportation hub.
One of the plan's key proposals incorporates Union Station into a new West Loop Transportation Center, an underground complex that would run beneath Clinton Street between Lake Street and the Eisenhower Expressway. The center would serve as a hub for commuter trains, the El, bus lines and a long-dreamed-of intercity high-speed rail network.
The plan also emphasizes that the movement of freight is what links Chicago to the global economy. But with government studies indicating that the already huge volume of freight handled by Chicago is likely to increase by 60 percent to 70 percent over the next 30 years, the 2040 plan focuses on modest transportation upgrades that aim simply to keep congestion at today's barely tolerable levels.
''It's unrealistic to think that congestion will go away,'' said Mr. Blankenhorn, the former bureau chief of urban project planning at the Illinois Department of Transportation.
In recent decades, regional planning has been driven -- often to its detriment -- by federally financed transportation projects.
''It became a competition for transportation dollars,'' said Thomas Cuculich, director of planning and development for DuPage County. ''Whoever hired the best lobbyists got their project.''
Mr. Cuculich, who has been involved in the planning agency's 2040 project from the start, said the new plan tried to reverse this logic. Instead of allowing the eagerness for federally financed transportation projects to shape planning priorities, the emphasis is placed on land-use considerations, conservation, green technology and job growth.
''It's a paradigm shift that needed to occur,'' he said.
Although the planning agency does not have authority over zoning and land use -- that remains in the hands of local municipalities -- it is not without influence. It has statutory power to decide which federally financed transportation projects get built.
But Mr. Blankenhorn said the key to carrying out the 2040 plan lay not in the disbursement of federal dollars, but in winning over the public.
The Chicago Plan Commission recognized the importance of that a century ago when it hired an indefatigable salesman named Walter Moody to promote the Burnham plan. Mr. Moody went on the lecture circuit with lantern slides -- the PowerPoint of its day. He papered the city with pamphlets, produced a newsreel that was shown in local theaters and even managed to have the plan incorporated in the civics curriculum of public schools.
But Mr. Burnham's ideas were realized mainly because they had the financial and political backing of the Commercial Club. These days, the club no longer has that kind of clout.
''That's not necessarily a bad thing,'' Mr. Smith said. ''Our society is more open, more democratic, which is good.''
In terms of democracy, the Chicago area may get bogged down by too much of a good thing. In addition to 284 municipalities, the region encompasses more than 1,400 units of local government, the most of any region in the United States. The New York metropolitan area, by contrast, has fewer than 200.
The tension between city and suburb is often the biggest obstacle that regional planners must overcome. But even as Chicago's suburbs emerge as economic powerhouses in their own right, groups like the Metropolitan Mayors Caucus, founded by Mayor Richard M. Daley in 1997, have helped foster a spirit of cooperation, city and suburban officials say.
The 2040 plan also revives what might be called the hidden legacy of the Burnham plan. Mr. Burnham cared deeply about living conditions for ordinary citizens, and in his original, 300-page handwritten manuscript he argued for providing day care to the children of the working class and making sure the police acted in a transparent manner. He also wanted the city to be equipped with plenty of public restrooms maintained to a standard of ''perfect sweetness.''
These recommendations were trimmed from the plan's final version, but according to Mr. Smith, it is clear that Mr. Burnham wanted a city that was not only grand, but also livable.
The new plan makes no mention of restrooms, but it contains chapters devoted to education, nutrition, access to health care, energy conservation and other quality-of-life issues. ''Livability'' appears to be a main goal.
As the planning agency's staff members ponder the strategies for selling the 2040 plan to the public, they need look no further than the words on the jersey of the group's softball team: ''What Would Daniel Burnham Do?''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: The Chicago Metropolitan Agency for Planning is issuing a plan for the Chicago of 2040. Among its concerns are freeway traffic and a new transportation hub incorporating Union Station. Today's Chicago reflects a 1909 plan, below, by Daniel Burnham. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY PHOTOGRAPHS BY JOHN KONSTANTARAS/CHICAGO NEWS COOPERATIVE) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LAND USE PLANNING (90%); CITY LIFE (89%); SUBURBS (73%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (72%); TRAINS (71%); EXECUTIVES (65%); HIGH SPEED TRAINS (56%)

GEOGRAPHIC: CHICAGO, IL, USA (94%) ILLINOIS, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%); BRAZIL (92%)

LOAD-DATE: July 18, 2010



441 of 785 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 18, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section RE; Column 0; Real Estate Desk; MORTGAGES; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 627 words

HEADLINE: A Falling Homeownership Rate

BYLINE: By BOB TEDESCHI

 BODY:
AS foreclosures have risen nationwide, the homeownership rate has dipped, to around 67 percent as of late 2009 from a high of 69 percent in 2006, according to the Census Bureau. But a recent report by the New York Federal Reserve Bank puts the actual figure at nearly 62 percent, and that rate, the authors contend, is cause for concern.
The report, released last month, suggests that the federal government and banks, in seeking to curb foreclosures, should now consider reducing the mortgage principals of struggling borrowers, rather than continue the prevailing practice of cutting the monthly payment by dropping the rate and extending the repayment term. 
But Jay Brinkmann, the chief economist of the Mortgage Bankers Association, said that ''principal write-downs,'' as they are known in the industry, might actually prevent more people from owning homes, because lenders would very likely have to raise down-payment requirements and tighten lending standards to offset the risk of falling property values.
''So principal write-downs could lower homeownership going forward,'' he said.
The New York Federal Reserve report, written by Andrew Haughwout, Richard Peach and Joseph Tracy, suggests that the government's homeownership statistics understate reality because the census data counted among the homeowners those whose mortgages exceed their homes' value, and who effectively own no part of them. The authors said the effective homeownership rate was 61.6 percent and it could be even lower as home values in many areas continue to slide.
Of the 20 major metropolitan areas covered in the report, New York ranked 19th in homeownership, as measured by the Census Bureau, at 51.2 percent, down from a peak of 55.9 percent. Only Los Angeles is lower, at 50.5 percent, down from a peak of 55.2 percent. (The No. 1 area was the Detroit region, with 75.2 percent.)
Using those figures and property value estimates from the SP/Case-Shiller Home Price Index, the report adjusted the census homeownership rate to take into account ''underwater'' homeowners, putting New York's rate at 47.5 percent, which would rank it 14th. Las Vegas would rank last, at 14.7 percent.
Because underwater homeowners essentially have no stake in their homes, the Fed report says, they are less likely to improve their homes or the surrounding community.
''Their situation is essentially analogous to that of renters,'' the report said.
As many of these households cut down on home maintenance, that further reduces the value of the housing stock, and some may vacate the homes, possibly destabilizing neighborhoods, the report added.
Mr. Brinkmann says he believes the homeownership rate is not as important as the report suggests. Borrowers who have no equity in their homes are not necessarily less likely to take part in civic activities like voting, or take care of their property, he said.
Mr. Brinkman added that he had seen little evidence that lenders were reconsidering their stance against principal write-downs.
However, according to Faith Schwartz, a senior adviser to Hope Now, a group of lenders and mortgage servicers that help homeowners avoid foreclosure, lenders have been more willing this year to forgive principal on some loans, like option-adjustable-rate mortgages, which allow borrowers to choose among several payment options each month.
Ms. Schwartz noted that the Treasury Department was currently adjusting the formulas for determining how lenders can modify mortgages for borrowers at imminent risk of default.
Industry executives do not know when these formulas will be released, but Ms. Schwartz says she expects the new approach will make it more likely that lenders will offer principal write-downs to mainstream borrowers, not just those with exotic mortgages.

GRAPHIC: CHART: INDEX FOR ADJUSTABLE RATE MORTGAGES: 1-year Treasury rate (Source: HSH Associates) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: HOMEOWNERSHIP RATES (93%); REAL ESTATE (92%); CENSUS (92%); FORECLOSURE (90%); REAL ESTATE VALUATIONS (90%); MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); HOME PRICES (90%); HOMEOWNERS (89%); BUSINESS & PROFESSIONAL ASSOCIATIONS (77%); MORTGAGE BANKING (77%); WRITERS (76%); CENTRAL BANKS (72%); BANKING & FINANCE ASSOCIATIONS (72%); RANKINGS (69%)

ORGANIZATION: US CENSUS BUREAU (84%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (93%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: July 18, 2010



442 of 785 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 18, 2010
National Edition

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Chicago ; CHICAGO NEWS COOPERATIVE; Pg. 23A

LENGTH: 783 words

HEADLINE: Reconfiguring the View On the Far South Side

BYLINE: By JAMES WARREN

 BODY:
The office of David Doig, a real estate developer, in an 11-story building just west of the Bishop Ford Expressway at 111th Street, affords a view of economic disarray fit for an urban archaeologist -- and the contours of Chicago's consumer future.
The area is de-industrialized and distressed, with little to see beyond billboards, a dilapidated frontage road, 200 acres of overgrown weeds and the old Pullman railroad car plant and its planned community that had been conceived as a utopia in the 1800s, with its own schools, hotel, library and theaters. 
The Pullman plant is not associated with worker dreams now, but instead with an 1894 strike that occurred after George Pullman cut wages 28 percent. President Grover Cleveland ordered in the United States Army, and 13 strikers were killed.
Students of current affairs, including Mr. Doig, know the 200 acres as the just-approved future home of a 145,000-square-foot Wal-Mart SuperCenter. He's the developer, and, as he looked at the Far South Side neighborhood from his office, he said, ''It's not just a food desert here; it's a retail desert.''
Stores like Jewel and Dominick's used traditional indexes of population density and median family income and decided to stay away from the neighborhood or to leave it. That reluctance opened the door for Wal-Mart here and in the West Side Austin neighborhood, where a branch has been since 2006. The company plans stores in more retail-heavy neighborhoods and it may make other merchants nervous, given its vertically integrated invasive essence.
Wal-Mart, as Mr. Doig explained, looks beyond a location's one- or two-mile radius and assesses access from expressways, drive-time data and proximity to public transit. For the Pullman store, most likely to open in 2012, it figures three-quarters of the customers could come from outside the neighborhood -- from the south suburbs and northwest Indiana.
Another little-understood reality comes from Paul Vogel, a Chicago retail analyst. ''Big cities are understored,'' Mr. Vogel said. ''We don't have enough stores in Chicago and are losing significant sales-tax dollars.''
A city the size of Chicago, understored? Wal-Mart said credit card purchases show that $500 million of its suburban sales come from city residents. Over all, Mr. Vogel estimates that city people spend $1 billion yearly on goods (not groceries) in the suburbs.
Wal-Mart needs the city. Having conquered the suburbs, the chain sees its future dependent on urban growth.
In a phone chat, Mayor Richard M. Daley, a Wal-Mart supporter, bemoaned business lost to ''Palos, Stickney, Evergreen Park.'' He wondered why labor didn't organize to stop low-paying big-box stores in those places instead of waging a battle in the city, including huge anti-Daley spending in the 2007 aldermanic elections.
The tussle over the Pullman store, and Wal-Mart in general, is a labor-management Rorschach test. Substitute ''Wal-Mart'' for inkblots and responses are quick, visceral and revealing. Some people drive many miles to exploit bargains at the stores; others won't deign to give the company a dollar because they can't shake the image of an aggressively anti-union company.
Say ''Target'' and you think urban, cool and classy. Say ''Wal-Mart,'' and some will think rural, brutish and downscale. I asked a Teamster lawyer why unions hadn't fended off Target, which has comparable wage levels, and nonunionized work forces.
''Wal-Mart's the goliath; they set the standards,'' he replied. ''Target is tiny by comparison.''
That scale explains why key unionists, including Keith Kelleher of the Service Employees International Union and Jorge Ramirez, president of the Chicago Federation of Labor, found solace in the final Pullman deal -- an $8.75 starting hourly rate, with a minimum 40-cent increase after a year.
''It's something to build on,'' said Ron Powell, leader of the United Food and Commercial Workers Union, which represents 34,000 Jewel and Dominick's workers.
Perhaps. Future Wal-Mart inroads could threaten the comfortable middle-class existence of city members of the food workers' union, who can earn upward of $20 an hour.
And if the city is ''understored,'' the future is also found in long downbeat Uptown, where a Target store opens July 25 at Broadway and Montrose Avenues, adjacent to an existing Aldi, the German-owned discount grocer.
On Thursday, consumers didn't mind Aldi's austerity -- the private-label goods in boxes, the paucity of salespeople, the need to bring one's own bag. It's all about prices, in many cases much lower than the ones a few blocks away at Jewel.
It's also what Joseph Schumpeter, the Austrian economist, called the ''creative destruction'' of capitalism.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: REAL ESTATE (90%); REAL ESTATE DEVELOPMENT (90%); CITY LIFE (89%); CITIES (89%); SUBURBS (89%); AUTOMOBILE MFG (78%); CITY GOVERNMENT (78%); URBAN TRANSIT SYSTEMS (77%); POPULATION DENSITY (77%); RETAILERS (77%); WAGES & SALARIES (74%); RAILROAD ROLLING STOCK MFG (71%); TRAINS (71%); SALES TAX (66%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (60%); ARCHAEOLOGY (57%); ARMIES (56%); RAILROAD ROLLING STOCK (56%)

ORGANIZATION: US DEPARTMENT OF ARMY (56%)

GEOGRAPHIC: CHICAGO, IL, USA (94%) ILLINOIS, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: July 18, 2010



443 of 785 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 18, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 1158 words

HEADLINE: Inside the Times

 BODY:
International
GUATEMALA'S RAIN FORESTS IN PERIL ON MULTIPLE FRONTS
Great sweeps of Guatemalan rain forest, once the cradle of one of the world's great civilizations, are being razed to clear land for cattle-ranching drug barons. And other parts have been burned down by small cities of squatters. Page 6
WOMEN'S ROLE IN HOLOCAUST
The Nazi killing machine was undoubtedly a male-dominated affair. But the role of German women in the genocide was far greater than previously thought, according to new research by an American historian living in Munich. Page 8 
HAMAS BANS PIPES IN GAZA
Hamas has begun enforcing a ban on smoking water pipes in public in Gaza. A spokesman for the group said the ban applied only to women and that it was in line with Palestinian customs and traditions. But many cafe owners said they had been ordered to ban water pipes to both sexes. Page 11
FIVE NATO SOLDIERS KILLED
Five NATO soldiers were killed in southern and eastern Afghanistan amid reports of new fighting in Nuristan, a remote northeastern province, officials said. All of the fatalities were caused by homemade bombs that exploded while the soldiers were on patrol. Page 12
National
UNEMPLOYMENT EXTENSION OFFERS A SHAKY SAFETY NET
For the long-term unemployed across America, desperation looms. A Republican filibuster is still blocking the extension of unemployment insurance, and while the measure is now expected to pass, advocates for unemployment insurance are hardly declaring victory yet. Page 13
GULF IN 3RD SPILL-FREE DAY
As the Gulf of Mexico entered a third day free of fresh oil from BP's blown-out well, a company official said that there were still no signs of damage in the 13,000-foot-deep hole. Page 17
BIDEN IS FINED $219,000
The Biden for President campaign committee owes the Treasury more than $219,000 because it accepted excessive campaign contributions and understated the value of a trip taken on a private plane, the Federal Election Commission said in a new report. Page 18
Metropolitan
A LONG JUMP TO MANHOOD
Jumping from rocky cliffs into the water that separates the Bronx from Manhattan is a rite of passage for boys in the Bronx, a tradition that mixes adolescent swagger, apocryphal lore and just enough danger to keep things interesting. PAGE 1
Sports
JONES NEVER STAYS LONG, BUT HE LEAVES HIS MARK
Thomas Jones takes a laborious approach to football. The son of a coal miner, he has compiled the second-most rushing yards in the N.F.L. since 2005. Despite this, his career arc remains strange and tenuous: This season, he will play for his fifth team, the Chiefs. PAGE 1
LONG JOURNEY TO RED SOX
As a call-up at age 27, Daniel Nava has been an unlikely spark plug in the Red Sox' injury-stricken lineup this season, and he needs no reminder that he did not always seem destined to be a major league player. PAGE 2
STEADY CLIMB AFTER A FALL
Sam Querrey is the rising, top-20 American tennis player who did not play an 11-hour first-round match at Wimbledon. He merely reached the fourth round. Instead, Querrey's best-known match might be the one he had with a glass coffee table last fall in Bangkok. PAGE 5
Obituaries
DR. ROBERT GALAMBOS, 96
A neuroscientist whose work included helping to prove how bats navigate in total darkness, he deciphered the codes by which nerves transmit sounds to the brain. PAGE 20
Sunday Business
FACTORY DEFIES TYPECASTING, BUT CAN IT SUCCEED?
An American-owned apparel factory has committed to pay its employees three times the average pay of apparel workers in the Dominican Republic, where the plant is located. The question is whether consumers will be willing to pay $18 for the factory's T-shirts. PAGE 1
HOLDING FEET TO THE FIRE
Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac have taken up a worthy cause. The agency is moving aggressively to try to recover money from institutions that sold troubled loans to the two mortgage giants. Fair Game by Gretchen Morgenson. PAGE 1
BYE-BYE BATTERIES
Several researchers are creating devices that consume so little power that it can be drawn from ambient radio waves, reducing or even eliminating the need for batteries. Novelties by Anne Eisenberg. PAGE 3
Arts & Leisure
IT'S BACK TO WORK FOR 'MAD MEN'
The fourth season of ''Mad Men'' brings major changes for the characters. A new firm and new marriages offer a fresh start for AMC's drama set in the advertising world of the early 1960s. Television by Alessandra Stanley. PAGE 1
Magazine
THE NEW PHASE OF ABORTION
They're young doctors, often obstetrician-gynecologists and family physicians, who are incorporating pregnancy termination into their work with patients. Is this the next phases of the abortion wars? PAGE 30
DIGITAL DIPLOMACY
How two of the youngest members of Clinton's State Department are hoping to nudge diplomacy into the 21st century one Twitter post at a time. PAGE 24
Book Review
INNOCENCE LOST
In ''Citrus County,'' John Brandon hybridizes the crime novel with the novel of rural adolescent longing -- and subverts the expectations of both. PAGE 1
Sunday Styles
CREATING SABBATH PEACE IN A BEEPING WORLD
The Sabbath, Jewish, Christian or secular, is a distant memory for many Americans, the recollection of a quaintly tranquil day when stores were closed, streets were quiet and festive dinners were had. But what if you wanted to revive something like the Sabbath today? Cultural Studies by Judith Shulevitz. PAGE 1
Automobiles
SKATEBOARD AESTHETICS, RIDING ON TWO WHEELS
A growing number of skateboarders have found new expressions of freedom in motorcycles. The bikes are customized, but these are sleek stripped-down machines, recalling a style, popular after World War II, in which owners chopped away excess. SPORTSSUNDAY, PAGE 9
Week in Review
A SPILL INTO THE PSYCHE, A RESPITE FROM BAD NEWS
Something good finally happened last week on the Gulf of Mexico. If only provisionally, oil stopped spewing into the sea. But the oil spill has still landed like a rebuke to those celebrating the all-encompassing magic of technology. PAGE 1
Editorial
FREE SPEECH FOR BROADCAST
Technological change has undermined any justification for limiting the First Amendment rights of broadcast media outlets but not others. Week in Review, PAGE 7
MEANWHILE IN BASEL
The Basel committee should do its job and come up with tough rules needed to prevent another meltdown. Week in Review, PAGE 7
Op-Ed
FRANK RICH
The reckoning has arrived for the creator of ''The Passion,'' whose self-destruction parallels the decline of the Christian right. Week in Review, PAGE 9
MAUREEN DOWD
What do women becoming priests and priests molesting boys have in common? Plenty, according to the Vatican. Week in Review, PAGE 8
NICHOLAS D. KRISTOF
The view from Mount Everest shows a planet in trouble. Week in Review, PAGE 10
THOMAS L. FRIEDMAN
CNN cuts off the voice of someone who knows the nuances of the Middle East. Week in Review, PAGE 9
Online
VIDEO Bill Cunningham on the men who maintained their fashion sense despite the heat and humidity of the last two weeks.
nytimes.com/style

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Summary

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: WAR & CONFLICT (90%); HISTORY (77%); WOUNDS & INJURIES (77%); ELECTIONS (77%); ETHNIC CONFLICTS (76%); IMPROVISED EXPLOSIVE DEVICES (76%); MEN (76%); UNEMPLOYED PERSONS (76%); WOMEN (76%); SMOKING (75%); HAMAS (75%); FINES & PENALTIES (74%); BOMBS & EXPLOSIVE DEVICES (71%); BOMBINGS (71%); UNEMPLOYMENT INSURANCE (71%); SMOKING BANS (70%); POLITICS (70%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (70%); ELECTION AUTHORITIES (69%); CAMPAIGN FINANCE (65%); FILIBUSTER (65%)

ORGANIZATION: NORTH ATLANTIC TREATY ORGANIZATION (83%); HAMAS (83%)

PERSON: JOE BIDEN (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (90%) NEW YORK, USA (90%); ATLANTIC OCEAN (79%); GULF OF MEXICO (79%) GUATEMALA (94%); ISRAEL (92%); UNITED STATES (92%); PALESTINIAN TERRITORY, OCCUPIED (79%); AFGHANISTAN (79%)

LOAD-DATE: July 18, 2010



444 of 785 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 18, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section WK; Column 0; Editorial Desk; LETTERS; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 858 words

HEADLINE: How Successful Is Teach for America?

 BODY:
To the Editor:
Re ''A Chosen Few Are Teaching for America,'' by Michael Winerip (On Education column, July 12):
As a Teach for America alumna who spent two years teaching eighth-grade English in Raymondville, Tex., I am sick of the criticism of the program for its turnover rate.
After my time with Teach for America, I obtained my J.D. from Yale Law School, spent a fellowship year representing children in special education and disciplinary proceedings in public schools, spent several years representing indigent defendants in criminal proceedings, and now work for a nonprofit, where I advocate for the expansion of early care and education services. 
Every career choice I've made has been influenced by my time as a teacher. I'm no saint, but I do like to think that some people are better off because of the work I've done and continue to do, even if I'm no longer in front of a classroom.
Not every Teach for America teacher stays a teacher, but I think the majority of us are better people for having served, and that matters, too.
Cyd Oppenheimer New Haven, July 12, 2010
To the Editor:
Would you allow a freshly minted college graduate with five weeks of training to fill your cavity? To fix a plumbing leak? To cut your hair? How about allowing that 22-year-old graduate to teach your son or daughter how to read?
Your article trumpets Teach for America's exclusivity, but does not candidly acknowledge the irresponsibility of what the organization actually does: place the least qualified, least experienced and least knowledgeable teachers in classrooms filled with students who need the most help.
Tellingly, Teach for America instructors are only a ''chosen few'' for kids in failing, poor and usually urban schools. No one chooses Teach for America instructors for more affluent suburban schools, nor should they.
Our country's neediest children deserve highly trained teachers, not dilettantes padding their resumes for jobs in finance and law.
Mark West Grand Junction, Colo., July 14, 2010
To the Editor:
Your article's assertion that ''research indicates that generally, the more experienced teachers are, the better their students perform'' flies in the face of our 2008 findings that secondary-school Teach for America teachers outperform their more seasoned colleagues.
On average, we found, high school students taught by Teach for America corps members did significantly better on state-required tests than peers taught by far more experienced teachers, especially in science and math.
Jane Hannaway Director, Education Policy Center The Urban Institute Washington, July 12, 2010
To the Editor:
''A Chosen Few Are Teaching for America'' suggests that Teach for America has become a safe haven for Ivy League graduates weathering a bad economy until something better comes along. Anyone who abandons the teaching profession for greener pastures within four years of starting cannot develop the lasting relationships or classroom skills necessary to excel at the job.
While Teach for America has regularly qualified for federal noncompetitive grants, cash-strapped school districts across the country are being forced into competition for grants from the Race to the Top program.
It pains me, as an urban educator who takes my job seriously, to see a rookie teaching force of temporary, inexpensive and inexperienced educators promoted as the model for staffing urban schools. We need more federal support for career teachers so that they can continue to provide the expertise, consistency and commitment to our nation's children.
Jackson Potter Chicago, July 12, 2010
To the Editor:
Why do measures of the success of Teach for America cite how many participants stay in the field of education? Do we measure the Peace Corps by how many participants stay in foreign service? No!
We look to two things: the effect these workers have on the lives, minds and hearts of those they serve, and the growth within the participants as they go back into the mainstream and become agents for good with their broader perspectives. Surely the success of Teach for America measures up well when the appropriate yardstick is used.
Lisa Maechling Debbeler Cincinnati, July 12, 2010
The writer is the parent of a current Teach for America corps member.
To the Editor:
The most telling element of your article about Teach for America was that none of the students whom you quoted said that their backup plan, should they be rejected by the program, was to become a teacher through the traditional route -- graduate school in education.
Teach for America, begun on noble principles, is now just a way station for wealthy kids before they become lawyers and such. These youngsters inexpertly fumble in our nation's most at-risk classrooms for two or three years, pat themselves on the back, then bring their Harvard diplomas to the nearest M.B.A. mill. Few are truly interested in careers as teachers.
It takes years -- it takes a career in teaching -- to be successful in the tough classrooms. I would rather that Teach for America volunteers be given hammers, screwdrivers and scrub brushes and help fix our nations' schools that way.
Bryan Legrand Minneapolis, July 12, 2010

GRAPHIC: DRAWING (DRAWING BY JEANNE VERDOUX) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TEACHING & TEACHERS (91%); LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (89%); PRIMARY & SECONDARY SCHOOL TEACHERS (89%); EDUCATION SYSTEMS & INSTITUTIONS (89%); CHILDREN (89%); EDUCATIONAL INSTITUTION EMPLOYEES (89%); HIGH SCHOOLS (78%); TEACHER EDUCATION (78%); CRIMINAL LAW (76%); PUBLIC POLICY (76%); LAW SCHOOLS (76%); GRADUATE & PROFESSIONAL SCHOOLS (76%); LITIGATION (75%); PUBLIC SCHOOLS (75%); RESUMES & CURRICULA VITAE (74%); NONPROFIT ORGANIZATIONS (73%); SECONDARY SCHOOLS (73%); LAWYERS (72%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (59%); SPECIAL EDUCATION (56%); SUBURBS (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW HAVEN, CT, USA (57%); GRAND JUNCTION, CO, USA (52%) COLORADO, USA (79%); CONNECTICUT, USA (57%) UNITED STATES (95%)

LOAD-DATE: July 18, 2010



445 of 785 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 18, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section WK; Column 0; Week in Review Desk; RED LIGHT, GREEN LIGHT JULY 11-17; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 485 words

 BODY:
THE NEWS Congress approved a sweeping overhaul of the nation's financial regulation system after Democrats finally found the three Republican votes they needed to prevent a filibuster.
BEHIND THE NEWS Responding to the excesses that dragged the nation into the worst recession since the Great Depression, the Senate joined the House in voting to subject more financial companies to federal oversight, regulate derivative contracts, create a panel to detect risks to the financial system and establish a consumer protection regulator. The bill reversed a long trend toward deregulation on Wall Street. 
THE NEWSAvandia, a widely prescribed diabetes drug, should be removed from the market or its use restricted because it increases the risk of heart attacks, an advisory panel of the Food and Drug Administration recommended.
BEHIND THE NEWS Critics raised questions about a clinical trial that the drug maker, GlaxoSmithKline, used to defend the drug. The final decision now rests with the F.D.A. The agency often takes the advice of its advisory committees, but in this case, there were sharp divisions on the panel. Still, the recommendation was a blow to the company.
THE NEWS A federal judge in New York cleared the way for federal prosecutors to try Ahmed Khalfan Ghailani, the first Guantanamo detainee to be moved into the civilian court system, on charges that he played a role in the 1998 bombings of American embassies in Kenya and Tanzania.
BEHIND THE NEWS In an important test of whether the rights afforded to defendants in American courts would thwart prosecution of terror suspects, the judge rejected Mr. Ghailani's claim that being detained for nearly five years at Guantanamo had deprived him of his constitutional right to a speedy trial.
THE NEWS The Iroquois national lacrosse team missed the world championship tournament in Britain after a passport dispute left the team unable to fly there from New York.
BEHIND THE NEWS Standing on a point of sovereignty, the team insisted on using tribal passports rather than obtaining American ones. After first refusing to do so, the State Department issued letters saying the team would be allowed to re-enter the United States using the tribal documents, but British officials refused to grant the visas, saying they needed firmer proof that the team would go home after the tournament.
THE NEWS After contracting sharply following the financial meltdown, employment on Wall Street has begun to rise again, with New York securities firms adding nearly 2,000 jobs since February.
BEHIND THE NEWS The trend contrasted sharply with other white-collar professions, like law, where employment in June was the lowest since 2001. Economists said Wall Street, which is back to making hefty profits while much of the nation is still climbing out of recession, was hiring in anticipation of a general economic recovery, and had far to go before matching its 2008 peak.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS (PHOTOGRAPHS BY JIM LO SCALZO/EUROPEAN PRESSPHOTO AGENCY
J. B. REED/BLOOMBERG NEWS
ASSOCIATED PRESS
BEBETO MATTHEWS/ASSOCIATED PRESS
 RICHARD DREW/ASSOCIATED PRESS) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: FILIBUSTER (91%); PHARMACEUTICALS INDUSTRY (90%); CLINICAL TRIALS (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); APPROVALS (90%); POLITICS (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); TRENDS (89%); RECESSION (89%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); PASSPORTS & VISAS (86%); NEWS BRIEFS (78%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (78%); DRUG & MEDICAL DEVICES APPROVAL (78%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); ECONOMIC RECOVERY (78%); DEREGULATION (78%); ECONOMIC DEPRESSION (78%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (77%); STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (74%); US FDA REVIEW (74%); DERIVATIVE INSTRUMENTS (73%); CONSUMER LAW (73%); PHARMACEUTICAL PREPARATION MFG (73%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (73%); PHARMACEUTICALS PRODUCT DEVELOPMENT (73%); JUDGES (73%); GREAT DEPRESSION (72%); CONSUMER PROTECTION (71%); EMBASSIES & CONSULATES (70%); EMERGING MARKETS (70%); TERRORISM (69%); BOMBINGS (69%); TOURNAMENTS (63%); LACROSSE (63%); DIABETES (55%)

COMPANY: GLAXOSMITHKLINE PLC (83%)

ORGANIZATION: FOOD & DRUG ADMINISTRATION (83%)

TICKER: GSK (NYSE) (83%); GSK (LSE) (83%); BIOC (EGX) (83%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS325412 PHARMACEUTICAL PREPARATION MANUFACTURING (83%); SIC2834 PHARMACEUTICAL PREPARATIONS (83%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (93%) UNITED STATES (93%); UNITED KINGDOM (90%); KENYA (79%); TANZANIA, UNITED REPUBLIC OF (79%)

LOAD-DATE: July 18, 2010



446 of 785 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 18, 2010
National Edition

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Bay Area ; Pg. 23A

LENGTH: 698 words

HEADLINE: Gaining Strength by Taking Power Away from Sacramento

BYLINE: By JONATHAN WEBER. 
Jonathan Weber is the editor in chief of The Bay Citizen. jweber@baycitizen.org

 BODY:
You could feel the angst -- and the anger -- among the civic-minded Bay Area residents who gathered at the Commonwealth Club in San Francisco last week to discuss what ails California.
Angst over the future of the state, and especially the parlous condition of its once-proud university system. Angst over the dysfunction in Sacramento. And anger over the refusal of voters to support what seemed obvious to the crowd: that California needs to revamp its tax system, and especially the infamous Proposition 13, along with the initiative process that produced it.
As California limps along with an a 12.3 percent unemployment rate and a never-ending budget crisis that's undermining everything from schools to health care to transportation, some Bay Area thinkers are raising an old question: why should we remain tethered to the illiberal outlook of so many Southern California and inland voters? 
Wouldn't we be better off, as the futurist Paul Saffo recently proposed, if the Bay Area thought of itself as an independent city-state? Or, at a minimum, wouldn't it make sense to ''devolve'' political authority from Sacramento to regional and local entities?
''We have the good fortune of being in a distinct geographic area that is big but not too big,'' Mr. Saffo said. ''If we're going to find our way out of this political mess, we need to find common ground, common interests'' and the best way to do that, he argued, is by developing regional identity and institutions.
The idea that California is too diverse for its own good has been around since the state was founded, and ideas for some form of breakup come around regularly.
Wouldn't the Bay Area and the north coast be happier allied with Portland and Seattle in the great state of Ecotopia? Or perhaps California should be split into four states, as Martin Hutchinson of BreakingViews suggested last year.
The more popular division these days is between liberal coastal California and the conservative interior. Some people in Visalia were pushing a referendum on this last year, to which Bay Area residents might respond, be careful what you wish for. Most of the wealth and economic energy in the state, after all, resides on the coasts.
Stephen Levy of the Palo Alto-based Center for Continuing Study of the California Economy said the Bay Area should be careful what it wished for, too. ''From an economic perspective it makes no sense,'' he said, adding that it's good to be a big state. ''Why move from being the eighth-largest economy in the world to a bunch of small regional economies?''
Wise or not, a breakup isn't going to happen. But the idea of pushing political power from Sacramento to the regional and local level is an important one.
There is, for example, a lot of evidence that people resent paying taxes that flow to far-off places; one damaging legacy of Proposition 13 is that it mandated that property tax revenues go to Sacramento and then be redistributed to local communities. When taxes are collected locally and spent directly on local services, by contrast, they are not nearly so unpopular.
Joel Kotkin, a Southern California author who writes about economic geography, said that devolving power from Sacramento to regional entities was a good idea -- as long as it could be done in a democratic way. He pointed out that existing regional entities like the Bay Area Air Quality Management District and the Association of Bay Area Governments already had real power in certain areas.
''The problem is it tends to be very elite,'' Mr. Kotkin said. ''All the power is in the bureaucracy.''
There is also the problem of equity: if regional and local entities are fully responsible for critical services like education, it could widen the gap between rich and poor communities, and regions.
That said, devolution is emerging as a key theme of efforts to revamp state government. California Forward, a reform group co-chaired by Robert M. Hertzberg, a former State Assembly speaker, advocates this approach. If efforts to convene a state constitutional convention are eventually successful, new regional political entities could be a key part of a governmental overhaul.
It might not yield Ecotopia, but it's a start.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); REFERENDUMS (76%); POLITICS (76%); CONSERVATISM (71%); TAXES & TAXATION (71%); LIBERALISM (71%); BUDGETS (70%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (69%)

GEOGRAPHIC: SACRAMENTO, CA, USA (94%); SAN FRANCISCO BAY AREA, CA, USA (94%); SAN FRANCISCO, CA, USA (92%) CALIFORNIA, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: July 18, 2010



447 of 785 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 18, 2010
The New York Times on the Web

SECTION: Section ; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 

LENGTH: 664 words

HEADLINE: EADS Looks Outside Europe to Fuel Growth

BYLINE: By NICOLA CLARK

 BODY:
LONDON -- With government budgets across Europe set to shrink significantly in the coming years, the parent company of Airbus predicted that the group's military business would become increasingly focused on markets in Asia, Latin America and the Persian Gulf and it hinted that the outsourcing of European aerospace jobs to those regions was all but inevitable.
''It is quite clear that European markets will decline, or be stable at best,'' Stefan Zoller, chief executive of the military division of the European Aeronautic Defense and Space Company, said Saturday. Mr. Zoller was speaking as aerospace industry executives were converging here in advance of the Farnborough International Airshow, which begins Monday. 
The mood among major contractors is grim amid forecasts that austerity programs across Europe will force the region's military budgets to shrink 10 to 15 percent through 2012 and continue to decline until at least 2014.
The $660 billion defense budget in the United States -- the world's largest -- will probably be cut by about 7 percent over the same period, analysts say.
''Strategically, we have to go where the money is, and the money is around the globe,'' Mr. Zoller said.
EADS said Brazil, India, Saudi Arabia and Qatar were among the countries budgeting more for defense and security and where the company is pursuing lucrative deals to supply its Eurofighter jets, Eurocopter helicopters as well as border security and surveillance systems.
Military spending in Brazil rose 23 percent in 2009, while in India the defense budget was raised by 35 percent this year to $40 billion. Analysts at Frost & Sullivan predict that budgets in the Middle East and Persian Gulf regions will surpass $100 billion by 2014.
''These are developing markets, they are huge markets,'' Mr. Zoller said.
But such deals are increasingly coming with strings attached that oblige contractors to invest in developing the industrial bases of customer nations and share critical aerospace technology, he said.
''It's clear that the old concept of exports won't prevail,'' Mr. Zoller said. ''These nations are asking for their own competence and for the ramp-up of their own industries.''
Louis Gallois, the EADS chief executive, stressed that the group was keen to work with European governments to find ways to avoid the permanent transfer of aerospace jobs and expertise overseas. But he argued that the current environment was pushing the entire industry to reconsider strategies that for decades have relied heavily on home-market demand.
''We have seen the U.S. looking abroad as well,'' Mr. Gallois said. ''Export competition will become tougher. And everybody, including the U.S. companies, will go outside to foreign markets and they will be obliged, by and large, to invest and partner and share technology with the customer countries.''
In an interview, Mr. Gallois conceded that demand from emerging markets was unlikely to be of a scale sufficient to compensate fully for the budget reductions in Europe. ''But it could be a way, among others, to mitigate the impact of the defense budget constraints.''
EADS has long sought to increase the size of its military activity relative to its Airbus civil aircraft business, which generates about 65 percent of revenue. Mr. Gallois said that task would be more difficult in the short run as Western governments seek to pare military costs. But over the longer term, he predicted EADS would achieve an equal balance between the two divisions.
''Globally, the threats are such that a lot of countries will wish to build and sustain their defense capacities,'' Mr. Gallois said.
Mr. Zoller, the EADS defense chief, warned that if Europe could not provide the economies of scale to support growth, ''then we have to become more global, and we have to do that even more speedily than we have envisaged so far.''
''And once we have industrialization in other countries,'' Mr. Zoller added, ''it's quite clear that a lot of labor will be going there.''

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: DEFENSE INDUSTRY (90%); PARENT COMPANIES (90%); BUSINESS FORECASTS (90%); HOLDING COMPANIES (90%); DEFENSE SPENDING (90%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (90%); AEROSPACE INDUSTRY (90%); BUDGETS (90%); DEFENSE SECTOR PERFORMANCE (89%); PUBLIC FINANCE (78%); AEROSPACE SECTOR PERFORMANCE (78%); SPACE INDUSTRY (78%); HELICOPTERS (77%); AEROSPACE MANUFACTURING (77%); EMERGING MARKETS (77%); MILITARY HELICOPTERS (77%); OUTSOURCING (77%); NATIONAL SECURITY (77%); EXECUTIVES (75%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (74%); TERRITORIAL & NATIONAL BORDERS (73%); BORDER CONTROL (65%); SURVEILLANCE TECHNOLOGY (50%)

COMPANY: AIRBUS SAS (91%); EUROPEAN AERONAUTIC DEFENCE & SPACE CO EADS NV (86%); EUROCOPTER SA (54%)

TICKER: EAD (PAR) (86%); EAD (MCE) (86%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS336411 AIRCRAFT MANUFACTURING (91%); SIC3721 AIRCRAFT (91%); NAICS336414 GUIDED MISSILE & SPACE VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (86%); NAICS334511 SEARCH, DETECTION, NAVIGATION, GUIDANCE, AERONAUTICAL & NAUTICAL SYSTEM & INSTRUMENT MANUFACTURING (86%)

PERSON: LOUIS GALLOIS (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: INDIAN OCEAN (88%) EUROPE (96%); UNITED STATES (93%); INDIA (92%); LATIN AMERICA (92%); BRAZIL (92%); ASIA (92%); GULF STATES (88%); QATAR (79%); SAUDI ARABIA (79%); MIDDLE EAST (79%)

LOAD-DATE: July 19, 2010



448 of 785 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 18, 2010
National Edition

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Bay Area ; Pg. 23A

LENGTH: 501 words

HEADLINE: A Crusade To Avert Pension Crisis

BYLINE: By ELIZABETH LESLY STEVENS. 
estevens@baycitizen.org

 BODY:
Jeff Adachi has taken up an unusual cause for a San Francisco public defender: Dramatic increases in public-employee contributions to the city's pension plan. He said his ballot initiative to require just that was necessary to prevent San Francisco from sliding into bankruptcy. 
Mr. Adachi's quest has been described as a one-man crusade, and it has brought him the ire of everyone from Mayor Gavin Newsom to the city's powerful labor unions.
But Mr. Adachi is not alone. His effort is gathering support from influential business people and civic leaders who are turning the Bay Area into a center of reform on a national issue that some view as potentially more devastating than the banking crisis.
Those supporters include Michael Moritz of Sequoia Capital, the powerhouse Silicon Valley venture capital firm; Ron Conway, a prominent Bay Area investor; and David Crane, a San Francisco resident who serves as special adviser on economic issues to Gov. Arnold Schwarzenegger.
All have provided financial support to Mr. Adachi's efforts, which included gathering 77,177 signatures to place the initiative on the November ballot.
Mr. Moritz said his interest was spurred by alarming cuts in programs and services as San Francisco struggles financially. The pension issue has ripped through Bay Area cities, forcing Vallejo into bankruptcy in 2008 and, last week, forcing Oakland to lay off 10 percent of its police force.
''Wages, benefits and pensions for city employees far outstrip the protections afforded to hundreds of thousands of hard-working San Franciscans,'' Mr. Moritz said via e-mail. ''San Francisco's self-employed, restaurant workers, janitors, carpenters, small merchants, house cleaners and freelancers who work every bit as hard as city employees but do not enjoy similar pension or health care benefits now face the further indignity of watching vital civic services get axed in order to meet these obligations. It's not right, fair or reasonable.''
Mr. Crane donated to Mr. Adachi's initiative as an individual. Pension reform has been a key issue for the governor, and Mr. Crane, a Democrat, said in an interview that pensions were ''going to be a bigger crisis than the banking crisis.''
While Mr. Adachi's initiative is not the only step needed for comprehensive pension reform, Mr. Crane said, it ''would be taking a big one in the right direction.'' He added that ''higher employee contributions will help relieve the burden on budgets being crushed by rising pension costs that were caused in no small part by a failure to contribute sufficient amounts when the pension promises were made in the first place.''
Mr. Adachi, 50, said his efforts were motivated by concern that San Francisco was headed toward financial disaster. His initiative would require public employees to contribute more cash from their paychecks to their pension funds.
''It will literally save the city from bankruptcy in the next 10 to 15 years,'' Mr. Adachi said. ''The alternative is to let the train wreck happen.''

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PENSION FUNDS (90%); REFERENDUMS (90%); PUBLIC EMPLOYEE RETIREMENT SYSTEMS (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); BALLOTS (90%); SELF EMPLOYMENT (89%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (89%); PENSIONS & BENEFITS LAW (89%); WAGES & SALARIES (78%); GOVERNORS (77%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (77%); BANKING & FINANCE (77%); BANK FAILURES (77%); BUSINESS FINANCIAL TROUBLE (77%); POLICE FORCES (73%); LABOR UNIONS (73%); FREELANCE EMPLOYMENT (73%); BUDGETS (73%); VENTURE CAPITAL (68%); INTERVIEWS (65%)

COMPANY: SEQUOIA CAPITAL (56%)

INDUSTRY: SIC6799 INVESTORS, NEC (56%)

PERSON: MICHAEL MORITZ (73%); ARNOLD SCHWARZENEGGER (51%)

GEOGRAPHIC: SAN FRANCISCO BAY AREA, CA, USA (94%); SAN FRANCISCO, CA, USA (94%); OAKLAND, CA, USA (79%); SILICON VALLEY, CA, USA (73%) CALIFORNIA, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: July 18, 2010



449 of 785 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 18, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section ST; Column 0; Society Desk; VOWS; Pg. 9

LENGTH: 1230 words

HEADLINE: Michelle Raab and Angus Mitchell

BYLINE: By LOIS SMITH BRADY; Jocelyn Fujii contributed reporting from Hilo, Hawaii.

 BODY:
ALTHOUGH Angus Mitchell owns a hair salon in Beverly Hills, Calif., and grew up in the beauty industry, he has always avoided mirrors. ''I never liked what I saw,'' said Mr. Mitchell, 39.
That is almost impossible to believe. With his black leather pants, tight shirts and spiky hair, he resembles an overconfident rock star. He looks like someone who could break your heart so badly, it would have split ends. Beautiful women often surround him or are hugging him. At his salon, Angus M, hugs are like mints: offered when you walk in and when you leave.
He is the only child of Paul Mitchell, the Scottish hairstylist who became famous in the 1960s for cutting hair so that it would move more freely, like women themselves were beginning to do. The elder Mr. Mitchell also helped found John Paul Mitchell Systems, the now-enormous beauty products company. The younger Mr. Mitchell grew up on his father's solar-powered farm on the Big Island of Hawaii. ''I'm just lucky my name wasn't River or Rainbow,'' he said. 
After his father died in 1989, Mr. Mitchell moved to Los Angeles and was beginning to establish himself -- as a hairstylist and a ladies' man -- when he met Michelle Raab, who worked on the business side of the Vidal Sassoon Academy in Santa Monica, Calif. The two liked each other right away, but also avoided each other. Mr. Mitchell knew she had a boyfriend, a hairstylist. And she knew Mr. Mitchell's reputation. ''Angus was a playboy and that type of person frightened me because it would rip open all of my insecurities,'' she said.
Ms. Raab, 41, also grew up avoiding mirrors. She was born in Trinidad and moved to San Diego with her mother when she was 11. ''I was in Southern California wanting to be blond and blue-eyed,'' she said. ''I can remember staring at magazines and thinking, 'If I stare at it long enough, will I end up looking like that?' ''
Over the years, Ms. Raab and Mr. Mitchell admired each other from afar. Hard-working and ambitious, she eventually became the director of business development at the academy. She also became engaged to her boyfriend, even though their relationship was rocky. ''When you don't feel beautiful, you make bad decisions in love,'' she said.
Meanwhile, Mr. Mitchell became engaged more than once but always got cold feet at the last minute. ''I was like the runaway bride,'' said Mr. Mitchell, who owns John Paul Mitchell Systems along with John Paul DeJoria, the other founder of the business.
In 2007, Mr. Mitchell hired Ms. Raab to work at Angus M, which was still in development. By that time, she was pregnant and Mr. Mitchell was engaged, again. In fact, he proposed to his girlfriend onstage at a hair show, with Ms. Raab in the front row. ''I was so happy for him,'' she said. ''We were not on a crash course to end up with each other at all.''
But they did begin spending much more time together, going over everything from the salon's spreadsheets to eco-friendly wall paints. ''He's clever and quick and strategic,'' she said. ''He's gorgeous but I didn't find out he was smart until later. I thought he was just a pretty face.''
They also began giving each other love and life advice, which both needed. He was becoming an increasingly unhappy playboy. ''I was asking myself, 'Why am I going out to a nightclub every night?' '' he said. '' 'What am I chasing?' I'd done everything, and I was getting sad.''
Ms. Raab's daughter, Mee, was born July 15, 2007. Her marriage began to crumble soon after. By 2008, her divorce was pending and she had moved out and into a new home: a tiny apartment on the top floor of an old wooden house in the Venice section of Los Angeles. ''I had a crib, a couch that came out as a bed, a kitchenette, a bathroom,'' she said. ''It was kind of like a Rubik's Cube. It would be one way for dinner, then I'd shift it around for bedtime.''
Mr. Mitchell had yet another new relationship, which didn't work out.
Toward the end of 2008, after a long workday, he started to give her his customary good-night hug and air kiss. At this point, they had known each other for 15 years, and something shifted. ''It was kind of, 'Do I lean in and kiss her on the cheek or lean in and kiss her on the lips?' '' he remembered. ''Awkwardly, I went for the lips.''
He added: ''We called each other the next day and said, 'Did that really happen? Did you feel the same way? Should we try even further?' ''
She insisted they forget the kiss -- make it vanish like gray hair.
''She pushed me away,'' he said. ''I was the girl in the relationship. I kept saying, 'Why can't you connect with me and tell me how you feel?' ''
She said she believed he would inevitably dump her, leaving her with a broken heart and unemployment checks. ''She wasn't about to let her guard down and I wasn't about to walk away,'' he said.
He finally persuaded her to try trusting him. ''He kept saying, 'You're safe with me, you're safe,' '' she recalled.
On July 4, they were married in Hilo on Mr. Mitchell's macadamia-nut farm. The ceremony took place at the bottom of three tall waterfalls (which provide electricity for the farm) with some of the 120 guests, in the shade of the banana trees, peering down near the top of the falls.
It was multicultural: The buildings on the farm are Balinese in style; the bridegroom wore a kilt in the Mitchell family tartan and arrived to bagpipe music; the bride walked to the waterfalls as the John Lennon song ''Love'' played over the outdoor speakers; and Earl Regidor, a minister of the World Ministry Fellowship, began the ceremony by blowing a conch shell. Mr. Regidor went on to describe love in a way that made it sound like a rich conditioner, something that heals and takes the tangles and difficulties out of life.
Wylder Flett, a groomsman, said the bride and bridegroom brought a lot of new experiences to each other. ''Their balance is cool,'' he said several days after the wedding. ''She keeps him grounded. She's not gaga about diamonds. Now, his new favorite thing is going to Target and stocking up on diapers, whereas she goes with him to the Ferrari dealership to figure out how to put a baby seat in a two-seater.''
A few days after the ceremony, the couple flew first class to Italy for their honeymoon. Although Mr. Mitchell can be very frugal (he reuses paper cups until they leak), he has flown first class many times. Ms. Raab never had.
''I was so emotionally moved by the fact that a poor little girl from Trinidad and Tobago could be there,'' she said. ''I don't think it's hit me yet. Angus says: 'You're a millionaire and you don't even know it.' I don't think of myself as a millionaire. I don't think I ever will.''
Once they boarded their chartered 83-foot yacht in Sardinia, she felt even more out of place. ''I don't know what people do on yachts,'' she said from her cellphone while sunbathing on the deck. ''I guess you're supposed to lay around and look at other people's yachts.''
She added: ''Our luggage didn't make it. But we have Champagne and caviar and bathing suits. Apparently, that's all you need here.''
Still, Mr. Mitchell tries to be unfazed about his wealth. He has it now, but views it as temporary, like a wave.
''I like my toys but I always tell Michelle: 'These attainable things, it's not forever. If it was gone, would you still be with me?' She laughs and says, 'I would be happy to have a shaved-ice stand with you back in Hawaii.' ''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: HILO, HAWAII, JULY 4: Cascading water and fireworks highlighted the wedding celebration of Michelle Raab and Angus Mitchell. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY TOBY HOOGS FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: HAIR STYLING SERVICES (90%); COSMETICS & TOILETRIES COMPANIES (90%); COSMETICS & TOILETRIES (78%); CELEBRITIES (76%); WEDDINGS & ENGAGEMENTS (64%); SOLAR ENERGY (53%)

COMPANY: JOHN PAUL MITCHELL SYSTEMS INC (71%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS325620 TOILET PREPARATION MANUFACTURING (71%); SIC2844 PERFUMES, COSMETICS, & OTHER TOILET PREPARATIONS (71%)

PERSON: JOHN PAUL DEJORIA (54%)

GEOGRAPHIC: LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (58%); SAN DIEGO, CA, USA (58%); HILO, HI, USA (55%) CALIFORNIA, USA (91%); HAWAII, USA (90%) UNITED STATES (91%)

LOAD-DATE: July 18, 2010



450 of 785 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 18, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section MB; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 9

LENGTH: 838 words

HEADLINE: What's On Sunday

BYLINE: By KATHRYN SHATTUCK

 BODY:
9 P.M. (13, 49) POIROT X: THE THIRD GIRL In the second of three new ''Masterpiece Mystery!'' productions, Hercule Poirot (David Suchet, right), Agatha Christie's debonair Belgian supersleuth, gets help from Ariadne Oliver (Zoe Wanamaker), an eccentric crime novelist, in cracking the case of Norma Restarick (Jemima Rooper), a tormented young heiress with a tragic past who is convinced that she murdered her childhood nanny, even though the death was ruled a suicide. Despite Norma's protestations, Poirot isn't so sure she's guilty.
10 A.M. (ABC) THIS WEEK Vice President Joseph R. Biden Jr. weighs in on how much impact the struggling economy will have on the midterm elections this fall, and discusses the timeline for the withdrawal of United States troops from Afghanistan. The midterm election debate continues with Representative James E. Clyburn, Democrat of South Carolina, and Representative Mike Pence, Republican of Indiana, on ''Fox News Sunday With Chris Wallace,'' at 10; and with Senator John Cornyn, Republican of Texas, and Senator Robert Menendez, Democrat of New Jersey, on ''Meet the Press,'' at 10:30 on NBC. 
10:30 A.M. (CBS) FACE THE NATION Gov. Bill Richardson of New Mexico; former Representative J. D. Hayworth, Republican of Arizona; Benjamin T. Jealous, president of the N.A.A.C.P.; and David Webb, a founder of Tea Party 365, discuss immigration and Tea Party politics.
8 P.M. (Food Network) FOOD NETWORK CHALLENGE: FOOD LANDSCAPES Three teams of fruit and vegetable carvers, artists and construction workers compete to create realistic landscapes out of food for a prize of $10,000. In a sneak peek of ''24 Hour Restaurant Battle,'' at 10, two brothers with a soul vibe challenge a mother-daughter duo with a fondness for small plates in this competition series in which two teams of aspiring restaurateurs have 24 hours to conceive, plan and open establishments for one night. The winners will take home $10,000 in seed money. The chef Scott Conant is the host; the judges include Jason Denton, Gabriella Gershenson and Geoffrey Zakarian. The series has its official premiere on Wednesday at 10.
8 P.M. (ABC Family) REVENGE OF THE BRIDESMAIDS (2010) It's complicated. Raven-Symone and Joanna Garcia play best friends who go undercover as bridesmaids to thwart the wedding of a former pal turned gold digger (Virginia Williams), who has stolen the true love (Lyle Brocato) of their childhood playmate (Chryssie Whitehead). But you know what they say about best-laid plans.
8 P.M. (Discovery) POWERING THE FUTURE In the conclusion of this two-night special, M. A. Sanjayan, lead scientist at the Nature Conservancy, continues his investigation into energy use and the search for viable alternatives to oil.
9 P.M. (TNT) LEVERAGE The tech bandits infiltrate the country-music industry to shake down a shady record executive. But then Eliot (Christian Kane) somehow delivers a hit. John Schneider guest stars; Jonathan Frakes directed.
9 P.M. (MLB Network) THE CLUB Following in the footsteps of ''The Pen,'' which last season ventured into the bullpen of the Philadelphia Phillies, this new reality series settles into the front office of the Chicago White Sox, where Jerry Reinsdorf, the organization's owner; Ken Williams, its general manager; and Ozzie Guillen, its manager, deal with the inner workings of a team that, as of Friday, was in first place in its division. Writing in The New York Times, Mike Hale said, ''The show is basically one big product placement for Major League Baseball, after all, and its producers haven't met a cliche about teamwork or brotherly love that they couldn't work into their script.''
9 P.M. (HBO) TRUE BLOOD Alcide (Joe Manganiello) and Sookie (Anna Paquin) ask an alpha-wolf ''packmaster'' for advice on how to deal with Russell (Denis O'Hare) and his followers. Tara (Rutina Wesley) considers a proposal from Franklin (James Frain). And Joe Lee (Cooper Huckabee) breaks a promise. In ''Hung,'' at 10, Ray (Thomas Jane) tries to prove to his children, Damon (Charlie Saxton) and Darby (Sianoa Smit-McPhee), that he's not an insensitive former jock. Meanwhile, Jessica (Anne Heche) struggles to satisfy her material desires while heeding the call of her husband (Eddie Jemison) to tighten her purse strings. And in ''Entourage,'' at 10:30, Eric (Kevin Connolly) and Phil (William Fichtner) work to convince Drama (Kevin Dillon) that he should be in sitcoms. Ari (Jeremy Piven) keeps his wife happy by resisting the request of Babs (Beverly D'Angelo) that Lizzie (Autumn Reeser) be promoted. And Scott (Scott Caan) annoys Eric by snuggling up to Vince (Adrian Grenier) after a wine-auction road trip.
10 P.M. (TLC) STRANGE SEX This new series tackles the sometimes delicate subject of extreme sexual disorders and other anomalies. The first case: Hattie, a 73-year-old former model and dancer, who has decided to go on a date with Ron, a 33-year-old father of two. At 10:30, scientists test a woman's claim that she can ''think'' herself into an orgasm. KATHRYN SHATTUCK

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Schedule

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MIDTERM ELECTIONS (90%); MYSTERY & SUSPENSE LITERATURE (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); NETWORK TELEVISION (89%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (88%); RESTAURANT REVIEWS (85%); MURDER (77%); INVESTIGATIONS (75%); ELECTIONS (74%); POLITICS (74%); TELEVISION NEWS SHOWS (74%); TEA PARTY MOVEMENT (74%); SUICIDE (71%); RESTAURANTS (69%); POLITICAL DEBATES (69%); WEDDINGS & ENGAGEMENTS (64%); IMMIGRATION (50%)

COMPANY: FOX ENTERTAINMENT GROUP INC (84%)

ORGANIZATION: NATIONAL ASSOCIATION FOR THE ADVANCEMENT OF COLORED PEOPLE (54%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS515120 TELEVISION BROADCASTING (84%); SIC4833 TELEVISION BROADCASTING STATIONS (84%)

PERSON: MIKE PENCE (79%); JOE BIDEN (54%); BILL RICHARDSON (54%); JAMES CLYBURN (53%); BOB MENENDEZ (52%); JOHN CORNYN (52%)

GEOGRAPHIC: TEXAS, USA (79%); NEW MEXICO, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%); AFGHANISTAN (79%)

LOAD-DATE: July 18, 2010



451 of 785 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 19, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; ADVERTISING; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 900 words

HEADLINE: Pepsi Fires a Salvo to Restart the Cola Wars

BYLINE: By ANDREW ADAM NEWMAN

 BODY:
THE cola wars shaped not just the soft drink industry but also Madison Avenue, inspiring the satirical newspaper The Onion to declare, in a 1997 headline, ''Ad Industry Veterans Honored With Cola War Memorial.'' Now Pepsi is engaging in a bit of war re-enactment, remaking a well-known comparative commercial, but with a twist, replacing Coke and Pepsi with the sugarless versions Coke Zero and Pepsi Max.
The original ad, by BBDO and directed by Joe Pytka, had its premiere during the Super Bowl in 1995. In it, a Pepsi delivery driver pulls into a diner where a Coke truck is parked and sits down at the counter several seats away from the other driver. 
The jukebox needle drops on ''Get Together,'' by the Youngbloods. ''Good song,'' the Pepsi driver says. ''Great song,'' replies the other, and then the two shake hands, sit side by side, and pull out their wallets to show pictures of their children, laughing.
The Coke driver slides a can of his product toward the Pepsi driver, who takes a sip, smiles and returns it, but when the Coke driver reciprocates by taking a sip of the Pepsi, he likes it so much that he will not return it. Their expressions suddenly turn furious and, in a final shot from outside the diner, a chair flies through the window. The commercial has been viewed more than 1.7 million times on YouTube.
The new spot, by the TBWA/Chiat/Day division of TBWA Worldwide and directed again by Mr. Pytka, uses the same setup, except this time the drivers drink Coke Zero and Pepsi Max, and the song is ''Why Can't We Be Friends?'' by War.
Also different: when the Coke driver takes a long sip of the Pepsi Max, the Pepsi driver pulls out his smartphone to record him, taps the screen a few times, and says, ''YouTube.'' This time it is not a chair but the two drivers who crash through the diner window.
''I was never happy with the old ending,'' said Mr. Pytka, 71, who directed his first Pepsi commercial in the 1970s. ''I had shot a version with the guys coming out the window, and we had a long discussion, and Pepsi was concerned with the violence. The ending is completely satisfying now.''
The commercial, scheduled to appear on Monday, even has a cameo: Art LeFleur, who played the Pepsi driver in the commercial 15 years ago, now plays the owner of the diner.
Introduced in Britain and Italy in 1993, and widely available in Europe ever since, Pepsi Max was not introduced in the United States until 2007. The sugarless cola, which is sweetened with a combination of aspartame and acesulfame potassium, contains nearly twice the caffeine of Diet Pepsi, and also contains ginseng.
A 2009 report by Mintel, the market research firm, said the soda's sales had been ''impressive,'' even during the economic downturn, ''likely by attracting price-sensitive energy drink users.''
Diet Pepsi is more popular with women, but about 60 percent of Pepsi Max drinkers are men, according to Lauren Hobart, chief marketing officer of the sparkling brands division of PepsiCo. Diet sodas popular with men, like Pepsi One, Pepsi Max and Coke Zero, which many in Europe refer to as ''bloke Coke,'' avoid a word to which marketers believe men are averse: ''diet.'' (It is a widely held view in the weight-loss industry that men are more apt to say they need to ''get in shape'' than ''go on a diet.'')
Ms. Hobart said ''while some of our past advertising was more overtly about being the diet cola for men, there's still a lot of women drinking Pepsi Max, so it doesn't make sense to be so specifically gender focused.''
Among the company's sugarless brands, Pepsi Max is popular with Gen X and Diet Pepsi with baby boomers.
''Boomers generally grew up drinking Diet Pepsi but Gen X has been raised with more choices, and we're trying to provide more choices that may meet their needs differently,'' Ms. Hobart said. ''The word 'diet' is more about what's not in the can than what is. One of the things we like about Pepsi Max is it's more about what the drink is -- the fact that you can have zero calories with maximum taste -- than what it is not.''
Reanimating the ad put Pepsi's current agency in the awkward position of executing another agency's concept.
''We all loved that original spot, so it's almost like when a musical artist does a cover of a song,'' said Rob Schwartz, chief creative officer of TBWA/Chiat/Day. Also, Mr. Schwartz's agency and BBDO are both owned by Omnicon.
''They're cousins of ours, so it's O.K.,'' Mr. Schwartz joked.
His agency also works on another rivalry campaign, the PC vs. Mac commercials for Apple, in which the actor and writer John Hodgman plays the personification of Microsoft as comically inept.
In those ads, ''we know from Frame 1 the winner and the loser,'' Mr. Schwartz said. ''We know that Microsoft is not going to win that battle; they're too big and too clumsy.'' But the cola rivalry calls for ''less disparagement,'' he said.
''To me Coke and Pepsi is one of those rivalries that's no different than the Yankees and Red Sox,'' Mr. Schwartz said. ''We do see them as a worthy adversary.''
With the country engaged in two real wars, there is perhaps something quaint, even comforting, about one between carbonated beverages.
''People love the cola wars,'' said Ms. Hobart, of Pepsi. ''People identify themselves in many cases as 'I'm a Pepsi person' or 'I'm a Coke person.' The rivalry is just a very integral part of our heritage for both Pepsi and Coke.''

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: SOFT DRINK INDUSTRY (91%); FOOD & BEVERAGE (89%); SOFT DRINKS (89%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING (78%); INTERNET SOCIAL NETWORKING (69%); ARTIFICIAL SWEETENERS (60%); MOBILE & CELLULAR TELEPHONES (50%)

COMPANY: TBWA/CHIAT/DAY INC (66%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS541810 ADVERTISING AGENCIES (66%); SIC7311 ADVERTISING AGENCIES (66%)

GEOGRAPHIC: EUROPE (79%); UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: July 19, 2010



452 of 785 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 19, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; OUR TOWNS; Pg. 15

LENGTH: 823 words

HEADLINE: In a Changing Village, the Pool Tables Look the Same

BYLINE: By PETER APPLEBOME. 
E-mail: peappl@nytimes.com

 BODY:
BREWSTER, N.Y.
Long ago, when Fast Eddie and Minnesota Fats were as hot as teenage vampires in love, any self-respecting town had a bustling pool hall. No more.
Mike Pavese, who moved up here from the Bronx in 1969 and is sergeant-at-arms at the Italian-American Club down the street, blames changing times and temptations.
''In the old days, the high school kids were dying to come in here because of the atmosphere,'' he said, taking in the air outside one of the last independent pool halls standing in the northern suburbs of New York, Jack and Jill Cafe and Billiards in this old railroad village. ''They thought there were incorrigible people, low-lifes, racketeers. You wanted to go because your parents didn't want you there. The mystique, the mystery isn't there anymore.'' 
Steve Priest, once Brewster's Fast Eddie, now the owner of the pool hall, blames the Internet.
''Nowadays, people are on computers, playing online poker, doing the YouTube thing, Facebook,'' Mr. Priest said. ''People don't have to have a lot of skill to sit on a computer and press buttons to play online poker. You can lose your money there and not worry about having to pull back a pool cue and make a shot.''
It's a long way from the heyday of Brewster's longtime Godfather of Pool, Louis Tacchino, a k a the Turk, a pint-size, bald-headed pool maven, loan shark and tough guy, who wore a diamond-studded gold ring in the shape of a horse's head and escorted his best players to tournaments in his metallic blue 1975 T-Bird.
From the early '40s until the early '60s, he ran the ramshackle, four-table, pool hall at the old Brewster House hotel. After it burned down, he opened Jack and Jill's in 1963, in an old grocery store. Mr. Priest, 55, was his prize pupil, then his partner and then his successor, when the Turk died in 1992 at 89.
Most of it is the same: the blond wood wall panels and the long fluorescent lights over the 17 Brunswick tables, the dusty trophies, the black and white photos on the walls of billiards luminaries and referees like Willie Mosconi, Ralph Greenleaf and Carl Zingale, known as Cue Ball Kelly; the one of Peter Margo shooting a cue ball from the Turk's mouth; certainly the painting of the old Turk and a young Mr. Priest.
The rest might be less familiar: the cafe usually full of Hispanic men, the jukebox (there weren't any back then) with Los Tucanes de Tijuana and Los Tigres de Norte getting more play than Fleetwood Mac and Frank Sinatra; the old pizza place across the street now La Guadalupana bakery, restaurant and minimart.
The common wisdom is that the immigrants have ruined the town, turning it into a largely Guatemalan island in Putnam County. But Mr. Priest and other old-timers say that's nonsense; people deserted the village long ago for big houses on cul-de-sacs, splashy malls and big-box stores.
First the mentally ill filled the vacuum, after the closing of institutions, then the Hispanics, who brought more life to downtown and to his business than there had been in decades. He expanded by adding a cafe and four years ago was doing as well as he ever had. But then the economy fell apart, there was less work for the immigrants, and tensions went from bad to venomous after the accident in June 2009 when an intoxicated 35-year-old illegal immigrant plowed his pickup truck into Kayla Donohue, 8, and her mother, Lori, who were walking away from dance lessons at the Seven Stars School of the Performing Arts, killing them both.
Now the police are out in force downtown, particularly on weekends, a presence certain to scare off some patrons. Most natives avoid the village as occupied territory. When he was young, Mr. Priest said, kids hung out downtown. If an attractive girl walked by, they might express their admiration. If a Hispanic youth takes even a long look, it's taken as proof of how dangerous downtown is.
''The town hasn't changed, same buildings, same 100 parking spots on Main Street,'' he said. ''The people have changed. But it's just an evolution. They're great people, they spend their money, it's great to have them, and it's great to see my old friends here, too.''
Everything changes even when it doesn't -- pool played at home on the $2,500 table rather than the local pool hall, the Guatemalans downtown doing the hardest work for the least money just as the Italians did before them. It might take a successor to ''The Hustler'' or ''The Color of Money'' to make pool cool again. It will almost certainly take a sane, realistic approach to immigration nationally to keep this little village from being one more battleground in a dispiriting game with phantom rules.
All issues for another night. On this one, three of the old regulars were playing at the front table, sharing one big paper plate of fried sausage and onions and another full of watermelon slices with four of the young immigrants -- the Turk's world and ours for a moment lived, rather than viewed on a screen.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Aroldo Palma shoots a game of nine ball at Jack and Jill Cafe and Billiards in Brewster, N.Y., where tensions between locals and immigrants are strained. (PHOTOGRAPH BY ALAN ZALE FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: POOL & BILLIARDS (89%); CAUCASIAN AMERICANS (78%); HIGH SCHOOLS (78%); SPORTS & RECREATION EVENTS (76%); MEN (76%); INTERNET SOCIAL NETWORKING (72%); POKER (72%); SOCIAL MEDIA (67%)

COMPANY: FACEBOOK INC (55%)

TICKER: FB (NASDAQ) (55%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS519130 INTERNET PUBLISHING & BROADCASTING & WEB SEARCH PORTALS (55%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (90%) NEW YORK, USA (90%) UNITED STATES (90%)

LOAD-DATE: July 19, 2010



453 of 785 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 19, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1300 words

HEADLINE: Fast-Paced New York, Promising Safety and Comfort to Elderly

BYLINE: By ANEMONA HARTOCOLLIS

 BODY:
New York City has given pedestrians more time to cross at more than 400 intersections in an effort to make streets safer for older residents. The city has sent yellow school buses, filled not with children but with elderly people, on dozens of grocery store runs over the past seven months.
The city has allowed artists to use space and supplies in 10 senior centers in exchange for giving art lessons. And it is about to create two aging-improvement districts, parts of the city that will become safer and more accessible for older residents.
People live in New York because it is like no place else -- pulsating with life, energy and a wealth of choices -- but there is some recognition among city planners that it could be a kinder and gentler place in which to grow old. 
The city's efforts, gaining strength as the baby boomer generation starts reaching retirement age, are born of good intentions as well as an economic strategy.
''New York has become a safer city, and we have such richness of parks and culture that we're becoming a senior retirement destination,'' said Linda I. Gibbs, New York's deputy mayor for health and human services. ''They come not only with their minds and their bodies; they come with their pocketbooks.''
The round trip back to cities among empty nesters, rejoining those who simply grow old where they were once young, goes on, of course, across the country, and New York is not the only place trying to ease that passage. Cities like Cleveland and Portland, Ore., have taken steps to become more ''age-friendly.'' But perhaps never has a city as fast-paced and youth-oriented as New York taken on the challenge.
The Department of City Planning predicts that in 20 years, New York's shares of schoolchildren and older people will be about the same, 15 percent each, a sharp change from 1950, when schoolchildren outnumbered older residents by more than 2 to 1. By 2030, the number of New Yorkers age 65 and over -- a result of the baby boomers, diminished fertility and increasing longevity -- is expected to reach 1.35 million, up 44 percent from 2000.
Their economic power is significant. About a third of the nation's population is over 50, and they control half of the country's discretionary spending, according to a recent report by AARP, a group representing the interests of retirees. In some ways, the city has tackled the toughest challenges of making itself attractive to its older residents and those across the country who might consider retiring to the Upper East Side or Brooklyn Heights.
Crime has been in decline for close to two decades; the city has added more parkland than at any similar period in its history; and the 311 system has made dealing with the bureaucracy of government agencies and social services more manageable.
Now, the city is looking to enhance life here in more modest, but meaningful, ways. The New York Academy of Medicine adopted the idea of creating an age-friendly city from the World Health Organization in 2007, and went to the City Council and the Bloomberg administration for financial and political support. The academy has held more than 30 town hall meetings and focus groups with thousands of older people across the city. This summer, it is holding more intimate focus groups in East Harlem and on the Upper West Side.
What people say they want most of all is to live in a neighborly place where it is safe to cross the street and where the corner drugstore will give them a drink of water and let them use the bathroom. They ask for personal shoppers at Fairway to help them find the good deals on groceries. They want better street drainage, because it is hard to jump over puddles with walkers and wheelchairs.
''No bingo played here'' could be Ms. Gibbs's motto. She is the conceptual artist behind the city's initiative, working with the Academy of Medicine. She is at the tail end of the boomer generation, having turned 51 on Sunday, her silvery bob a rebuke to fears of aging.
''The whole conversation around aging has, in my mind, gone from one which is kind of disease oriented and tragic, end- of-life oriented,'' Ms. Gibbs said, to being ''much more about the strength and the fidelity and the energy that an older population contributes to our city.''
One of her ideas is to hold a contest to design a ''perch'' to put in stores or on sidewalks where tired older residents doing errands could take a break. When boomers talk, she listens.
On Thursday, Dorian Block, a policy associate at the academy, held a focus group at the Carver Houses, a city housing project at 103rd Street and Madison Avenue in East Harlem. Sixteen people showed up. (Some meetings have drawn hundreds.)
They complained about broken elevators and litter, and some confessed to being lonely. They said that more stores should have public bathrooms. Now, said Dolores Marquez, 72, ''I go to McDonald's and then I take a coffee because I have to go to the bathroom.''
The academy plans to incorporate the results of the focus groups into two pilot aging-improvement districts, one in East Harlem and the other on the Upper West Side, somewhat akin to business-improvement districts.
The exact details of how the districts will function are still being worked out, but the goal is to create a public-private partnership that would encourage businesses to voluntarily adopt amenities for the elderly. Examples could include window stickers that identify businesses as age-friendly; extra benches; adequate lighting; menus with large type; and even happy hour for older residents.
The new districts will be run by the academy, and eventually handed over to community groups and expanded to other neighborhoods, said Ruth Finkelstein, the academy's vice president for health policy. Some worry that what the Bloomberg administration is proposing is a menu of quick and dirty solutions for older residents while, in a tough economy, traditional services like senior centers and bus routes are being cut back.
''When we're talking about age-friendly, it should not only be the boomers who have retired from law firms, as opposed to the people who have worked all their lives and are now living in Brownsville,'' said David Jones, president of the Community Service Society, which advocates for poor people and immigrants.
Fredda Vladeck, an expert at the United Hospital Fund in ''naturally occurring retirement communities,'' said she worried that the city would forget the frail older people. Ms. Gibbs said the point was to build on what is already there, and to make life better for everyone.
The city enlisted students at New York University's Wagner Graduate School of Public Service to develop a walking survey that, if adopted, will rate the city's age-friendliness by standards like the frequency of cracked sidewalks and hospitals.
Slowing the pace of life is tough in New York, where every red light is viewed as a challenge. But the city is trying. While most adults average four feet per second when crossing the street, older residents manage only three, transportation experts say. So signals have been retimed at intersections like Broadway and 72nd Street, where pedestrians now have 29 seconds to cross, four more than before.
Even senior centers are being redefined as places with artists in residence, like Judy Hugentobler, a sculptor from Staten Island. Ms. Hugentobler is teaching art classes at the Educational Alliance's Sirovich Senior Center, on East 12th Street, in exchange for being able to use the kilns, clay and glazes in her projects.
''Senior centers are great, but they have a stigma whether you like it or not,'' said Councilwoman Gale A. Brewer of the Upper West Side. ''It's just not for everybody. But what is for everybody is a bench. What is for everybody is discounts at the grocery store when you're over 65.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: At intersections like Broadway and 72nd Street, pedestrians get more crossing time. (A1)
Judy Hugentobler, left, a sculptor, works with Diane Mullins in ceramics class at the Sirovich Senior Center in Manhattan.
 Ana Andujar, 84, second from left, and others attended a meeting in East Harlem on how to make the city more ''age-friendly.'' (PHOTOGRAPHS BY EMILY BERL FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) (A19) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: RETIREMENT & RETIREES (90%); CHILDREN (90%); AGING (89%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (89%); SENIOR CITIZENS (89%); CITY GOVERNMENT (89%); CITIES (89%); POPULATION SIZE (78%); CITY LIFE (78%); YOUTH MARKET (77%); LIFE EXPECTANCY (77%); MOTORCOACHES & BUSES (77%); SCHOOL TRANSPORTATION (77%); ARTISTS & PERFORMERS (76%); BABY BOOMERS (76%); EMPTY NESTERS (68%); RETIREMENT AGE (68%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%); PORTLAND, OR, USA (79%) NEW YORK, USA (99%); OREGON, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (99%)

LOAD-DATE: July 19, 2010



454 of 785 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 19, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section D; Column 0; Sports Desk; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 1347 words

HEADLINE: Selig Takes Side in Sale of Rangers

BYLINE: By RICHARD SANDOMIR and KEN BELSON

 BODY:
BOSTON -- The Texas Rangers have started the second half of the season much the way they played before the All-Star break: like a confident team eager to make the playoffs for the first time since 1999. In their first games back, they won three of four against the Red Sox at Fenway Park to maintain a four-and-a-half-game lead in the American League West.
But the Rangers' on-field juggernaut is in stark contrast to the franchise's soap opera off the field. The team's debt-ridden owner, the HSG Sports Group, led by Tom Hicks, has been unable to sell the team because of an acrimonious dispute with its lenders over who should buy the team and for how much.
To settle the fight, the Rangers voluntarily placed themselves into bankruptcy in May. 
Yet that move turned a largely private dispute into a public court battle, complete with threats from Major League Baseball to take over the club and stern warnings from the judge.
The prospective buyers, led by the team's president, Nolan Ryan, had hoped to take over the team by opening day. Instead, they and their lawyers are arguing over bankruptcy procedures like stalking horses and breakup fees. An auction is now set to take place Aug. 4 -- unless angry lenders can persuade the judge to reconsider his ruling. They contend that it favors Ryan and his partner, Chuck Greenberg, the preferred choice of Commissioner Bud Selig.
The Rangers and their manager, Ron Washington, who himself caused a stir before the season when he admitted to using cocaine, are aware of the legal and financial mess the franchise is in. But they say they prefer not to learn too much about one of the most chaotic and tangled sales in league history.
''Whenever you sit down and really start thinking about it, you kind of lose sight of what you're supposed to be doing on the field,'' Rangers first baseman Chris Davis said. ''You hear stuff here and there, but at the same time, our job is to go out there and compete and win baseball games.''
The Rangers are certainly not the first team to have success while their owners were trying to sell. The Phoenix Coyotes finished with the fourth-best record in the N.H.L. last season despite a courtroom showdown that led to the franchise's being acquired by the league, which itself has run into obstacles trying to resell it.
The Chicago Cubs fielded winning teams even after their owners, the Tribune Company, declared bankruptcy before they were eventually sold.
But few team sales have been mired in as much financial turmoil as the Rangers, and few have so clearly illustrated the problems an owner saddled with debt can face as the economy struggles to recover from a severe recession.
Not only have Ryan and Greenberg sued the Rangers, but on Friday, JP Morgan, the leader of a group of HSG creditors, also sued the team for transferring the team's lease at Rangers Ballpark in violation of loan agreements.
Hicks, a former leveraged-buyout specialist whose company owns the Rangers and the N.H.L.'s Dallas Stars, defaulted on $525 million in loans last year, leading him to try to sell both teams. To keep the Rangers afloat, Major League Baseball has lent them $40 million. That money will help pay the left-hander Cliff Lee, who was acquired July 9 in a trade with Seattle, a point of contention among some other owners.
League commissioners routinely play a role in team transactions. But Selig and his top executives have worked to push the Ryan-Greenberg team over the finish line with a strategy that expands the traditional role of vetting potential team buyers for their financial wherewithal and good character.
''You'd think they'd approve any qualified buyer, but there's definitely an inside game going on,'' said Rob Tilliss, the founder of Inner Circle Sports, which advises owners and teams. ''The Rangers are an extreme example because it's become personal and there are a lot of barbs back and forth and there's a lot of emotion riding on this.''
For reasons he has not fully disclosed, Selig has aligned himself with Ryan, a Hall of Fame pitcher, and Greenberg, a lawyer who owns two minor league teams. Selig's position has enraged lenders, who insist that other suitors are willing to pay more for the team and give them a greater, if far from full, repayment on their defaulted loans.
Glenn West, one of Hicks's lawyers, has vented his frustration with the league's insistence that the Rangers negotiate only with Greenberg and Ryan, despite a higher, fully financed bid from a Houston businessman, Jim Crane. M.L.B. seems to want ''to lock us into Greenberg, even though Crane has a clearly superior economic deal,'' West wrote in an e-mail message to lenders last December that was made public in court. ''Unless the lenders weigh in, we are going to be sucked into negotiating a deal that is clearly worse than Crane's.''
Earlier that day, he also wrote to Tom Ostertag, M.L.B.'s general counsel, noting, ''As we stand now, Greenberg was in fact a losing bidder and Crane was the actual winning bidder.''
Yet Selig has blocked Hicks from seeking higher bids, and he has threatened to invoke the ''best interests of baseball'' clause to accelerate the sale. When Hicks voiced doubts in April about whether lenders would approve the Ryan-Greenberg offer, baseball officials issued a statement later that day affirming that it was running the sale and that Selig would deal ''appropriately'' with interference from Hicks or anyone else.
One of Selig's lawyers vowed profanely in a conference call that if the judge did not approve the team's prepackaged bankruptcy plan, which would have sped approval of the Greenberg-Ryan bid, M.L.B. would terminate the franchise, according to a person on the call.
Selig says he is on solid ground. ''Let me make it clear,'' he said earlier this month on a conference call with reporters. ''Baseball has always had the right to select its ownership. There's no doubt in my mind that we have the right to select ownership, and we will do that.''
In defending his favored choice, Selig has wielded his power with such confidence that he has effectively tried to stare down a federal bankruptcy court judge, who has his own broad legal powers.
But Peter S. Kaufman, a bankruptcy expert who is president of the Gordian Group, an investment bank, said: ''I'd say that this ought to have heightened scrutiny because of the insider nature of the buyer. This is not an arm's-length third party, this is an insider, and bankruptcy courts hate seeing insiders manipulate the system.''
Bob DuPuy, baseball's chief operating officer, declined to comment on his and Selig's strategy because of the admonition by the bankruptcy court judge not to talk publicly about the case. Several lenders to Hicks cited the same reason for not speaking on the record.
Selig and the other leagues' commissioners are working in an environment characterized by increasingly complex team financing that was complicated by the 2008 financial meltdown, the possibility of labor unrest, corporate ownership entanglements and deepening pools of money from regional sports networks.
They have sometimes aligned themselves with buyers they feel will fit in as partners in their exclusive club, even when those buyers are not the highest bidder. Selig's activism in the Rangers' sale is a consequence of the team's financial crisis and his comfort level with Ryan and Greenberg, but it is also the result of the way he defines his job.
''Selig has been moving baseball along on this path for some time, and this is 100 percent consistent with what he's done as commissioner for the past 15 years,'' said Raymond Sauer, a sports economist at Clemson. ''He has really turned the role of the commissioner from a nebulous 'best interests of baseball' role into a chief executive of a business unit.''
Still, as the court filings, hearings and competing news releases continue, those in the Rangers' clubhouse try to ignore them.
''There's nothing I can do about it,'' second baseman Ian Kinsler said Thursday. ''We're just basically waiting for new ownership to take over so we know what our future holds.''

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BASEBALL (90%); SPORTS (90%); SPORTS & RECREATION EVENTS (90%); SPORTS TEAM OWNERSHIP (90%); SPORTS & RECREATION (90%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (89%); STADIUMS & ARENAS (77%); ATHLETES (74%); JUDGES (72%); LAWYERS (69%); BUSINESS INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (68%); COCAINE (50%)

ORGANIZATION: TEXAS RANGERS (94%); BOSTON RED SOX (58%); MAJOR LEAGUE BASEBALL (55%)

GEOGRAPHIC: BOSTON, MA, USA (90%); PHOENIX, AZ, USA (75%); CHICAGO, IL, USA (51%) TEXAS, USA (92%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (90%); ARIZONA, USA (75%); ILLINOIS, USA (51%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: July 19, 2010



455 of 785 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 19, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; BITS; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 404 words

HEADLINE: Acer's Sales Inch Closer to H.P.'s

BYLINE: By ASHLEE VANCE

 BODY:
From time to time, Acer executives will pound their chests and announce plans for the company to overtake Hewlett-Packard as the world's top computer seller. The proclamations have historically elicited chuckles from the PC peanut gallery, which has viewed such a feat as rather unlikely. 
Acer, however, may start converting a few more believers as it continues to gain market share quarter after quarter.
Gartner just released its second-quarter PC shipment figures that showed Acer distancing itself from Dell and catching up to H.P. Acer took 13 percent of the PC market in the second quarter, up from 12 percent in the same period last year, on the back of 32 percent growth. H.P.'s market share, by contrast, slipped to 17.4 percent, from 18.8 percent. H.P.'s growth rate was about a third of Acer's at 12 percent.
''H.P. maintained its worldwide lead in PC shipments, but its growth rate was below the industry average as the company tried to protect margins in key regions,'' Gartner said in a statement.
Dell managed a growth rate of 19 percent and held 12.4 percent of the market, down from 12.6 percent.
Asustek, like Acer another up-and-comer from Taiwan, knocked Toshiba out of the top five worldwide PC sellers with 78.5 percent growth and 5.2 percent of the market, while China's Lenovo grew at 47.2 percent and took 10 percent of the market.
Over all, the PC market continued a strong rebound from the darkest days of the recession. Shipments rose 21 percent, to 83 million computers.
Intel executives have maintained for some time that the PC market will grow at healthy double-digit rates, particularly as developing countries buy more computers. Acer and Asus may just see their fortunes grow even more in such an event, because they tend to play well in growing markets. Acer, in particular, has also shown serious skills in selling through channel partners, which is the dominant method of moving PCs in many developing countries.
That said, H.P. and Dell probably also have good times ahead, as corporations have started a serious upgrade cycle, according to Intel.
Earlier this week, Intel reported record sales and hailed the much awaited arrival of a serious corporate PC refresh. Historically, Dell has dominated the business PC market alongside H.P. and Lenovo.
The world leader in PC sales has always been an American company.
This is a more complete version of the story than the one that appeared in print.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO (PHOTOGRAPH BY MAURICE TSAI/BLOOMBERG NEWS) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Web Log

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: COMPUTING & IT TRADE (90%); PERSONAL COMPUTERS (90%); SHIPMENTS (89%); SALES FIGURES (78%); ECONOMIC NEWS (76%); MARKET SHARE (76%); RECESSION (76%); DEVELOPING COUNTRIES (72%); ALLIANCES & PARTNERSHIPS (71%)

COMPANY: HEWLETT-PACKARD CO (58%); TOSHIBA CORP (54%); INTEL CORP (53%)

TICKER: HPQ (NYSE) (58%); TOS (LSE) (54%); 6502 (TSE) (54%); INTC (NASDAQ) (53%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS334118 COMPUTER TERMINAL & OTHER COMPUTER PERIPHERAL EQUIPMENT MANUFACTURING (58%); NAICS334310 AUDIO & VIDEO EQUIPMENT MANUFACTURING (54%); NAICS334220 RADIO & TELEVISION BROADCASTING & WIRELESS COMMUNICATIONS EQUIPMENT MANUFACTURING (54%); NAICS334111 ELECTRONIC COMPUTER MANUFACTURING (54%); NAICS334413 SEMICONDUCTOR & RELATED DEVICE MANUFACTURING (53%)

GEOGRAPHIC: TAIWAN (79%); UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: July 19, 2010



456 of 785 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 19, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; THE NEW POOR; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 2734 words

HEADLINE: After Job Training, Still Scrambling for a Job

BYLINE: By PETER S. GOODMAN

 BODY:
In what was beginning to feel like a previous life, Israel Valle had earned $18 an hour as an executive assistant to a designer at a prominent fashion label. Now, he was jobless and struggling to find work. He decided to invest in upgrading his skills.
It was February 2009, and the city work force center in Downtown Brooklyn was jammed with hundreds of people hungry for paychecks. His caseworker urged him to take advantage of classes financed by the federal government, which had increased money for job training. Upgrade your skills, she counseled. Then she could arrange job interviews.
For six weeks, Mr. Valle, 49, absorbed instruction in spreadsheets and word processing. He tinkered with his resume. But the interviews his caseworker eventually arranged were for low-wage jobs, and they were mobbed by desperate applicants. More than a year later, Mr. Valle remains among the record 6.8 million Americans who have been officially jobless for six months or longer. He recently applied for welfare benefits.
''Training was fruitless,'' he said. ''I'm not seeing the benefits. Training for what? No one's hiring.'' 
Hundreds of thousands of Americans have enrolled in federally financed training programs in recent years, only to remain out of work. That has intensified skepticism about training as a cure for unemployment.
Even before the recession created the bleakest job market in more than a quarter-century, job training was already producing disappointing results. A study conducted for the Labor Department tracking the experience of 160,000 laid-off workers in 12 states from mid-2003 to mid-2005 -- a time of economic expansion -- found that those who went through training wound up earning little more than those who did not, even three and four years later. ''Over all, it appears possible that ultimate gains from participation are small or nonexistent,'' the study concluded.
In the last 18 months, the Obama administration has embraced more promising approaches to training focused on faster-growing areas like renewable energy and health care. But most money has been directed at the same sorts of programs that in past years have largely failed to steer laid-off workers toward new careers, say experts, and now the number of job openings is vastly outnumbered by people out of work.
''It's such an ugly situation that job training can't solve it,'' said Ross Eisenbrey, a job training expert at the Economic Policy Institute, a labor-oriented research institution in Washington, and a former commissioner of the federal Occupational Safety and Health Review Commission. ''When you have five people unemployed for every vacancy, you can train all the people you want and unfortunately only one-fifth of the people will get hired. Training doesn't create jobs.''
Labor economists and work force development experts say the frustration that frequently results from job training reflects the dubious quality of many programs. Most last only a few months, providing general skills without conferring useful credentials in specialized fields. Programs rarely involve potential employers and are typically too modest to enable cast-off workers to begin new careers.
Most job training is financed through the federal Workforce Investment Act, which was written in 1998 -- a time when hiring was extraordinarily robust. Then, simply teaching jobless people how to use computers and write resumes put them on a path to paychecks. Today, even highly skilled people with job experience of two decades or more languish among the unemployed. Whole industries are being scaled down by automation, the shifting of work overseas and the recession.
''A lot of the training programs that we have in this country were designed for a kind of quick turnaround economy, as opposed to the entrenched structural challenges of today,'' said Carl E. Van Horn, a labor economist and director of the John J. Heldrich Center for Workforce Development at Rutgers University. ''It's like attacking a mountain with a toothpick. You take a policy that was designed for the best economy that we had since World War II and you lay it up against the economy that is the worst since World War II. It can't work.''
Claiming Successes
The Obama administration argues that expanded job training has already delivered success. As part of the nearly $800 billion stimulus package begun last year, the administration increased grants sent to states for training programs devoted to laid-off workers by $1.4 billion for 2009 and 2010. Those funds came on top of $2.9 billion allocated through normal budget channels for grants in those two years.
Last year, the number of laid-off workers in job training reached 241,000, up from about 124,000 the year before, according to the Labor Department.
''These programs are really working,'' said the assistant secretary of labor, Jane Oates. ''These are folks who clearly want to go back to work and we're able to help them get back to work. The investment in job training is one that's not only going to pay off in the short term, it's going to help us be more competitive in the long term.''
According to the Labor Department, 85 percent of laid-off workers who received training in 2007 and 2008 gained jobs within a year of completion. But the department does not track what percentage of them gained jobs in their fields of study and so far lacks any data for 2009, the first year of the Obama administration's expansion.
Experts harbor doubts about the reliability of Labor Department numbers, which are derived from reports by state agencies that collect data from community colleges and employment offices whose training funds are dependent upon reaching benchmarks. Twice the Labor Department had to correct the data it supplied for this article.
''The states play all sorts of games,'' said Mr. Eisenbrey, from the Economic Policy Institute.
Signs of Progress
But those who oversee job training say results have improved significantly in recent years.
''We've come a long way,'' said Robert W. Walsh, commissioner of the New York City Department of Small Business Services, which oversees the Workforce1 career centers, including the Brooklyn office where Mr. Valle enrolled. ''We're now focused on where the jobs are and the track records of the providers.''
Those factors are crucial, say advocates for expanded training, who point out that even with near double-digit unemployment, some jobs lie vacant, awaiting workers with adequate skills.
''There's plenty of jobs in health care, in technology,'' said Fred Dedrick, executive director of the National Fund for Workforce Solutions, which advocates for increased and improved job training. ''Once people move up, that creates opportunities for other workers.''
There is some evidence that this approach works. Two years after completing programs tied directly to the needs of local industries suffering shortages of skilled workers in the South Bronx, Boston and Milwaukee, graduates were earning 29 percent more than similar workers who did not receive training, according to a new survey from Public/Private Ventures, a nonprofit group that advocates for expanded job training.
A widely admired program begun in Michigan in 2007, No Worker Left Behind, provides up to $10,000 over two years for laid-off and underemployed workers who pursue certificates and degrees in areas of significant growth. The program has trained technicians to work on major energy storage projects and aircraft mechanics to service engines at commercial operations that have taken over former Air Force bases.
''We need to know that we're training people in an in-demand growth area today,'' said Andrew S. Levin, who oversees the Michigan program.
But forecasting where jobs will be can be tricky. Among those completing training by the end of 2009, 41 percent were still looking for work as of June, according to Michigan data.
Nationally, prospective trainees are often steered into programs by counselors at community colleges and employment centers who lack awareness about which industries are hiring.
In the suburbs of Philadelphia, Eric Nelson left a job at a credit union call center in late 2004 to enroll at a state college. There, the career services department helped him choose a course of study by consulting job growth projections. The result led to geographic information systems -- the mapping of data by place.
''It seemed like the thing to do,'' Mr. Nelson recalled, adding that he was assured he would easily land an entry-level job paying $35,000 a year.
But when Mr. Nelson, 42, graduated with his bachelor's degree in May 2008, facing nearly $50,000 in student loan debt, he was horrified to discover that graduates greatly outnumbered jobs. Only people with six or seven years' experience were getting hired, he said.
''I've had no offers at all,'' he said.
He is now living off his wife's wages as a librarian and contributions from his parents. Even programs with successful track records tend to be focused on people who are easier to employ -- those with substantial skills and experience.
In late 2007, in the Minneapolis suburbs, Hennepin Technical College joined with local employers to help workers laid off from area factories secure new jobs.
More Skills, Better Luck
The Minneapolis-St. Paul area exemplifies how unemployment reflects not only a shortage of jobs but also a mismatch between jobs and skills. A half-century ago, mainframe computers were assembled in the area, before the business shifted to Silicon Valley. But large-scale manufacturing remains, particularly in one fast-growing industry whose jobs seem unlikely to be shifted overseas: medical devices.
''Nobody wants a pacemaker stamped, 'Made in China,' '' said Richard P. Kelly, who oversees Hennepin Tech's manufacturing quality training programs.
The new program, WorkFast, aimed to quickly prepare laid-off workers for new jobs in medical devices and other growing areas of manufacturing, via intense training units lasting eight to 15 weeks. Many focus on so-called Swiss machining, which uses computerized equipment to slice metal into highly precise parts for the aerospace and medical device industries.
Since the program began, some 80 percent of its roughly 250 graduates have secured jobs, according to Hennepin Tech -- among them David Gustafson, a wiry man of 49 who started working for his father's asphalt business as a teenager.
In 1994, he got a job at a plant that made parts for medical device companies, running an early version of Swiss machining. He worked his way up to $18 an hour. In 2000, he and his wife at the time bought a home on an acre of land for their two boys.
But in the summer of 2008, Mr. Gustafson was laid off. A year later, his search for work had yielded little besides a lesson in the deficiencies of his resume: He could not program the computers that govern Swiss machines, a deal-breaker for potential employers.
Living on a $299-a-week unemployment check in place of his $697 paycheck, he ran up credit card balances exceeding $13,000. He sold his great-grandfather's carpentry tools and his grandfather's wedding band. Bickering consumed his marriage, which soon broke.
''I was totally depressed,'' he said. ''I looked at every penny, and my wife was feeling really fed up with it. She'd say, 'Every once in a while, let's just go to the movies and forget about life for a while.' And I'd say, 'No, because the cost of that movie could feed us for three days.' I said no to everything. I'm screaming 'Turn the lights off,' and 'The heat doesn't need to be that high.' ''
Mr. Gustafson registered for the WorkFast program and added the mere fact of his enrollment to his resume. In February, just as he was drawing his final unemployment check, he got a job from a Swiss machine shop for $19 an hour, with one requirement: He had to complete his training.
Through the spring, he worked at the plant from 5 in the morning until 3:30 in the afternoon. Two nights a week, he attended class at Hennepin Tech.
''Just as soon as I could say, 'Yes, I can program,' I got a job,'' Mr. Gustafson said. ''I feel real secure.''
Mr. Gustafson had more than a decade of experience on the same machines he then trained to master. How easily can that success be replicated for lesser-skilled people?
The literature is not encouraging.
A 2006 study prepared for the Labor Department found virtually no benefit for 8,000 randomly selected recipients who entered federally financed training programs in 2001 and 2002.
In the year before their training, these people earned about $20,000 a year on average, according to the study. During the 15 months after their training, roughly 80 percent of these people were employed at some point, but their earnings in that period averaged about $16,000.
The 2008 study found that women were far more likely to benefit from training than men -- cold comfort given that this recession has hit male-dominated industries like construction particularly hard.
Among those unemployed for six months or longer at the end of May, nearly 60 percent were men, according to the Bureau of Labor Statistics. Nearly 39 percent were in their mid-40s or older -- another challenge to training programs whose results have generally been better among younger people. Nearly three of four had no degree beyond high school.
Bernard Pelzer, 56, has been jobless since the summer of 2009, when he was laid off from his position as a maintenance worker at a Manhattan office building. Since then, he has subsisted on a $260-a-week unemployment check.
Chasing Elusive Work
An African-American man who never completed high school, Mr. Pelzer has suffered a steady erosion of working opportunities. Through the 1970s and 1980s, he earned as much as $12 an hour as a handyman and security guard, enough to rent spacious apartments.
''You could pay your rent and take care of your family,'' he said.
But in recent years, he has earned less than he did a quarter-century ago, even as the cost of living has climbed.
Now, with no paycheck, the bills are beyond him -- even in a cramped apartment in East New York. He and his wife recently canceled cable television, their lone source of entertainment.
Last fall, Mr. Pelzer enrolled in a federally financed training course to become a certified building technician, following the guidance of a caseworker at a city-run work force center.
''I thought, 'This is great,' '' he recalled. ''There are certain things you intend to achieve, but you run into blockages. Now, the blockages were going to be removed.''
But as Mr. Pelzer slogged through the muggy streets of Brooklyn last week in a brown dress shirt, carrying his resume in a laminated sleeve, his training was beginning to feel irrelevant. Despite applying for more than a dozen jobs over the last month, he had yet to gain an interview.
''It's very bad,'' he said. ''I haven't gotten any response.''
Among those who have this year completed training arranged by New York City's Workforce1 centers, half have found employment, according to the city.
But not Mr. Valle. As his 50th birthday approaches, he is living with his parents, unable to pay rent on an unemployment check.
Warm and effusive, Mr. Valle grew up in East Harlem, the son of Puerto Rican parents whose trajectory testifies to the potential of job training: His father sold hot dogs before parlaying classes in air conditioning and electrical repair into a career as a maintenance worker. By the 1980s, he was earning $45,000 a year.
Mr. Valle's modern-day training has produced only frustration.
After he completed classes, the first interview his caseworker arranged was at a Family Dollar store in Brooklyn. It paid $11 an hour. Still, he figured he was in no position to be choosy, so he went, assuming he was the only one being dispatched to the interview. When he got there, nearly 50 people were waiting in a stifling warehouse. Some had been there for more than two hours. Some wore pinstripe suits, relics of short-circuited jobs at banks and insurance offices.
He waited an hour, standing because the crowd vastly exceeded the available chairs; because the applicants vastly exceeded the lone job being offered -- an equation not altered by his upgraded proficiency in Microsoft Word.
''It was crazy,'' he said. ''I got so fed up that I walked out.''
The New Poor: Articles in this series are examining the struggle to recover from the widespread strains of the Great Recession.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Israel Valle at a city work force center in Brooklyn. (PHOTOGRAPH BY ROBERT STOLARIK FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) (A1)
DIFFERENT RESULTS: Top, Israel Valle, at left, is living with his parents in New York as he looks for work. ''Training was fruitless,'' he said. ''I'm not seeing the benefits. Training for what? No one's hiring.'' In Minnesota, above, David Gustafson was trained to program machinery: ''Just as soon as I could say, 'Yes, I can program,' I got a job.'' (PHOTOGRAPHS BY ROBERT STOLARIK FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES
 CRAIG LASSIG FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) (A14) CHARTS: Demographics of the Long-Term Unemployed: Those out of work for six months or longer now make up more than 40 percent of all unemployed. Here is a look at how their characteristics compare with those of the overall labor force. (Source: Bureau of Labor Statistics) (A14) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: EMPLOYMENT (91%); RESUMES & CURRICULA VITAE (90%); INTERVIEWS (90%); UNEMPLOYED PERSONS (89%); LABOR FORCE (89%); ECONOMIC NEWS (86%); FASHION & APPAREL (78%); OCCUPATIONAL HEALTH & SAFETY AGENCIES (77%); RECRUITMENT & HIRING (77%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (77%); RECESSION (77%); JOB CREATION (77%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (76%); EMPLOYMENT INTERVIEWS (76%); WAGES & SALARIES (76%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (75%); PUBLIC POLICY (75%); EMPLOYMENT SEARCH (75%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (74%); LABOR DEPARTMENTS (72%); ECONOMIC POLICY (65%); WORKPLACE HEALTH & SAFETY (64%)

ORGANIZATION: BUREAU OF LABOR STATISTICS (59%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (93%) NEW YORK, USA (93%); MINNESOTA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: July 19, 2010



457 of 785 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 19, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 314 words

HEADLINE: Officials Say Boeing Won A Jet Order From Emirates

BYLINE: By CHRISTOPHER DREW

 BODY:
Boeing obtained an order for up to 30 of its wide-body 777 jets from Emirates Airline of Dubai in a deal that would be worth nearly $7 billion at list prices, industry officials said Sunday. 
The deal, to be announced on Monday at the Farnborough Air Show in Britain, is a sign that commercial aviation, and Boeing's fortunes, are starting to recover from the global recession. The industry officials asked for anonymity because the deal was not yet public. Emirates could not be immediately reached for comment.
The order could be one of the largest at the show. Farnborough, outside London, alternates with Paris each year as the site of the industry's most prominent event, and executives are looking for further signs of an upswing there.
Airbus, Boeing's European rival, has sold 131 commercial planes this year. Its chief operating officer, John Leahy, told reporters on Saturday that Airbus could double that number through orders at the show.
Boeing has said it received orders for 177 planes this year. It also flew its new midsize 787 Dreamliner jet, which is undergoing testing, to the show.
Last month, Emirates, the largest Arab airline, ordered 32 Airbus A380 superjumbo jets, valued at about $11 billion.
The orders from Emirates, which carries passengers from all over the world through its Dubai base, illustrate how the recovery is being led by airlines in the Middle East.
Both Boeing and Airbus are presumably providing discounts to Emirates on the latest orders, though the extent of the discounts could not be determined.
Boeing and Airbus both released forecasts recently suggesting that commercial air traffic, which dipped last year, will return over several years to its usual average growth rate of 5 percent each year.
The sharpest growth and demand for new planes will occur in the Middle East and China. The United States and Europe are expected to rebound more slowly.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: AIRCRAFT MFG (90%); AIRLINES (90%); COMMERCIAL & GENERAL AVIATION AIRCRAFT (79%); PASSENGER & CARGO AIRCRAFT (78%); CIVIL AVIATION (73%); RECESSION (71%); ECONOMIC NEWS (71%); EXECUTIVES (69%)

COMPANY: AIRBUS SAS (92%); BOEING CO (92%)

TICKER: BOE (LSE) (92%); BAB (BRU) (92%); BA (NYSE) (92%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS336411 AIRCRAFT MANUFACTURING (92%); SIC3721 AIRCRAFT (92%); NAICS336414 GUIDED MISSILE & SPACE VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (92%); NAICS336412 AIRCRAFT ENGINE & ENGINE PARTS MANUFACTURING (92%); SIC3761 GUIDED MISSILES & SPACE VEHICLES (92%)

GEOGRAPHIC: LONDON, ENGLAND (57%); PARIS, FRANCE (56%) DUBAI, UNITED ARAB EMIRATES (93%) UNITED ARAB EMIRATES (94%); UNITED KINGDOM (90%); MIDDLE EAST (88%); CHINA (79%); UNITED STATES (79%); FRANCE (56%); SOUTHERN EUROPE (55%); EUROPE (55%)

LOAD-DATE: July 19, 2010



458 of 785 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 19, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 12

LENGTH: 1201 words

HEADLINE: Cajuns on Gulf Worry They May Need to Move On Once Again

BYLINE: By SUSAN SAULNY

 BODY:
CHAUVIN, La. -- Stanley Sevin knew it was time to have the difficult conversation with his parents when he saw the oil sheen shimmering under his family's dock on the bayou. He had been putting it off ever since the Deepwater Horizon rig exploded in April.
''Sell the house and go start fresh somewhere else,'' Mr. Sevin, 24, pleaded with his family, shrimpers of Cajun ancestry. ''The business is dead and this life is over.''
For the Cajuns of South Louisiana -- exiled in the 1700s from French settlements in Acadia, now part of eastern Canada, for refusing to swear allegiance to the British -- life along the bayous has been bittersweet, with the constant threats of lightning-quick destruction from hurricanes and floods on top of the slow-motion agony of coastal erosion.
What they got in return for their tolerance of living in what early cartographers called No Man's Land was a world-class bounty of seafood and freedom in an environment of striking natural beauty. Now that is in jeopardy. 
The oil spill has delivered a dose of misery for all those who live intimately with the land here. But for the Cajuns, whose rustic French-American culture is almost wholly dependent on the natural bayous that open to the Gulf of Mexico, it has forced the question of whether they can preserve their way of life -- and if so, at what cost?
''This has been the lowest low for me,'' said O'Neil Sevin (pronounced SAY-vann), Stanley's father, whose 45-foot skimmer, Heaven Bound, has been mostly bound to its dock on Bayou Petit Caillou because prime fishing areas are closed. The Sevins live above their fishing business on the bayou, and fish their dinner out of it, too. ''My wife cried and cried over this. Just the other night she told me, 'Thank God there isn't a loaded gun in this house.' ''
Along Little Bayou Black in Houma, north of Chauvin, Wylma Dusenbery, the matriarch of a large Cajun family of folk singers, said: ''When our people got here from Nova Scotia, they called it 'la paradis de la Louisiane.' It was paradise.'' She paused, then said sternly, ''Nobody's moving.''
Interviews with Cajuns along the coast show that the spill has also renewed a generations-old resolve to persevere in an inhospitable environment, for the sake of independence and family unity. They refuse to be expelled again, so they say, by a 21st-century menace spreading economic hardship in their beloved but grief-giving lowlands.
Many Cajuns can count on a few fingers the number of miles they have moved away from parents or grandparents. Ask Randy Jones, a deckhand on the Heaven Bound, how many generations his family has lived along Bayou Petit Caillou and he answers, ''All of them.'' Typical of many here, he cannot fathom another way of life.
''If you can't trawl, you get a sideline job like I'm doing, carpentry,'' said Mr. Jones, 50. He continued: ''I don't want to leave. Go somewhere else to learn how to fight something else like mudslides or earthquakes? I'm not inclined to do that.''
For a sport fisherman like Tim Dusenbery, 60, Wylma Dusenbery's son, who works as a musician in Houma, the oil spill is a gut-wrenching cramp of lifestyle, but it does not affect his means of making a living. For O'Neil Sevin, a professional fisherman, however, the strain has been so bad as to require anti-anxiety medication.
''I really have a lot of pain inside of me not knowing what is truly going to happen,'' Mr. Sevin confided to his journal. ''I cannot relax. I do not want to get on medication, but I guess I have no choice.''
O'Neil Sevin is usually busy this time of year selling bait to deep-sea fishermen and seafood to retailers. On a good weekend last year, he said, it was not uncommon for the business to ring up $4,000 worth of sales in a day. He was up at 4:30 a.m. and busy until nightfall, when he would fish for fun.
Now he tries to fill his days with odd jobs around the dock, about 25 miles inland from the gulf, to keep busy. He might use his free time to learn the dying Cajun art of shrimp-net sewing from his 73-year-old father, who built a successful life around shrimp but spends most of his time these days with a plastic needle in hand, weaving the worry away.
So far, O'Neil Sevin has received $21,000 in compensation checks from BP to partly cover continuing lost wages and is negotiating for more. Mr. Sevin, who said the business made $56,000 in May 2009 alone, also considered what he called the loathsome prospect of working for BP in the cleanup, but his boat was rejected.
Despite warnings not to do so, the family continues to eat fish out of the bayou that they catch together in the evenings. On the dock at dusk, Stanley Sevin dropped a line fishing for speckled trout and shrugged off health concerns. Deep frying makes it O.K., he said.
Their minds are preoccupied with oil. O'Neil Sevin's wife, Samantha, 45, acknowledged that she was so distracted by the spill that she forgot his 50th birthday last month.
Still, she is reaching out to the family's longtime seafood clients to try to figure out how the business might accommodate their needs in new ways, with new products.
''I ain't going nowhere,'' she said. ''I might have to die right here, but I'm not leaving.''
The greatest number of Acadian migrants to move south settled around Lafayette, La., in the south-central part of the state. Others went farther south, settling along bayous and swamps of parishes like Lafourche, Terrebonne and St. Charles. Estimates of the size of the Cajun population range from 40,000 to more than a half-million, depending on whom you ask and how strict a definition is used.
In Chauvin, in south Terrebonne Parish, it is as common to hear people speak Cajun French while shopping at the Piggly Wiggly as on the shrimp docks. You can hear zydeco on local radio hosted by a D.J. who speaks the patois. Fried fish is not uncommon at breakfast, lunch and dinner.
The economy in the parish of 110,000 people, about 50 miles southwest of New Orleans, is heavily dependent on the fishing and oil industries -- precisely what the spill has hurt most.
While Cajuns on the coast may be able to hold on for now, the question of what happens in the long run remains.
''I would not expect to see any great migration away, regardless of what happens to these communities,'' said James Wilson, assistant director of the Center for Louisiana Studies at the University of Louisiana at Lafayette. ''It's a life-or-death decision for them: People can't see a life anywhere else. If they can't live the life that they're used to within their culture, then that is death.''
Stanley Sevin, a mechanic, decided years ago to get out of the family business because he did not see a future in shrimp. He founded a company, SS Motorsports, and hopes to move away.
He still thinks his family should consider it.
''I've never seen them so devastated,'' he said.
His mother said: ''I understand he wants better for us because he's seen us struggling. But living away, that's something I can't think about right now. We Cajuns are stubborn and hard-headed, what can I say?''
Slipping into the mix of Cajun French and English that he usually speaks, O'Neil Sevin said, ''Here, it was never easy, mais yeah, it was une bonne vie.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: O'Neil Sevin, left, and his son, Stanley, 24, fish together on Bayou Petit Caillou, but Stanley Sevin has chosen to leave the family's fish business.
 ''It was paradise,'' said Wylma Dusenbery, with her husband, Eugene, of the land their Cajun forebears found. And now? ''Nobody's moving,'' she said. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY JENNIFER ZDON FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: OIL SPILLS (89%); FAMILY (78%); OIL & GAS ACCIDENTS (78%); 2010 GULF COAST OIL SPILL (77%); GRANDPARENTS (73%); COASTAL AREAS (73%); FOLK & WORLD MUSIC (71%); WEATHER (68%); EROSION (68%); GEOGRAPHY (53%); SINGERS & MUSICIANS (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: LOUISIANA, USA (79%); GULF OF MEXICO (79%); NOVA SCOTIA, CANADA (79%); ATLANTIC OCEAN (79%) UNITED STATES (79%); CANADA (79%)

LOAD-DATE: July 19, 2010



459 of 785 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 19, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; EDITORIAL NOTEBOOK; Pg. 20

LENGTH: 426 words

HEADLINE: The Next Financial Crisis (the Stamp Bubble?)

BYLINE: By EDUARDO PORTER

 BODY:
In a world in which anything, it seems, can be turned into a risky investment instrument, consider the ''forever'' stamp. Did you think it was just a device for the post office to guarantee that a first-class stamp would always be postage enough for a first-class letter? Imagine if the stamps caught the eye of some Wall Street whiz. Like tulips and mortgages, the little sticker with the Liberty Bell has the makings of a nice financial crisis. 
The Postal Service is just awaiting the O.K. from the Postal Regulatory Commission to increase the price of first-class postage by 2 cents, to 46 cents, next Jan. 2. But the service plans to keep selling the forever stamps at the old rate right up to the day it raises the price. That is as close as one gets to a free lunch.
Buying the stamps at the old price and selling at the new one would bring a 4.5 percent return at a stroke. Not bad when a one-year Treasury bill yields 0.31 percent. And if a $4,500 gain on a $100,000 investment doesn't seem life-changing, think of the rewards to a bank with a billion to invest. Many would unleash economic Armageddon for less.
Which brings us to the nub of the problem: Should we allow the Goldman Sachses and JPMorgans of this world, its HSBCs and UBSs, to play in this new market? Think of their temptation to lever up -- to borrow a billion or two in the interbank market, at about 1.13 percent a year, and plow it into this unique philatelic opportunity.
Forever stamp sales, which reached about $3.5 billion last year, would mushroom. A.I.G. could offer insurance. After all, the bet would be as safe as houses.
Until the safe bet turned sour. Jan. 2 would come around and stamp-stuffed banks would find there weren't enough letter writers left in the country to buy their hoard. Many would try to sell them at 45 cents. Meanwhile, their loans would come due.
Some banks might go under. Other banks might dump their holdings of Indonesian bonds or corporate loans to get the cash to service their maturing debt. Eventually, the Postal Service would be forced to step in and repurchase those forever stamps at par, saving the world at the expense of taxpayers.
If this scenario sounds far-fetched, consider that the American economy contracted 2.4 percent last year and we have an unemployment rate of 9.5 percent, because a few years ago banks became convinced that the price of houses would never stop rising and homeowners would never default. Just to stay on the safe side, it might be a good idea to keep our bankers away from the post office for now.
EDUARDO PORTER

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Editorial

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (90%); POSTAL SERVICE (89%); PRICE INCREASES (89%); BONDS (78%); POSTAL RATES (77%); HOMEOWNERS (76%); MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (76%); HOME PRICES (75%); PRICE CHANGES (75%); ECONOMIC NEWS (72%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (69%); TREASURY SECURITIES (67%); INTERBANK LENDING (61%); COMMERCIAL LENDING (60%)

ORGANIZATION: POSTAL REGULATORY COMMISSION (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: July 19, 2010



460 of 785 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 19, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1088 words

HEADLINE: Debt Worry For Europe Fades a Bit

BYLINE: By GRAHAM BOWLEY

 BODY:
Just two months ago, Europe's sovereign debt problems seemed grave enough to imperil the global economic recovery. Now, at least some investors are treating it as the crisis that wasn't.
Spain held an auction of 15-year bonds last week that went off without a hitch, raising 3 billion euros, or about $3.8 billion, at a relatively favorable interest rate of 5.116 percent. That was up from 4.434 percent on a debt sale in late April, though the latest one was far more heavily subscribed.
Also last week, Moody's Investors Service downgraded Portugal's credit by two notches, citing the nation's debt burden and poor growth prospects, a sign that the country's underlying problems are not over. Yet investors, rather than punish assets linked to Portugal's economy, seemed to take the news in stride. 
Nations like Spain, Portugal and Greece had been cautious about holding big debt auctions as recently as last spring. Then, weak demand would almost certainly rattle global markets on fears that European nations would have trouble raising new money to cover their groaning debts. Investors were quick to sell on the mere hint of a credit downgrade.
How quickly investor psychology has changed.
''Europe has had a pretty good crisis,'' said Jacob Funk Kirkegaard, a fellow at the Peterson Institute for International Economics in Washington.
''In the short term, it made a number of very constructive decisions that had the effect of calming down the markets or shifting market attention elsewhere.''
Indeed, there has been a string of calming news of late: well-subscribed bond auctions in Portugal and Italy, a deal to freeze wages in Greece as it tries to rein in its public spending, and signs that German industry, so important for the rest of Europe, is growing more strongly than expected, according to data for May.
Europe has also had help from an unexpected quarter: signs of renewed weakness in the American economy.
Two months ago, Europe's plight contrasted with the faster-growing United States, which seemed to be pulling quickly toward economic expansion after a period of recession.
Since then, however, economic data has pointed to an unexpected slowdown in growth, and unemployment remains stubbornly high.
As the effects of the public sector stimulus wear off and few new jobs are created in the private sector, some officials within the Federal Reserve have begun voicing concerns about deflation, and last week the Fed revised down its growth forecast for this year to a range of 3 to 3.5 percent, from its 3.2 percent to 3.7 percent forecast in April.
Suddenly, Europe seems more stable to many investors than the United States, where there has been talk of a double-dip recession.
''In Europe, output and production has continued to expand, and there is scant sign of anything crashing to a halt,'' said Andrew Wilkinson, senior market strategist at the Interactive Brokers Group. ''But then there has been the slowdown in the U.S. economy. I didn't see it coming, but here it is.''
Economists warn that the optimism over Europe's prospects could prove temporary, a pause before another step down. On Friday, European regulators are to publish the results of stress tests of 91 European banks, a belated attempt at transparency along the lines of the tests the United States carried out last year.
The regulators hope the results will draw a line under fears about the bad debts European banks hold, though some economists fear it could reveal a more worrying picture of the problems.
Nevertheless, the euro, which fell 15 percent in the first six months of this year, is now back at its highest level in more than two months.
Other market measures have also improved: The Markit iTraxx SovX index, which tracks the cost of insuring European sovereign debt and measures investor sentiment on the likelihood of a government default, stands at 135 basis points, down from around 170 at the end of June, although still above 70, roughly the level in the mid-January.
And amid worries that Europe's banking sector could freeze up, Libor, the rate at which banks borrow money from one another in the London wholesale money market, rose sharply in the spring.
It is still at relatively high levels, but it has not gotten any worse, analysts say.
At these rates, some economists say, European debt is a good buy -- one reason the bond auctions are going so smoothly.
''If you think it is very long odds that a major European country is going to default, then you are getting terrific yields in an era of very low interest rates,'' said Zach Pandl, a New York economist for the Japanese bank Nomura.
Behind the new optimism are the changes Europe put in place in the middle of the tumult earlier this year. These include a step by the European Central Bank to begin buying securities from banks, the creation of a 440 billion euro stabilization fund to bail out troubled nations, and an agreement to let the International Monetary Fund intervene in European affairs to impose the bailout packages.
The European nations at the center of the crisis have gone on the offensive, setting austerity measures to cut back bloated public sectors. Spain is making spending cuts and structural reforms in an attempt to cut its 20 percent unemployment rate.
At the time, these interventions, agreed upon reluctantly and amid much bickering, seemed only to reflect the hopeless foot-dragging and paralysis in European decision-making. But over time, they have proved pivotal to improving investor confidence, at least for now.
Mohamed El-Erian, of the giant bond investor Pimco, said: ''Through the E.C.B., E.U. and I.M.F., the official sector has stepped in with its balance sheet to assume liabilities previously held by the private sector, thereby allowing private investors to exit in an orderly fashion.'' He cautioned, however, that ''measures of market risk in the euro zone remain elevated.''
European policy makers are taking whatever opportunity they can to signal their belief that skeptical outsiders overdid their prognostications of doom, despite lingering questions about whether the severe austerity measures might crimp growth across Europe.
In an interview with the French newspaper Liberation last week, the president of the European Central Bank, Jean-Claude Trichet, took to finger-wagging, saying, ''There is a tendency among some investors and market participants to underestimate Europe's ability to take bold decisions.''
He added: ''It would be a mistake to underestimate Europe, in general, and the euro area, in particular.''

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC RECOVERY (90%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (90%); EMERGING MARKETS (90%); PUBLIC DEBT (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); NATIONAL DEBT (89%); RECESSION (89%); BONDS (89%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (86%); FINANCIAL RATING DOWNGRADES (78%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (78%); BUSINESS FORECASTS (78%); FINANCIAL RATINGS (78%); EXTERNAL DEBT (78%); DEFLATION (78%); AUCTIONS (77%); BOND MARKETS (77%); CREDIT BUREAUS (77%); ECONOMIC INDICATORS (76%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (74%); BEHAVIORAL FINANCE (73%); JOB CREATION (73%); EURO (71%); WAGES & SALARIES (63%); INTEREST RATES (56%)

COMPANY: MOODY'S INVESTORS SERVICE LTD (71%)

ORGANIZATION: INSTITUTE FOR INTERNATIONAL ECONOMICS (54%)

GEOGRAPHIC: EUROPE (99%); UNITED STATES (94%); SPAIN (93%); PORTUGAL (90%); GERMANY (79%); GREECE (73%)

LOAD-DATE: July 19, 2010



461 of 785 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 19, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Foreign Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1320 words

HEADLINE: Pakistan's Elite Pay Few Taxes, Widening Gap

BYLINE: By SABRINA TAVERNISE; Salman Masood contributed reporting.

 BODY:
ISLAMABAD, Pakistan -- Much of Pakistan's capital city looks like a rich Los Angeles suburb. Shiny sport utility vehicles purr down gated driveways. Elegant multistory homes are tended by servants. Laundry is never hung out to dry.
But behind the opulence lurks a troubling fact. Very few of these households pay income tax. That is mostly because the politicians who make the rules are also the country's richest citizens, and are skilled at finding ways to exempt themselves.
That would be a problem in any country. But in Pakistan, the lack of a workable tax system feeds something more menacing: a festering inequality in Pakistani society, where the wealth of its most powerful members is never redistributed or put to use for public good. That is creating conditions that have helped spread an insurgency that is tormenting the country and complicating American policy in the region.
It is also a sorry performance for a country that is among the largest recipients of American aid, payments of billions of dollars that prop up the country's finances and are meant to help its leaders fight the insurgency. 
Though the authorities have tried to expand the net in recent years, taxing profits from the stock market and real estate, entire swaths of the economy, like agriculture, a major moneymaker for the elite, remain untaxed.
''This is a system of the elite, by the elite and for the elite,'' said Riyaz Hussain Naqvi, a retired government official who worked in tax collection for 38 years. ''It is a skewed system in which the poor man subsidizes the rich man.''
The problem starts at the top. The average worth of Pakistani members of Parliament is $900,000, with its richest member topping $37 million, according to a December study by the Pakistan Institute of Legislative Development and Transparency in Islamabad.
While Pakistan's income from taxes last year was the lowest in the country's history, according to Zafar ul-Majeed, a senior official in the Federal Board of Revenue, the assets of current members of Parliament nearly doubled from those of members of the previous Parliament, the institute study found.
The country's top opposition leader, Nawaz Sharif, reported that he paid no personal income tax for three years ending in 2007 in public documents he filed with Pakistan's election commission. A spokesman for Mr. Sharif, an industrialist who is widely believed to be a millionaire, said he had been in exile and had turned over positions in his companies to relatives.
A month of requests for similar documents for Pakistan's president and prime minister went unanswered by the commission; representatives for the men said they did not have the figures.
''Taxes are the Achilles' heel of Pakistani politicians,'' said Jahangir Tareen, a businessman and member of Parliament who is trying to put taxes on the public agenda. He paid $225,534 in income tax in 2009, a figure he made public in Parliament last month. ''If you don't have income, fine, but then don't go and get into a Land Cruiser.''
The rules say that anyone who earns more than $3,488 a year must pay income tax, but few do. Akbar Zaidi, a Karachi-based political economist with the Carnegie Endowment, estimates that as many as 10 million Pakistanis should be paying income tax, far more than the 2.5 million who are registered.
Out of more than 170 million Pakistanis, fewer than 2 percent pay income tax, making Pakistan's revenue from taxes among the lowest in the world, a notch below Sierra Leone's as a ratio of tax to gross domestic product.
Mr. Zaidi blames the United States and its perpetual bailouts of Pakistan for the minuscule tax revenues from rich and poor alike. ''The Americans should say: 'Enough. Sort it out yourselves. Get your house in order first,' '' he argued. ''But you are cowards. You are afraid to take that chance.''
Much of the tax avoidance, especially by the wealthy, is legal. Under a 1990s law that has become one of the main tools to legalize undocumented -- or illegally obtained -- money made in Pakistan, authorities here are not allowed to question money transferred from abroad. Businessmen and politicians channel billions of rupees through Dubai back to Pakistan, no questions asked.
''In this country, no one asks, 'How did you get that flat in Mayfair?' '' said Shabbar Zaidi, a partner at A. F. Ferguson & Company, an accounting firm in Karachi, referring to an affluent area of London. ''It's a very good country for the rich man. Chauffeurs, servants, big houses. The question is, who is suffering? The common man.''
Then there are the tax-free goods supposedly meant for Afghanistan. Mr. Zaidi said much stayed in Pakistan illegally, including 50,000 tons of black tea that were imported last year. Afghans drink green tea.
''As per our information, not a single cup of black tea was drunk in Afghanistan,'' he said.
Tax collectors try to be tough. When Mr. Naqvi headed the tax authority, he tried to conduct a broad audit, prompting howls of protest. Lawyers from the Lahore High Court Bar Association -- also evaders -- even issued a ruling against him.
Mr. Majeed said his collectors now use individual electric bills to track down rich evaders, on the assumption that high bills mean air-conditioning, which means wealth. They recently issued hundreds of warnings to rich houses in Islamabad. But going after politicians, he said, is tricky. ''Not while they're in power,'' he said, smiling.
Tax collection has risen by about 20 percent a year recently, he said, though it barely registers as an increase because more than half of Pakistan's economy is off the books.
Lacking the political will to collect income tax, Pakistan resorts to easier measures, like the sales tax, considered less fair because it hits the poor as hard as the rich. Muhamed Azhar, 26, a chauffeur in Karachi with a $123-a-month salary, pays the same sales tax rate as a National Assembly member who makes $1,400 a month with benefits. Earnings from real estate and land are rarely declared.
''The big people ruling us have houses and servants, and they should pay taxes,'' Mr. Azhar said, watching motorcades of sport utility vehicles zip by, en route to the local Parliament. He sometimes wonders whether they are even going to work at all. With all the tinted windows, guards and fuss, he has never actually seen them.
The overwhelming majority of Pakistan's tax burden is carried by the manufacturing sector for the domestic market, which, according to Mr. Majeed, makes up only 19 percent of Pakistan's economy but pays 51 percent of its taxes.
Most economic activity takes place in the shadows. Merchants -- the most vociferous opponents of a value-added tax, a tax the International Monetary Fund has pressed Pakistan to adopt largely because it would require documentation -- make up a fifth of the economy, but carry 6 percent of its tax burden. Out of millions of shops in Pakistan, just 160,000 are now registered for a general sales tax, Mr. Majeed said.
Particularly galling for Pakistan's middle class is the lack of a federal tax on agriculture, an industry that employs nearly half of Pakistan's population and whose profits go largely to the wealthy landowners who pack local Parliaments. When the World Bank finally forced adoption of a modest provincial tax in 1997 as a condition for a loan, few paid.
Mr. Tareen, the member of Parliament, said that when he first tried to pay, tax collectors refused to take the money, not wanting to rock the boat. He had to write a letter to a senior official to have it accepted.
It was not always like this. Nasir Aslam Zahid, a former Supreme Court justice in his 70s, blames what he calls moral decay in Pakistani society, in which respect for rules has fallen, merit has been forgotten and cheating has become a way of life.
''In my time, it was considered a moral thing for a person to file a tax return,'' he said. ''Today, corruption has broken all records.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Customers getting manicures at Nirvana Day Spa and Salon in Islamabad. Parts of the economy, like agriculture, remain untaxed. (PHOTOGRAPH BY KUNI TAKAHASHI FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) (A9) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TAXES & TAXATION (90%); SPORT UTILITY VEHICLES (90%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); POLITICS (89%); INCOME TAX (89%); REAL ESTATE (78%); PRIME MINISTERS (76%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (76%); TAX AUTHORITIES (76%); MOTOR VEHICLES (73%); PUBLIC FINANCE (72%); INTERNATIONAL ASSISTANCE (67%); HISTORY (62%); ELECTION AUTHORITIES (60%)

PERSON: NAWAZ SHARIF (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: PAKISTAN (94%); UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: July 19, 2010



462 of 785 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 19, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 15

LENGTH: 760 words

HEADLINE: M.T.A. Deficit Means Riders May Pay More

BYLINE: By MICHAEL M. GRYNBAUM

 BODY:
Riders of New York's transportation system are about to learn a tough lesson of recessionary politics: In times of crisis, nothing is sacred.
Some of the more hallowed, burned-into-your-brain assumptions of traveling around the region are now on the chopping block as the Metropolitan Transportation Authority seeks to curtail yet another budget deficit -- this one projected at $400 million.
The off-peak discount on the Long Island Rail Road, for instance, would become smaller than it is now, meaning that riders would have to pay more to travel into the city on weekends, afternoons and late nights. Riders would also pay peak fares for morning trains that head east from Pennsylvania Station or Atlantic Terminal in Brooklyn, under a proposal being considered by transit officials. 
And the authority intends to strain the English language, along with riders' pocketbooks: limits could be placed on the so-called unlimited MetroCards, which offer monthly and weekly passes for the bus and subway system. The monthly pass, in turn, could cost about $100 a month, up from $89 today.
Fresh off a punishing round of cuts to bus and subway service, New Yorkers will have less than five months to adjust before the changes go into effect on Jan. 1. The authority will formally unveil its plans next Monday.
''I don't see how it can fail to have an impact,'' said James F. Blair, a board member of the authority who represents riders of the Metro-North Railroad. ''People are very careful with their dollars at all times, but in this day and age particularly. And little things like this can form the basis for a change in transportation habits.''
Analysts at the transportation agency had initially considered eliminating all off-peak railroad fares -- as New Jersey Transit did this year -- but that option was eventually discarded. Situations that involved fare increases of more than 10 percent were also considered, according to several individuals familiar with the plans who asked for anonymity because the discussions were intended to be confidential.
The ''limited unlimited'' plan, first reported by The New York Post, would cap the number of rides that can be taken on a monthly pass to about three a day, requiring heavier users of the system to pay more if they exceed the limit.
Other surcharges, like a $1 fee for obtaining a new MetroCard rather than refilling an old one, are expected to be levied as well.
Transit officials said they were trying to limit an overall fare increase to 7.5 percent, which had been their intention since before the authority's financial situation worsened drastically in December. The agency lost a big chunk of state financing in Albany's budget cuts, and tax revenues designated to pay for mass transit have been far below expectations. Officials are also struggling to rein in overtime costs and bureaucratic bloat.
But the fare changes will not be a simple across-the-board increase. Instead, the authority plans to raise the additional revenue by making some passes relatively more expensive than others, and instituting other surcharges.
''Most board members would prefer we don't just raise everything 7.5 percent,'' said Mitchell H. Pally, a board member from Long Island. ''Yes, we want to raise more revenue, but we don't want to discourage ridership.''
Riders' advocates say the pain will be the same no matter what package it comes in.
''A fare hike is a fare hike is a fare hike,'' said Gene Russianoff, staff lawyer for the Straphangers Campaign. ''Across the board, people are going to experience higher costs for getting around town.''
Planners from the authority's constituent agencies, which run the region's bus, subway and commuter-rail networks, along with its tunnels and bridges, have been meeting weekly to evaluate the pros and cons of new fare structures.
The process requires transit planners to weigh the financial needs of the agency against the fact that higher prices translate to fewer riders.
Mr. Blair, the Metro-North riders' representative, said he was concerned that off-peak riders who use the railroads for beach jaunts and family weekend trips could be discouraged from using mass transit.
''It doesn't take much to dissuade people who are newly arrived to go back to their old ways if the economic incentives are not as good as they once were,'' Mr. Blair said.
Off-peak rides make up 30 percent of revenue at the Long Island Rail Road and 27 percent of trips, officials said. Nearly three-quarters of Metro-North passengers who buy one-way or round-trip tickets do so for the off-peak period.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: URBAN TRANSIT SYSTEMS (90%); URBAN RAIL SYSTEMS (90%); PUBLIC TRANSPORTATION (89%); BUDGETS (89%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (89%); BUDGET DEFICITS (76%); BUDGET CUTS (71%); TAXES & TAXATION (62%)

ORGANIZATION: LONG ISLAND UNIVERSITY (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: ALBANY, NY, USA (79%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%) NEW YORK, USA (93%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: July 19, 2010



463 of 785 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 19, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 15

LENGTH: 1330 words

HEADLINE: Rescued From Blight, Falling Back

BYLINE: By CARA BUCKLEY

 BODY:
Hundreds of buildings, from the South Bronx to central Brooklyn, whose renovation and rescue from ruinous debt were critical to the rebirth of blighted neighborhoods, are again in severe financial trouble. That poses a dilemma for the city, which began unloading the properties in the mid-1990s as part of an arduous effort to divest itself of thousands of decrepit buildings seized because of tax delinquencies.
Filled with unemployed tenants unable to make rent or mortgage payments and squeezed by soaring city fees, about 442 buildings are in serious default on property taxes and far behind on municipal bills.
As the number of imperiled buildings grows, the city, struggling with its own cash shortage, faces unappealing choices. Seizing the buildings is not an option. The city's previous role as a master landlord was widely deemed a disaster, with many buildings locked in chronic states of disrepair. 
Instead, housing officials must either force deadbeat owners to pay their debts, or else foreclose on the buildings and find new owners in a harsh real estate climate. A total of $140 million is owed on the buildings, and nearly half of them have arrears of at least $3,000 of debt per unit, according to the city's housing department.
Many of the buildings are now slipping into the kind of shoddy conditions from which they had been saved.
While the debt-ridden buildings are found across the city, the most are clustered in Bedford-Stuyvesant and other parts of central Brooklyn, the South Bronx and Harlem. All are owned by private or nonprofit groups overseeing buildings that were already deeply distressed and populated by the poorest of residents, giving owners razor-thin margins to operate on. People bought co-op apartments for as little as $250, according to the city, while renters pay as little as $90 a month.
''More and more of these properties, especially the not-for-profits, are not making their mortgages, not paying taxes, water,'' said Douglas Apple, first deputy commissioner of the city's Department of Housing Preservation and Development. ''It's gotten to the point where we are very concerned.''
In shedding its enormous real estate portfolio, once numbering nearly 9,000 buildings, the city steered ownership of the buildings to tenants, nonprofits and private developers. Buildings were rehabilitated, new tenants moved in, and neighborhoods were transformed.
Once emblematic of a failed New York, the buildings came to symbolize a city reborn. And most of the low-income buildings sold by the city are still faring well, said Anne-Marie A. Hendrickson, a deputy commissioner with the housing department.
Many owners diversified their income stream, Ms. Hendrickson said, by adding the more lucrative buildings to their holdings or providing social services and health care programs that let them collect subsidies and other fees. That would be of little solace to the residents of 1694 Davidson Avenue in the Morris Heights section of the Bronx, a formerly city-owned 42-unit building where tenants say living conditions have gone from to bad to worse.
The front door locks have long been broken. The garbage incinerator stopped working for months, leading to a stomach-churning stink and attracting raccoon-size rats.
Five years ago the elevator ground to a halt, forcing children of one tenant, Nina Mitchell, to take turns last year hoisting their mother, hobbled by a torn Achilles tendon, up and down four flights of stairs, in her wheelchair, until she healed. Ms. Mitchell, 37, is one of many tenants in the six-story building who have stopped paying rent to protest living conditions.
''It's like we're under siege,'' said Monique Jenkins, 39, president of the building's tenant association.
The housing department is moving against the building's owner, the Bronx Heights Neighborhood Community Corporation, which owes $3.7 million in taxes and other arrears for 1694 Davidson Avenue and eight nearby buildings it owns. The city has started foreclosure proceedings against the nonprofit corporation's entire portfolio.
The corporation lost a 10th building in a recent sheriff's auction after a judgment was issued against it by someone who fell in the building and filed a lawsuit.
The group has failed to provide required financial reports to the city for at least five years. ''I'm at a loss to say where the money is going if they're not making municipal payments,'' Ms. Hendrickson said.
Interviews with members of the corporation's board elicited finger-pointing about who was to blame for the nonprofit's woes. Some members said the board's treasurer, Gbethea DevineBhutta, had failed to pay bills and had turned board members against one another.
Ms. DevineBhutta denied the accusations and said the board had ignored its responsibility to fill vacancies; there has been no executive director for years. ''It was like they were trying to close down Bronx Heights,'' she said.
Sergio Clark, the chairman of the board, said the city had been warned of the corporation's management problems but had done nothing. ''It's one individual that single-handedly did damage to this nonprofit corporation, but the city itself is insensitive to the needs of nonprofit corporations,'' he said.
Some housing advocates said the financial troubles of several hundred buildings paled in comparison with the collection of crumbling buildings the city once owned. When the portfolio was at its height, in 1979, the city owned 8,950 buildings, or 110,000 housing units. Today it owns about 190 buildings.
''It took 100,000 slumlord units and changed them into 100,000 units that catalyzed the redevelopment and revitalization of tens of neighborhoods around the city,'' said Benjamin Dulchin, executive director of the Association for Neighborhood and Housing Development, which represents dozens of housing groups.
The proliferation of troubled buildings is lamentable, Mr. Dulchin said, but it is ''a minor part in what has been an overwhelmingly successful public policy story.''
The financial woes of some buildings might be beyond their owners' control. Sharply increased municipal costs have made it harder for delinquent building owners to climb out of debt. Water and sewer fees have soared in recent years, and tax abatements granted to many buildings have expired.
Besides the Bronx corporation's buildings, the housing department is moving to foreclose on about 10 other properties, though it would not disclose where. Foreclosure, housing officials said, is usually a last resort. The city works with owners on structured payment plans or forgives interest, which can be about 18 percent, on overdue fees. During any transfer of ownership, tenants are protected because pre-existing regulations, like rent stabilization rules, would carry over, housing officials said.
And new ownership, officials said, would allow the city to impose rules for those owners, requiring them to stay current on taxes, keep buildings in good condition and maintain income caps for tenants.
The city would have a harder time, however, forcing the sale of the scores of co-op buildings that are in serious default, because it does not have regulatory power over their mortgages. Another hurdle is the city's limited power in issuing tax liens against the properties.
The owners of those buildings are technically called housing development fund corporations, and under city law their tax liens, or debts, cannot be sold, giving owners less incentive to pay their debts.
One option is to force the co-ops to assume new management, which opens the possibility of shareholders losing their stakes in the buildings.
Tenant advocates praised the city's approach, saying it was acting responsibly to address the problem: weeding out delinquent buildings with poor management, in the interest of protecting housing for low-income New Yorkers. ''The city in general realized they needed a stronger stance toward asset management,'' Mr. Dulchin said. ''In any flock, sheep will go astray.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: At 1694 Davidson Avenue, a building in the Morris Heights section of the Bronx that the city once owned, tenants say conditions have deteriorated.
Willie Johnson, the superintendent, in front of 1694 Davidson Avenue.(A15)
 Monique Jenkins, president of 1694 Davidson Avenue's tenant association, has stopped paying rent to protest the conditions. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY RICHARD PERRY/THE NEW YORK TIMES) (A18) MAP: Troubled Housing: Many properties that were part of the renewal of once-blighted neighborhoods are now falling behind on taxes and mortgages again. (Source: N.Y.C. Department of Housing Preservation and Development) (A15) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: RENTAL PROPERTY (89%); HOUSING AUTHORITIES (89%); REAL ESTATE (89%); NONPROFIT ORGANIZATIONS (89%); RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (78%); PROPERTY TAX (78%); REAL ESTATE DEVELOPMENT (78%); FORECLOSURE (77%); CITY GOVERNMENT (77%); MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (76%); DIVESTITURES (72%); MORTGAGE LOANS (71%); RESIDENTIAL COOPERATIVES (71%); LOW INCOME PERSONS (71%); HEALTH CARE (62%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%) NEW YORK, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: July 19, 2010



464 of 785 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 19, 2010
Correction Appended 
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 11

LENGTH: 516 words

HEADLINE: McChrystal? Not Personal, Biden Says Of Remarks

BYLINE: By JOSEPH BERGER

 BODY:
Vice President Joseph R. Biden Jr. said Sunday that he did not feel personally attacked by the derisive remarks by Gen. Stanley A. McChrystal and his aides in a Rolling Stone article published last month. But he suggested that General McChrystal's firing as the top commander in Afghanistan was necessary. 
''I didn't take it personally at all; I really, honest to God, didn't,'' the vice president said in an interview on ABC's ''This Week.'' ''Compared to what happens in politics, this was a piece of cake.''
Nevertheless, Mr. Biden said, six four-star generals he surveyed, whom he did not identify, said General McChrystal could no longer remain the top American commander in Afghanistan.
In the Rolling Stone interview, General McChrystal and his aides spoke critically of nearly every member of the president's national security team, with one aide dismissing Vice President Biden as ''Bite Me.'' Shortly after the article was published online, Mr. Obama replaced General McChrystal with his boss and mentor, Gen. David H. Petraeus, who had led the United States Central Command.
During the half-hour ''This Week'' interview, Mr. Biden defended the Obama administration's economic policies, despite a persistent high unemployment rate, and said that when Congressional elections are held in November, Americans would realize those policies were better than the Republican alternative.
''The truth is, over three million people who are now working would be out of work but for this,'' he said. ''The truth of the matter is, there is an overwhelming consensus that we're not losing jobs, we're creating jobs.''
He predicted that Democratic losses in the House of Representatives would not be ''bad at all.''
''I am absolutely confident when people take a look at what has happened since we've taken office in November and compare it to the alternative, we're going to be in great shape,'' he said.
Mr. Biden also said he would not characterize the Tea Party movement as racist despite a resolution passed Tuesday by the N.A.A.C.P. stating that elements of the Tea Party are.
''There are individuals who are either members of or on the periphery of some of their things, their protests, that have expressed really unfortunate comments,'' he said. ''But I don't believe -- the president doesn't believe -- that the Tea Party is a racist organization.''

CORRECTION-DATE: July 18, 2010, Sunday

 CORRECTION:
This article has been revised to reflect the following correction: Because of an editing error, an earlier version of this article misstated the first name of the host of ''This Week.'' It is Jake, not Jack, Tapper.
This article has been revised to reflect the following correction: An earlier version of this article incorrectly attributed a quotation in Rolling Stone magazine about President Obama's first meeting with Gen. Stanley A. McChrystal. The magazine cited unnamed ''sources familiar with the meeting'' who said that President Obama looked ''uncomfortable and intimidated.'' Rolling Stone did not attribute that comment to General McChrystal.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: INTERVIEWS (90%); MCCHRYSTAL RESIGNATION (90%); TEA PARTY MOVEMENT (89%); US PRESIDENTS (79%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); POLITICS (78%); US FEDERAL ELECTIONS (78%); PUBLIC POLICY (75%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (74%); NATIONAL SECURITY (73%); ELECTIONS (73%); LAYOFFS (70%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (70%); JOB CREATION (70%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (70%); ECONOMIC NEWS (65%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (65%); ECONOMIC POLICY (65%)

PERSON: STANLEY A MCCHRYSTAL (92%); JOE BIDEN (91%); DAVID PETRAEUS (58%); BARACK OBAMA (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%); AFGHANISTAN (90%)

LOAD-DATE: July 19, 2010



465 of 785 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 19, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; OP-ED CONTRIBUTOR; Pg. 21

LENGTH: 999 words

HEADLINE: Obama's Business Plan

BYLINE: By ROGER C. ALTMAN. 
Roger C. Altman, an investment banker, was a deputy secretary of the Treasury during the first Clinton administration.

 BODY:
JUST as Congress finally passed its sweeping financial reform bill last week, a chorus of high-profile chief executives and business lobbying groups were criticizing President Obama and what they see as a new era of big, stifling government and heavy regulation. Ivan Seidenberg, the chief executive of Verizon, delivered a particularly stinging rebuke: In remarks to the Economic Club of Washington, he blamed President Obama for ''an increasingly hostile environment for investment and job creation'' and lambasted an administration that is ''reaching into every sector of American life'' and ''making it harder to raise capital and create new businesses.''
After the United States Chamber of Commerce then complained that the administration ''vilified industries,'' the White House advisers Rahm Emanuel and Valerie Jarrett responded with a letter clearly meant for the business community as a whole. They wrote: ''The stakes are far too high for us to be working against one another. That is why we were surprised and disappointed at the rhetoric we have heard from some in the business community -- rhetoric that fails to acknowledge the important steps this administration has taken every single day to meet our shared objectives.'' 
Their letter is more than a defense of a president stung by the anti-business label. Given the latest data indicating weak growth and strikingly high unemployment, the administration is rightly concerned that business negativism is suppressing the confidence necessary for increased investment and job growth.
This poisonous dynamic between Washington and business must be fixed. Both sides should make adjustments, but the business community -- of which I am a proud member -- especially needs to make efforts to mend this relationship. Yes, the administration has made some mistakes. But, on balance, its actions have supported business.
So before leveling such fierce criticism, corporate America should remember the president's actual record. First, Mr. Obama inherited an economy teetering on the brink of depression. Immediately upon taking office, he forged a $787 billion economic stimulus program, and is wisely trying to expand it now. Was this program perfect? Of course not. But it has been effective. Every serious economic model indicates that it contributed to recovery.
Second, at that same time, the credit markets were in tatters and simply not functioning. The administration submitted the biggest banks to confidence-building stress tests. It skillfully invested in financial institutions, kept the mortgage markets afloat and undertook other creative initiatives to solidify the financial industry. These have worked more quickly and more successfully than anyone predicted. The system is healthy again.
All this has led directly to a turnaround in corporate profits, share prices and liquidity. Profits have increased 41 percent since President Obama was elected. And the Dow Jones Industrial Average has risen 28 percent over the same period. These are strong results.
Third, the president made the courageous decision to put General Motors and Chrysler through bankruptcy. As a result, both survived and, today, G.M. in particular is coming back fast -- along with its hundreds of suppliers. Moreover, taxpayers are likely to recover the full value of their investment in the company.
Fourth, Mr. Obama has made big progress toward restoring America's standing around the world. Two years ago, it stood at a historically low point, and multinationals were encountering resistance in penetrating foreign markets. The president's reframing of our global priorities and values has returned the United States to pre-eminence -- and is starting to ease our way to opening new markets abroad.
A top issue for these business groups, and properly so, is education policy. That's because a better educated work force is a more productive one. So far, this administration has an unorthodox and outstanding record on education, a notable illustration of this is its Race to the Top initiative, which rewards the most reform-minded states with hundreds of millions of dollars worth of federal grants. Perhaps leading businesses could work with the White House to match these awards at least in part.
Yes, business sees both the health reform and financial reform legislation as establishing burdensome regulatory structures. It is right in this regard. But financial reform was mandatory. And while some on Wall Street naturally don't like it, most in our community view it as relatively harmless.
What adjustments should President Obama make to repair ties with business? For starters, no important member of his administration has ever met a major payroll. Such an absence of business experience in a presidential administration is unique in recent decades and carries negative connotations; certainly, no other comparable interest group is so unrepresented. This could be remedied by recruiting a senior industry figure for one of the four or five key economic policy positions.
Beyond that, there is skepticism over the president's commitment to reducing the huge and dangerous budget deficits which America now faces. A strong step toward deficit reduction next year -- like undertaking the difficult task of trying to fix Social Security -- would earn deeper credibility with business and with all Americans.
Another problem is that the administration's rhetoric -- which too often employs inflammatory words like ''reckless'' -- has the effect of tarring all of business with the same brush. The White House might better distinguish between Wall Street, Big Oil and health insurers, which have all incurred public wrath, and the majority of businesses, which haven't.
The tension between President Obama and the business community is hurting both sides and may hamper economic recovery. Closing that divide requires the business community to mute its criticism, and the administration to make personnel and policy adjustments. Neither should be hard.

GRAPHIC: DRAWING (DRAWING BY ANDRE DA LOBA) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US PRESIDENTS (90%); BUSINESS PLANS (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); LOBBYING (90%); EXECUTIVES (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (89%); BANKING & FINANCE (89%); BUSINESS & PROFESSIONAL ASSOCIATIONS (78%); COMPANY PROFITS (78%); MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (77%); BANKING & FINANCE SECTOR PERFORMANCE (76%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (76%); ECONOMIC POLICY (76%); JOB CREATION (76%); US ECONOMIC STIMULUS PLAN 2008-2009 (72%); STOCK INDEXES (66%); MORTGAGE LOANS (64%); FINANCIAL RESULTS (62%)

COMPANY: VERIZON COMMUNICATIONS INC (58%)

ORGANIZATION: UNITED STATES CHAMBER OF COMMERCE (56%)

TICKER: VZC (LSE) (58%); VZ (NYSE) (58%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS517210 WIRELESS TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (EXCEPT SATELLITE) (58%); NAICS517110 WIRED TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (58%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (90%); RAHM EMANUEL (58%); IVAN SEIDENBERG (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (95%)

LOAD-DATE: July 19, 2010



466 of 785 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 19, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Foreign Desk; Pg. 9

LENGTH: 1070 words

HEADLINE: Afghanistan and Pakistan Sign a Trade Deal, Representing a Thaw in Relations

BYLINE: By MARK LANDLER

 BODY:
ISLAMABAD, Pakistan -- Afghanistan and Pakistan signed a landmark trade agreement on Sunday, auguring a thaw between these two perennially suspicious neighbors and handing the Obama administration a rare victory in its beleaguered war effort in Afghanistan.
The United States had prodded the two countries to sign the accord, calculating that it would bolster the Afghan economy by expanding its trade routes and curbing rampant smuggling. The pact would cover a multitude of trade and transit issues, ranging from import duties to port access.
Trade negotiations have dragged on fitfully since 1965, interrupted by wars, political coups, mutual distrust and the long shadow of India, which is not a party to the deal. The accord must still be ratified by the Afghan Parliament. 
The United States used a visit by Secretary of State Hillary Rodham Clinton to Islamabad and an international conference in Afghanistan this week to nudge both sides across the finish line. A beaming Mrs. Clinton watched the commerce ministers of the countries sign the accord.
''Bringing Islamabad and Kabul together has been a goal of this administration from the beginning,'' said the administration's special representative for Afghanistan and Pakistan, Richard C. Holbrooke. ''This is a vivid demonstration of the two countries coming closer together.''
But the trade deal is one small piece of a tangled relationship between Afghanistan and Pakistan that the United States is struggling to manage. American officials have long accused Pakistan of providing clandestine support to the militants who attack American-led forces in Afghanistan even as the Pakistanis say they support the American war there.
And while American leaders have encouraged warming ties between Afghanistan and Pakistan, they also fear that Pakistani officials want to exert too much control over Afghan politics.
The success of the deal is far from assured. Pakistan's prime minister, Yousaf Raza Gilani, alluded to potential domestic fallout at a meeting with Mrs. Clinton, who arrived under heavy security on Sunday.
''There are people, there are lobbies who don't want this,'' he said, noting that the deal's opponents were agitating in the news media. But he added, ''It is in the interest of Pakistan to have a stable Afghanistan.''
A critical provision of the deal would allow Afghan trucks to carry goods to Pakistani ports like Karachi or as far as Indian border posts, while Pakistani trucks could travel into Afghanistan. Under current law, goods must be reloaded at the border.
The accord cast a positive glow over Mrs. Clinton's visit, which is meant to ease suspicions between Pakistan and the United States. She came with a number of initiatives in public health, water distribution and agriculture, to be financed by $500 million in American economic aid.
Among other projects, the United States will build a 60-bed hospital in Karachi and help farmers export mangos.
These projects, however beneficial in this economically fragile country, do not dispel other nagging sources of friction between the two sides. In addition to American doubts about Pakistan's commitment to root out Taliban insurgents, there are new fears about Pakistan's nuclear program.
Pakistan plans to buy two nuclear reactors from China, a deal that alarms the United States because it is cloaked in secrecy and is being conducted outside the global nonproliferation regime. Administration officials said Mrs. Clinton was expected to raise the issue with the Pakistanis.
Relations could be further tested if the Obama administration decides to place leaders of a major Pakistani insurgent group, the Haqqani network, on the State Department's terrorist list. Islamabad maintains ties to the group through its intelligence service, and it is seeking to exploit those connections to extend its influence over Afghanistan.
For all that, tensions between the two sides have ebbed since Mrs. Clinton's last visit here in October, when she was peppered with hostile questions in public meetings and bluntly suggested that people in the Pakistani government knew the whereabouts of Al Qaeda's leaders.
Mr. Holbrooke noted a U-turn in Pakistan's policy on issuing visas to American diplomats. For months, Pakistani officials had held up those applications, creating a huge backlog and frustrating the United States. But Pakistan issued 450 visas in the last five days, he said.
He conceded that public opinion polls here about the United States had yet to show much of a change. Conspiracy theories involving the United States are widely popular, with large numbers of Pakistanis blaming the United States for anything that goes wrong here.
Some analysts here said that the United States had failed to communicate its support adequately through the local news media. Mrs. Clinton may take more hits on Monday at a town hall meeting here.
Still, American officials were emphasizing convergence between the United States and Pakistan. While the Americans would like to see a more aggressive Pakistani military push in North Waziristan, the stronghold of the Haqqani network, they praised the military's campaigns in South Waziristan and the Swat Valley, where Taliban insurgents had also made gains.
Pakistan's battle has exacted a fearful toll. This month a suicide bomber killed 45 people in an attack on a Sufi shrine in Lahore. Many Pakistanis blame the war in Afghanistan for fomenting anti-Pakistan terrorism. Protest groups issued a statement, timed to Mrs. Clinton's arrival, that called for an end to the war and for Americans and Pakistanis who are involved in clandestine air strikes on Pakistani targets to be tried for war crimes.
Mrs. Clinton's initiatives are the first major disbursements of $7.5 billion in nonmilitary aid, over five years, pledged by Congress last year. The emphasis is on basic services like electricity and water, politically charged issues in this country, particularly during the hot summer.
''Our commitment is broad and deep,'' said Rajiv Shah, the administrator of the United States Agency for International Development, who is with Mrs. Clinton. ''We will not do what we've done in the past.''
Administration officials said the project to upgrade Pakistan's creaky power grid, which involves building dams and refurbishing power plants, had helped reduce chronic power failures. But on the day Mrs. Clinton landed, television reports here warned of further blackouts.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Hillary Rodham Clinton and Yousaf Raza Gilani stood by as the Afghan commerce minister, Anwar ul-Haq Ahady, left, and the Pakistani minister, Makhdoom Amin Fahim, signed a pact. (PHOTOGRAPH BY ADREES LATIF/REUTERS) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (94%); TRADE TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (91%); TRADE DEVELOPMENT (90%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE LAW (89%); AGRICULTURAL TRADE (89%); EXPORT TRADE (78%); IMPORT TRADE (78%); TALKS & MEETINGS (78%); COMMERCE DEPARTMENTS (78%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (77%); LOBBYING (77%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (77%); BORDER CONTROL (76%); SMUGGLING (76%); INTERNATIONAL ASSISTANCE (76%); TARIFFS & DUTIES (76%); TERRITORIAL & NATIONAL BORDERS (76%); PRIME MINISTERS (75%); AGRICULTURAL EXPORTS & IMPORTS (75%); POLITICS (75%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (75%); CONFERENCES & CONVENTIONS (73%); FARMERS & RANCHERS (61%)

PERSON: HILLARY RODHAM CLINTON (90%); BARACK OBAMA (72%); RICHARD HOLBROOKE (58%); YOUSAF RAZA GILANI (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: KARACHI,PAKISTAN (92%); KABUL, AFGHANISTAN (79%) UNITED STATES (98%); AFGHANISTAN (95%); PAKISTAN (95%); INDIA (92%)

LOAD-DATE: July 19, 2010



467 of 785 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 19, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 760 words

HEADLINE: Audit Questions Speed of Auto Dealership Closings

BYLINE: By NICK BUNKLEY

 BODY:
DETROIT -- President Obama's auto task force pressed General Motors and Chrysler to close scores of dealerships without adequately considering the jobs that would be lost or having a firm idea of the cost savings that would be achieved, an audit of the process has concluded.
The report by Neil M. Barofsky, the special inspector general for the Troubled Asset Relief Program of the Treasury Department, said both carmakers needed to shut down some underperforming dealerships. But it questioned whether the cuts should have been made so quickly, particularly during a recession. The report, released on Sunday, estimated that tens of thousands of jobs were lost as a result. 
''It is not at all clear that the greatly accelerated pace of the dealership closings during one of the most severe economic downturns in our nation's history was either necessary for the sake of the companies' economic survival or prudent for the sake of the nation's economic recovery,'' the report said.
The report does not make any recommendations, and serves more as a review of the process. It does not carry the authority to initiate any corrective action.
But it comes at a politically delicate time for the Obama administration, which is facing skepticism from the public about the strength of the recovery and criticism from Republicans who are seizing on the economy -- including the effectiveness of the federal bailout -- as an issue heading into the midterm elections.
G.M. and Chrysler, which went through separate six-week stays in bankruptcy protection last year, received a total of $62 billion under the Troubled Asset Relief Program. G.M. repaid $6.7 billion in April, but the remainder of its government debt was converted into a 61 percent equity stake. The Treasury owns 8 percent of Chrysler.
Treasury officials, in a letter of response, said they ''strongly disagree'' with the report's conclusions, arguing that the administration's actions toward G.M. and Chrysler ''not only avoided a potentially catastrophic collapse'' but also ''saved hundreds of thousands of American jobs.''
About a year ago, G.M. informed more than 2,000 dealers that some or all of their franchise agreements would not be renewed in October 2010. Chrysler eliminated 789 dealers, or about a quarter of its network, with less than a month's notice.
Both carmakers voluntarily rescinded some terminations -- 666 at G.M. and 50 at Chrysler -- which, the report said, ''suggests, at the very least, that the number and speed of the terminations was not necessarily critical to the manufacturers' viability.''
In addition, a small number of dealerships won the opportunity to be reinstated through an arbitration process created by Congress; that process has only a handful of cases left to consider and is scheduled to be completed by the end of this month.
According to the report, Chrysler estimated it would save $45,500 for every dealership it closed, while G.M. projected a savings of $1.1 million a dealership, largely a result of reduced incentive payments. ''The difference in these estimates alone casts doubt on their credibility,'' the report said.
Though Chrysler has been criticized by dealers for being more subjective about which dealerships to close, the report concluded that Chrysler was consistent in its decisions, whereas G.M. was not.
G.M., the report said, used more objective guidelines, but its closings appeared more random. For instance, G.M. retained 1,426 dealerships that might have qualified for termination while terminating 41 dealerships ''that did not meet any of the objective criteria,'' the report said.
The report also criticized the Treasury Department for failing to monitor the process.
Representative Darrell Issa, Republican of California, said in a statement: ''This sobering report should serve as a wake-up call as to the implications of politically orchestrated bailouts and how putting decisions about private enterprise in the hands of political appointees and bureaucrats can lead to costly and unintended consequences.''
Although the role that the dealership closings played is debatable, both G.M. and Chrysler have greatly improved their finances in the last year. G.M. expects to report a full-year profit, and Chrysler has projected that it will break even or earn a modest operating profit for 2010.
''The right-sizing of Chrysler's dealer network contributes to more profitable, better performing dealers and better customer service,'' Chrysler said.
G.M., in a statement, said it had a ''stronger dealership network'' since emerging from bankruptcy.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BUSINESS CLOSINGS (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (90%); NEW CAR DEALERS (90%); AUTOMOBILE MFG (89%); AUTOMOTIVE MFG (89%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (89%); AUTOMAKERS (89%); TROUBLED ASSET RELIEF PROGRAM (89%); CREDIT CRISIS (89%); US PRESIDENTS (78%); PUBLIC FINANCE (77%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (76%); BAILOUTS (76%); PUBLIC DEBT (76%); RECESSION (76%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (73%); ECONOMIC RECOVERY (73%); MIDTERM ELECTIONS (73%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (73%); ELECTIONS (73%); LAYOFFS (72%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (71%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (70%); ALTERNATIVE DISPUTE RESOLUTION (64%); HISTORY (54%)

COMPANY: CHRYSLER GROUP LLC (95%); GENERAL MOTORS CO (58%)

TICKER: GM (NYSE) (58%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS336111 AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING (95%); NAICS336112 LIGHT TRUCK & UTILITY VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (58%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (88%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: July 19, 2010



468 of 785 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 19, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; THE CAUCUS; Pg. 13

LENGTH: 844 words

HEADLINE: Mystery for White House: Where Did the Jobs Go?

BYLINE: By JOHN HARWOOD

 BODY:
Welcome as it is, progress toward finally capping the gulf oil leak hasn't resolved the biggest conundrum facing President Obama before the midterm elections.
That conundrum, which reclaims center stage in Washington this week, is this: Why is unemployment so high?
The whodunit has flummoxed economists in both parties for a year. In 2009, as the new Obama administration grappled with the financial crisis, joblessness rose nearly two points beyond customary recession forecasts. 
Part of the uncertainty concerns why. More consequential now, as the administration and Congress determine what to do, is whether the unemployment spike reflects a short-term or permanent shift in demand for workers.
''The stakes are enormous,'' said Alan S. Blinder, a Princeton economist who advised President Bill Clinton, because the answers are ''going to dictate the pace at which jobs come back.''
And that, in turn, may dictate whether Democrats keep control of Congress or surrender at least one chamber to Republicans. So long as the job market remains weak, even substantial achievements like the passage of new financial regulations won't alleviate voter discontent with the party in power.
With eight million jobs lost since the recession began, ''We're climbing out of a gigantic hole,'' said David Axelrod, Mr. Obama's top political adviser. ''Until we fill the hole, we'll get limited credit.''
Breaking Okun's Law
Unemployment began rising steadily as Mr. Obama, then a senator, wrapped up the Democratic presidential nomination in 2008. That May, the jobless rate increased to 5.4 percent; by December it reached 7.4 percent.
In January 2009, Mr. Obama's economic advisers predicted that unemployment would peak around 8 percent if Congress passed their recommended stimulus program. As Republicans never tire of pointing out now, the rate hit 10.1 percent by October and has fallen less than one percentage point since.
In part, the White House responds, that's because contraction of economic output was much larger than expected. Yet the rise in unemployment far exceeded what economists would have forecast even had they known that. Under Okun's Law, a formula for the relationship between output and unemployment described by the 1960s-era White House economist Arthur Okun, the jobless rate at the end of 2009 would have been around 8.3 percent instead of 10 percent.
''I don't blame the administration for being off in these forecasts,'' said R. Glenn Hubbard, dean of the Columbia Business School and chairman of the Council of Economic Advisers under President George W. Bush. He called the rise in unemployment ''a mystery.''
Christina Romer, who leads the council now for Mr. Obama, said, ''We've done a lot of things to look at possible explanations.''
Analysts looked into whether the troubled housing market created ''job-lock'' by preventing potential employees from selling homes and moving toward new opportunities. They also considered whether extended unemployment benefits deterred others from going back to work. But they concluded that such factors couldn't explain the magnitude of job losses.
Instead, their analysis pointed toward the effect of the financial crisis on business owners who reacted to the fear and uncertainty by laying off employees in extraordinary numbers.
The $787 billion stimulus law has lifted employment by roughly 2.5 million jobs, outside analyses have found, but that has not been enough to reduce the unemployment rate substantially. Nor are there signs that business investment or consumer demand will do so soon.
Finding a Path Out
A rapid productivity increase, as businesses got more output from fewer workers, raises the possibility that employers might make do with smaller payrolls long after economic conditions improve. ''That's the million dollar question,'' Ms. Romer said.
She and Mr. Hubbard agree that such a permanent shift is unlikely. But unsurprisingly, they disagree sharply on how to accelerate hiring now.
Mr. Hubbard suggests reduced business taxes. And he insists that Mr. Obama will deter small business hiring if he allows the Bush tax cuts for the highest earners to expire, since many of those earners run small businesses.
Obama advisers say extending those cuts would be an inefficient way to spur hiring. They favor two measures the Senate returns to this week: extended benefits for the unemployed, who they say are more likely to spend and spur the economy than top-earners are, and a new $30 billion small business lending program.
For Mr. Blinder, the former Clinton adviser, that doesn't go far enough. He favors New Deal-style hiring of workers onto public payrolls, since ''we're in pretty much a jobs emergency.''
At the White House, Mr. Axelrod says voters ''aren't necessarily prepared to turn back'' to the Republicans he says ''dug the hole'' of joblessness to start with. But unless Democrats make that argument more effectively, the jobs emergency will remain a political emergency for Mr. Obama and his party.
This is a more complete version of the story than the one that appeared in print.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Web Log

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); RECESSION (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); MIDTERM ELECTIONS (90%); ELECTIONS (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (89%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (89%); POLITICAL PARTIES (89%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (89%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (78%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (78%); WORKFORCE DEMAND (77%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (77%); LABOR SECTOR PERFORMANCE (77%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (77%); ECONOMIC POLICY (76%); BANKING & FINANCE (76%); EMPLOYMENT (75%); AGENCY RULEMAKING (71%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (89%); GEORGE W BUSH (58%); CHRISTINA ROMER (58%); BILL CLINTON (58%); DAVID AXELROD (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: July 19, 2010



469 of 785 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 19, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; EDITORIAL; Pg. 20

LENGTH: 308 words

HEADLINE: Albany's Latest Excuse to Shirk Its Duty

 BODY:
New York's state budget is now officially more than 15 weeks late. The main reason for the latest delay is that Gov. David Paterson and several Democratic senators whose votes are crucial want to give state universities more freedom to run their own campuses. New York's state universities badly need improvement, but the proposals on the table are not good enough and this is not the right time to do it. 
This emotional and complex debate should not be attached to the mess of a state budget.
New York's state university system suffers under the control of one of the worst legislatures in the country. The lawmakers in Albany have their thumb on everything from the cost of tuition to the purchase of school pianos, and they handle the job badly.
Tuition can spike in bad economic times when students can least afford it. In 2008, lawmakers allowed an increase, then took 80 percent of it back for general state operating funds. Students ended up working nights to pay for Albany's pork.
Mr. Paterson has proposed allowing all state universities more control over their operations -- an idea rejected noisily by the Assembly. Now, Democrats in the State Senate have come up with a flawed compromise. They have proposed that as many as four universities in the system be allowed to break out on their own, a kind of pilot program for campuses in Stony Brook, Buffalo, Albany and Binghamton.
But the plan does not offer assurances of enough scholarship money for poorer students. And there is not a firm enough promise that lawmakers will continue to support the state universities, without cutting funds whenever tuition goes up.
Giving New York's university system a few world-class campuses is a lofty idea. It just doesn't belong in a hastily drawn compromise as part of a very late budget. The Legislature should drop the idea and finish the budget.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Editorial

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LEGISLATIVE BODIES (91%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (90%); TUITION FEES (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); BUDGETS (90%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (90%); SCHOOL BUDGETS (89%); POLITICAL PARTIES (77%); COLLEGES & UNIVERSITIES (77%); SCHOLARSHIPS & GRANTS (77%); NIGHT & SHIFT WORK (68%); KEYBOARD INSTRUMENTS (54%)

PERSON: DAVID PATERSON (89%)

GEOGRAPHIC: ALBANY, NY, USA (91%); BINGHAMTON, NY, USA (74%) NEW YORK, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: July 19, 2010



470 of 785 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 19, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; REUTERS BREAKINGVIEWS; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 750 words

HEADLINE: Less Tension On Wall Street

BYLINE: By ROB COX, RICHARD BEALES and CHRISTOPHER HUGHES

 BODY:
Wall Street's summer may have officially started. Goldman Sachs last week settled fraud charges with the Securities and Exchange Commission. The Senate passed sweeping financial reform legislation. Even hapless BP appears to have finally capped its oil gusher in the Gulf of Mexico.
All that on Thursday afternoon, rounded out on Friday morning with the first profit increase in nine quarters for the economic bellwether General Electric. The financial industry can afford to take a breather, and maybe even to party. 
True, there are lots of open questions. The United States economy, for instance, is not out of the woods. G.E.'s chief, Jeffrey R. Immelt, says that the environment ''continues to improve,'' but the company's revenue still declined in the second quarter against a year earlier. And while Bank of America, Citigroup and JPMorgan Chase & Company all beat expectations for their second-quarter earnings, they still found the going relatively tough.
But there are also grounds for bankers to relax. Take Goldman: it is paying out a record $550 million to settle fraud allegations, admitting nothing except for incomplete disclosure. While investor lawsuits may still arise for Goldman and its rivals, it is hard to see the agreement with the S.E.C. as anything but a good outcome for the firm.
Then there is the sweeping Dodd-Frank financial reform package. The new rules will change Wall Street around the edges, and there are still many unknowns. But despite bleating, the changes contained in the bill will not threaten the finance industry's basic business model.
Last but far from least, BP seems to have succeeded at least temporarily in stopping any oil leaking into the ocean from its Macondo well for the first time since April 20. That doesn't just help cap the company's financial liabilities. It also suggests humankind is, however belatedly, capable of overcoming challenges that its own bumbling interactions with Mother Nature can produce.
Fold in other affirmations that not everything is as scrambled as the Greek economy -- decent growth in China, say -- and a relatively benign picture emerges with the potential to induce confidence. Greece and even Spain, despite the uplift of its World Cup victory, remain among the contingent worries for world markets. But if the closing hours of last week didn't give financiers reason to breathe easier and even celebrate -- despite a down stock market on Friday -- it is hard to see what will.
Reputation's Price
What is the value of reputation? BP's progress with its oil leak in the Gulf of Mexico gives support to recent estimates that the disaster could eventually cost the British company less than $30 billion. Goldman Sachs, meanwhile, took a $550 million slap on the wrist to settle fraud charges with the Securities and Exchange Commission.
But shareholders have paid a far heavier price for these episodes than the quantifiable damage suggests. That deficit has one obvious explanation: the cost of reputation harm. Goldman shares, for instance, rose only modestly after its deal with the regulator. That left its market capitalization at about $75 billion, around a fifth lower than its value on April 15, the last day before the S.E.C. filed charges.
Almost half of that loss is attributable to the fall in global equity markets, taking the MSCI World Index as a benchmark. After backing out the paltry penalty, there is a bit under $10 billion of value destruction to explain, or some 11 percent of Goldman's value, adjusted for falling markets.
It's a similar story at BP. The group is worth about $115 billion, about one-third less than its value before the gulf well blew on April 20. Adjust for the fall in global markets over the course of the spill, and back out the latest estimate of the likely costs of the cleanup and compensation, and there's still approaching $25 billion of value destruction to account for.
That is 14 percent of BP's adjusted market value. It would be too crude to conclude from this analysis that reputation is worth 11 to 14 percent of market capitalization, or that BP somehow has slightly higher ''reputation leverage'' than Goldman does. Both companies face continuing business challenges arising from their troubles, and the British oil company's predicament is still much more uncertain than Goldman's.
What is clear, though, is that reputation has huge value. Companies need to guard theirs vigilantly.
For more independent financial commentary and analysis, visit www.breakingviews.com.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Jeffrey R. Immelt, the chief of General Electric. G.E. reported its first profit increase in nine quarters on Friday. (PHOTOGRAPH BY DAVID PAUL MORRIS/BLOOMBERG NEWS) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BANKING & FINANCE (93%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); BANKING & FINANCE SECTOR PERFORMANCE (89%); SECURITIES LAW (89%); LEGISLATION (89%); SETTLEMENT & COMPROMISE (78%); LITIGATION (78%); STOCK EXCHANGES (78%); COMPANY EARNINGS (78%); 2010 GULF COAST OIL SPILL (77%); INTERIM FINANCIAL RESULTS (76%); 2010 WALL STREET & BANKING REFORM (74%); SHAREHOLDERS (73%); COMPANY REVENUES (69%)

COMPANY: GOLDMAN SACHS GROUP INC (92%); JPMORGAN CHASE & CO (84%); BANK OF AMERICA CORP (58%); CITIGROUP INC (58%); GENERAL ELECTRIC CO (57%)

ORGANIZATION: SECURITIES & EXCHANGE COMMISSION (84%)

TICKER: GS (NYSE) (92%); JPM (NYSE) (84%); JPM (LSE) (84%); 8634 (TSE) (84%); BAC (NYSE) (58%); BAC (LSE) (58%); 8648 (TSE) (58%); C (NYSE) (58%); C (BMV) (58%); 8710 (TSE) (58%); GNE (PAR) (57%); GEC (LSE) (57%); GE (SWX) (57%); GE (NYSE) (57%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (92%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (92%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (92%); SIC6289 SERVICES ALLIED WITH THE EXCHANGE OF SECURITIES OR COMMODITIES, NEC (92%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (92%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (92%); NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (84%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (84%); NAICS523999 MISCELLANEOUS FINANCIAL INVESTMENT ACTIVITIES (84%); SIC6022 STATE COMMERCIAL BANKS (84%); SIC6712 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (58%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (58%); NAICS522210 CREDIT CARD ISSUING (58%); NAICS336412 AIRCRAFT ENGINE & ENGINE PARTS MANUFACTURING (57%); NAICS335222 HOUSEHOLD REFRIGERATOR & HOME FREEZER MANUFACTURING (57%); NAICS335210 SMALL ELECTRICAL APPLIANCE MANUFACTURING (57%)

PERSON: JEFFREY IMMELT (70%)

GEOGRAPHIC: GULF OF MEXICO (93%); ATLANTIC OCEAN (92%) CHINA (79%); UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: July 19, 2010



471 of 785 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 19, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; OP-ED COLUMNIST; Pg. 21

LENGTH: 803 words

HEADLINE: The Pundit Delusion

BYLINE: By PAUL KRUGMAN

 BODY:
The latest hot political topic is the ''Obama paradox'' -- the supposedly mysterious disconnect between the president's achievements and his numbers. The line goes like this: The administration has had multiple big victories in Congress, most notably on health reform, yet President Obama's approval rating is weak. What follows is speculation about what's holding his numbers down: He's too liberal for a center-right nation. No, he's too intellectual, too Mr. Spock, for voters who want more passion. And so on.
But the only real puzzle here is the persistence of the pundit delusion, the belief that the stuff of daily political reporting -- who won the news cycle, who had the snappiest comeback -- actually matters. 
This delusion is, of course, most prevalent among pundits themselves, but it's also widespread among political operatives. And I'd argue that susceptibility to the pundit delusion is part of the Obama administration's problem.
What political scientists, as opposed to pundits, tell us is that it really is the economy, stupid. Today, Ronald Reagan is often credited with godlike political skills -- but in the summer of 1982, when the U.S. economy was performing badly, his approval rating was only 42 percent.
My Princeton colleague Larry Bartels sums it up as follows: ''Objective economic conditions -- not clever television ads, debate performances, or the other ephemera of day-to-day campaigning -- are the single most important influence upon an incumbent president's prospects for re-election.'' If the economy is improving strongly in the months before an election, incumbents do well; if it's stagnating or retrogressing, they do badly.
Now, the fact that ''ephemera'' don't matter seems reassuring, suggesting that voters aren't swayed by cheap tricks. Unfortunately, however, the evidence suggests that issues don't matter either, in part because voters are often deeply ill informed.
Suppose, for example, that you believed claims that voters are more concerned about the budget deficit than they are about jobs. (That's not actually true, but never mind.) Even so, how much credit would you expect Democrats to get for reducing the deficit?
None. In 1996 voters were asked whether the deficit had gone up or down under Bill Clinton. It had, in fact, plunged -- but a plurality of voters, and a majority of Republicans, said that it had risen.
There's no point berating voters for their ignorance: people have bills to pay and children to raise, and most don't spend their free time studying fact sheets. Instead, they react to what they see in their own lives and the lives of people they know. Given the realities of a bleak employment picture, Americans are unhappy -- and they're set to punish those in office.
What should Mr. Obama have done? Some political analysts, like Charlie Cook, say that he made a mistake by pursuing health reform, that he should have focused on the economy. As far as I can tell, however, these analysts aren't talking about pursuing different policies -- they're saying that he should have talked more about the subject. But what matters is actual economic results.
The best way for Mr. Obama to have avoided an electoral setback this fall would have been enacting a stimulus that matched the scale of the economic crisis. Obviously, he didn't do that. Maybe he couldn't have passed an adequate-sized plan, but the fact is that he didn't even try. True, senior economic officials reportedly downplayed the need for a really big effort, in effect overruling their staff; but it's also clear that political advisers believed that a smaller package would get more friendly headlines, and that the administration would look better if it won its first big Congressional test.
In short, it looks as if the administration itself was taken in by the pundit delusion, focusing on how its policies would play in the news rather than on their actual impact on the economy.
Republicans, by the way, seem less susceptible to this delusion. Since Mr. Obama took office, they have engaged in relentless obstruction, obviously unworried about how their actions would look or be reported. And it's working: by blocking Democratic efforts to alleviate the economy's woes, the G.O.P. is helping its chances of a big victory in November.
Can Mr. Obama do anything in the time that remains? Midterm elections, where turnout is crucial, aren't quite like presidential elections, where the economy is all. Mr. Obama's best hope at this point is to close the ''enthusiasm gap'' by taking strong stands that motivate Democrats to come out and vote. But I don't expect to see that happen.
What I expect, instead, if and when the midterms go badly, is that the usual suspects will say that it was because Mr. Obama was too liberal -- when his real mistake was doing too little to create jobs.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US PRESIDENTS (90%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (89%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (78%); LIBERALISM (78%); POLITICS (78%); ELECTIONS (78%); POLITICAL SCIENCE (78%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (78%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (78%); ECONOMIC RECOVERY (77%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (77%); HEALTH CARE POLICY (73%); OBAMA HEALTH CARE REFORM (73%); ECONOMIC NEWS (71%); BUDGETS (71%); BUDGET DEFICITS (65%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (90%); RONALD REAGAN (79%); BILL CLINTON (78%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: July 19, 2010



472 of 785 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 19, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 359 words

HEADLINE: LOOKING AHEAD

 BODY:
ECONOMIC REPORTS Data this week will include housing starts for June (Tuesday); and weekly jobless claims, existing home sales for June and leading economic indicators for June (Thursday). 
COMPANY EARNINGS Companies reporting earnings include Delta Air Lines, Halliburton, Hasbro, I.B.M. and Texas Instruments (Monday); Bank of New York Mellon, Biogen Idec, Goldman Sachs, Harley-Davidson, Johnson & Johnson, PepsiCo, State Street, TD Ameritrade, UAL, UnitedHealth, Whirlpool, Apple, Boston Scientific and Yahoo (Tuesday); Abbott Labs, Altria, BlackRock, Coca-Cola, Morgan Stanley, United Technologies, US Airways, Wells Fargo, CA, eBay, Qualcomm and Starbucks (Wednesday); 3M, AMR, AT&T, Bristol-Myers Squibb, Caterpillar, Continental Airlines, Eli Lilly, JetBlue Airways, The New York Times, United Parcel Service, Xerox, Amazon.com, American Express, E*Trade and Microsoft (Thursday); and Ford Motor, Honeywell, Kimberly-Clark, McDonald's, McGraw-Hill and Verizon Communications (Friday).
IN THE UNITED STATES The Senate is expected to vote to extend expired unemployment benefits; a House Financial Services subcommittee will conduct a hearing on oversight of the Securities and Exchange Commission; and a Food and Drug Administration advisory committee will discuss the cancer drug Avastin, made by Roche (Tuesday). President Obama is scheduled to sign financial reform legislation into law; the Federal Reserve chairman, Ben S. Bernanke, will deliver his semiannual report on the economy to the Senate Banking Committee; the S.E.C. will vote on a rule to require greater disclosure by investment advisers; and the House Financial Services Committee will conduct a hearing on proposals to increase capital requirements for banks (Wednesday). Mr. Bernanke will deliver his semiannual report on the economy to the House Financial Services Committee; and a Senate Homeland Security and Government Affairs subcommittee will conduct a hearing on the Gulf of Mexico oil spill, where executives of Anadarko Petroleum and Mitsui Oil Exploration are scheduled to testify (Thursday).
IN EUROPE European regulators will release results of bank stress tests (Friday).

GRAPHIC: PHOTO 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Schedule

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BANKING & FINANCE (92%); ECONOMIC NEWS (91%); COMPANY EARNINGS (91%); FINANCIAL RESULTS (90%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (90%); JOBLESS CLAIMS (90%); REAL ESTATE (90%); PHARMACEUTICALS INDUSTRY (90%); HOUSING MARKET (90%); PHARMACEUTICAL PREPARATION MFG (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); AIRLINES (90%); ECONOMIC INDICATORS (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (90%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (90%); HOUSING STARTS (90%); EXISTING HOME SALES (79%); MINING & EXTRACTION SECTOR PERFORMANCE (78%); UNEMPLOYMENT INSURANCE (78%); BANKING & FINANCE AGENCIES (77%); LEGISLATION (72%); INVESTMENT ADVISERS (71%); US PRESIDENTS (70%); PETROLEUM PRODUCTS (70%); CANCER DRUGS (66%); CANCER (66%); OIL SPILLS (62%); OIL EXPLORATION (62%)

COMPANY: GOLDMAN SACHS GROUP INC (90%); BANK OF NEW YORK MELLON CORP (85%); WELLS FARGO & CO (84%); ABBOTT LABORATORIES (84%); BIOGEN IDEC INC (83%); JOHNSON & JOHNSON (72%); JETBLUE AIRWAYS CORP (70%); DELTA AIR LINES INC (58%); TEXAS INSTRUMENTS INC (58%); PEPSICO INC (57%); VERIZON COMMUNICATIONS INC (57%); UNITED TECHNOLOGIES CORP (57%); BOSTON SCIENTIFIC CORP (57%); UNITED CONTINENTAL HOLDINGS INC (57%); QUALCOMM INC (57%); ALTRIA GROUP INC (57%); COCA-COLA CO (57%); TD AMERITRADE HOLDING CORP (57%); MORGAN STANLEY (57%); U S AIRWAYS GROUP INC (57%); UNITED PARCEL SERVICE INC (56%); AMAZON.COM INC (56%); BRISTOL-MYERS SQUIBB CO (56%); ELI LILLY & CO (56%); FORD MOTOR CO (56%); AMERICAN EXPRESS CO (56%); KIMBERLY-CLARK CORP (56%); MICROSOFT CORP (56%); ANADARKO PETROLEUM CORP (53%)

ORGANIZATION: SECURITIES & EXCHANGE COMMISSION (73%); FOOD & DRUG ADMINISTRATION (55%)

TICKER: GS (NYSE) (90%); BK (NYSE) (85%); WFC (NYSE) (84%); ABT (SWX) (84%); ABT (NYSE) (84%); ABT (LSE) (84%); ABL (FRA) (84%); BIIB (NASDAQ) (83%); JNJ (NYSE) (72%); JBLU (NASDAQ) (70%); DAL (NYSE) (58%); TXN (NASDAQ) (58%); PEP (NYSE) (57%); VZC (LSE) (57%); VZ (NYSE) (57%); UTX (NYSE) (57%); BSX (NYSE) (57%); UAL (NYSE) (57%); QCOM (NASDAQ) (57%); MO (NYSE) (57%); KO (NYSE) (57%); AMTD (NYSE) (57%); MS (NYSE) (57%); LCC (NYSE) (57%); UPS (NYSE) (56%); AMZN (NASDAQ) (56%); BMY (NYSE) (56%); LLY (SWX) (56%); LLY (NYSE) (56%); LEL (LSE) (56%); FORDP (PAR) (56%); F (NYSE) (56%); AXP (NYSE) (56%); KMB (NYSE) (56%); MSFT (NASDAQ) (56%); APC (NYSE) (53%)

INDUSTRY: SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (90%); NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (90%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (90%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (90%); SIC6289 SERVICES ALLIED WITH THE EXCHANGE OF SECURITIES OR COMMODITIES, NEC (90%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (90%); NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (85%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (85%); SIC6712 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (85%); NAICS325412 PHARMACEUTICAL PREPARATION MANUFACTURING (84%); NAICS325411 MEDICINAL & BOTANICAL MANUFACTURING (84%); NAICS339113 SURGICAL APPLIANCE & SUPPLIES MANUFACTURING (84%); NAICS339112 SURGICAL & MEDICAL INSTRUMENT MANUFACTURING (84%); NAICS325413 IN-VITRO DIAGNOSTIC SUBSTANCE MANUFACTURING (84%); NAICS541720 RESEARCH & DEVELOPMENT IN THE SOCIAL SCIENCES & HUMANITIES (83%); NAICS325414 BIOLOGICAL PRODUCT (EXCEPT DIAGNOSTIC) MANUFACTURING (83%); NAICS334510 ELECTROMEDICAL & ELECTROTHERAPEUTIC APPARATUS MANUFACTURING (72%); NAICS339115 OPHTHALMIC GOODS MANUFACTURING (72%); NAICS325620 TOILET PREPARATION MANUFACTURING (72%); SIC2836 BIOLOGICAL PRODUCTS, EXCEPT DIAGNOSTIC SUBSTANCES (72%); NAICS481111 SCHEDULED PASSENGER AIR TRANSPORTATION (70%); SIC4512 AIR TRANSPORTATION, SCHEDULED (70%); NAICS334413 SEMICONDUCTOR & RELATED DEVICE MANUFACTURING (58%); NAICS333318 OTHER COMMERCIAL & SERVICE INDUSTRY MACHINERY MANUFACTURING (58%); SIC3674 SEMICONDUCTORS & RELATED DEVICES (58%); SIC3578 CALCULATING & ACCOUNTING MACHINERY, EXCEPT ELECTRONIC COMPUTERS (58%); NAICS312111 SOFT DRINK MANUFACTURING (57%); NAICS311919 OTHER SNACK FOOD MANUFACTURING (57%); SIC2096 POTATO CHIPS, CORN CHIPS, & SIMILAR SNACKS (57%); SIC2086 BOTTLED & CANNED SOFT DRINKS & CARBONATED WATER (57%); NAICS517210 WIRELESS TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (EXCEPT SATELLITE) (57%); NAICS517110 WIRED TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (57%); NAICS336412 AIRCRAFT ENGINE & ENGINE PARTS MANUFACTURING (57%); NAICS333921 ELEVATOR & MOVING STAIRWAY MANUFACTURING (57%); NAICS333415 AIR-CONDITIONING & WARM AIR HEATING EQUIPMENT & COMMERCIAL & INDUSTRIAL REFRIGERATION EQUIPMENT MANUFACTURING (57%); SIC3845 ELECTROMEDICAL & ELECTROTHERAPEUTIC APPARATUS (57%); SIC3842 ORTHOPEDIC, PROSTHETIC, & SURGICAL APPLIANCES & SUPPLIES (57%); SIC3841 SURGICAL & MEDICAL INSTRUMENTS & APPARATUS (57%); NAICS481112 SCHEDULED FREIGHT AIR TRANSPORTATION (57%); NAICS334220 RADIO & TELEVISION BROADCASTING & WIRELESS COMMUNICATIONS EQUIPMENT MANUFACTURING (57%); NAICS312230 TOBACCO MANUFACTURING (57%); SIC2111 CIGARETTES (57%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (57%); NAICS541614 PROCESS, PHYSICAL DISTRIBUTION & LOGISTICS CONSULTING SERVICES (56%); NAICS488510 FREIGHT TRANSPORTATION ARRANGEMENT (56%); NAICS484121 GENERAL FREIGHT TRUCKING, LONG-DISTANCE, TRUCKLOAD (56%); NAICS454111 ELECTRONIC SHOPPING (56%); SIC5961 CATALOG & MAIL-ORDER HOUSES (56%); SIC2834 PHARMACEUTICAL PREPARATIONS (56%); NAICS336112 LIGHT TRUCK & UTILITY VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (56%); NAICS336111 AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING (56%); SIC3711 MOTOR VEHICLES & PASSENGER CAR BODIES (56%); NAICS522210 CREDIT CARD ISSUING (56%); SIC6141 PERSONAL CREDIT INSTITUTIONS (56%); NAICS322291 SANITARY PAPER PRODUCT MANUFACTURING (56%); SIC2676 SANITARY PAPER PRODUCTS (56%); NAICS511210 SOFTWARE PUBLISHERS (56%); SIC7372 PREPACKAGED SOFTWARE (56%); NAICS486210 PIPELINE TRANSPORTATION OF NATURAL GAS (53%); NAICS324110 PETROLEUM REFINERIES (53%); NAICS221210 NATURAL GAS DISTRIBUTION (53%); NAICS213111 DRILLING OIL & GAS WELLS (53%); NAICS212111 BITUMINOUS COAL & LIGNITE SURFACE MINING (53%); NAICS211111 CRUDE PETROLEUM & NATURAL GAS EXTRACTION (53%)

PERSON: BEN BERNANKE (59%); BARACK OBAMA (51%)

GEOGRAPHIC: GULF OF MEXICO (79%); ATLANTIC OCEAN (70%) UNITED STATES (92%); EUROPE (79%)

LOAD-DATE: July 19, 2010



473 of 785 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 19, 2010
The New York Times on the Web

SECTION: Section ; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 

LENGTH: 790 words

HEADLINE: Senior E.U. Emissary Visits Gaza

BYLINE: By ISABEL KERSHNER and FARES AKRAM; Isabel Kershner reported from Jerusalem and Fares Akram reported from Gaza. Mona El-Naggar contributed reporting from Cairo.

 BODY:
JERUSALEM -- The European Union's top foreign policy official visited Gaza on Sunday and called for further pressure on Israel to allow freer movement of people and goods out of the Palestinian territory.
The official, the European Union's high representative for foreign affairs and security policy, Catherine Ashton, was the most senior foreign emissary to visit to Gaza since Israel's recent decision to ease its blockade of the territory, which is governed by the anti-Israel militant group Hamas.
At the same time, Israel and the United States pressed on with efforts to get the more moderate, West Bank-based Palestinian leadership to enter into direct peace talks with Israel. 
Israel's prime minister, Benjamin Netanyahu, the Obama administration's envoy, George J. Mitchell, and the Palestinian Authority president, Mahmoud Abbas, held separate meetings in Cairo on Sunday with Egypt's president, Hosni Mubarak.
Mr. Mitchell had already held talks with the Israeli and Palestinian leaders over the weekend.
Though little was said about the meetings in Cairo, the partners to the peace process likely went to update Mr. Mubarak and to solicit his help. (Before leaving for Cairo, Mr. Netanyahu said that he intended to talk to the Egyptian president ''about ways to accelerate the entry into direct negotiations.'')
The Palestinians have been reluctant to move to direct negotiations. Mr. Abbas has said that he first wants to see progress on issues of borders and security in the American-brokered, indirect talks.
Egyptian Foreign Minister Ahmed Aboul Gheit was the only representative of the parties to deliver a public statement after the meetings.
''The gap is still wide between both parties,'' he said. If Israel made ''a strong and strategic move to deepen the Palestinian trust,'' he added, ''we would be able to encourage the Palestinians to move to direct negotiations.''
Amr Moussa, the secretary general of the Arab League, which gave its approval for the indirect talks, said in Cairo on Sunday, ''We cannot automatically move from one negotiation to another without written guarantees,'' according to Agence France-Presse.
Israel is considering confidence-building measures to propel the Palestinians toward direct talks.
One sign of change came with easing of the Gaza blockade, a result of intense international pressure after Israel's deadly naval commando raid on a Turkish boat that was trying to breach the naval blockade in late May.
Israel says it is now allowing all civilian goods into the territory through the land crossings, and is only preventing the entry of weapons or materials that could present a security risk
The move was greeted abroad with cautious praise.
''What needs to happen now,'' Ms. Ashton told reporters in Gaza, ''is continued international pressure to move forward.'' She said that the European Union wants to see people being able to move freely in and out of Gaza, and for Israel to allow exports.
Israel has pledged to encourage economic activity in Gaza; many local industries there closed down, unable to import raw materials or export their produce because of the three-year blockade, which Israel imposed with Egypt's help in order to pressure Hamas.
In Gaza, Ms. Ashton visited the Middle East Pharmaceutical & Cosmetics Lab Company and the Abu Eidah Company for Concrete and Construction, two beneficiaries of a European Union program to help reconstruct Gaza's private sector. The European Union has pledged a total of 22 million euros for that end.
Ms. Ashton did not meet with any Hamas officials since the European Union, like Israel and the United States, views Hamas as a terrorist group.
Israel's three-week military offensive against Hamas in Gaza in the winter of 2008-9 also caused widespread devastation. Reconstruction efforts were severely hampered as Israel prohibited the entry of most building materials, fearing that Hamas would use them to manufacture rockets or build fortifications.
Recently, Israel has been allowing in construction materials for specific building projects that are supervised by an international body and that have the approval of Hamas's rival, the Palestinian Authority. More than 30 new projects have been approved or are in the process of receiving approval since the government decision, including the construction or upgrading of wastewater treatment plants, classrooms and clinics, according to an official from the Israeli government department that coordinates civilian activities in Gaza and the West Bank.
But Israeli officials have ruled out allowing construction materials for the private sector for now, as well as any imminent resumption of exports from Gaza or opening of additional land crossings to increase capacity, citing security concerns.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (92%); FOREIGN RELATIONS (90%); PEACE PROCESS (90%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (90%); TALKS & MEETINGS (90%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (90%); FOREIGN POLICY (90%); EUROPEAN UNION (90%); HAMAS (78%); STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (78%); PUBLIC POLICY (78%); US PRESIDENTS (75%); PRIME MINISTERS (69%); APPROVALS (68%)

COMPANY: AGENCE FRANCE-PRESSE (52%)

ORGANIZATION: EUROPEAN UNION (91%); HAMAS (57%)

INDUSTRY: SIC7375 INFORMATION RETRIEVAL SERVICES (52%)

PERSON: BENJAMIN NETANYAHU (73%); GEORGE J MITCHELL (68%); HOSNI MUBARAK (67%); MAHMOUD ABBAS (58%); BARACK OBAMA (58%); BARONESS ASHTON OF UPHOLLAND (56%)

GEOGRAPHIC: JERUSALEM, ISRAEL (92%); CAIRO, EGYPT (90%) PALESTINIAN TERRITORY, OCCUPIED (99%); ISRAEL (97%); EGYPT (94%); EUROPE (94%); UNITED STATES (92%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (90%)

LOAD-DATE: July 19, 2010



474 of 785 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 19, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; The Arts/Cultural Desk; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 747 words

HEADLINE: What's On Today

BYLINE: By KATHRYN SHATTUCK

 BODY:
9 P.M. (VH1) THE 2010 VH1 DO SOMETHING AWARDS Jane Lynch, left, hosts this ceremony honoring the best ''world changers'' ages 25 and under, including five who will compete for $100,000. The finalists, voted on by viewers, are Jessica Posner, who founded a free school for girls in a slum of Nairobi, Kenya; Micaela Connery, who began a theater program for developmentally disabled students in New England; Mark Rembert, who started up a sustainable jobs program in Ohio; Wilfredo Perez Jr., who initiated a public health program in Haiti; and Jacqueline Murekatete, who founded a genocide awareness center in New York. Celebrities will earn kudos for philanthropic work in separate categories. Natasha Bedingfield, Travie McCoy and Lifehouse will perform. ''Behind the Music,'' which focuses on the life and career of Usher, leads in at 8.
7 P.M. (13, 49) PBS NEWSHOUR In a three-night series, Paul Solman reports on the Greek debt crisis. 
7 P.M. (TBS) SEINFELD TBS pays tribute to George Steinbrenner, principal owner of the New York Yankees, who died on Tuesday, with five nights of back-to-back episodes in which George Costanza (Jason Alexander) works for the team. The celebration gets rolling with ''The Opposite,'' in which George convinces Steinbrenner (voiced by Larry David and portrayed by Lee Bear, above, who is seen only from behind) to hire him. In ''The Secretary,'' at 7:30, George discovers that Steinbrenner's assistant makes more than he does.
8 P.M. (ABC) THE BACHELORETTE Ali takes the three remaining bachelors -- Chris L., Frank and Roberto -- to Tahiti, where she will have the chance to invite each of the men to spend the night in a ''fantasy suite.'' But then Frank delivers some nightmarish news.
8 P.M. (Fox) LIE TO ME Torres (Monica Raymund) reunites with her sister (Alyssa Diaz), who is in a juvenile prison, after another inmate goes missing. In ''The Good Guys,'' at 9, Jack (Colin Hanks) and Dan (Bradley Whitford) suspect that rumors of a bank heist are just a cover for a more extreme plot.
8 P.M. (TRAVEL) SAMANTHA BROWN'S ASIA Ms. Brown samples Chinese traditions and takes in the sights in Hong Kong and Macao. ''Anthony Bourdain: No Reservations,'' at 10, follows its star to Liberia, which was settled by freed American slaves, who founded a republic in 1847.
9 P.M. (Lifetime) THE CLIENT LIST (2010) In this ripped-from-the-headlines tale Jennifer Love Hewitt plays Samantha Horton, a former Texas homecoming queen and mother of three who goes to work at a massage parlor after she and her husband lose their jobs. What she doesn't realize is that the other masseuses are prostitutes, and that their clients are some of the state's most powerful businessmen. After a police bust, Samantha must decide whether to go to jail or open her little black book.
9 P.M. (TNT) THE CLOSER Capt. Sharon Raydor (Mary McDonnell) shows up to help Brenda (Kyra Sedgwick) investigate the disappearance of a nanny with connections to the mayor. In ''Rizzoli & Isles,'' at 10, a Boston Strangler copycat incites panic.
9 P.M. (HBO) LUCKY (2010) Despite the staggering odds -- 195,249,054 to 1 -- one in five Americans still believe they have what it takes to win big in Powerball's multistate lottery. Jeffrey Blitz looks at what happened when dreams came true for Quang, a Vietnamese immigrant and one of eight Nebraska plant workers to win $22 million each; Kristine and Steve, who took home $110 million in the Pennsylvania Lottery and traded in middle-class life in Skillman, N.J., for an affluent community in the South; Buddy, a local hero whose life fell apart after winning $16 million; and Verna, who for 30 years has spent up to $100 a day on lottery tickets -- and still thinks she's going to hit the jackpot. Soon.
9 P.M. (Logo) RuPAUL'S DRAG U RuPaul and a drag queen entourage help ordinary women find the divas within. Test case No. 1: a trio of tomboys.
10 P.M. (TLC) FABULOUS CAKES This new series samples the wares of high-end bakeries around the country, beginning in Las Vegas, where more than 100,000 newly wedded couples smash cakes into faces each year.
10 P.M. (13) TURMOIL AND TRIUMPH: THE GEORGE SHULTZ YEARS Part 2 of this three-night documentary about George P. Shultz, secretary of state under President Ronald Reagan, covers the assassination of the Philippines dissident Ninoy Aquino and the election of his widow, Corazon, as president; the Iran hostage crisis; and relations with the Soviet leader Mikhail S. Gorbachev. KATHRYN SHATTUCK

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Schedule

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: NETWORK TELEVISION (88%); CELEBRITIES (78%); PUBLIC TELEVISION (77%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (76%); THEATER (76%); PROFILES & BIOGRAPHIES (73%); SLAVERY (71%); ETHNIC CONFLICTS (71%); JUVENILE JUSTICE (71%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (67%); BASEBALL (66%); BANK ROBBERY (60%); DEVELOPMENTAL DISABILITIES (56%); DISABLED PERSONS (56%); PHILANTHROPY (54%); GREEK DEBT CRISIS (52%); DEBT CRISIS (52%); EURO CRISIS (52%)

ORGANIZATION: NEW YORK YANKEES (55%)

PERSON: LARRY DAVID (79%); JENNIFER LOVE HEWITT (54%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); NAIROBI, KENYA (72%) NEW YORK, USA (90%); NORTHEAST USA (88%) KENYA (92%); UNITED STATES (90%); HAITI (72%); CHINA (66%); HONG KONG (66%); ASIA (66%); MACAO (51%)

LOAD-DATE: July 19, 2010



475 of 785 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 19, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 1175 words

HEADLINE: Inside the Times

 BODY:
International
BEATING BY POLICE STIRS CALLS
For Change in Egypt
The beating death of a man named Khaled Said by the Egyptian police spawned weeks of protests and newspaper headlines. The accused officers were taken into custody, and opposition figures and human rights workers are suggesting that Mr. Said's case could be a turning point in their long and previously fruitless campaign to root out what they call a culture of abuse. PAGE A4
LAWBREAKING AND GAZING
A secretive youth subculture has taken shape around Moscow. Its adherents are called roofers, and they delight in gaining access to the low-slung city's buildings not for criminal intent, but to scamper up to the roofs to gape at the surrounding landscape. PAGE A6 
VIOLENCE PRECEDES SUMMIT
Insurgents used a prison break, a suicide attack and homemade bombs to make their presence felt just two days before a major international conference that is to bring dozens of foreign ministers to Kabul. PAGE A10
THAIS FIGHT INFESTATION
Entomologists deployed the first wave of an army of 250,000 tiny wasps over the weekend in a campaign to eradicate a plague of mealybugs that threatens to devastate Thailand's $1.5 billion cassava crop. PAGE A10
National
UNEMPLOYMENT REMAINS
Challenge for White House
The question of why unemployment remains so high has flummoxed economists in both parties for a year. More consequential now, as the administration and Congress determine what to do, is whether the unemployment spike reflects a permanent shift in demand for workers, which may dictate whether Democrats keep control of Congress or surrender at least one chamber to Republicans. PAGE A13
CASUALTY OF GOOD INTENTIONS
In an effort to qualify for millions of dollars in stimulus money for its schools, the school district of Burlington, Vt., removed Joyce Irvine from her post as principal of Wheeler Elementary School, even though she was highly regarded by parents and the faculty. Michael Winerip, On Education. PAGE A11
BIDEN UNFAZED BY REMARKS
Vice President Joseph R. Biden Jr. said that he did not feel personally attacked by the derisive remarks by Gen. Stanley A. McChrystal and his aides in a magazine article published last month. But Mr. Biden suggested that General McChrystal's firing as the top commander in Afghanistan was necessary. PAGE A11
New York
M.T.A. DEFICIT MEANS
Riders May Pay More
The Metropolitan Transportation Authority, aiming to curtail a budget deficit projected at $400 million, is set to unveil plans to reduce the off-peak discount on the Long Island Rail Road and possibly place limits on the so-called unlimited MetroCards, which offer monthly and weekly passes for the bus and subway system. PAGE A15
Business
IN ONLINE JOURNALISM,
Burnout Starts Younger
Young journalists who once dreamed of trotting the globe in pursuit of a story are instead shackled to their computers, where they try to eke out a fresh thought or be first to report even the smallest nugget of news -- anything that will impress Google algorithms and draw readers their way. PAGE B1
CONCERN FOR WEB SCREENERS
With the rise of Web sites built around material submitted by users, screeners of that content have never been in greater demand. The surge in Internet-screening services has brought a growing awareness that the jobs can have mental health consequences for the reviewers, who often see violent and graphic images. PAGE B1
DEFENDING THE IPHONE
When Steve Jobs took the stage on Friday to defend the iPhone 4 against criticism that it had reception problems, he made his feelings about the press abundantly, peevishly clear. David Carr, The Media Equation. PAGE B1
DISTRIBUTING DOCUMENTARIES
SnagFilms, until now an ad-supported online aggregator of documentary films with a journalistic adjunct in its IndieWIRE news service, is expected to announce a series of deals that will make it a significant distributor of documentaries through a half-dozen on-demand services. PAGE B2
PARTNERSHIPS OF UNEQUALS
Technology start-ups and big companies work together all the time -- refining ideas, seeking mutual advantage and accelerating the pace of development of new products and services. But these odd-couple relationships can be fraught with peril. PAGE B6
WEB TV BOOMS IN CHINA
Internet TV has taken off in China, where about 300 million people use a computer to watch Chinese TV every month. The shift has not gone unnoticed by the authorities in Beijing. PAGE B2
Arts
'INCEPTION' EXCEEDS DREAMS,
But 'Apprentice' Struggles
''Inception,'' a complex dramatic thriller about dream invasion, was No. 1 at North American theaters over the weekend with $60.4 million in ticket sales, giving its star, Leonardo DiCaprio, the biggest opening of his career. It was not as pretty a picture for Walt Disney Studios and the producer Jerry Bruckheimer, whose movie ''The Sorcerer's Apprentice,'' which cost $150 million to make, sold just $17.4 million for the weekend for a five-day total of $24.5 million. PAGE C1
SHOW OF GENERATION GAPS
Jon Caramanica writes that this year's iteration of the Warped Tour, the annual punk roadshow that boosts bands on the way up and catches them on the way down, felt unmoored, without any animating tension. PAGE C1
A FRESH TAKE ON GROWING UP
Rachel Saltz writes that ''Udaan,'' a coming-of-age film by Vikramaditya Motwane, is a kind of Indian cousin to Truffaut's ''400 Blows,'' and is an impressive debut that covers familiar ground with emotional conviction and freshness. PAGE C2
NEW LABEL FOR INDIAN MUSIC
Universal Music says it has agreed to team with Desi Hits!, a company that promotes South Asian entertainment on desihits.com, to create a label for musicians from India or with South Asian roots. The goal is to reach a global audience. PAGE C3
Sports
A COMPLICATED BATTLE
Over a Team's Future
The Texas Rangers' on-field juggernaut is in stark contrast to the franchise's soap opera off the field. Few team sales have been mired in as much financial turmoil as the Rangers, and few have so clearly illustrated the problems that a team owner saddled with debt can face as the economy struggles to recover from a severe recession. PAGE D1
WOODS IDENTIFIES A PROBLEM
Tiger Woods went to Scotland thinking he could win the British Open. When he departed after tying for 23rd, he was satisfied only in that he knew why he never really had a chance: his uncharacteristically mediocre putting. PAGE D3
Obituaries
PAULO MOURA, 77
A virtuoso instrumentalist and a composer, arranger and orchestrator of numerous styles of Brazilian popular music, he was known for his versatility, playing and writing music that ranged in style from jazz, chorinho, samba and bossa nova to classical. PAGE D8
MARRACK I. GOULDING, 74
For seven years, he served as an under secretary general of the United Nations and oversaw peacekeeping missions around the world -- at times coming under fire himself.
PAGE D8
Op-ed
PAUL KRUGMAN PAGE A19
ROSS DOUTHAT PAGE A19
Online
AUDIO SLIDE SHOW An American-owned company has committed to paying Dominican workers a living wage that is three times the local average.
nytimes.com/business

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Summary

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PROTESTS & DEMONSTRATIONS (90%); URBAN RAIL SYSTEMS (89%); URBAN TRANSIT SYSTEMS (84%); EDUCATION SYSTEMS & INSTITUTIONS (79%); WRITERS (77%); JOURNALISM (77%); WORKFORCE DEMAND (77%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (75%); TERRORIST ATTACKS (74%); STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (74%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (74%); ELECTRONIC PUBLISHING (72%); NEWS BRIEFS (72%); BUDGETS (71%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (70%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (70%); CITY GOVERNMENT (70%); REBELLIONS & INSURGENCIES (69%); SCHOOL DISTRICTS (69%); EDUCATION ADMINISTRATION (69%); IMPROVISED EXPLOSIVE DEVICES (69%); SUICIDE BOMBINGS (69%); SCHOOL PRINCIPALS (69%); CONFERENCES & CONVENTIONS (69%); BOMBS & EXPLOSIVE DEVICES (69%); PRIMARY SCHOOLS (68%); BIOLOGY (67%); ENTOMOLOGY (67%); INTERNET JOURNALISM (60%); BUDGET DEFICITS (60%); HUMAN RIGHTS (57%)

PERSON: JOE BIDEN (76%); STANLEY A MCCHRYSTAL (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: KABUL, AFGHANISTAN (79%); BURLINGTON, VT, USA (53%) VERMONT, USA (79%); NEW YORK, USA (79%) EGYPT (93%); AFGHANISTAN (91%); THAILAND (87%); UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: July 19, 2010



476 of 785 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 20, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1146 words

HEADLINE: A City Outsources Everything. California's Sky Doesn't Fall.

BYLINE: By DAVID STREITFELD

 BODY:
MAYWOOD, Calif. -- Not once, not twice, but three times in the last two weeks, Andrew Quezada says, he was stopped and questioned by the authorities here.
Mr. Quezada, a high school student who does volunteer work for the city, pronounced himself delighted.
''I'm walking along at night carrying an overstuffed bag,'' he said, describing two of the incidents. ''I look suspicious. This shows the sheriff's department is doing its job.''
Chalk up another Maywood resident who approves of this city's unusual experience in municipal governing. City officials last month fired all of Maywood's employees and outsourced their jobs.
While many communities are fearfully contemplating extensive cuts, Maywood says it is the first city in the nation in the current downturn to take an ax to everyone. 
The school crossing guards were let go. Parking enforcement was contracted out, City Hall workers dismissed, street maintenance workers made redundant. The public safety duties of the Police Department were handed over to the Los Angeles County Sheriff's Department.
At first, people in this poor, long-troubled and heavily Hispanic city southeast of Los Angeles braced for anarchy.
Senior citizens were afraid they would be assaulted as they walked down the street. Parents worried the parks would be shut and their children would have nowhere to safely play. Landlords said their tenants had begun suggesting that without city-run services they would no longer feel obliged to pay rent.
The apocalypse never arrived. In fact, it seems this city was so bad at being a city that outsourcing -- so far, at least -- is being viewed as an act of municipal genius.
''We don't want to be the model for other cities to lay off their employees,'' said Magdalena Prado, a spokeswoman for the city who works on contract. ''But our residents have been somewhat pleased.''
That includes Mayor Ana Rosa Rizo, who was gratified to see her husband get a parking ticket on July 1, hours after the Police Department had been disbanded. The ticket was issued by enforcement clerks for the neighboring city of Bell, which is being paid about $50,000 a month by Maywood to perform various services.
The reaction is all the more remarkable because this is not a feel-good city. City Council hearings run hot, council members face repeated recall efforts and city officials fight in public. ''You single-handedly destroyed the city,'' the city treasurer told the City Council at its most recent meeting.
Four years ago, in what was probably the high-water mark of acrimony in Maywood, a deputy city clerk was arrested and accused of soliciting a hit man to kill a city councilman. The deputy clerk, Hector Duarte, was concerned that his salary might be reduced or his job eliminated during a previous round of bad fiscal times; he was sentenced to a year in jail and six months of anger management counseling.
This time, the councilman, Felipe Aguirre, has received no threats and has seen remarkably little anger. ''This is a very bad economy,'' said Mr. Aguirre, who like the mayor and fellow council members receives a stipend from the city of $347 every two weeks. Even if city employees lose their benefits, he said, ''very good workers are still going to hang around.''
Jose B. Garcia, an assistant city planner, will now be working on contract. ''I still have a job,'' he said. ''In that sense, I can't complain too much.''
Maywood, which covers slightly more than one square mile, is one of the most densely populated cities in the country. The official population of 30,000 is believed to considerably understate the actual total of about 50,000.
It has some of the ills that plague other cities. Property taxes, a primary source of revenue, have declined to $900,000 from $1.2 million in 2007. Sales taxes have also dropped. But Maywood's biggest problem by far has been its police department.
A report by the state attorney general last year concluded the culture of the department ''is one permeated with sexual innuendo, harassment, vulgarity, discourtesy to members of the public as well as among officers, and a lack of cultural, racial and ethnic sensitivity and respect.''
There are $19 million in claims pending against the police, which made it effectively impossible for the city to get insurance for any of its employees. If Maywood did not dismiss the municipal work force, officials said, bankruptcy would have been the only option. The total number of laid-off employees, including those in the Police Department, was about 60, city officials said.
''Just like the driver who has three and then four and then five accidents, things were starting to look ugly,'' said Angela Spaccia, the acting city manager who is on loan from the city of Bell.
The budget for the Police Department last year was nearly $8 million, more than half of Maywood's revenues. The contract with the Los Angeles County Sheriff's Department will cost about half of that. Insurance premiums for the city have fallen to $200,000 from $1 million.
The deputies have already engendered good will, Councilman Aguirre said, by cracking down on a local hotel that was a haven for prostitution.
And others said they have seen an increased police presence in the last few weeks. ''The deputies are there right away,'' said Maria Mendez, who has lived in Maywood for most of her 73 years. ''Before you used to wait and wait for the police.''
One reason for the general enthusiasm might lie in the fact that many of the nonpolice workers have been rehired on contract, so in some cases the faces encountered by the public remain the same. In other words, no one has noticed much going wrong because there was not much to notice in the first place.
The five crossing guards, for instance, are doing the same work but are paid by a security company.
And it is possible the bad news is just slow in arriving. Maywood has dabbled in contracting before, and it has run awry in some instances. Skeptics cited the example of two handball courts in a Maywood park. City officials said it cost an outsized sum -- hundreds of thousands of dollars -- for a contractor to build three concrete walls.
A few people, extrapolating from personal experience, are convinced that the city is still on a downward path.
Jerald Bennett was on his way to the $2 seniors' lunch at the bustling Maywood recreational center when another car made an illegal turn and almost rammed him. ''It seems like that sort of thing is happening more and more,'' he said. ''They're not patrolling the streets.''
For others, however, the celebration here is practically palpable. Freed from its employees, Maywood has nowhere to go but up, they say.
''Remember the Soviet Union?'' said Hector Alvarado, who heads a civic advocacy group. ''They had a lot of bureaucracy, and they lost. Maywood was like that. Now people know if they don't work, they will be laid off. Much better this way.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Sgt. Enrique Gonzalez, left, and other Maywood, Calif., officers during the department's last inspection before being disbanded. (PHOTOGRAPH BY GINA FERAZZI/THE LOS ANGELES TIMES, VIA ASSOCIATED PRESS)
 Despite Maywood's financial difficulties, the opening ceremonies for its Little League program were still held on Saturday. (PHOTOGRAPH BY J. EMILIO FLORES FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) (A3) MAP: Maywood sits in a struggling area of Los Angeles County. (A3) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: DISMISSALS (90%); OUTSOURCING (90%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (90%); SHERIFFS (90%); CITY GOVERNMENT (90%); CITIES (90%); LAYOFFS (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); POLICE FORCES (89%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (89%); SCHOOL SAFETY & SECURITY (77%); CHILDREN (77%); HIGH SCHOOLS (77%); WAGES & SALARIES (75%); MAYORS (75%); PARKING OFFENSES (73%); VOLUNTEERS (72%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (71%); ARRESTS (71%); ROAD & BRIDGE MAINTENANCE (67%); HIGHWAYS & STREETS (53%); SENIOR CITIZENS (51%)

GEOGRAPHIC: LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (79%) CALIFORNIA, USA (96%) UNITED STATES (96%)

LOAD-DATE: July 20, 2010



477 of 785 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 20, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; ITINERARIES; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 900 words

HEADLINE: Pursuing the Premium Flier

BYLINE: By CHRISTINE NEGRONI

 BODY:
How does a private jet service woo customers in the middle of a recession? Go after the first-class airline passenger, of course. Two fractional jet ownership companies have announced agreements with foreign carriers that would let them pursue airlines' premium customers.
CitationAir of Greenwich, Conn., has opened its members-only private jet service to British Airways customers traveling in the United States, while Flexjet of Richardson, Tex., will join with Korean Air. Both private jet operators say success will be measured one new passenger at a time. 
''If we got one every day, it would be a home run,'' said Woody B. Harford, senior vice president at CitationAir. ''At $6,000, $8,000 or $10,000 an hour, that's massive growth in revenues. We're not selling coach seats.''
When the economy was good, fractional jet companies did a booming business. CitationAir, owned by Cessna, and Flexjet, owned by Bombardier, were effective sales arms for their parent companies. Together, they took delivery of 200 small jets from 2002 to 2008. Customers seeking the kind of luxury, privacy and convenience not available on commercial airplanes could buy a fraction of a business jet, though it was not cheap, as Mr. Harford acknowledged.
The smallest share -- one thirty-second of his company's smallest jet, the six-passenger CJ3 -- cost $137,500, while a quarter share in the largest jet, the nine-passenger Sovereign, costs a little under $2.5 million.
In the economic downturn, however, aircraft sales stalled and demand for private jet service plummeted. NetJets, the largest operator and the company that 24 years ago pioneered the concept of fractional jet ownership, laid off 1,200 of its 8,300 workers, changed its top executive and found itself buying back dozens of airplanes from its customers that it could not sell off or fly.
''Certainly it has been a difficult time everywhere from manufacturers to owners,'' said David Sokol, chief executive of NetJets.
Ira Riklis, of Lydia Security Monitoring, a home security firm, said he was cautious three years ago when he bought a card from Flexjet that was a commitment to prepurchase a set number of flight hours -- but ended up using the plane so much he traded the card for a share in a Learjet 40. In a recent interview, he said his concern was not how much it would cost to send employees to meetings on his business jet but rather about how much he would save.
''Managing is about dealing with limited resources,'' he said. ''In the case of my executives' time, it is a much more precious resource to me then the cost of the private jet.''
Mr. Riklis is one of a few fractional owners not cutting back on his time aloft. Flight hours have declined 30 percent from 2007, a peak year for the industry, according to David Strauss, managing director at UBS investment research.
''The whole industry got too big for itself too fast,'' Mr. Strauss said. ''They had these airplanes and utilization dropped through the floor.''
Reinvigorating interest so that people will book more hours is what motivated Flexjet and CitationAir to team up with foreign airlines. They hope that some first-class passengers on arriving foreign flights will choose a private jet over a cramped regional jet to get to their destination in North America.
''From our perspective, it's an opportunity to fly a customer we don't know today,'' said Steve O'Neill, chief executive of CitationAir, in describing his company's agreement with British Airways.
The airlines will receive a commission when passengers book private jets, and Flexjet will encourage its customers to buy first-class tickets on Korean Air. Both airlines say their premium customers will appreciate knowing whom to call for private jet travel in America.
Sara Dunham, head of business development for British Airways, said the deal with CitationAir meant more opportunity for revenue. ''It's a core part of our strategy to increase revenue streams, and with private jets there is a lot of synergy.''
But some airline executives are concerned about the prospect of their best customers being diverted to private jets.
''Every time a service takes away that full-fare, first-class customer, it gets the airlines' attention,'' said Joseph J. Moeggenberg, chief executive of the aviation information service Argus International. ''The airlines are very interested in what's going on in business aviation.''
Delta Air Lines is alone in trying to hang on to what it calls its ''ultra-high value'' passengers by playing the game like the private jet companies, said Jim Segrave, president of Delta AirElite, the jet charter company owned by Delta. AirElite does not offer jet ownership, but it provides a similar on-demand service.
''From a Delta perspective, this is a way to preserve the client at this level and all the business is effectively in-house,'' Mr. Segrave said.
The partnerships between the private jet companies and commercial airlines will help the fractional operations ''pick up a little bit of business because the airlines are making it more convenient,'' said Daniel Herr, an aviation lawyer.
But he was not optimistic that these new efforts would result in a lot of new customers for private jets. The reason, he said, had little to do with the economy. ''There is not this unmet demand out there. No one is waiting for someone to tell wealthy people, 'Hey, we can put you on a charter airplane.' ''

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: A soft economy has hurt demand for private jet services, forcing operators to cast a wider net for customers. (PHOTOGRAPH BY JUAN ARREDONDO FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); AIRLINES (90%); RECESSION (90%); PASSENGER & CARGO AIRCRAFT (90%); AIR CHARTER SERVICES (89%); COMMERCIAL & GENERAL AVIATION AIRCRAFT (89%); EXECUTIVES (89%); AEROSPACE SECTOR PERFORMANCE (78%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (78%); PARENT COMPANIES (77%); INTERVIEWS (74%); AEROSPACE INDUSTRY (72%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (68%)

COMPANY: BRITISH AIRWAYS PLC (90%); NETJETS INC (58%); BOMBARDIER INC (56%)

TICKER: BBD.A (TSX) (56%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS481111 SCHEDULED PASSENGER AIR TRANSPORTATION (90%); SIC4512 AIR TRANSPORTATION, SCHEDULED (90%); SIC4522 AIR TRANSPORTATION, NONSCHEDULED (58%); NAICS336411 AIRCRAFT MANUFACTURING (56%); SIC3721 AIRCRAFT (56%)

GEOGRAPHIC: CONNECTICUT, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: July 20, 2010



478 of 785 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 20, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; The Arts/Cultural Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 928 words

HEADLINE: 5 Apples. 60 Seconds. Go.

BYLINE: By BRIAN STELTER

 BODY:
Typically when television creators want to gather ideas, they huddle in a writers' room or maybe head out to a long expense-account lunch. When the creators of ''Minute to Win It'' need inspiration, they head to Target or a hardware store.
''Minute to Win It,'' on NBC on Wednesday nights this summer, is a throwback to old-time game shows like ''Beat the Clock'' that were ingenious in their simplicity. It requires no extreme weight loss, no tribal alliances, no consumption of cow eyeballs. Instead it relies on simple challenges using household staples like beach balls, M&M's, pantyhose, Hula-Hoops, toothbrushes and toilet paper. 
''We've gotten some strange stares in the checkout line,'' said Heath Luman, one of the supervising producers.
Johnny Applestack, a typical challenge, involves stacking five apples into a single free-standing tower in less than a minute. It is harder than it might sound, especially when $1 million, the show's top prize, is at stake. ''Even the simplest things can become very complex,'' Mr. Luman said.
Applestack and challenges like it have made for oddly successful television. When ''Minute to Win It'' quietly made its debut in March, it averaged 5.8 million viewers, acceptable by NBC's standards but not a standout by any means. Having returned for the summer, when network ratings usually dip, ''Minute'' is increasing its viewership against stiff competition from ''Big Brother'' on CBS and ''So You Think You Can Dance'' on Fox. The first two summer episodes had an average of 6.8 million viewers.
''There are some shows that are fun to watch because they're so big, it's almost like entering another world,'' Mr. Luman said in an interview last week. And then there's ''Minute to Win It,'' during which ''you can literally go to your cabinet, grab the supplies and play the games with your family during the commercial break.''
The show takes the play-along-at-home mentality of ''The Price Is Right'' and ''Jeopardy'' to an extreme, encouraging viewers to practice the games at home and post their performances on YouTube. It even publishes what it calls the blueprints to the games online at nbc.com/minute-to-win-it, essentially grooming future contestants.
That NBC can promote the homemade games as an inexpensive form of family entertainment in a difficult economy is another plus, the producers say.
The show's creative team conjures up new games at an office in the Studio City section of Los Angeles that it calls the game lab. Craig Plestis, an executive producer, said the game makers come into work with bags of household items and stock them on shelves labeled as different rooms of a house. As the show was being developed, ''it was like coming into work to a toy factory,'' Mr. Plestis said.
By now the producers have pitched roughly 1,000 games. About 150 have made it onto the show. Mr. Plestis said he had a simple test for the proposals: ''Do I want to play the game myself?''
He is fond of Nut Stacker, which requires players to stack eight metal nuts -- on edge -- by sliding them off a chopstick. Mr. Luman's favorite, Uphill Battle, has yet to be broadcast. It involves a table on an incline, requiring players to keep three marbles on it using only the curved back of a spoon.
In the television business there are a handful of producers like Mr. Luman who specialize in creating challenges for reality shows. His credits include ''Big Brother,'' ''The Amazing Race'' and ''The Biggest Loser.''
''Once I got into games, I felt like the phone rang a lot more frequently, because it was such a specialized thing,'' he said.
Games are critical for reality shows of all stripes because they inject drama and weed out weak contestants, something that the first modern reality competition, ''Survivor,'' proved 10 summers ago with races, quizzes and ropes courses.
In the ''Minute'' game lab the producers know that not every game that is fun to play is fun to watch on television. The perfect game for TV is suspenseful, is quantifiable and is reproducible. And most important, Mr. Luman said, is that it can be fully covered by cameras. (The show recently experimented with a 3-D episode.) Of course telling viewers that they should try this at home can be tricky. The show says it steers clear of choking and fire hazards like tiny objects and plastic grocery bags.
Once a game is perfected, the creators try to tear it apart, thereby determining what counts as cheating and what is just clever strategizing on the part of the contestant.
They are still pitching new games this summer, even though they have dozens in the queue waiting to be televised. For the game lab producers it's a pinch-me job.
''I'm getting paid to brainstorm and play games,'' Mr. Luman said. ''If somebody had told me that recess would be the most important part of my school day, I would have been totally shocked.''
Early on, the game creators instinctively tried to outdo one another with elaborate games. It gave rise to an inside joke in the game lab that features the theme song to ''MacGruber,'' the recurring ''Saturday Night Live'' sketch whose hero makes (as the theme song says) ''life-saving inventions out of household materials'' but never quite completes them in time.
When one of the producers starts singing the ''MacGruber'' tune, it is a cue that the game they're dreaming up may be too complicated.
''If you're using duct tape to build a game, if you need more than five sentences to explain the game, if you need more than four or five items to make the game, it's too complicated,'' Mr. Luman said. ''And it's doomed to fail.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: A contestant tries Tweeze Me, which involves steering a Tic Tac through a tennis racket, on ''Minute to Win It.'' (C1)
 A contestant on NBC's ''Minute to Win It'' game show. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY CHRIS HASTON/NBC) (C2) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TELEVISION INDUSTRY (89%); TELEVISION RATINGS & SHARES (89%); INTERVIEWS (73%); AWARDS & PRIZES (72%); COMPUTER GAMES (71%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (70%); INTERNET SOCIAL NETWORKING (69%)

COMPANY: NBC UNIVERSAL INC (85%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS515120 TELEVISION BROADCASTING (85%); SIC4833 TELEVISION BROADCASTING STATIONS (85%)

GEOGRAPHIC: LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (64%) CALIFORNIA, USA (64%) UNITED STATES (64%)

TITLE: Minute to Win It (TV Program)

LOAD-DATE: July 20, 2010



479 of 785 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 20, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 980 words

HEADLINE: Deals at Air Show Bode Well for Recovery

BYLINE: By NICOLA CLARK

 BODY:
FARNBOROUGH, England -- In the best evidence yet of a strengthening recovery in the commercial aviation sector, the world's two largest makers of aircraft on Monday announced more than $24 billion worth of orders. Much of that came from leasing companies eager to help airlines bolster capacity as global air traffic recovered.
Boeing and its European rival, Airbus, reaped deals for more than 180 new planes on the opening day of the Farnborough International Airshow, one of the largest aviation bazaars. 
But while industry leaders spoke of the airplane market in more bullish terms than in the last two years, analysts cautioned that broader economic growth -- a leading driver of passenger and cargo demand -- remained weak in many important regions, particularly Western Europe.
Jet makers, however, hope to tap into renewed optimism about air travel after two years of devastating losses for most airlines.
''The market is coming back, and I feel very confident about how we are positioned,'' said James F. Albaugh, chief executive of Boeing's commercial aircraft division. ''Financing has stabilized, and we are seeing new leasing companies enter the marketplace,'' he added. ''There is a lot of pent-up demand.''
Last month, the International Air Transport Association, a trade group based in Geneva, forecast that airlines would report a collective profit of $2.5 billion this year after recording a loss of $9.9 billion in 2009 and $16 billion in 2008. Global demand for air transportation exceeded prerecession levels in May, with a 12 percent increase in passenger traffic from a year earlier and a 34 percent gain in cargo traffic, the association said.
''I would say that we are way beyond the leading edge of the recovery,'' said Tim Mahoney, president and chief executive of Honeywell Aerospace, a major supplier of aircraft engines and cockpit electronics. ''We are seeing evidence of that in several different segments, including flight hours, passenger numbers and freight traffic.''
But while executives hailed the revival as a vote of confidence in a global rebound, some warned that recent shocks like the debt crisis in Greece showed that vulnerabilities remained.
''In terms of trade demand, we're seeing a very strong recovery,'' said Richard L. Aboulafia, an analyst at the Teal Group, a consulting firm in Fairfax, Va. ''But in terms of the broad economy, things are still very uncertain. There's still a bit of a disconnect.''
Air Lease Corporation, the jet financing and leasing company formed this year by Steven F. Udvar-Hazy and John Plueger, the former chiefs of A.I.G.'s aircraft International Lease Finance Corporation, placed its first order for new planes on Monday, signing for 51 short-range Airbus A320 and A321 jets valued at $4.4 billion at list prices. Mr. Udvar-Hazy said the first of those planes would be delivered in early 2011.
Air Lease, which recently raised more than $3 billion in financing, was also expected to place a significant order from Boeing in the coming days, most likely for 737s, said industry executives who requested anonymity because the deal was not complete.
Mr. Udvar-Hazy has said that Air Lease aims to have a fleet of more than 100 planes available for lease by early next year.
GE Capital Aviation Services, a division of General Electric, announced orders for 100 single-aisle planes worth a total of nearly $8 billion. The leasing company, based in Ireland and the United States, ordered 60 Airbus A320s, valued at $4.9 billion, and an additional 40 new Boeing 737 planes worth roughly $3 billion.
Boeing predicted last week that a vast majority, about 69 percent, of new jet sales in the next 20 years would be single-aisle aircraft like the Boeing 737 and the Airbus A320, which normally seat around 150 passengers. Demand from emerging markets in Asia and low-cost airlines in Europe and North America is expected to drive those sales.
''The single-aisle market is the one that offers the most flexibility in terms of marketability'' for leasing companies, said Mr. Aboulafia of the Teal Group.
Airline customers placed several orders for long-range wide-body planes on Monday.
Aeroflot, the Russian flag airline, said it would buy 11 of Airbus's wide-body A330 planes valued at $1.7 billion. The deal follows a trip to Russia last week by the Airbus chief executive, Thomas O. Enders, and a delegation of German business leaders who accompanied the German chancellor, Angela Merkel, aimed at bolstering trade.
Emirates Airline of Dubai confirmed an order for 30 of Boeing's twin-aisle 777 jets. The airline has continued its rapid expansion throughout the industry's recent downturn as it seeks to establish its Dubai hub as a central gateway to global air travel. The deal, valued at around $9 billion at list prices, includes 18 planes that Boeing attributed to an unidentified customer in April.
The purchase followed an $11 billion Emirates order for 32 Airbus A380 superjumbo jets announced last month and which brings the airlines' total commitment to the 525-seat, twin-deck plane to 90. Emirates has 10 of the planes in service.
Analysts said Boeing and Airbus probably were giving Emirates significant discounts on the latest orders, though the manufacturers and the airline would not comment on the extent of any reductions.
Norwegian Air Shuttle, a low-cost airline based in Oslo, said it would exercise options to buy 15 more Boeing 737 models, adding to a 2007 order for 42 of the planes. The deal is worth almost $1.2 billion at list prices.
Analysts said that while the industry's recovery appeared to be accelerating, the number of jet orders was unlikely to approach the records of the three-year boom that was ended by the global recession that began in 2008. But Monday's tally was already several times greater than the roughly $7 billion in deals struck at the Paris Airshow in 2009.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: AIRLINES (91%); AIRCRAFT MFG (90%); CIVIL AVIATION (90%); AEROSPACE SECTOR PERFORMANCE (90%); COMMERCIAL & GENERAL AVIATION AIRCRAFT (90%); AVIATION SECTOR PERFORMANCE (90%); LEASING INDUSTRY (89%); AIRLINES PASSENGER TRAFFIC (89%); AIR FREIGHT (89%); EXECUTIVES (89%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (78%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (78%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (78%); AEROSPACE INDUSTRY (78%); PASSENGER & CARGO AIRCRAFT (78%); AIRCRAFT INSTRUMENTS MFG (78%); AIRCRAFT ORDERS (78%); CORPORATE DEBT (77%); EMERGING MARKETS (77%); GREEK DEBT CRISIS (74%); AVIATION ADMINISTRATION (73%); AIRCRAFT ENGINES (73%); EURO CRISIS (71%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (69%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (69%); DEBT CRISIS (69%); CONSULTING SERVICES (65%)

COMPANY: AIR LEASE CORP (61%); INTERNATIONAL LEASE FINANCE CORP (60%); AIRBUS SAS (58%); BOEING CO (58%); HONEYWELL AEROSPACE (53%)

ORGANIZATION: INTERNATIONAL AIR TRANSPORT ASSOCIATION (55%)

TICKER: AL (NYSE) (61%); BOE (LSE) (58%); BAB (BRU) (58%); BA (NYSE) (58%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS532411 COMMERCIAL AIR, RAIL & WATER TRANSPORTATION EQUIPMENT RENTAL & LEASING (61%); SIC4789 TRANSPORTATION SERVICES, NEC (61%); SIC7359 EQUIPMENT RENTAL & LEASING, NEC (60%); NAICS336411 AIRCRAFT MANUFACTURING (58%); SIC3721 AIRCRAFT (58%); NAICS336414 GUIDED MISSILE & SPACE VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (58%); NAICS336412 AIRCRAFT ENGINE & ENGINE PARTS MANUFACTURING (58%); SIC3761 GUIDED MISSILES & SPACE VEHICLES (58%); NAICS811219 OTHER ELECTRONIC & PRECISION EQUIPMENT REPAIR & MAINTENANCE (53%); NAICS488119 OTHER AIRPORT OPERATIONS (53%); SIC7629 ELECTRICAL & ELECTRONIC REPAIR SHOPS, NEC (53%); SIC4581 AIRPORTS, FLYING FIELDS & AIRPORT TERMINAL SERVICES (53%)

PERSON: TIM MAHONEY (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: VIRGINIA, USA (79%) EUROPE (79%); WESTERN EUROPE (79%); SWITZERLAND (79%); UNITED STATES (79%); ENGLAND (73%); GREECE (57%)

LOAD-DATE: July 22, 2010



480 of 785 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 20, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 17

LENGTH: 1073 words

HEADLINE: Real Estate Doldrums On Gulf Coast Beaches

BYLINE: By JAMES C. McKINLEY Jr.

 BODY:
GULF SHORES, Ala. -- Nick Wilmott bent down on the beach near the high-tide mark and touched one of the reddish-brown pads of oil. It had washed up overnight from the BP spill off Louisiana and had yet to be cleaned up by the machines that sweep the beaches here every night.
''Here's your problem,'' said Mr. Wilmott, president of the Baldwin County Association of Realtors. ''Imagine we're on the balcony of a condo that I'm trying to sell you, and you look out and see this.''
Sales of beachfront condominiums and homes have plummeted since late April, when oil started gushing into the Gulf of Mexico after the explosion of the Deepwater Horizon rig. Property values are dropping, and the number of apartment rentals is half what it usually is. 
In a beach town like this, where sales and rentals of vacation homes are the life's blood of the economy, drawing a tide of tourists to fill the restaurants and boutiques, the economic impact has been deep.
Everyone in the business -- builders, real estate agents, bankers, lawyers, title companies -- is facing disastrous declines in business. Owners of vacation homes are watching their investments and the number of rental prospects shrink.
The value of coastal property has taken a beating along a 600-mile stretch from the Louisiana bayous to Clearwater, Fla., a stretch that before the spill was worth at least $4.3 billion, just counting the land and buildings within an acre of the shore, according to Norm Miller, an economist at the University of San Diego who is also the vice president of analytics at CoStar Group Inc.
After studying recent sales of shoreline property, Mr. Miller estimated that the value of property would drop at least 10 percent, on average, over the next seven years because of the spill.
''The number of transactions has really dropped off a cliff,'' he said. ''My personal opinion is until the beaches are cleaned up and we are sure they will stay clean, I don't think there will be people buying down there.''
Brokers in Gulf Shores say that not only are the telephones quiet in their offices, but that once-eager buyers are also backing out of deals.
''What's happening is buyers are just on hold and there are great deals, but they are saying, 'We are going to wait and see what happens with the oil,''' Mr. Wilmott said.
Rusty and Deana Swanson of Thomasville, Ala., are among them. In late May, they had done everything except close on a three-bedroom condominium on the fourth floor in the Seawind building overlooking the gulf.
The vacation spot was something of a dream home for them and their grown daughter, who uses a wheelchair and takes great pleasure in watching dolphins.
As the oil spill dragged on, Ms. Swanson said she saw similar condominiums selling for far less than the $290,000 she had agreed to pay. She became worried that she wouldn't be able to rent the apartment to help pay the mortgage, and that it would be worth less than what she was investing. The Swansons pulled the plug on the deal.
''I'm not going to follow through with something when I am watching the prices plummet,'' said Ms. Swanson, a dietitian.
Steve Warren, the Swansons' broker, said he had lost other sales for similar reasons. Having sold real estate for about 20 years, Mr. Warren usually closes three or four transactions a month -- from which he earns about $13,000 -- in the summer. ''The last three months, it's been zero,'' he said.
The real estate market here was already depressed, after the burst of the housing bubble in 2008 and the current recession. The market peaked in 2005, when nearly 1,300 condominiums were sold for about $400 a square foot. By 2008, the prices and sales had both been cut in half.
Yet the market had recovered well in the last two years, brokers said, with the sales of condos -- many of them foreclosures or short sales -- climbing 30 percent a year. Sales were brisk in the first four months of this year, with more than 348 condos changing hands.
Then came the spill. In the first three weeks of June, the value of condo and home sales was $21 million lower than in the same period the previous year.
''This has been a sucker punch to what momentum we had,'' said Kevin Corcoran, a Re/Max broker.
The ripple effect can be seen everywhere. The white beaches, which are groomed every night by crews with mechanical sand sifters, are usually thronged this time of year, but now look like postcards for a remote island.
''We are dying, literally,'' said Brian Ottosen, 42, the owner of the Happy Shak, a '60s-themed boutique a mile from the beach, where two shoppers were dawdling over some knickknacks one recent afternoon. ''Right now, on my sales floor, you shouldn't be able to move.''
Mr. Ottosen has laid off several workers and cut the hours of the remaining skeleton staff in half, but his sales since the spill have been barely 50 percent of last year's.
Uncertainty about the coast's economic future has frozen some real estate construction deals and scotched others. Scott Shamburger, a contractor who also owns several rental properties, said he had clients cancel five construction projects worth $2 million in the weeks after the spill began, including two commercial properties.
Shaul Zislin, who owns a beachside restaurant and two souvenir stores, sat in his mostly empty establishment recently and noted that the biggest problem was the perception that the beaches were covered with oil.
The oil has washed up sporadically, city officials said, and BP had been quick in the tourist towns on Alabama's coast to send in droves of workers to clean it up.
So far, crews have removed about 1,500 tons of oil from Gulf Shore's beaches alone, city officials said, and they have been forced to close the city's beaches for a day about once every four days since the spill began.
With money from BP, the state has done what it can to counter the impression that the beaches are covered with goo. For instance, the oil company underwrote a concert that brought in tens of thousands of people to see Jimmy Buffett, whose sister owns a restaurant in town.
Still, the television images of oil on beaches have scared off the tourists and potential investors, Mr. Zislin said. Receipts at his souvenir businesses are down nearly 60 percent from last year, he said, and the restaurant's sales have also dropped precipitously.
''The perception out there is that you get out of your car and the black oil plague is crawling up your leg,'' he said.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: The spill has scared off tourists and investors from gulf beaches, troubling contractors like Scott Shamburger, in yellow at upper left, and real estate agents like Nick Wilmott, in pink. Sunbathers and cleanup crews share the beach at Gulf Shores, Ala. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY JEFF HALLER FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BEACHES (92%); OIL SPILLS (90%); REAL ESTATE AGENTS (90%); REAL ESTATE (90%); TRAVEL HOSPITALITY & TOURISM (90%); RESIDENTIAL CONDOMINIUMS (89%); CONDOMINIUMS (89%); RESIDENTIAL CO-OWNERSHIP (89%); REAL ESTATE VALUATIONS (89%); 2010 GULF COAST OIL SPILL (77%); REAL ESTATE TRANSACTIONS (76%); MULTIFAMILY REAL ESTATE (76%); RESIDENTIAL RENTAL PROPERTY (75%); PROPERTY LEASES (75%); HOME PRICES (75%); BUSINESS & PROFESSIONAL ASSOCIATIONS (71%)

COMPANY: GULF SHORES RESOURCES LTD (92%); COSTAR GROUP INC (84%)

TICKER: CSGP (NASDAQ) (84%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS518210 DATA PROCESSING, HOSTING & RELATED SERVICES (84%); SIC7374 COMPUTER PROCESSING & DATA PREPARATION & PROCESSING SERVICES (84%)

GEOGRAPHIC: ALABAMA, USA (94%); LOUISIANA, USA (93%); SOUTHEAST USA (92%); FLORIDA, USA (79%); GULF OF MEXICO (79%); ATLANTIC OCEAN (79%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: July 20, 2010



481 of 785 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 20, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 19

LENGTH: 1316 words

HEADLINE: Stricter Rules Likely to Make Fewer Eligible for City Rent Subsidies

BYLINE: By JAVIER C. HERNANDEZ; Stephen Ceasar contributed reporting.

 BODY:
Nadeah Rasheed got an offer in 2008 that she could not refuse: find a stable job and the city would pay virtually all her rent. If everything went as planned, she and her two daughters would leave homelessness behind forever.
But now that her two years of subsidies have run out and the city's vouchers have stopped arriving, Ms. Rasheed, 43, faces eviction and finds herself on the brink of returning to a shelter.
''I'm hopeless,'' said Ms. Rasheed, who earns $270 a week from a job at a J. C. Penney store in the Bronx, adding, ''I can't do anything.''
Many of the city's poorest families may soon confront a similar fate. A weak job market and a scarcity of affordable housing options are putting new pressure on a signature antipoverty effort of the Bloomberg administration. 
The program, known as Advantage, was meant to move more homeless families into the working world with the lure of subsidized rent. But many families fall flat when, after one or two years, they are no longer eligible for the program and are suddenly faced with the burden of paying rent.
Beginning this fall, the city is to impose stricter requirements for the program; many more shelter residents will probably not qualify, and some may have their support cut off early. For many families, that could spell the end of a nascent rise out of poverty.
''The risk here is keeping people in shelter longer and sending them back into shelter more often,'' said State Senator Daniel L. Squadron, a Democrat who represents Brooklyn and Manhattan and is chairman of the Senate Social Services Committee. ''That's the opposite of the policy we need.''
Under the current requirements, families are asked to pay $50 in rent each month. The new rules will ask them to contribute as much as 40 percent of their monthly incomes, leaving some participants with bills nearing $500. In addition, to qualify for a second year of assistance, at least one family member will be required to work 35 hours each week, up from 20 hours.
Seth Diamond, commissioner of the Department of Homeless Services, acknowledged that the city was setting ambitious standards. But even with unemployment high and paychecks scarce, he said, he was confident that families would meet the challenge.
''We want to provide a path out of shelter,'' Mr. Diamond said. ''You don't get anywhere unless you set high expectations.''
Still, the city estimates that only about 60 percent of Advantage participants will qualify for a second year, down from the 80 percent who would have qualified under the old rules.
The Advantage program, created in 2007, has helped move 19,000 families from shelters into apartments, according to city data. Families are given up to two years to turn their lives around, and when the approximately $1,100 a month rent subsidy ends, they must fend for themselves.
But finding ways to thrive independently has proved grueling for some families. Because of federal budget cuts, in December the city stopped issuing federal Section 8 housing vouchers, a popular source of support for families leaving the Advantage program. While city and state officials recently announced a deal to restore vouchers to some 2,500 families, subsidies are expected to remain scarce until the economy rebounds.
Dorothy Barrow, 43, an unemployed single mother in Jamaica, Queens, said she might have to return to a shelter after her $962 Advantage subsidy expires in December. She has no prospects for work, even though, she said, she has begun applying for about 100 jobs every week.
Ms. Barrow said she believed the city should extend the program into a third year, given the weakness of the economy.
''You would expect to get your life in order in two years,'' she said. ''The way things have been going with the job market, it's almost impossible. I'm grasping at straws.''
Despite the economic downturn, the Department of Homeless Services said the number of families returning to shelters was small -- about 200, or 6 percent, of the 3,400 families who have completed the Advantage program.
Department officials would not respond publicly to estimates by advocacy groups showing far greater numbers of Advantage families returning to shelters.
In addition, the city does not keep detailed records on families who finish the program. Participants may scrape together enough to cover one month's rent, for instance, only to be evicted months later when a job is lost or savings have dried up. They could end up living on the streets or moving in with friends or family, but as long as they do not end up in a shelter, the city counts them as a success.
The Advantage program is one of the most generous housing subsidies in the country, and it is a closely watched experiment as cities look for ways to encourage homeless people, many of whom have been out of the labor force for years, to find jobs.
The Bloomberg administration has made creating incentives to move shelter families into the work force a centerpiece of its strategy to combat homelessness.
Last year, the city began enforcing a controversial policy to charge rent to working families living in shelters. But after an uproar from advocates for the homeless, it abandoned the practice and said last month that families would instead be required to set aside money in savings accounts.
The city's methods have been criticized as overly rigid and ineffective. In 2004, Mayor Bloomberg pledged to cut the city's homeless population of 38,000 by two-thirds in five years. Last week, there were 35,730 people in shelters.
As the city recalibrates its strategy, the changes to the Advantage program have prompted some of the fiercest debate. In addition to the new work and income requirements, the city will make it harder for families facing child welfare investigations, who had been granted more generous vouchers because of their vulnerability, to qualify for the program.
Policy makers note that the average Advantage client works 32 hours each week and earns $9.42 an hour, totaling about $1,200 each month.
''I'm sure the person working 32 hours would love to work 35,'' said Brad Lander, a councilman from Brooklyn. ''But this is not a time when there are jobs going for the asking, and in many cases employers are intentionally keeping hours at a minimum.''
Mr. Diamond said jobs for homeless families were still abundant, noting that one job center in Queens showed a 20 percent year-over-year increase in placements from 2008 to 2009. Those centers offer families basic tutorials in resume-writing and interviewing, as well as intensive classes in literacy.
''There's no question that shelter families want to go to work,'' he said. ''We think it's fair after a year to require full-time work.''
The Advantage program costs, on average, $13,200 a year per family, compared with an average $36,000 for families who spend a full year in a shelter.
Mr. Diamond said cutting costs was not a motivation for enacting stricter requirements, and he said the city did not have any estimates on potential savings.
But a copy of a proposal sent by the city to the state for approval, signed by Mr. Diamond and provided to The New York Times by lawmakers, showed a projected savings of $76 million over the next three years.
Bonnie Stone, who runs Women in Need, a charity that provides support to 10,000 homeless women and their families each year, described the path out of shelters as constantly shifting, given the state of the jobs market and the unreliability of federal housing subsidies.
While she offered praise for the Bloomberg administration's efforts to reduce homelessness, she said the new requirements could have perilous effects. Landlords, for instance, might be more reluctant to rent if the subsidy from the city is not as generous.
''Finding work and sustaining work is hard in this economic time,'' Ms. Stone said. ''The changes are a good thing, but there have to be jobs. It may slow things down.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Dorothy Barrow, 43, an unemployed single mother in Jamaica, Queens, said, ''I'm grasping at straws.'' Ms. Barrow may have to return to a shelter after her rent subsidy expires in December. (PHOTOGRAPH BY MICHAEL APPLETON FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: POVERTY & HOMELESSNESS (90%); RENTAL PROPERTY (90%); FAMILY (90%); HOUSING ASSISTANCE (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); HOMELESSNESS (89%); EMPLOYMENT (78%); LABOR SECTOR PERFORMANCE (78%); EVICTION (78%); WAGES & SALARIES (78%); POOR POPULATION (77%); LOW COST HOUSING SCHEMES (77%); AGENCY RULEMAKING (73%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (91%) NEW YORK, USA (91%) UNITED STATES (91%)

LOAD-DATE: July 20, 2010



482 of 785 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 20, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; LETTER; Pg. 22

LENGTH: 220 words

HEADLINE: Job Losses From Idled Rigs

 BODY:
To the Editor:
Re ''A New, and Necessary, Moratorium'' (editorial, July 14): 
Thousands of jobs are created and sustained across the Gulf Coast when new exploratory wells are drilled. These operations are labor-intensive. Once a well is online, it is producing profits for oil companies, not jobs for drivers, welders, pilots, caterers, fabricators and others. Minimal labor is required to tend a passively producing well.
By idling 33 deepwater exploratory rigs and halting six more en route to the gulf, the moratorium will effectively lay off as many as 46,000 workers. For every 200 workers on a rig, another 800 are onshore providing support goods and services.
According to analysts at Dun & Bradstreet, some 2,800 Louisiana businesses will be affected, and state economists estimate that Louisiana alone could lose up to 120,000 jobs by 2014. The economic ripple effect will make the $100 million fund for unemployed workers just a drop in the bucket.
Finally, when drilling stops here, we simply export millions of barrels of oil production each day to countries like Nigeria that do not have the safety standards or political will to protect the world's oceans. Is that the environmental solution that The Times is advocating?
Mary Landrieu Washington, July 15, 2010
The writer is a United States senator from Louisiana.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: OIL EXPLORATION (90%); LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); OIL & GAS EXPLORATION (90%); JOB CREATION (90%); OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (90%); UNEMPLOYED PERSONS (78%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (78%); LAYOFFS (77%); OIL EXTRACTION (77%); OIL & GAS EXTRACTION (77%); CRUDE OIL & NATURAL GAS EXTRACTION (77%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (74%); WRITERS (73%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (71%); CATERING SERVICES (71%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (68%); OCEANS (51%)

PERSON: MARY LANDRIEU (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: LOUISIANA, USA (93%); SOUTHEAST USA (92%); EARTH (51%) UNITED STATES (93%); NIGERIA (79%)

LOAD-DATE: July 20, 2010



483 of 785 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 20, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 13

LENGTH: 588 words

HEADLINE: A Gay Campaign? Both Sides Demur

BYLINE: By HAILEY R. BRANSON

 BODY:
OKLAHOMA CITY -- One of the more unlikely showdowns for the fall elections is taking shape here in this staunchly conservative state, where same-sex marriage is constitutionally banned and the Legislature frequently takes on issues like abortion.
Brittany Novotny, a Democrat and Oklahoma's first known transgender candidate, is running for a seat in the State House against Sally Kern, the Republican incumbent who gained national attention in 2008 for saying that ''the homosexual agenda is just destroying this nation'' and that homosexuality was a bigger threat than terrorism. 
Both candidates for House District 84 in west Oklahoma City -- where Mrs. Kern won by a comfortable margin in 2008 and remains popular -- have insisted that Ms. Novotny's sex will not be an issue in their campaigns. But some of Mrs. Kern's supporters have voiced concern that the ''homosexual lobby'' has recruited Ms. Novotny, who identifies as a heterosexual woman.
The group Reclaiming Oklahoma for Christ, which has hosted ''Rallies for Sally,'' said in a mass e-mail message in June, ''The homosexual lobby from across America will be pouring money into this local race in an attempt to make a statement to the country by knocking out an outspoken Christian, pro-family representative.''
Mrs. Kern, 63, said that she and her husband, Steven D. Kern, a Baptist minister, have attended events held by Reclaiming Oklahoma for Christ, but that she had ''no say in what they write on their materials or Web site.''
Ms. Novotny, a 30-year-old lawyer running for public office for the first time, rejected the notion that her campaign was largely financed by gay rights groups.
Ms. Novotny grew up in Oklahoma City as William Novotny. She began her sex transition in 2005, after graduating from the University of California Hastings College of the Law. She completed the transition in 2007.
''To me, it's not an issue,'' she said.
''I fully anticipate someone will try to make it an issue,'' she said, ''but I want to be a representative, and I don't want to let the fact that I went through that part of my life affect that I am right for the job.''
Mrs. Kern first took office in January 2005 after two decades as a high school government and social studies teacher. She is a popular attendee at the meetings of the High Noon Club, a conservative social group that meets every Friday at the H&H Gun Range here.
Her comments about homosexuals in 2008, at a Republican club in Oklahoma City, continue to follow her. During that speech, she said, ''Studies show no society that has totally embraced homosexuality has lasted more than a few decades.''
''I was first elected in 2004,'' Mrs. Kern said in a recent e-mail message. ''In 2006, I didn't have an opponent. Since my statements were put on YouTube, I have had opponents in 2008 and now in 2010 who are supportive of homosexual issues and have their support.''
In 2009, Mrs. Kern sponsored the signing of a morality proclamation that stated that the country's economic problems were a result of declining moral values, including same-sex marriage, divorce, abortion and child abuse.
Carol Hefner of Edmond, Okla., does not live in Mrs. Kern's district but identifies herself as a supporter. She said she thought Mrs. Kern would be re-elected because ''her viewpoints are embraced by the electorate.''
''It is refreshing to have people like Sally Kern, who will walk through the minefield of political correctness to make wise choices for the people of her district and the state of Oklahoma,'' Ms. Hefner said.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Brittany Novotny, center, Oklahoma's first known transgender candidate, on June 27 at an Oklahoma City gay pride parade. (PHOTOGRAPH BY PAUL HELLSTERN FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES)
 State Representative Sally Kern, with her husband, Steven D. Kern, right, at a High Noon Club meeting in Oklahoma City. (PHOTOGRAPH BY MARK POTTS) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: GAYS & LESBIANS (92%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); CHRISTIANS & CHRISTIANITY (90%); CONSERVATISM (90%); ELECTIONS (90%); MARRIAGE (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (89%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (79%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (79%); POLITICAL ORGANIZATIONS (78%); SAME SEX MARRIAGE & UNIONS (78%); HUMAN RIGHTS ORGANIZATIONS (78%); LGBT RIGHTS (73%); TRANSGENDER PERSONS (73%); PROTESTANTS & PROTESTANTISM (72%); ABORTION (72%); RELIGION (72%); LAW SCHOOLS (68%); HIGH SCHOOLS (67%); LAWYERS (62%); HUMANITIES & SOCIAL SCIENCE (62%); PRIMARY & SECONDARY SCHOOL TEACHERS (60%); TERRORISM (55%)

GEOGRAPHIC: OKLAHOMA CITY, OK, USA (94%) OKLAHOMA, USA (96%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (96%)

LOAD-DATE: July 20, 2010



484 of 785 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 20, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 17

LENGTH: 773 words

HEADLINE: Liability at Issue in Oil Flow Rate in Gulf

BYLINE: By JOHN SCHWARTZ

 BODY:
When BP suggested over the weekend that it might leave the Gulf of Mexico well capped until it completed the relief wells, Representative Edward J. Markey, Democrat of Massachusetts, suggested that the company might have an ulterior motive -- to limit its own spiraling legal liability.
Mr. Markey said reopening the well would allow the first accurate measure of the flow and accused the company of trying to forestall a reckoning of the spill. 
Until now, the actual flow rate of oil gushing into the gulf has been based on estimates. With the well tightly capped, any efforts to collect the oil to ships on the surface would provide a better reading of the oil flow. BP's ultimate liability for damages from the spill will be based in part on that flow.
''BP has a stake in lowering its liability,'' Mr. Markey said in an interview, since fines are assessed by the barrel. The company, he said, has consistently underestimated the flow out of its runaway well.
''Initially, they said it was only 1,000 barrels per day that was going into the gulf, then 5,000 barrels a day,'' he said. ''It's obvious in retrospect that they were either lying or grossly incompetent in making those representations to the U.S. government and to the American people.''
The fines could be staggering, even for a company as wealthy as BP. The Clean Water Act sets a civil fine of $1,100 for every barrel of oil released in a spill, in addition to responsibility for paying for environmental cleanup and economic loss.
If the government determines that the spill was the result of gross negligence, the fine jumps to $4,300 a barrel.
On Wednesday, Mr. Markey demanded a ''full flow-rate test'' on the well; official estimates have put the flow rate at as much as 60,000 barrels a day. Considering such vast amounts, a disagreement over the number of barrels spilled each day could amount to enormous sums: a 10,000-barrel-a-day difference over the three months of the spill could mean $3.7 billion in fines.
Mark Salt, a BP spokesman, said the goal in retaining the cap was not to minimize the liability or give a low estimate of flow rate, but to shut off the flow of oil effectively and safely.
''The number is whatever the number will be,'' Mr. Salt said. ''But that doesn't change what we want to do -- which is to stop the leak.''
The decision whether to keep the well capped or resume drawing off the oil, Mr. Salt said, lies with the federal government's incident commander, Thad W. Allen, a retired Coast Guard admiral. ''We're completely aligned with Admiral Allen,'' he added.
In many cases, disputed factual issues are left to others -- like a jury or a special master appointed by a judge -- to determine after hearing from experts for each side.
But experts in environmental litigation do not expect the government's case to actually go to trial. BP will almost surely settle its civil and criminal cases, said David M. Uhlmann, a professor of environmental law at the University of Michigan. ''BP has nothing to be gained and a lot to lose by reliving this tragedy in an American courtroom a year or two from now,'' he said.
Mr. Uhlmann, a former chief of the environmental crimes section at the Department of Justice, said he doubted that BP was trying to manipulate the well to low-ball flow estimates, since that could lead to felony charges of obstruction of justice.
''Congressman Markey's concern is understandable, and his skepticism is understandable,'' the professor said, ''but it's not in BP's interest to proceed as he's been suggesting.''
Mr. Uhlmann predicted that the government would seek, and get, the largest civil and criminal penalties in American history -- sums in the billions of dollars ''that will be adequate to punish BP and deter such behavior into the future,'' he said.
He added, however, that he doubted that the government would seek the highest possible penalty for every ounce of oil spilled. ''That's just not the way life works -- that's not the way negotiations work,'' he said. ''The maximum penalties here, if they imposed them, would probably wipe out the company.''
Federal prosecutorial guidelines require weighing factors like the interests of a company's shareholders, the financial security of the company's employees, and the need for the company to survive in a way that allows it to meet its obligations to pay for the spill.
Mr. Markey said that however liability was assessed, the oil needed to be measured -- accurately, and soon.
''BP's defense lawyers will flourish in an atmosphere of ambiguity,'' he said. ''The federal taxpayer will flourish, legally, if the number is established with precision right now.''

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (90%); FINES & PENALTIES (88%); INTERVIEWS (78%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (77%); DAMAGES (77%); WATER QUALITY REGULATION (73%); NEGLIGENCE (72%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (65%); US ENVIRONMENTAL LAW (64%); ARMED FORCES (60%); ENVIRONMENTAL CLEANUP (50%); WATER QUALITY (50%)

COMPANY: BP PLC (91%)

TICKER: BP (NYSE) (91%); BP (LSE) (91%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS447110 GASOLINE STATIONS WITH CONVENIENCE STORES (91%); NAICS324110 PETROLEUM REFINERIES (91%); NAICS211111 CRUDE PETROLEUM & NATURAL GAS EXTRACTION (91%)

PERSON: EDWARD J MARKEY (90%); BETSY MARKEY (90%)

GEOGRAPHIC: GULF OF MEXICO (92%); ATLANTIC OCEAN (92%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: July 20, 2010



485 of 785 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 20, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; OP-ED COLUMNIST; Pg. 23

LENGTH: 843 words

HEADLINE: The Technocracy Boom

BYLINE: By DAVID BROOKS

 BODY:
When historians look back on the period between 2001 and 2011, they will be amazed that a nation that professed to hate bureaucracy produced so much of it.
During the first part of this period, the Republicans were in control. They expanded a vast national security bureaucracy. In their series in The Washington Post, Dana Priest and William M. Arkin detail the size of this apparatus. More than 1,200 government agencies and 1,900 private companies work on counterterrorism, homeland security and intelligence programs at around 10,000 sites across the country. An estimated 854,000 people have top-secret security clearance. These analysts produce 50,000 reports a year -- a flow of paper so great that many are completely ignored.
In the second part of the period, Democrats were in control. They augmented the national security bureaucracy but spent the bulk of their energies expanding bureaucracies in domestic spheres. 
First, they passed a health care law. This law created 183 new agencies, commissions, panels and other bodies, according to an analysis by Robert E. Moffit of the Heritage Foundation. These include things like the Quality Assurance and Performance Improvement Program, an Interagency Pain Research Coordinating Committee and a Cures Acceleration Network Review Board.
The purpose of the new apparatus was simple: to give government experts the power to analyze and rationalize the nation's health care system. A team of experts on the newly created Independent Medicare Advisory Council was ordered to review and streamline Medicare. A team of experts within the Office of Personnel Management was directed to help set standards for insurance companies in the health care exchanges. Teams of experts serving on comparative effectiveness boards were told to survey data and determine which medical treatments work best and most efficiently.
Democrats also passed a financial reform law. The law that originally created the Federal Reserve was a mere 31 pages. The Sarbanes-Oxley banking reform act, passed in 2002, was only 66 pages. But the 2010 financial reform law was 2,319 pages, an intricately engineered technocratic apparatus. As Mark J. Perry of the American Enterprise Institute noted, the financial reform law is seven times longer than the last five pieces of banking legislation combined.
Once again, government experts were told to take a complex, decentralized system -- in this case the financial markets -- and impose rules, rationality and order. The law creates one uber-panel, the Financial Stability Oversight Council. It directs government experts to write rules in 243 separate areas.
The law also calls upon government experts to make some heroic judgments. For example, it calls upon regulators to break up banks that might be about to pose a risk to the country's economy. That is to say, investors may believe a bank is stable. The executives of the bank may believe it is stable. But the regulators are called upon to exercise their superior vision and determine which banks are stable and which are not.
When historians look back on this period, they will see it as another progressive era. It is not a liberal era -- when government intervenes to seize wealth and power and distribute it to the have-nots. It's not a conservative era, when the governing class concedes that the world is too complicated to be managed from the center. It's a progressive era, based on the faith in government experts and their ability to use social science analysis to manage complex systems.
This progressive era is being promulgated without much popular support. It's being led by a large class of educated professionals, who have been trained to do technocratic analysis, who believe that more analysis and rule-writing is the solution to social breakdowns, and who have constructed ever-expanding networks of offices, schools and contracts.
Already this effort is generating a fierce, almost culture-war-style backlash. It is generating a backlash among people who do not have faith in Washington, who do not have faith that trained experts have superior abilities to organize society, who do not believe national rules can successfully contend with the intricacies of local contexts and cultures.
This progressive era amounts to a high-stakes test. If the country remains safe and the health care and financial reforms work, then we will have witnessed a life-altering event. We'll have received powerful evidence that central regulations can successfully organize fast-moving information-age societies.
If the reforms fail -- if they kick off devastating unintended consequences or saddle the country with a maze of sclerotic regulations -- then the popular backlash will be ferocious. Large sectors of the population will feel as if they were subjected to a doomed experiment they did not consent to. They will feel as if their country has been hijacked by a self-serving professional class mostly interested in providing for themselves.
If that backlash gains strength, well, what's the 21st-century version of the guillotine?

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); HISTORY (90%); NATIONAL SECURITY (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (89%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (89%); HEALTH CARE (89%); BANKING & FINANCE (89%); BANKING LAW (88%); BANKING & FINANCE REGULATION (86%); US SARBANES OXLEY ACT (77%); HEALTH CARE POLICY (77%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (77%); MEDICARE (76%); PRIVATELY HELD COMPANIES (76%); LEGISLATION (73%); HEALTH CARE LAW (73%); QUALITY CONTROL (72%); COUNTERTERRORISM (71%); INSURANCE (71%); TERRORISM (71%); POLLS & SURVEYS (68%)

COMPANY: WASHINGTON POST CO (58%); AMERICAN ENTERPRISE INSTITUTE FOR PUBLIC POLICY RESEARCH (52%)

ORGANIZATION: THE HERITAGE FOUNDATION (55%); OFFICE OF PERSONNEL MANAGEMENT (54%)

TICKER: WPO (NYSE) (58%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS517110 WIRED TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (58%); NAICS515120 TELEVISION BROADCASTING (58%); NAICS511120 PERIODICAL PUBLISHERS (58%); NAICS511110 NEWSPAPER PUBLISHERS (58%); SIC8733 NONCOMMERCIAL RESEARCH ORGANIZATIONS (52%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: July 20, 2010



486 of 785 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 20, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 935 words

HEADLINE: An Outspoken Man In a Secretive Trade

BYLINE: By JULIA WERDIGIER

 BODY:
LONDON -- Hugh Hendry has a big mouth, as Hugh Hendry will tell you.
With a sharp wit and a sharper tongue, Mr. Hendry, a plain-spoken Scot, has positioned himself as the public contrarian thinker of this city's very private hedge fund community.
The euro? It's finished, Mr. Hendry proclaims. 
China? Headed for a fall.
President Obama? ''If there was a way to short Obama, I would,'' Mr. Hendry said.
Mr. Hendry runs the successful hedge fund firm Eclectica Asset Management. It is an old-school macroeconomic fund company with a big-think, globe-straddling style more akin to the Quantum Fund, of George Soros fame, than to the high-tech razzle-dazzle of Wall Street's math-loving quant analysts.
''Hugh is an anachronism,'' said Steven Drobny, a founder of Drobny Global Advisors. ''He reminds one of the original hedge fund managers from the '70s and '80s.''
At 41, Mr. Hendry is also emerging from the normally secretive world of hedge funds to captivate fans and foes with a surprising level of candor.
Last May, on British television, he verbally sparred with Jeffrey D. Sachs, director of the Earth Institute at Columbia and perhaps the best-known economist writing on developmental issues.
Before that, he took on Joseph E. Stiglitz, the Nobel laureate, about the future of the euro. ''Hello, can I tell you about the real world?'' Mr. Hendry interjected at one point. Video of the encounter was a huge hit on YouTube.
His verbal pyrotechnics have won Mr. Hendry a reputation for challenging the economics establishment. He is regarded and appreciated by many as overly pessimistic about, well, just about everything.
His big worry lately has been China. Like James Chanos, a prominent hedge fund manager in the United States, Mr. Hendry says he believes China's days of heady growth are numbered. A crisis is coming, he insists.
''He's an original thinker, and he's definitely not afraid of saying what he thinks, even if he's not always right,'' said Jacob H. Schmidt, founder of Schmidt Research Partners.
Mr. Hendry has made -- and sometimes lost -- money for his investors. Eclectica's flagship fund, the Eclectica Fund, is up about 13 percent this year, besting by far the average 1.3 percent loss among similar funds.
But returns have been erratic -- ''too much sex, drugs and rock 'n' roll'' for some investors, he concedes. In 2008, the Eclectica Fund was up 50 percent one month and down 15 percent another. Mr. Hendry plans to change that.
The firm bet correctly that the financial troubles plaguing Greece would eventually ripple through to the market for German bonds, considered the European equivalent of ultra-safe United States Treasury securities. But the firm lost money betting on European sovereign debt in the first quarter of last year.
Last week, Mr. Hendry was musing about the financial world in his office behind a scruffy shopping mall in the Bayswater section of London. No Savile Row here: He was sporting a white oxford shirt, jeans and blue Converse Chuck Taylor sneakers, along with a three-day stubble and hipster horn-rim glasses.
His latest obsession is China. He likens the country to Starbucks: good at growing quickly but not so good at creating wealth.
''The idea is that things would happen today that are commonly thought of as impossible, most notably a significant reversal of China,'' Mr. Hendry said.
Maps cover the walls of his office. On one, blue magnetic pins plot his recent trip through China.
He filmed himself there in front of huge, empty office buildings and giant new bridges in the middle of nowhere -- signs, he said, of a credit bubble.
Along with his fund co-manager, Espen Baardsen, a former goalie for the Tottenham Hotspur soccer team, Mr. Hendry is devising ways to bet on a spectacular deterioration of China's economy. He declined to divulge any details.
Mr. Hendry's outspokenness has won him both fans and detractors.
Marc Faber, the money manager known as Doctor Doom for his bearish views, calls Mr. Hendry ''a deep thinker.''
''He has strong views and expresses them, not to get publicity but because he has a great understanding of the markets,'' Mr. Faber said.
Some London investors are less charitable. Two declined to comment on Mr. Hendry, saying they did not want to ''get into a fight'' with him.
Mr. Hendry certainly does not fit the stereotype of a discreet London moneyman.
The son of a truck driver, he was the first in his family to attend a university -- Strathclyde, in Glasgow, not Oxbridge. He studied accounting and joined Baillie Gifford, a large Edinburgh money manager.
Frustrated that he could not challenge the investment strategies of his bosses, he jumped to Credit Suisse Asset Management in London. There, a chance meeting with an equally opinionated hedge fund manager, Crispin Odey, led to a job. Before long, Mr. Hendry struck out on his own.
The inspiration for his investment approach comes from an unlikely source: ''The Gap in the Curtain,'' a 1932 novel by John Buchan. The plot centers on five people who are chosen by a scientist to take part in an experiment that will let them glimpse one year into the future. Two see their own obituaries in one year's time.
Mr. Hendry calls the novel ''the best investment book ever written'' because it taught him to envision the future without neglecting what happened leading up to it, a mistake many investors make, he said.
Mr. Hendry hopes Eclectica will grow to $1 billion -- still relatively small by hedge fund standards. But neither admirers nor rivals expect him to change his plain-talking ways.
''I've got such a big mouth,'' he said, ''I have to be very careful what I say.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Hugh Hendry of Eclectica Asset Management, in his office in Bayswater, London. He says China's days of blistering growth will soon end in a crisis. (PHOTOGRAPH BY HAZEL THOMPSON FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: HEDGE FUNDS (92%); INVESTMENT MANAGEMENT (77%); BONDS (76%); INTERNET SOCIAL NETWORKING (72%); US PRESIDENTS (71%); NOBEL PRIZES (70%); AWARDS & PRIZES (64%); ALLIANCES & PARTNERSHIPS (60%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (71%); GEORGE SOROS (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: LONDON, ENGLAND (89%) GERMANY (79%); UNITED STATES (79%); GREECE (58%)

LOAD-DATE: July 20, 2010



487 of 785 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 20, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Foreign Desk; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 773 words

HEADLINE: In a Visit to Pakistan, Clinton Encounters a Less Hostile Reception

BYLINE: By MARK LANDLER

 BODY:
ISLAMABAD, Pakistan -- The last time Secretary of State Hillary Rodham Clinton was in Pakistan, less than a year ago, she was asked when the United States would stop killing innocent civilians in its covert drone attacks. She, in turn, suggested that officials in the Pakistani government knew where Al Qaeda's leaders were hiding.
The mood was noticeably less toxic on Monday, perhaps in part because Mrs. Clinton showed up with more than $500 million in economic aid, part of her campaign to win over a skeptical Pakistani public. 
Changing Pakistani attitudes toward America has become one of Mrs. Clinton's personal challenges as secretary of state. She and her advisers seized on the less hostile reception given to her on this visit, compared with October, to assert that her public diplomacy was making a difference.
''I could feel a change,'' Mrs. Clinton told reporters as she flew from Pakistan to Afghanistan at the end of the two-day visit. ''The government officials also believe we are moving the needle.''
But she also expressed caution about overstating progress with Pakistan.
''Of course there is a legacy of suspicion that we inherited,'' Mrs. Clinton said. ''It is not going to be eliminated overnight.''
There was certainly some cognitive dissonance in Mrs. Clinton's encounters with Pakistanis. At a town-hall meeting, she told a businessman that Pakistan's record of proliferation would make it hard for the United States to sell it nuclear technology. In a later round table with television journalists, she prodded Pakistan to stiffen its fight against Islamic militants.
Islamabad, she said, could do more to help the United States capture or kill Al Qaeda's leaders. ''I believe they are here in Pakistan, and it would be really helpful if we could get them,'' she said in the interview, which was lively, but not as contentious as her last one here.
When the business executive pressed Mrs. Clinton about why United States had not offered Pakistan the kind of civilian nuclear energy pact it has with India, she reminded him of the father of Pakistan's nuclear program, Abdul Qadeer Khan, who sold nuclear secrets to Libya and North Korea.
''The problems with Mr. A. Q. Khan raise red flags with people around the world,'' she said. ''They cannot be overlooked or put under the carpet.'' Pakistan, she said, was also resisting a treaty to curb the spread of nuclear fuel and had not explained its purchase of two reactors from China.
It is impossible to judge, based on a single meeting and an interview, whether Mrs. Clinton had changed many minds. The participants in the town-hall meeting were invited by the American Embassy in Islamabad; officials said many had worked with American diplomats. Most public opinion polls here show that Pakistanis remain deeply suspicious of the United States.
Najam Sethi, a prominent Pakistani editor and commentator, said Mrs. Clinton would have determined a better sense of her progress had she ventured to Lahore, the Punjabi city she visited last fall, where university students gave her a stony reception. The mass-market papers in Lahore and Karachi, he said, were powerful motors of anti-American sentiment in Pakistan.
In recent months, Mr. Sethi said, many Pakistanis had soured on the United States all over again because they had not seen any benefits from $7.5 billion in economic aid approved by Congress last year.
Mrs. Clinton tried to make up for that on Monday, introducing programs to renovate hospitals, rebuild hydroelectric dams, improve water distribution and help farmers export mangoes.
Certainly, her audiences this time seemed far more interested in talking about everyday problems, like Pakistan's frequent power failures, than the threat of radical Islam. But with Mrs. Clinton headed to a major conference in Kabul on Tuesday, the topic of Afghanistan's future came up, too.
Mrs. Clinton offered guarded support for negotiations with Pakistan-based insurgent groups, like the Haqqani network. But she cautioned both Afghans and Pakistanis to enter any such talks warily, since groups like the Haqqani network were unlikely to meet the minimum American requirements to be reconciled with Afghan society: severing ties with Al Qaeda, renouncing violence and abiding by the Afghan Constitution.
Mrs. Clinton confirmed that the United States was moving toward putting the Haqqani network on its list of terrorist groups. But she said that should not necessarily rule out Afghan efforts to reconcile with it. ''There is no contradiction between trying to defeat those who are determined to fight and opening the door to those who are willing to reconcile,'' she said.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Secretary of State Hillary Rodham Clinton and Pakistan's foreign minister, Shah Mehmood Qureshi, in Islamabad on Monday. (PHOTOGRAPH BY DANIEL BEREHULAK/GETTY IMAGES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (90%); AL-QAEDA (89%); INTERVIEWS (89%); TALKS & MEETINGS (89%); NUCLEAR ENERGY (86%); DIPLOMATIC SERVICES (78%); MUSLIMS & ISLAM (78%); TERRORIST ORGANIZATIONS (77%); EMBASSIES & CONSULATES (73%); POLLS & SURVEYS (73%); JOURNALISM (73%); EXECUTIVES (71%); WRITERS (68%); RELIGION (50%)

ORGANIZATION: AL-QAEDA (58%)

PERSON: HILLARY RODHAM CLINTON (93%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (96%); PAKISTAN (95%); AFGHANISTAN (79%); LIBYAN ARAB JAMAHIRIYA (79%); CHINA (79%); KOREA, DEMOCRATIC PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF (79%)

LOAD-DATE: July 20, 2010



488 of 785 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 20, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 16

LENGTH: 641 words

HEADLINE: BP to Be a Central Issue In British Leader's Visit

BYLINE: By JOHN F. BURNS

 BODY:
LONDON -- On the eve of a White House meeting with President Obama, Prime Minister David Cameron on Monday stepped into the furor over BP's lobbying for a prisoner-transfer agreement between Britain and Libya by saying he considered the release of the convicted Lockerbie bomber from a Scottish prison last year to be ''completely and utterly wrong.''
Ten weeks after taking office, Mr. Cameron is making his first visit to the United States as prime minister. He and Mr. Obama have a ledger of issues to discuss, including the Cameron government's decision to set an end date of 2015 for Britain's combat role in Afghanistan; a radical British deficit-reduction plan that critics have said risks pushing the country toward a double-dip recession; and the controversy that has built around BP, Britain's largest company, since the Gulf of Mexico oil spill. 
Mr. Cameron's two-day visit will include meetings in New York with Mayor Michael R. Bloomberg and Wall Street executives. But issues involving BP are likely to provide its focal point, and the prime minister and his aides used a series of statements in the days before leaving London to stake out a position intended to limit the damage to BP -- and to Britain -- from the oil company's troubles, as well as to improve the political climate for the visit.
The latest furor to involve BP has sprung from the decision by the Senate Foreign Relations Committee to hold hearings on July 29 on the circumstances surrounding the release last August of Abdel Basset Ali al-Megrahi, a Libyan intelligence agent who had served eight years of a life sentence for his role in the December 1988 bombing of Pan Am Flight 103 over Lockerbie, Scotland. Mr. Megrahi was the only person convicted in the bombing, which killed 270 people, including 189 Americans.
Lawmakers who pushed for the Washington hearing -- including the senators from New York, New Jersey and California, home states to bombing victims -- have demanded that BP explain its role in lobbying for the prisoner-transfer agreement Britain and Libya concluded in December 2007. The senators have said they want to explore possible links between Mr. Megrahi's release and BP's eagerness to win Libyan ratification of an offshore oil deal that company officials have said could be worth $20 billion.
In a BBC television interview on Monday, Mr. Cameron said he had strongly opposed the bomber's release at the time. ''As leader of the opposition I couldn't have been more clear that I thought the decision to release al-Megrahi was completely and utterly wrong,'' he said.
As for BP's role, he added, ''I have no idea what BP did; I am not responsible for BP.''
Also on Monday, the Obama administration asked the governments of Scotland and Britain to review the decision to release Mr. Megrahi. In letters to American lawmakers, Secretary of State Hillary Rodham Clinton said the administration was encouraging the Scottish and British authorities to review the circumstances leading to the release.
The oil company has insisted that its lobbying was limited to the transfer agreement, and did not include pressure for Mr. Megrahi's release. Mr. Cameron's aides supported this on Monday, saying that discussions between BP and the government of former Prime Minister Gordon Brown did not include specific talks about Mr. Megrahi.
But Libyan officials, including a son of the Libyan president, have said Libya made clear to Britain that if Mr. Megrahi were not included in the transfer agreement, lucrative oil deals for British companies would not be approved.
The issue was resolved when the Scottish government released Mr. Megrahi on compassionate grounds, after doctors in Scotland provided affidavits saying he was likely to die of advanced prostate cancer within three months.
Nearly a year later, he remains alive in Tripoli, the Libyan capital.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PRIME MINISTERS (91%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (91%); TALKS & MEETINGS (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); BOMBINGS (89%); LOBBYING (89%); OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (89%); US PRESIDENTS (78%); INTERVIEWS (78%); OIL & GAS EXTRACTION (78%); CRUDE OIL & NATURAL GAS EXTRACTION (78%); SENTENCING (77%); PRISONS (77%); JAIL SENTENCING (77%); RECESSION (73%); ECONOMIC NEWS (73%); BUSINESS FINANCIAL TROUBLE (73%); OIL SPILLS (68%); PUBLIC BROADCASTING (66%); FOREIGN POLICY (66%); FOREIGN RELATIONS (50%)

COMPANY: PANASONIC APPLIANCES INDIA CO LTD (65%)

TICKER: PANASONIC (NSE) (65%)

PERSON: DAVID CAMERON (92%); BARACK OBAMA (88%); MICHAEL BLOOMBERG (51%)

GEOGRAPHIC: LONDON, ENGLAND (90%) NEW YORK, USA (92%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); GULF OF MEXICO (79%); NEW JERSEY, USA (79%); ATLANTIC OCEAN (79%) SCOTLAND (95%); UNITED KINGDOM (94%); UNITED STATES (93%); AFGHANISTAN (79%)

LOAD-DATE: July 20, 2010



489 of 785 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 20, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1130 words

HEADLINE: Senate Is Set To Extend Aid To the Jobless

BYLINE: By CARL HULSE; Helene Cooper contributed reporting.

 BODY:
WASHINGTON -- Senate Democrats are poised to break a partisan stalemate on Tuesday over extending unemployment benefits for millions of Americans who have been jobless for six months or more, but the fight seems certain to continue playing out as a defining issue in the midterm elections.
One day before a crucial procedural vote to provide added unemployment assistance through November, President Obama appeared in the Rose Garden on Monday with three out-of-work Americans to hammer Republicans for blocking the extension until now by insisting, over Democratic objections, that the $34 billion costs of the benefits not be added to the deficit. 
''The same people who didn't have any problem spending hundreds of billions of dollars on tax breaks for the wealthiest Americans are now saying we shouldn't offer relief to middle-class Americans,'' Mr. Obama said.
Democrats have been one vote short of pushing the measure through the Senate. But on Tuesday, a new Democratic senator from West Virginia will be sworn in to succeed Robert C. Byrd, who died last month, putting Democrats in position to overcome the Republican blocking tactic and bring the bill to a final vote.
As a political matter, the issue has appeal to both parties, especially in an election year in which each party needs first to motivate its own base.
For Republicans, it provides a concrete vehicle for pushing the argument that the government's response to the recession has been wasteful and ineffective, that the growing national debt requires deep spending cuts and that Mr. Obama is guilty of ideological overreach.
For Democrats, it is an opportunity to accuse Republicans of being obstructionist and out of touch with the pain caused by an economic downturn that began on the Republicans' watch.
Mr. Obama's tough attack on Monday signaled the White House's confidence that it has the upper hand, legislatively and politically. Recent public opinion polls show that a majority of Americans favor giving the long-term unemployed more financial help even if it adds to the deficit.
''To govern is to choose, and this is a clear choice: You either support extending benefits for people who are out of work or you don't,'' said Rahm Emanuel, the White House chief of staff. ''There are obvious political ramifications to that difference.''
With many voters expressing growing alarm at the mounting national debt, Republicans say that standing against an unemployment extension that would add to the deficit could energize their voters and help them regain some of the reputation for fiscal responsibility they have lost in recent years. They also accused the White House of misleading the public about the Republican position on added jobless pay.
''The president knows that Republicans support extending unemployment insurance, and doing it in a fiscally responsible way by cutting spending elsewhere in the $3 trillion federal budget,'' Representative John A. Boehner of Ohio, the House Republican leader, said in a statement Monday. ''At a time of record debt and deficits made worse by Washington Democrats' massive spending spree, that's the right thing to do and the right way to do it.''
The additional money for those who have exhausted their standard 26 weeks of jobless pay has been tied up since the beginning of June but had become a growing point of contention since February when Senator Jim Bunning, Republican of Kentucky, initiated a one-man filibuster against a temporary extension of the safety-net spending.
While Republicans eventually relented and allowed an additional month of unemployment compensation, the party began to coalesce around the position that further extensions should be paid for with offsetting cuts in other spending, leading to the current stalemate.
Most Democrats contend that deficit spending is acceptable -- even, in economic terms, necessary -- to help not only the jobless but also the economy as a whole. Their argument is that unemployed workers will spend all or nearly all of their benefits on goods and services that help support other jobs.
''At what point do we pivot and start being concerned about our children and our grandchildren?'' Senator Mitch McConnell of Kentucky, the Republican leader, said Sunday on CNN. ''There is no way in the world on a trillion-dollar budget this year we can't find the money to pay for an extension of unemployment insurance, something we're in favor of.''
Besides the support of Carte Goodwin, the West Virginian to be sworn in Tuesday to succeed Mr. Byrd, Democrats are counting on the votes of Senators Susan Collins and Olympia J. Snowe, the two Maine Republicans, to reach the minimum 60 votes needed to overcome the threat of a Republican filibuster.
To ease objections, Democrats have scaled back the unemployment proposal, which originally was to extend through December and included billions of dollars in health insurance subsidies for the unemployed.
In a floor speech Monday, Senator Harry Reid, the Nevada Democrat and majority leader, chastised Republicans for blocking the added unemployment benefits, noting that Republicans had voted before to treat the assistance as emergency spending that could be added to the deficit.
He also accused Republicans of being callous to the unemployed, noting that some Senate Republicans -- as well as Senate candidates -- have suggested that the added unemployment pay amounts to welfare and is discouraging people from taking jobs when they can rely on the government.
''Many of my constituents take offense at these absurd allegations, and they've let me know about it,'' Mr. Reid said. ''They've written or called me or pulled me aside when I see them in Nevada.''
If the Senate is successful in approving the extension, the House will have to vote on the measure before it is sent to the president, but Democrats have sufficient votes there.
The potential impact on Congressional races was evident Monday.
In one case, the Democratic Senatorial Campaign Committee issued a statement noting that Dan Coats, the Republican Senate candidate in Indiana, had backed Republican efforts to block the jobless pay unless it was offset with cuts elsewhere.
''Due to Republican obstructionism, over 48,000 unemployed Hoosiers have already lost their unemployment benefits,'' the Democratic statement said.
Republicans fired back, criticizing Representative Brad Ellsworth, the Democratic Senate candidate, for his support of deficit spending on unemployment pay.
''Instead of making the tough economic decisions that every Indiana family and small business face each day, Brad Ellsworth has been sitting in Washington maxing out the government credit card and doing nothing to get more Hoosiers back to work,'' said Brian Walsh, a spokesman for the National Republican Senatorial Committee.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (91%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); LEGISLATION (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); MIDTERM ELECTIONS (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); UNEMPLOYMENT INSURANCE (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); VOTERS & VOTING (89%); NATIONAL DEBT (89%); UNEMPLOYED PERSONS (89%); PUBLIC DEBT (89%); ECONOMIC NEWS (78%); RECESSION (78%); ELECTIONS (78%); US PRESIDENTS (76%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (73%); TAXES & TAXATION (73%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (73%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (64%); POLLS & SURVEYS (50%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (89%); ROBERT BYRD (58%); RAHM EMANUEL (56%)

GEOGRAPHIC: WEST VIRGINIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (96%)

LOAD-DATE: July 20, 2010



490 of 785 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 20, 2010
The New York Times on the Web

SECTION: Section ; Column 0; Editorial Desk; LETTER; Pg. 

LENGTH: 238 words

HEADLINE: Drug Patent Settlements

 BODY:
To the Editor:
We disagree with the policy advocated in your July 7 editorial ''Drug Company Payoffs.'' 
Yes, some patent settlements can harm consumers while increasing drug company profits, but many settlements truly represent beneficial ''pay with entry,'' not ''pay for delay.''
A pro-consumer settlement may be possible only with payment from the branded to the generic manufacturer, coupled with entry that actually occurs before patent expiration -- for instance, when the branded drug company has a strong patent case, but the generic is overly optimistic.
If such payments were banned, society would be harmed because generic entry would sometimes be delayed by the impossibility of settlement, and by the costs, delays and risks of unnecessary litigation. The Federal Trade Commission itself found that the settlements you condemn significantly reduce patent litigations.
If Congress should enact any proposal, a proposal by Senator Jeff Sessions is far better policy than the one you support. It empowers the court hearing the patent case to protect consumers by stopping such a settlement if it is likely to delay generic entry.
Jonathan M. Orszag Robert D. Willig Washington, July 15, 2010
Mr. Orszag is senior managing director of Compass Lexecon, a consulting firm, and Mr. Willig is a professor of economics and public affairs at Princeton University. The writers have advised pharmaceutical companies on patent settlements.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PATENT LAW (90%); PHARMACEUTICALS INDUSTRY (90%); PATENTS (90%); LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); DELAYS & POSTPONEMENTS (90%); PHARMACEUTICALS PATENTS (90%); PHARMACEUTICAL DRUG & DEVICES LITIGATION (90%); GENERIC DRUGS (88%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (78%); LITIGATION (78%); CONSUMER LAW (77%); GENERIC PRODUCTS (77%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (73%); WRITERS (73%); CONSUMER PROTECTION (72%); PHARMACEUTICAL PREPARATION MFG (71%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (65%); BUSINESS EDUCATION (65%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (59%); COMMERCE DEPARTMENTS (53%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (52%)

ORGANIZATION: FEDERAL TRADE COMMISSION (56%); PRINCETON UNIVERSITY (54%)

PERSON: JEFF SESSIONS (52%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: July 20, 2010



491 of 785 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 20, 2010
The New York Times on the Web

SECTION: Section ; Column 0; Editorial Desk; LETTER; Pg. 

LENGTH: 187 words

HEADLINE: Ways to Help States Recover

 BODY:
To the Editor:
Re ''Let Treasury Rescue the States'' (Op-Ed, July 8): 
Christopher Edley Jr. suggests that Washington help state governments with their deficits by letting them borrow against future-year federal payments for entitlement programs like Medicaid.
But states have borrowed from the future for decades. To finance unsustainable public-labor, education and health care spending, states have shortchanged investment in roads, flood protection and transit, at the cost of future economic growth. They've also made pension promises and taken on debt without putting aside money to pay.
Washington should not offer more borrowed funds to maintain this impossible status quo. Instead, Washington should help only the states that enact laws or agreements now to freeze public-sector wages and cut future public-sector retiree benefits.
Washington should require the states to spend 80 percent of this ''cash for cuts'' money on infrastructure. Such a stimulus would begin to reverse the imbalance between spending and investment that thwarts recovery.
Nicole Gelinas Senior Fellow, Manhattan Institute New York, July 8, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (90%); MEDICAID (78%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (78%); PENSION & RETIREMENT PLANS (77%); HEALTH CARE COSTS (77%); WAGES & SALARIES (76%); RETIREE HEALTH PLANS (75%); RETIREMENT & RETIREES (75%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (74%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (70%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (69%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (70%) NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: July 20, 2010



492 of 785 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 20, 2010
The New York Times on the Web

SECTION: Section ; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 

LENGTH: 443 words

HEADLINE: Boeing Gets Order for Up to 30 Jets From Dubai

BYLINE: By CHRISTOPHER DREW; Matthew Saltmarsh in Paris contributed reporting.

 BODY:
The aviation giant Boeing said Monday that it had obtained an order for 30 of its wide-body 777 jets from Emirates Airline of Dubai.
The plane maker did not reveal the value of the deal in a statement, but the transaction would be worth nearly $7 billion at list prices. 
The deal, announced at the Farnborough Air Show in Britain, is a sign that commercial aviation, and Boeing's fortunes, are starting to recover from the global recession.
''Today's order underscores the airline's confidence in the airplane which forms the backbone of its fleet,'' Jim Albaugh, chief executive of Boeing Commercial Airplanes, said in the statement. ''For that we are very grateful.''
Sheik Ahmed bin Saeed al-Maktoum, chairman and chief executive of Emirates, added: ''Since we took delivery of our first 777 14 years ago, the airplane's reliability, performance and operating economics have firmly established it as the backbone of our fleet.''
Emirates took delivery of its first Boeing 777 -- a 777-200 -- in 1996, and since then the airline has deployed the 777 on short-, medium- and long-haul routes.
The order could be one of the largest at the show.
Farnborough, outside London, alternates with Paris each year as the site of the industry's most prominent event, and executives are looking for further signs of an upswing there.
Airbus, Boeing's European rival, has sold 131 commercial planes this year. Its chief operating officer, John Leahy, told reporters on Saturday that Airbus could double that number through orders at the show.
Before the announcement Monday, Boeing had said that it received orders for 177 planes this year. It also flew its new mid-size 787 Dreamliner jet, which is undergoing testing, to the show.
Last month, Emirates, the largest Arab airline, ordered 32 Airbus A380 superjumbo jets, valued at about $11 billion.
Both Boeing and Airbus are presumably providing discounts to Emirates on the latest orders, though the extent of the discounts could not be determined.
The orders from Emirates, which carries passengers from all over the world through its Dubai base, illustrate how the recovery is being led by airlines in the Middle East.
Boeing and Airbus both released forecasts recently suggesting that commercial air traffic, which dipped last year, would return over the next several years to its historic average growth rate of 5 percent each year.
The sharpest growth and demand for new planes will occur in the Middle East and China. The United States and Europe are expected to rebound more slowly.
Also on Monday, The Associated Press reported that GE Capital Aviation Services had ordered 40 Boeing 737-800 planes for $3 billion at list prices.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: AIRLINES (90%); AIRCRAFT MFG (90%); EXECUTIVES (89%); PASSENGER & CARGO AIRCRAFT (89%); COMMERCIAL & GENERAL AVIATION AIRCRAFT (89%); CIVIL AVIATION (78%); RECESSION (76%); ECONOMIC NEWS (76%)

COMPANY: BOEING CO (92%); GENERAL ELECTRIC CO (84%); AIRBUS SAS (84%)

TICKER: BOE (LSE) (92%); BAB (BRU) (92%); BA (NYSE) (92%); GNE (PAR) (84%); GEC (LSE) (84%); GE (SWX) (84%); GE (NYSE) (84%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS336412 AIRCRAFT ENGINE & ENGINE PARTS MANUFACTURING (92%); NAICS336411 AIRCRAFT MANUFACTURING (92%); NAICS336414 GUIDED MISSILE & SPACE VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (92%); SIC3761 GUIDED MISSILES & SPACE VEHICLES (92%); NAICS335222 HOUSEHOLD REFRIGERATOR & HOME FREEZER MANUFACTURING (84%); NAICS335210 SMALL ELECTRICAL APPLIANCE MANUFACTURING (84%); SIC3721 AIRCRAFT (84%)

GEOGRAPHIC: LONDON, ENGLAND (77%); PARIS, FRANCE (54%) DUBAI, UNITED ARAB EMIRATES (94%) UNITED ARAB EMIRATES (94%); MIDDLE EAST (90%); UNITED KINGDOM (90%); UNITED STATES (79%); CHINA (75%); EUROPE (70%); FRANCE (54%); SOUTHERN EUROPE (54%)

LOAD-DATE: July 20, 2010



493 of 785 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 20, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 1099 words

HEADLINE: Inside The Times

 BODY:
International
A LESS HOSTILE RECEPTION
For Clinton in Pakistan
Secretary of State Hillary Rodham Clinton received a noticeably less toxic reception upon her latest visit to Pakistan, perhaps in part because Mrs. Clinton showed up with more than $500 million in economic aid, part of her campaign to win over a skeptical Pakistani public. PAGE A8
EUROPE MULLS IRAN SANCTIONS
The European Union is considering tough new sanctions against Iran to protest its nuclear program, including banning investment in the oil and gas sector and tightening restrictions on shipping and finance. PAGE A8 
IRAQI CLERIC MEETS RIVAL
Moktada al-Sadr, the anti-American cleric in exile with a sizable bloc of followers in Iraq's new Parliament, took his first direct public step into the country's protracted political impasse on Monday, meeting in Syria with Prime Minister Nuri Kamal al-Maliki's top rival to lead a new government. PAGE A4
U.S. SHIP IN SOUTH KOREA
The Defense Department said that an aircraft carrier, the George Washington, would arrive in the South Korean port of Busan on Wednesday as the United States and South Korea prepared for joint military exercises meant to be a show of strength against North Korea. PAGE A9
National
ON GULF COAST BEACHES,
Indefinite Vacancy Signs
Sales of beachfront condominiums and homes have plummeted since late April, when oil started gushing into the Gulf of Mexico. Property values are dropping, devastating beach towns like Gulf Shores, Ala., where sales and rentals of vacation homes are the lifeblood of the economy. PAGE A17
UNLIKELY ELECTORAL MATCHUP
One of the more unlikely showdowns for the fall elections is taking shape in Oklahoma: Brittany Novotny, a Democrat and Oklahoma's first known transgender candidate, is running for a seat in the State House against Sally Kern, the Republican incumbent, who gained national attention for saying ''the homosexual agenda is just destroying this nation.'' PAGE A13
New York
AS BRONX RIVER IS RESTORED,
Its Attraction Can Be Deadly
The restoration of the Bronx River has enticed more Bronx residents to take advantage of the river and its banks, but that popularity turned deadly when two teenagers drowned in a natural pool below a dam and a waterfall at 182d Street. That area was fenced off, and two large signs warned that swimming was prohibited. PAGE A18
Business
AN OUTSPOKEN MAN
In a Secretive Trade
With a sharp wit and a sharper tongue, Hugh Hendry, a plain-spoken Scot who runs the successful hedge fund firm Eclectica Asset Management, has positioned himself as the public contrarian thinker of London's very private hedge fund community. PAGE B1
AIMING TO CONTROL PLAYBOY
Hugh Hefner is trying to shore up his control of Playboy by acquiring all the stock of Playboy Enterprises that he does not already own. Like many family-controlled media companies, Playboy has a dual-class stock structure meant to help the controlling family protect the editorial integrity of the product. But already, Playboy is attracting rival suitors. Aaron Ross Sorkin, Dealbook. PAGE B1
SHAKEUP AT I.B.M.
I.B.M. is reshuffling its top management one level below the chief executive, Samuel J. Palmisano. Analysts said the move creates a short list for succession, and could also signal that Mr. Palmisano will be staying on beyond the traditional retirement age of 60 for I.B.M. chief executives. PAGE B1
E-BOOKS TOP HARDCOVERS
Amazon.com, one of the nation's largest booksellers, announced that sales of books for its e-reader, the Kindle, outnumbered sales of hardcover books for the last three months. PAGE B1
FEWER MORTGAGES FOR PARENTS
Back in the days of easy credit, lenders were more likely to overlook the fact that a parent was out on maternity or paternity leave. But now that lenders have become more conservative, they are requiring new parents to jump through more hoops to prove their income will be enough to cover the mortgage. PAGE B1
Arts
BANNED TV EPISODE
Has Its Day on DVD
The home video arm of 20th Century Fox plans to offer a stand-alone DVD release of an unaired episode of Fox's ''Family Guy,'' which dealt with -- and frankly satirizes -- a character's consideration of abortion. The show's fans will get their first look at an unlikely reminder of the television networks' aversion to the issue of abortion, and a rare boundary encountered by an often rebellious series. PAGE B1
A GAME SHOW CATCHES ON
''Minute to Win It,'' an NBC game show that involves try-it-yourself challenges like stacking five apples into a single free-standing tower in 60 seconds for a $1 million prize, has had its viewership climb since it returned this summer. PAGE B1
HOW TRAFFIC SHAPED A CITY
The exhibition ''Cars, Culture and the City'' at the Museum of the City of New York suggests that New York City, as much as Detroit or Los Angeles, has been shaped by the automobile. Edward Rothstein, Exhibition Review. PAGE C1
Sports
YANKEES OWNER LAID TO REST
Far From City's Lights
George Steinbrenner's final resting place is an unmarked, salt-and-pepper marble mausoleum that sits just inside the gates of the 60-acre Trinity Memorial Gardens cemetery in Trinity, Fla., more than 1,100 miles from the Bronx. PAGE B11
JETER'S HITTING SLUMP
Derek Jeter is hitting well below his .334 average from last year, and 44 points below his career mark of .315. He turned 36 last month and is earning $21 million in the last season of a 10-year contract. His contract is not a controversial issue because Jeter is an icon for a team with baseball's best record (58-33) while defending a World Series championship. But negotiations on a new deal have not begun. PAGE B11
U.S. LOSES HOLD ON MAJORS
It is not clear whether the resurgence by international golfers will continue, but it comes at a fortunate time for those who are working to build international interest in the run-up to golf's return to the Olympics in 2016. PAGE B13
Science Times
EVIDENCE THAT EVOLUTION
Is Progressing in Humans
Many have assumed that humans ceased to evolve in the distant past, perhaps when people first learned to protect themselves against cold, famine and other harsh agents of natural selection. But in the last few years, biologists peering into the human genome sequences now available from around the world have found increasing evidence of natural selection at work in the last few thousand years, leading many to assume that human evolution is still in progress. PAGE D1
Op-ed
DAVID BROOKS PAGE A21
BOB HERBERT PAGE A21
Online
An interactive look at the Tour de France route features photographs and data focusing on the topographical challenges the contestants face.
nytimes.com/sports

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Summary

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: EMBARGOES & SANCTIONS (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (90%); INTERNATIONAL ASSISTANCE (79%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (78%); ELECTIONS (78%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (78%); REAL ESTATE (77%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (77%); CONDOMINIUMS (76%); NAVAL VESSELS (76%); EUROPEAN UNION (76%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (74%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (74%); DEFENSE DEPARTMENTS (73%); MILITARY VESSELS (72%); OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (72%); TRAVEL HOSPITALITY & TOURISM (72%); RESIDENTIAL CO-OWNERSHIP (70%); BEACHES (70%); COASTAL AREAS (70%); PRIME MINISTERS (69%); MILITARY OPERATIONS (66%); REAL ESTATE VALUATIONS (65%); MULTIFAMILY REAL ESTATE (65%); RESIDENTIAL CONDOMINIUMS (65%); FAMILY COMPANIES (64%); TRANSGENDER PERSONS (63%); HEDGE FUNDS (60%); GAYS & LESBIANS (50%)

COMPANY: PLAYBOY ENTERPRISES INC (50%)

ORGANIZATION: EUROPEAN UNION (57%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS512110 MOTION PICTURE & VIDEO PRODUCTION (50%); NAICS511120 PERIODICAL PUBLISHERS (50%)

PERSON: HILLARY RODHAM CLINTON (92%); NOURI AL-MALIKI (86%); MOQTADA AL-SADR (54%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%) NEW YORK, USA (92%); OKLAHOMA, USA (92%); GULF OF MEXICO (79%); ATLANTIC OCEAN (79%); ALABAMA, USA (79%) IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (94%); PAKISTAN (94%); KOREA, REPUBLIC OF (93%); UNITED STATES (93%); IRAQ (92%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (90%); KOREA, DEMOCRATIC PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF (79%); SYRIA (79%)

LOAD-DATE: July 20, 2010



494 of 785 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 21, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Foreign Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1298 words

HEADLINE: Water Dispute Raises Tension Between India and Pakistanis

BYLINE: By LYDIA POLGREEN and SABRINA TAVERNISE; Hari Kumar contributed reporting from New Delhi.

 BODY:
BANDIPORE, Kashmir -- In this high Himalayan valley on the Indian-controlled side of Kashmir, the latest battle line between India and Pakistan has been drawn.
This time it is not the ground underfoot, which has been disputed since the bloody partition of British India in 1947, but the water hurtling from mountain glaciers to parched farmers' fields in Pakistan's agricultural heartland.
Indian workers here are racing to build an expensive hydroelectric dam in a remote valley near here, one of several India plans to build over the next decade to feed its rapidly growing but power-starved economy.
In Pakistan, the project raises fears that India, its archrival and the upriver nation, would have the power to manipulate the water flowing to its agriculture industry -- a quarter of its economy and employer of half its population. In May it filed a case with the international arbitration court to stop it. 
Water has become a growing source of tension in many parts of the world between nations striving for growth. Several African countries are arguing over water rights to the Nile. Israel and Jordan have competing claims to the Jordan River. Across the Himalayas, China's own dam projects have piqued India, a rival for regional, and even global, power.
But the fight here is adding a new layer of volatility at a critical moment to one of the most fraught relationships anywhere, one between deeply distrustful, nuclear-armed nations who have already fought three wars.
The dispute threatens to upset delicate negotiations to renew peace talks, on hold since Pakistani militants killed at least 163 people in attacks in Mumbai, India, in November 2008. The United States has been particularly keen to ease tensions so that Pakistan can divert troops and materiel from its border with India to its frontier with Afghanistan to fight Taliban insurgents.
Anti-India nationalists and militant networks in Pakistan, already dangerously potent, have seized on the issue as a new source of rage to perpetuate 60 years of antagonism.
Jamaat-u-Dawa, the charity wing of Lashkar-e-Taiba, the militant group behind the Mumbai attacks, has retooled its public relations effort around the water dispute, where it was once focused almost entirely on land claims to Kashmir. Hafiz Saeed, Jamaat's leader, now uses the dispute in his Friday sermons to whip up fresh hatreds.
With their populations rapidly expanding, water is critical to both nations. Pakistan contains the world's largest contiguous irrigation system, water experts say. It has also become an increasingly fertile recruiting ground for militant groups, who play on a lack of opportunity and abundant anti-India sentiment. The rivers that traverse Punjab, Pakistan's most populous province and the heart of its agriculture industry, are the country's lifeline, and the dispute over their use goes to the heart of its fears about its larger, stronger neighbor.
For India, the hydroprojects are vital to harnessing Himalayan water to fill in the serious energy shortfalls that crimp its economy. About 40 percent of India's population is off the power grid, and lack of electricity has hampered industry. The Kishenganga project is a crucial part of India's plans to close that gap.
The Indian project has been on the drawing board for decades, and it falls under a 50-year-old treaty that divides the Indus River and its tributaries between both countries. ''The treaty worked well in the past, mostly because the Indians weren't building anything,'' said John Briscoe, an expert on South Asia's water issues at Harvard University. ''This is a completely different ballgame. Now there's a whole battery of these hydroprojects.''
The treaty, the result of a decade of painstaking negotiation that ended in 1960, gave Pakistan 80 percent of the waters in the Indus River system, a ratio that nationalists in Pakistan often forget. India, the upriver nation, is permitted to use some of the water for farming, drinking and power generation, as long as it does not store too much.
While the Kishenganga dam is allowed under the treaty, the dispute is over how it should be built and the timely release of water. Pakistan contends that having the drainage at the very base of the dam will allow India to manipulate the water flow when it wants, for example, during a crucial period of a planting season.
''It makes Pakistan very vulnerable,'' said a lawyer who has worked on past water cases for Pakistan. ''You can't just tell us, 'Hey, you should trust us.' We don't. That's why we have a treaty.''
India has rejected any suggestion that it has violated the treaty or tried to steal water. In a speech on June 13, India's foreign secretary, Nirupama Rao, called such allegations ''breast-beating propaganda,'' adding ''the myth of water theft does not stand the test of rational scrutiny or reason.''
Water experts concur, but say Pakistan does have a legitimate cause for concern. The real issue is timing. If India chooses to fill its dams at a crucial time for Pakistan, it has the potential to ruin a crop. Mr. Briscoe estimates that if India builds all its planned projects, it could have the capacity of holding up about a month's worth of river flow during Pakistan's critical dry season, enough to wreck an entire planting season.
Here in Bandipore, where engineers and laborers work long shifts to build the powerhouse and tunnel for the long-awaited dam, the work is not merely a matter of electricity. National pride is at stake, they said.
''This dam is a matter of our national prestige,'' one of the engineers on the project said. ''It is our right to build this dam, and our future depends on it.''
Pakistanis say they have reason to be worried. In 1948, a year after Pakistan and India were established as states, an administrator in India shut off the water supply to a number of canals in Pakistani Punjab. Indian authorities later said it was a bureaucratic mix-up, but in Pakistan, the memory lingers.
''Once you've had a gun put to your head and it's been cocked, you don't forget it,'' said the Pakistani lawyer, who asked that his name not be used because he was not part of the current legal team.
A genuine water shortage in Pakistan, and the country's inability to store large quantities of water, has only made matters worse, exposing it to any small variation in rainfall or river flow. Pakistan is about to slip into a category of country the United Nations defines as ''water scarce.''
''They are confronting a very serious water issue,'' said a senior American official in Islamabad. ''There's a high amount of anxiety, and it's not misplaced.''
The design of the dam requires that much of the water in the Kishenganga River be diverted for much of the year. That will kill off fish and harm the livelihoods of the people living in the Pakistan-administered side of Kashmir, Pakistani officials say.
Kaiser Bengali, an economist, argues that Pakistan's water crisis has little to do with India, and says that the real way to ease it is to introduce water conservation methods and modern farming techniques. In a country where summer temperatures reach 120 degrees, as much as 40 percent of Pakistan's water is lost before even reaching the roots of the plants, experts say.
The water dispute would not be nearly as acute, experts said, if India and Pakistan talked and shared data on water. Instead, the distrust and antagonism is such that bureaucrats have hoarded information, and are secretly gunning to finish projects on either side of the line of control in order to be the first to have an established fact on the ground.
''It's like a bad marriage in which we have proscribed roles,'' the Pakistani lawyer said. ''Would it be better if we were communicating openly? Yes. But in the present circumstances we are not.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: The Kishenganga dam project in Kashmir is a crucial part of India's plans to feed its rapidly growing but power-starved economy. (A1)
 Laborers who work long hours in Bandipore said the dam was not just a matter of electricity. National pride is at stake, they said. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY KUNI TAKAHASHI FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) (A6) MAP: The Kishenganga dam in Bandipore is allowed under a treaty. (A6) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: RIVERS (90%); WATER RIGHTS (90%); MOUNTAINS (90%); DAMS & RESERVOIRS (89%); MUMBAI TERRORIST ATTACKS (86%); TALIBAN (78%); REBELLIONS & INSURGENCIES (78%); HYDROELECTRIC POWER (78%); DAM & HYDROELECTRIC CONSTRUCTION (76%); HYDROELECTRIC POWER GENERATION (76%); ALTERNATIVE DISPUTE RESOLUTION (73%); GLACIERS & ICEBERGS (73%); INTERNATIONAL COURTS & TRIBUNALS (73%); TALKS & MEETINGS (72%); TERRORIST ORGANIZATIONS (69%); INTERNATIONAL LAW (68%); IRRIGATION (67%); PEACE PROCESS (66%); ARMED FORCES (63%); PUBLIC RELATIONS (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: MUMBAI, INDIA (90%) KASHMIR (95%); JAMMU & KASHMIR, INDIA (91%); HIMALAYAS (79%) INDIA (98%); PAKISTAN (96%); ASIA (95%); AFGHANISTAN (79%); AFRICA (79%); ISRAEL (79%); UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: July 21, 2010



495 of 785 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 21, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 1597 words

HEADLINE: As Europe Prepares to Release Bank Test Results, Concern About Trustworthiness

BYLINE: By JACK EWING, MATTHEW SALTMARSH, and RAPHAEL MINDER; Contributing reporting were Liz Alderman, James Kanter and Julia Werdigier.

 BODY:
FRANKFURT -- Will Europe's bank stress tests be a success if nobody fails?
Assurances by government leaders in recent weeks that their countries' banks will pass the tests have left economists and analysts anything but reassured.
Regulators plan to release a blizzard of information Friday about the results of the stress tests, but so far there has been a dearth of detail about what criteria will be used to judge banks' financial durability. That has raised concerns that the tests might gloss over any problems.
''It is a bit concerning that authorities around Europe are all sounding quite confident about the ability of their banks to sail through the tests,'' said Marie Diron, an economist in London who advises the consulting firm Ernst & Young. ''All banks passing the tests would mean the tests were useless.''
For example, political leaders appear reluctant to measure what would happen to banks if Greece eventually defaulted on its debt -- a possibility that many analysts consider likely. Some European banks hold billions of euros in the country's sovereign debt. A default would erase much of the market value. 
In addition, there is still uncertainty about what kind of measures -- if any -- will be in place to prop up any sick banks that are identified by the tests.
The tests are being conducted by the Committee for European Banking Supervisors, which is made up of regulators from the European Union's 27 member states.
The tests are designed to show whether banks have enough capital to cushion their losses in a number of different scenarios, including a deterioration of the European economy or renewed problems with sovereign debt.
A total of 91 banks have been tested, including the largest multinational banks in Europe: HSBC and Barclays in Britain, Deutsche Bank and Commerzbank in Germany, and Societe Generale and BNP Paribas in France.
The United States conducted stress tests of its own major financial institutions last year, a program credited with restoring confidence in the sector.
If the tests of the 91 banks are credible, they would separate the minority of sick banks from the healthy majority. Banks would be more willing to lend to each other. And the solid banks could sell bonds to raise money that they could in turn lend to businesses and consumers, promoting economic growth.
''Without a solid financial sector, I don't think we will have any kind of sustainable recovery,'' said Diego Iscaro, senior economist in London at IHS Global Insight, a market research firm. ''If we don't have full transparency, it's going to be an opportunity missed.''
Analysts say that some banks should fail the stress tests, though they disagree on how many. In a study issued Tuesday, the Japanese bank Nomura said 16 European banks were likely to need more capital in order to be adequately insulated against economic and market shocks. The weaker institutions included several Greek and Italian banks, as well as Deutsche Postbank.
A Nomura analyst, Jon Peace, cautioned that the banks' criteria might not be the same as those being used by regulators and so they did not predict the results of the official stress tests.
A study by Credit Suisse found that all but two Greek banks would have enough capital. Credit Suisse and Nomura looked only at publicly traded banks in detail, not at public-sector institutions like the German landesbanks or Spain's savings banks, known as cajas -- both of which are considered vulnerable by many analysts. Europe's public-sector banks could require 90 billion in additional capital, Credit Suisse estimated.
The cajas spearheaded lending to the Spanish construction sector, and suffered when it collapsed. In many cases, the cajas have not been able to respond effectively, because they have been held hostage to the interests of the politicians who control them.
Many of the landesbanks, which have close links to state governments, invested in derivatives tied to the U.S. real estate market or other toxic assets.
Even before their results are known, the stress tests have added to the pressure on the Spanish and German governments to clean up their public-sector banks.
But it is not clear that any of these banks will actually be allowed to fail the stress tests.
The director general of the federation representing the cajas, Jose Antonio Olavarrieta, said over the weekend that ''absolutely all the cajas'' had been profitable at the end of June, according to a transcript of an interview with Spanish national radio.
The Association of German Public Sector Banks, which represents the landesbanks, said Tuesday that it did not expect any of its members to have problems passing the tests.
The German bank likely to fail is Hypo Real Estate, Bloomberg News has reported, citing people familiar with the test results. But even if it does, that might not do much to convince investors and analysts that the stress tests are credible.
Hypo Real Estate's problems are already well known and a rescue plan is under way. The Munich-based bank, which specializes in mortgages and lending to the public sector, will soon transfer 210 billion in troubled assets -- out of total assets of 360 billion, or $464 billion -- into a so-called bad bank supported by the German government.
The political cost of a test failure by Hypo Real Estate would be much less than of the landesbanks, said Alexander Plenk, an analyst at UniCredit in Munich.
''Hypo Real Estate would be a dream example for the politicians to show the tests are credible, and governments are prepared to react,'' Mr. Plenk said.
A spokesman for Hypo Real Estate, Walter Allwicher, would not comment on reports that the bank was likely to fail its stress test.
There is also concern among some analysts that different countries could use different methods to test their banks, adding to the confusion.
Nicolas Veron, a senior fellow at Bruegel, a research organization in Brussels, said the stress tests would only be a success if all were ''based on a single scenario and a single methodology.'' He also said that European officials rushed into setting a date to release the test results, underestimating the complexity of the tests and the effort needed to coordinate them.
Simply launching the test results into the public domain will be a formidable exercise. The Committee of European Banking Supervisors, along with national regulators and the 91 individual banks, are scheduled to post the results on their respective Web sites beginning at 6 p.m. Paris time on Friday. The European Central Bank and the European Commission will also weigh in.
The Bank of Spain is set to publish stress tests covering all of the country's financial institutions, although the cajas, or savings banks, might show up as combined entities following a wave of recent merger agreements that has more than halved their number from 45.
A spokesman for the Bank of Spain would not detail the kind of tests carried out or confirm the exact timing of the announcement. However, a senior government official said in a recent interview that the tests ''would go very far to give the full transparency that is needed now, including looking at what might happen under the kind of economic disaster scenario that really nobody expects to happen.''
Officials elsewhere have also expressed confidence that the tests will show that European banks are healthier than investors have feared.
''There's no reason to believe that the result of the French banks will be different from regular tests that we do and which they passed with success,'' Christian Noyer, the governor of the Bank of France, said this month.
The Irish central bank governor, Patrick Honohan, said in an interview last month that Ireland was ''ahead of the game'' because regulators there had decided to stress test its banks early on, using more stringent criteria than the European tests.
Bank executives are similarly sanguine. Baudouin Prot, chief executive of BNP Paribas in France, described the lender late last month as ''among the banks with the best ratings in the world.''
Executives at UniCredit, based in Milan, have also said they are confident about the bank's performance in the tests, even if the criteria take into account UniCredit's substantial exposure to European government bonds, including almost 1 billion in Greek debt.
The Belgian lenders Dexia and KBC, both of which received billions in government aid during the financial crisis, had passed the tests and have enough capital to face new economic storms, the Belgian daily newspaper L'Echo reported recently, citing unidentified sources. An official with knowledge of the tests confirmed the accuracy of the reports.
European governments will be able to support their most vulnerable banks by drawing on a rescue package worth 750 billion that European Union governments agreed to establish in May. But the fund is to be used only if the banks cannot raise money on their own in the markets, and if their respective governments are not able to help, Olli Rehn, the E.U. commissioner for economic and monetary affairs, said last week.
Even so, the fund cannot be used to recapitalize banks directly, other E.U. officials have said.
Should any banks fail, analysts say, it is essential that governments or regulators be ready with measures to prop them up. But it is unclear whether all governments are in fact prepared.
''It's important to have a Plan B,'' said Mr. Iscaro of IHS Global Insight. ''That sounds obvious, but in the euro zone, sometimes Plan B's are difficult to find.''
This is a more complete version of the story than the one that appeared in print.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Hypo Real Estate in Munich, which specializes in mortgages, is known to have problems. (PHOTOGRAPH BY GUENTER SCHIFFMANN/BLOOMBERG NEWS) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BANKING & FINANCE (89%); PUBLIC DEBT (89%); EXTERNAL DEBT (89%); BANKING & FINANCE AGENCIES (78%); BANKING & FINANCE SECTOR PERFORMANCE (78%); MARKET RESEARCH (78%); MARKET RESEARCH & ANALYSIS (78%); EUROPEAN UNION (78%); BANKING & FINANCE REGULATION (78%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (77%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (77%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (74%); EURO (72%); EMERGING MARKETS (72%); CONSULTING SERVICES (69%); SECURITIES TRADING (66%); MARKET RESEARCH FIRMS (64%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (64%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (63%)

COMPANY: BNP PARIBAS SA (58%); COMMERZBANK AG (58%); DEUTSCHE BANK AG (58%); SOCIETE GENERALE SA (58%); ERNST & YOUNG GLOBAL LTD (56%)

ORGANIZATION: EUROPEAN UNION (54%)

TICKER: BNP (PAR) (58%); BNP (BIT) (58%); CZB (LSE) (58%); CBK (FRA) (58%); DEUT (JSE) (58%); DBK (FRA) (58%); DBK (BIT) (58%); DBETN (JSE) (58%); DBA (ASX) (58%); DB (NYSE) (58%); GLE (PAR) (58%); GLE (BIT) (58%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (58%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (58%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (58%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (58%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (58%); SIC6081 BRANCHES & AGENCIES OF FOREIGN BANKS (58%); NAICS541613 MARKETING CONSULTING SERVICES (56%); NAICS541611 ADMINISTRATIVE MANAGEMENT & GENERAL MANAGEMENT CONSULTING SERVICES (56%); NAICS541211 OFFICES OF CERTIFIED PUBLIC ACCOUNTANTS (56%)

GEOGRAPHIC: LONDON, ENGLAND (90%) FRANKFURT AM MAIN, GERMANY (92%) EUROPE (96%); GERMANY (92%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (79%); FRANCE (79%); UNITED KINGDOM (79%); UNITED STATES (79%); GREECE (78%); CENTRAL EUROPE (73%)

LOAD-DATE: July 21, 2010



496 of 785 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 21, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; The Arts/Cultural Desk; ARTS, BRIEFLY; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 175 words

HEADLINE: Michael Moore Unmoved By American Films

BYLINE: Compiled by DAVE ITZKOFF

 BODY:
It wouldn't be a conversation with Michael Moore without a bit of provocation. On Tuesday Mr. Moore, the ''Sicko'' and ''Bowling for Columbine'' filmmaker, called to discuss the lineup for his sixth-annual Traverse City Film Festival, which he holds each year to bring independent movies and their creators to that economically depressed Michigan town. Asked to pick a highlight or two from the festival, which runs this year from Tuesday to Aug. 1, Mr. Moore replied that ''one of the highlights is actually a lowlight.'' ''I'm showing very, very few American independent feature films this year,'' he continued, ''because they simply -- the great ones -- don't exist.'' Mr. Moore said he hoped his festival would fill this gap with a lineup of foreign romantic comedies like ''Will You Marry Us?'' (from Switzerland), ''Castaway on the Moon'' (from South Korea) and ''Heartbreaker'' (from France), which he deemed superior to their American counterparts. Pending visa approvals, Mr. Moore said he hoped to bring some Cuban filmmakers to the festival. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Brief

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: FILM (92%); FESTIVALS (90%); VISUAL ARTISTS (90%); ARTS FESTIVALS & EXHIBITIONS (77%); COMEDY FILMS (72%); ECONOMIC DEPRESSION (56%)

GEOGRAPHIC: TRAVERSE CITY, MI, USA (72%) MICHIGAN, USA (72%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: July 21, 2010



497 of 785 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 21, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 932 words

HEADLINE: S.E.C. Is Pursuing More Inquiries Tied to the Financial Crisis, Chairwoman Says

BYLINE: By EDWARD WYATT; Charlie Savage contributed reporting.

 BODY:
WASHINGTON -- Days after the Securities and Exchange Commission secured a $550 million settlement from Goldman Sachs, the agency's chairwoman said on Tuesday that the commission was pursuing several other investigations related to the 2008 financial crisis.
The chairwoman, Mary L. Schapiro, told reporters after a Congressional hearing that the S.E.C. had ''a number of cases coming out of the financial crisis related to C.D.O.'s and other products'' and involving Wall Street firms, banks and other financial institutions. 
C.D.O.'s, or collateralized debt obligations, were the financial products at the center of the Goldman Sachs charges, which alleged that the bank misled investors in a subprime mortgage product as the housing market began to collapse. Goldman settled the S.E.C. complaint without admitting or denying the charges.
Ms. Schapiro's comments are the most direct signal yet that the S.E.C. is continuing to press for accountability and restitution for the upheaval in financial and housing markets in 2007 and 2008, which led to the sweeping regulatory bill that President Obama is scheduled to sign on Wednesday.
Officials at the Justice Department and other members of the Financial Fraud Enforcement Task Force, including the S.E.C., have said they are continuing to share information and to pursue other investigations into financial sector firms with questionable practices that came to light during the financial crisis.
The S.E.C. has drawn particular criticism from Congress, investor groups and other quarters for a lack of prominent enforcement cases against firms that played a major role in the financial crisis, which cost individual and institutional investors billions of dollars in losses.
Ms. Schapiro defended the commission's record on Tuesday, telling members of a House Financial Services subcommittee that the agency's enforcement division had been restructured and reinvigorated since she took over in January 2009.
Responding to questions from reporters after the hearing, Ms. Schapiro said the agency was looking beyond Goldman Sachs and that investors had ''not necessarily'' seen the bulk of cases that might stem from the financial crisis.
''We have investigations in the pipeline across products, across institutions coming out of the financial crisis,'' she said. ''We've brought a number of them. Nobody ever wants to pay attention to the ones we've already brought. But we've brought quite a few already coming out of the crisis over the last year and a half.''
In recent months, she told the committee, the S.E.C. has brought cases claiming accounting and disclosure violations at subprime lenders, misrepresentation of complex mortgage securities as safe investments appropriate for retail investors and misleading statements to investors about a fund's exposure to subprime investments.
For example, last month the commission charged ICP Asset Management of New York with fraud and conflicts of interest related to its management of multiple C.D.O.'s and an affiliated hedge fund in 2007. The company denied the charges.
In February, the commission settled a case with State Street Bank and Trust of Boston in which the S.E.C. charged that the company misled investors about their exposure to subprime investments while selectively disclosing more complete information to certain favored clients. State Street paid $313 million to settle the case.
But the S.E.C. has not brought any cases against credit rating agencies related to the financial crisis, although those companies provided investment-grade ratings to many packaged mortgage investments that quickly turned out to be based on questionable loans to unqualified borrowers.
S.E.C. officials say they are continuing to investigate the credit rating agencies. But the Credit Rating Agency Reform Act of 2006 prohibits the S.E.C. from regulating the substance, criteria or methodologies used in credit rating models, making those inquiries more difficult.
On Tuesday, some members of Congress expressed eagerness for the S.E.C. to follow up its case against Goldman Sachs with other actions.
''I, for one, am hopeful that this legal action will be the first, and not the last, brought by the commission against the hucksters of Wall Street who spun toxic mortgages into golden financial opportunities by hiding information or defrauding investors by other means,'' said Representative Paul E. Kanjorski, Democrat of Pennsylvania, who is chairman of the capital markets subcommittee.
The S.E.C. has only civil authority; the Goldman case was referred to the Justice Department for possible criminal proceedings. While Justice officials have said that a criminal investigation is continuing, they have also noted the difficulty of bringing such cases and have sought to dampen any expectations that charges could be imminent.
That difficulty was exhibited last year, when the Justice Department charged two Bear Stearns hedge fund managers with lying to investors about the precarious state of investments they oversaw. A federal court jury in Brooklyn found the two managers not guilty, saying essentially that while the managers made bad investments, that itself was not a crime.
The setback has not stopped further prosecutions, however. Last month, the former chairman of a lending company, the Taylor, Bean & Whitaker Mortgage Corporation of Florida, was indicted for his role in what the government said was a $1.9 billion fraud scheme that led to the collapse of Colonial Bank of Alabama, one of the 50 largest banks in the United States. The former chairman, Lee B. Farkas, pleaded not guilty.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Mary L. Schapiro, chairwoman of the S.E.C., testified on Tuesday before a House subcommittee. (PHOTOGRAPH BY BRENDAN HOFFMAN/BLOOMBERG NEWS) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BANKING & FINANCE (92%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (92%); BANKING & FINANCE AGENCIES (90%); SETTLEMENT & COMPROMISE (90%); INVESTIGATIONS (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (90%); SECURITIES LAW (90%); REAL ESTATE (90%); LITIGATION (90%); FRAUD & FINANCIAL CRIME (89%); SUBPRIME MORTGAGES (88%); SUBPRIME LENDING (88%); ACCOUNTING (78%); MORTGAGE INVESTMENTS (78%); MORTGAGE BACKED SECURITIES (78%); CONFLICTS OF INTEREST (78%); FINANCIAL CRIME COUNTERMEASURES (78%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (77%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (77%); COLLATERALIZED DEBT OBLIGATIONS (76%); MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (75%); BANKING & FINANCE SECTOR PERFORMANCE (75%); CORPORATE WRONGDOING (75%); HOUSING MARKET (74%)

COMPANY: GOLDMAN SACHS GROUP INC (92%)

ORGANIZATION: SECURITIES & EXCHANGE COMMISSION (94%)

TICKER: GS (NYSE) (92%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (92%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (92%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (92%); SIC6289 SERVICES ALLIED WITH THE EXCHANGE OF SECURITIES OR COMMODITIES, NEC (92%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (92%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (92%)

PERSON: MARY L SCHAPIRO (89%); BARACK OBAMA (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: July 21, 2010



498 of 785 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 21, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Obituary; Pg. 25

LENGTH: 564 words

PERSON: Bill McCabe 

HEADLINE: Bill McCabe, 90, Sanitation's Perfect Man

BYLINE: By DENNIS HEVESI

 BODY:
He wasn't more powerful than a locomotive or able to leap tall buildings at a single bound.
But when 19-year-old Bill McCabe passed what later became known as the ''Superman test'' to become a New York City sanitation worker 70 years ago -- with a perfect score of 100 -- newspapers jumped on the story.
The headline in The New York Times on June 13, 1940, said, ''Civil Service Finds the 'Perfect Man.' '' And The World-Telegram, in a play on Mr. McCabe's boyhood in Harlem, said, ''Great Outdoors of East 147th Street Produces the Perfect Specimen.'' 
Mr. McCabe, who got the sanitation job but soon moved on to become a police officer and later a firefighter, died Saturday at his home in Bethpage, N.Y., his son Kevin said. He was 90.
He was one of 68,000 men hoping, in those tough economic times, to become what was then called a street cleaner, at $35 a week. Calling his score ''a near-Olympic record,'' The Times said that ''cautious examiners, who are seeking to weed out as many men as possible in selecting men for the 2,000 jobs available, seemed astounded at McCabe's perfect performance.''
To nail that 100, Mr. McCabe lifted an 80-pound dumbbell in each hand and hoisted a 120-pound trash can to a 4-foot-6-inch ledge. He lay on his back and lifted a 60-pound barbell placed behind his head. He broad-jumped 8 feet 6 inches after a 7-yard run, dashed an added 10 yards and jumped a 3-foot hurdle.
Continuing a 10-yard run over and around obstacles, he ran another 10 yards on a straightaway and climbed an 8-foot fence. Beyond the fence, he vaulted 4 feet 6 inches and then ran 5 yards to the finish line. The time for the entire run was 10.8 seconds. After a 15-minute rest, he ran 120 yards with a 50-pound dumbbell in each hand in 25 seconds.
''I'm not sure Charles Atlas would pass that test,'' Vito A. Turso, a Sanitation Department spokesman, said on Monday, adding that by the time it was modified in the early 1970s it was known as the ''Superman test.'' No records still exist, he said, to determine whether anyone else ever achieved a perfect score.
''We still have a very strenuous test, but it is not like the one Mr. McCabe took,'' Mr. Turso said. These days, applicants race the clock, pick up weighted bags and place them into bins ''as high as the truck hoppers,'' he said, ''but there is no more scaling walls and racing with dumbbells.''
Mr. McCabe's run as a sanitation worker -- lifting garbage off barges into landfills -- was short. Within a year he was a police officer, and eight months later -- like four other family members -- a firefighter. He retired from the department in 1962 and became an airline cargo loader.
But William Joseph McCabe was no Goliath. Born in the Bronx on March 31, 1920 (the family later moved to Harlem), he was the youngest of four children of William and Nora McCabe. His father was a construction worker.
''Dad was 5-8 and weighed like 147 pounds,'' Kevin McCabe said. ''He went to the Y to lift weights. His father trained him in lifting technique.''
Besides his son Kevin, Mr. McCabe is survived by his wife of 64 years, the former Margaret McSweeney; two other sons, Thomas and William; two daughters, Peggy Hobi and Eileene Bordt; five grandchildren; and two great-grandchildren.
Mr. McCabe stayed in shape. ''He played semipro baseball, tennis and golf,'' Kevin McCabe said, ''and racquetball twice a week until he was 82.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: A young Bill McCabe working out in a Bronx gym in 1940, the year he scored a perfect 100 in the ''Superman test'' for people seeking jobs as sanitation workers. The feat generated headlines in the city. (PHOTOGRAPH BY ASSOCIATED PRESS) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Obituary (Obit); Biography

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: DEATHS & OBITUARIES (91%); CIVIL SERVICES (75%); MEN (75%); EMPLOYMENT SEARCH (74%); FIREFIGHTERS & FIREFIGHTING (72%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (93%) NEW YORK, USA (93%) UNITED STATES (93%)

CATEGORY: Law

LOAD-DATE: July 21, 2010



499 of 785 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 21, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Obituary; Pg. 25

LENGTH: 567 words

PERSON: Jim Neu 

HEADLINE: Jim Neu, 66, Creator Of Wry Plays, Is Dead

BYLINE: By BRUCE WEBER

 BODY:
Jim Neu, a playwright who was a mainstay of the experimental theater scene Off Off Broadway and whose work reflected on the quirks and excesses of American culture in wry wordplay, died Monday at his home in the Carroll Gardens section of Brooklyn. He was 66.
The cause was lung cancer, his wife, Carol Mullins, said. 
Over three decades, Mr. Neu (rhymes with true) wrote numerous plays, most of which were produced in downtown Manhattan, mainly at the La MaMa Experimental Theater Club, the historic seedbed of experimental theater that was founded by Ellen Stewart in the East Village almost 50 years ago.
Mr. Neu's subject, broadly speaking, was the effect of pop culture on the individual American psyche. His plays include ''The Floatones'' (1995), about a singing quartet determined to teach the doctrine of self-help in music; ''Mondo Beyondo'' (1997), about a television guru being threatened by a woman from his mysterious past; ''Undercurrent Incorporated'' (1999) about unemployed spies who try to employ their skills among fashionistas and televangelists; and his most recent work, ''Gang of Seven'' (2008), about market researchers with a collective delusion of power. Mr. Neu often performed in his own work.
A jazz lover, Mr. Neu often included original music and songs in his plays and infused his dialogue with a cryptic musicality that he borrowed from the likes of Duke Ellington and Thelonious Monk, employing short sentences in sometimes daffy repartee that zigged and zagged between slightly warped cliches and other quirky surprises.
Here, for example, is an excerpt from ''Live Witness,'' a noirish comedy from 1993 about the relationship between a pair of television news co-anchors:
1: People wonder if we see each other socially
2: Do they?
1: Is it so hard to imagine?
2: I never tried
1: Me either
2: I wouldn't want to jeopardize the quality of our professional rapport
1: I wouldn't want to compromise the integrity of our mutual objectivity
2: In a way we're a good example of what's going on here. We have the same relationship to each other that the audience has to us. We're here simultaneously, but we're not really together
1: Sometimes I feel closer to the audience than I do to you. Even as I talk to you, I'm really talking to somebody else
James A. Neu -- his wife said he would be appalled if his middle name were revealed, he hated it so much -- was born in Brooklyn on Nov. 18, 1943. When he was seven his family moved to Long Island, to Huntington. His father was a truck driver and later owned a grocery; his mother worked in a school cafeteria.
After graduating from the State University of New York, Oneonta (now SUNY College at Oneonta), Mr. Neu was drafted into the Army, though instead of being sent to fight in Vietnam he was stationed in Korea. Discharged in 1967, he then moved to the Lower East Side of Manhattan.
In 1970 Mr. Neu attended a workshop given by the theater artist Robert Wilson and later became part of Mr. Wilson's troupe, performing as an actor and eventually contributing written text to Mr. Wilson's stage tableaus. In addition to writing plays, Mr. Neu wrote scripts for two feature films, ''Doomed Love'' (1983) and ''The Big Blue'' (1988), both directed by Andrew Horn.
Mr. Neu's brother, Peter, died last fall. His wife, a lighting designer, whom he married in 1998 but who was his partner for more than 40 years, is his only immediate survivor.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Jim Neu in his play ''Target Audience, the Code of the Western'' in 2004. Mr. Neu often performed in his own work. (PHOTOGRAPH BY JONATHAN SLAFF) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Obituary (Obit); Biography

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: DEATHS & OBITUARIES (92%); DRAMA LITERATURE (90%); THEATER & DRAMA (90%); THEATER (90%); JAZZ & BLUES (88%); WRITERS (78%); THEATER COMPANIES (78%); MUSIC INDUSTRY (73%); CANCER (72%); TELEVISION INDUSTRY (67%); TELEVISION PROGRAMMING (67%); LUNG CANCER (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%) NEW YORK, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%)

CATEGORY: Art

LOAD-DATE: July 21, 2010



500 of 785 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 21, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; The Arts/Cultural Desk; THEATER; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1373 words

HEADLINE: On London Stages, Powdered Eggs and Things Not Said

BYLINE: By BEN BRANTLEY

DATELINE: LONDON 

 BODY:
Even with senses as jangled by jet lag as mine are, it's impossible not to notice that belts are being worn tighter in London this summer. I awoke on Friday, my first morning here, to the nip of pervasive economic anxiety. I couldn't pick up a paper without seeing the word ''austerity'' or some variation on ''squeeze'' or ''pinch'' featured prominently. The tabloids prickled with references to governmental budget cuts and their impact on the health system, schools, the job market, museums, mass transit and -- a bit nearer to my heart, or at least to my reason for being here -- theaters.
As Nicholas Hytner, the artistic director of the National Theater, pointed out in an essay in The Times of London, the big institutional theaters in London with government subsidies (like his own) are less likely to suffer severely than their regional siblings. But that doesn't mean that the fictional characters on London's stages aren't already feeling the pain of privation in their own particularly emotive ways. 
Though my schedule on these overstuffed theater binges is usually assembled according to the unartistic principle of what fits into which time slot, it always seems that my first several shows here become an uncanny confirmation of my impressions of the city's mood. It's as if London were determined to show me right off that, yes (no matter what the local critics say), its theater is as relevant as its daily tabloids in registering the pulse of the times.
So on my first night, there I was at the Donmar Warehouse, watching a tale of familial anxiety set on an unfriendly little British island in the post-World War II years of ration books and powdered eggs. (That's ''The Late Middle Classes,'' the 1999 drama by Simon Gray only now making a much-lauded West End debut in a limited run.) Night 2 took me from small-town England in the 1950s to Manhattan in the early 1970s, where one middle-aged couple watched their lives being crushed by a falling economy. (That's Terry Johnson's revival of Neil Simon's ''Prisoner of Second Avenue,'' starring Jeff Goldblum and Mercedes Ruehl.)
I spent the matinee in between visiting the 1980s London of Margaret Thatcher, where you would think the living might be a little easier. But no, Roy Williams's vivid, gritty melodrama ''Sucker Punch,'' directed by Sacha Wares at the Royal Court Theater, is about the lives of public-housing dwellers, folks who stay poor when the rich get richer unless they happen to have a genius for a sport like boxing.
Even then, if they're lucky and gifted enough to wind up in the money, good times have a way of becoming bad times mighty fast. And the rise and fall of our hero from the projects (the vibrant Daniel Kaluuya) is explicitly paralleled to that of the economy. ''Sucker Punch'' is primarily an exploration of racism, but it's also a cautionary tale of vanishing riches.
Small wonder that I felt I could use a good neck rub by late Saturday night, something to work out the knot of tensions I had acquired vicariously (and from sitting upright for seven hours on a Virgin airlines plane). The husbands and wives of ''Middle Classes'' and ''Prisoner,'' as it happens, are often seen giving each other such massages, though of course it doesn't help them much. These people have all reached the point where a frightened distrust of the world never goes away.
Not that these couples would have anything to say to one another should fate (or a perverse director) put them all on the same stage. The implosive small-town pathologist (Peter Sullivan) and his explosive wife (Helen McCrory) in the dramatically formulaic but meticulously acted ''Late Middle Classes'' are aching as much from emotional deprivation as from the more material kind.
As directed by David Leveaux, they talk in a blurred rush of words, as if velocity of speech might disguise their feelings of purposelessness. Well, that and (as is so often the case in British drama) all those things it would probably be better not to say. As the couple's too smart, too sensitive young son is told by his excessively attentive piano teacher, ''So much of our life is spent not saying who we really are.''
Emotional constipation is definitely not the problem for Mel and Edna Edison (Mr. Goldblum and Ms. Ruehl), the hard-times Manhattanites under siege in ''Prisoner.'' They say exactly what they think and feel, often loudly and with expansive gestures. Or at least that's the way they're written. As a suddenly downsized advertising executive, Mr. Goldblum gives a wry, understated, self-effacing performance that doesn't really match the character in the script. It falls to Ms. Ruehl, in an industrious and inventive comic turn, to fill the vacuum he leaves.
Because Mr. Goldblum isn't playing the comedy broadly, the play's real depressive anger is all the more evident, which is probably not to its advantage. The capacity audience was guffawing away happily when I saw the show, but for me the uneasiness and despair that often lurk beneath Mr. Simon's one-liners had never seemed more palpable.
Howard Davies's acclaimed revival of ''All My Sons,'' at the Apollo Theater, is as clouded by inexorable doom as anything out of an ancient Athens amphitheater. Now this is not a stylized, ritualized version, in the manner of Simon McBurney's Broadway revival of 2008. There's nothing remotely abstract about William Dudley's American-backyard set. But the performances all have a heightened solemnity, punctuated by roof-rattling anguish, that would be just as suitable to Greek tragedy straight-up. When, toward the end, Zoe Wanamaker erupted into a rising, guttural keen of lamentation, I immediately thought of her interpretation of Electra some years ago.
The Britons pride themselves on having always taken Arthur Miller very seriously, regarding him as their personal prophet without honor in his own country during the period he fell out of fashion in the United States. Perhaps it's partly because Miller is now being regularly staged on Broadway again that West End productions like this one have such a pious, almost competitive intensity. It's as if every scene, including the lighter ones of jokey conversation, were performed under a marble arch inscribed: ''This is important. This is Truth.''
Such an approach tends to bring out the Sardou as much as the Sophocles in Miller. But there's no denying the effectiveness of Mr. Davies's less subtle ''All My Sons,'' or, I might argue, its appropriateness to the times. In retelling Miller's story of a family tainted by the blood of World War II American airmen killed in planes with defective parts, this version makes sure that the head of the factory that made those parts (David Suchet) and his wife (Ms. Wanamaker) look as guilty as sin from the get-go. (It's hard to credit that their virtuous son, though beautifully played by Stephen Campbell Moore, would continue to believe in their innocence.)
Most of the revivals of ''All My Sons'' that I've seen present this couple as a study in mutually dependent denial, doing their best (and often succeeding) in keeping accusatory ghosts at bay. Here, portrayed with electrifying duplicity by Mr. Suchet and Ms. Wanamaker, they're more like the Mr. and Mrs. Macbeth of Middle America -- guarded, watchful and consciously poisoned by their own corruption. Later, having dinner at the Wolseley, I ran into a Scottish novelist who told me that this production made him ''understand Halliburton.'' And I'm sure I wasn't the only person in the theater thinking of recent crimes against nature by certain global oil companies.
But though I had cried copiously in the last scenes of Mr. Davies's earlier production of ''All My Sons'' for the National Theater in 2001, I left this one dry-eyed. Let me add that I was probably in the minority. Just before the curtain came down, the air was rent by the loudest, most convulsive sobs I have ever heard from within a theater audience. When I looked behind me, I saw a business-suited man the size of a linebacker, his head buried in his hands, being comforted by a petite blond woman.
My date for the show, who is as much in love with theater as I am, said of the sobbing giant, ''That's rather heartening, isn't it?'' I knew what she meant.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Daniel Kaluuya, left, and Nigel Lindsay in ''Sucker Punch,'' at the Royal Court Theater in London. (PHOTOGRAPH BY CHRIS NASH) (C1)
Jeff Goldblum and Mercedes Ruehl in Terry Johnson's revival of ''The Prisoner of Second Avenue,'' by Neil Simon, at the Vaudeville Theater. (PHOTOGRAPH BY ANDREW TESTA FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES)
Helen McCrory in ''The Late Middle Classes,'' at the Donmar Warehouse. (PHOTOGRAPH BY JOHAN PERSSON)
 ZoeWanamaker and David Suchet in ''All My Sons,'' at the Apollo Theater. (PHOTOGRAPH BY NOBBY CLARK) (C5) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: THEATER (90%); THEATER & DRAMA (89%); THEATER REVIEWS (88%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (77%); BUDGETS (77%); PUBLIC FINANCE (76%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (75%); BUDGET CUTS (73%); DAILY NEWSPAPER PUBLISHING (71%); MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (70%); EMPLOYMENT (69%); PUBLIC HOUSING (60%); GOVERNMENT GRANTS & SUBSIDIES (55%); WORLD WAR II (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: LONDON, ENGLAND (96%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%) NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%); ENGLAND (79%)

TITLE: Late Middle Classes, The (Play); Prisoner of Second Avenue, The (Play); Sucker Punch (Play); All My Sons (Play)

LOAD-DATE: July 21, 2010



501 of 785 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 21, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 292 words

HEADLINE: Social Security Loses $50 Million a Year in Benefit Overpayment

BYLINE: By MARY WILLIAMS WALSH

 BODY:
Social Security is paying roughly $50 million a year too much to people who collect state pensions but fail to declare that income, according to the system's inspector general. 
The overpayments go to retirees who have held state jobs and also worked in the private sector -- teachers who worked on their summer breaks, for instance, or police officers who retired young enough to form their own companies.
If the workers do not declare their state pension income, they appear to be low lifetime earners in the Social Security system.
That produces windfalls because Social Security is intended to give the poorest Americans assistance in retirement.
State workers often complain that they are being penalized for working two jobs if they report their full income. But in fact, they are otherwise gaming the system in a way that no one else can, claiming bigger benefits than other retirees with the same income history.
''This is somebody else's money they're playing with,'' said Andrew G. Biggs, a former deputy commissioner for Social Security, now an economist with the American Enterprise Institute. ''The people who are in the Social Security system who don't get good state pensions, this is taking money away from them.''
The problem does not occur in states whose workers participate in Social Security, because the federal program can see how much workers have earned from the states over the years.
The most recent audit, by Social Security's inspector general in September 2008, looked at a sample of 235 Social Security recipients, and found 21 who were being paid too much. Extrapolating, the inspector general warned that unless Social Security identified and corrected all such errors, ''it will pay about $53.2 million in overpayments annually.''

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PENSION & RETIREMENT PLANS (90%); RETIREMENT & RETIREES (90%); SOCIAL SECURITY (90%); CIVIL SERVICES (77%)

COMPANY: AMERICAN ENTERPRISE INSTITUTE FOR PUBLIC POLICY RESEARCH (55%)

INDUSTRY: SIC8733 NONCOMMERCIAL RESEARCH ORGANIZATIONS (55%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: July 21, 2010



502 of 785 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 21, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; SQUARE FEET; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 1265 words

HEADLINE: After Sports Careers, Vying in the Real Estate Arena

BYLINE: By C. J. HUGHES

 BODY:
For years, the only involvement many retired athletes had with real estate was deciding where to open a steak house with their name on it.
But some sports stars, looking for a sustainable career outside the arena, have jumped into the development game -- buying hotels, building shopping centers and renovating affordable housing, much of it in and around New York.
The move to real estate has a number of explanations, investors, developers and analysts say. For one, the leagues are offering classes and workshops to help players make wiser business decisions, and development is an attractive path, they say, because it taps deal-making skills without requiring special licenses or degrees.
But benevolence seems to be a motivator, too. Citing a desire to contribute to communities like the ones in which they grew up, former stars like Mo Vaughn, who played for the Red Sox and Mets, and Emmitt Smith, the former Dallas Cowboys running back, are focusing their resources on low-income urban areas. 
''Athletes have been notorious for tying up their money in horse farms, or drag racing or record labels, which turned out not to be such sound investments,'' said Wayne McDonnell Jr., an associate professor at New York University who teaches sports business courses. And real estate, with its brash personalities and public clashes, taps into players' competitive natures, he added.
''When their playing days are over, athletes can't just turn off that competitive energy,'' Mr. McDonnell said. ''They need to channel it into different exercises.''
What has not changed is that a game-winning score can be an enduring public relations bonanza, which can help get deals done, said Tate George, a basketball star at the University of Connecticut and a first-round pick of the New Jersey Nets in 1990. Mr. George is president of the George Group, a developer that mostly builds affordable homes in Newark, N.J.
Indeed, Newark officials often refer to Mr. George's buzzer-beater in 1990 that beat Clemson University in the N.C.A.A. tournament.
That star quality helped pave the way for Mr. George's current project, the rehabilitation of five run-down row houses in the West Ward neighborhood of Newark, where he grew up.
The single-family homes, which are being renovated with the Greater Newark Housing Partnership as the first phase of a larger 16-block, $25 million project, go on sale this month for $135,000 to $160,000, so that people making about $40,000 can afford them, Mr. George said.
Simultaneously, his company is planning its first commercial undertaking, Seaview Plaza, a 152,000-square-foot waterfront shopping and office complex in Bridgeport, Conn.
The $35 million project, for which the firm is partners with the Simon Konover Company, a developer in West Hartford, still requires a final land agreement. It would be Mr. George's first development in Connecticut, which had a lot to do with advice he received from his college coach, Jim Calhoun.
''He said, 'If you come back here, you've got to do it right, or else they will throw you under the bus,' '' Mr. George said, explaining that he had turned down about 75 other opportunities in Connecticut in the last decade.
Several former athletes, including Joe Namath, George Brett and Pete Rose, have been involved in failed food ventures, and so had Mr. Vaughn, who played most of his career with the Boston Red Sox before moving to the New York Mets. Flo Nitelife, a nightclub Mr. Vaughn opened in Columbus, Ohio, in 2002, around the time he retired from the Mets, closed a few months later.
But during that time Mr. Vaughn solidified a relationship with his lawyer, Eugene Schneur, with whom he founded Omni New York in 2004. Omni, which is based in Midtown, rehabilitates dilapidated affordable apartment buildings throughout the Northeast and owns 4,015 apartments in 23 buildings, with an additional 1,200 under contract to close this year, Mr. Schneur said. Included in that group are 415 Bronx apartments formerly owned by the Ocelot Capital Group, which Omni won in a July auction, with closings expected by September.
For Mr. Vaughn, who hit 328 home runs in a career that was ended by a knee injury, Omni provides a chance to be socially responsible and to repay the city.
''That wasn't how I should have left the Mets, so I wanted to give something back,'' Mr. Vaughn said on a recent afternoon inside a freshly painted one-bedroom apartment at the Medgar Evers Houses, a sprawling complex in the Bedford-Stuyvesant neighborhood of Brooklyn. Omni bought the complex this spring, along with the Betty Shabazz apartments across the street.
The brick buildings are undergoing a $10 million rehab that will make them more secure. Measures include adding hundreds of security cameras throughout the floors, elevators and stairwells, as well as taller fences and outdoor lights. The goal is to increase the buildings' occupancy levels, which is 85 percent.
Similarly focused on urban areas is ESmith Legacy , a commercial development company based in Baltimore that was co-founded by Mr. Smith, the N.F.L.'s career rushing leader.
Mr. Smith's latest effort is a mixed-use project in Harlem, at West 125th Street and Malcolm X Boulevard, where a weedy fenced-in lot has sat for years. The project will include 90,000 square feet of retail space, a 100,000-square-foot Hyatt hotel and a 50,000-square-foot Y.M.C.A. The complex will be built with Wharton Properties, a developer in Manhattan.
Mr. Smith will control the 10-story hotel part of the complex while Wharton will own the retail spaces, said Eliot Tawil, a principal at Wharton, who said the development would cost about $80 million.
Mr. Smith and Mr. Tawil received a financial boost in June, when the city's Capital Resource Corporation, an arm of the Economic Development Corporation, committed $19.7 million in tax-free bonds to the project if it starts by December.
One of the first prominent former athletes to go into real estate was Mr. Smith's fellow Cowboy, Roger Staubach, who was a part-time agent while a professional quarterback. That experience led to the Staubach Company, which grew into a multimillion-dollar national company before he sold it to Jones Lang LaSalle. Mr. Smith worked with Mr. Staubach in the off-season before they started Smith/Cypress Partners, which focused on building shopping centers, in 2005.
Other recent entrants into the development field include the former San Antonio Spurs center David Robinson; the former Jet Keyshawn Johnson; and the boxer Oscar De La Hoya.
Still, the main inspiration for the latest wave of deals seems to be Magic Johnson. After building inner-city movie theaters in the 1990s, his Magic Johnson Enterprises expanded into home building, courtesy of the Canyon Johnson Urban Funds, which is a partnership with Canyon Capital Realty Advisors of Los Angeles.
A recent project is One Hanson Place, condominiums in a former bank in downtown Brooklyn that were developed with the Dermot Company for $267 million. While its location at a busy intersection seems to fulfill the fund's mission to invest in once shabby but gentrifying areas, the condos' prices may seem steep for lower-income buyers. Its 179 units, which are 91 percent sold, average $750 to $900 a square foot, a Canyon spokesman said, while the borough's average figure is about $600.
Whatever their projects' details, some of these former athletes seem content to leave the bright lights of their playing days behind.
''What I'm doing is not self-serving, but other-serving,'' Mr. George said. ''When you don't work for fanfare, you can get a lot more done.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Tate George, once with the New Jersey Nets, at one of his Newark buildings. Left, his celebrated college playoff game against Clemson in 1990. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY FRED R. CONRAD/THE NEW YORK TIMES
 GETTY IMAGES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: SPORTS (94%); SPORTS & RECREATION (93%); ATHLETES (91%); REAL ESTATE (90%); STADIUMS & ARENAS (90%); RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (89%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY SPORTS (89%); BUILDING RENOVATION (89%); OFFICE PROPERTY (78%); SPORTS BUSINESS (78%); RESTAURANTS (78%); SPORTS & RECREATION EVENTS (78%); HOME PRICES (78%); RETAIL PROPERTY (78%); COLLEGIATE SPORTS ORGANIZATIONS (78%); RETAILERS (77%); LOW INCOME PERSONS (77%); BASKETBALL (77%); TOURNAMENTS (77%); HOUSING ASSISTANCE (77%); LOW COST HOUSING SCHEMES (77%); BUSINESS EDUCATION (75%); AMERICAN FOOTBALL (73%); SHOPPING CENTER DEVELOPMENT (72%); HOTELS & MOTELS (72%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (71%)

ORGANIZATION: NEW JERSEY NETS (59%); DALLAS COWBOYS (56%); NEW YORK METS (56%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEWARK, NJ, USA (90%); BRIDGEPORT, CT, USA (68%) NEW YORK, USA (93%); NEW JERSEY, USA (93%); CONNECTICUT, USA (90%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: July 21, 2010



503 of 785 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 21, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 16

LENGTH: 980 words

HEADLINE: Senate Advances Bill to Extend Jobless Benefits

BYLINE: By CARL HULSE

 BODY:
WASHINGTON -- The Senate cleared the way Tuesday for more unemployment pay to reach millions of Americans who have been out of work for six months or more as the Democratic-led Congress pruned one more item off the list of issues it hopes to tackle in an intensely polarized election year.
Minutes after Carte P. Goodwin was sworn in as the new Democratic senator from West Virginia to replace the late Robert C. Byrd, the Senate voted 60 to 40 to break a partisan logjam and end debate over the jobless pay, overriding Republican objections that the $34 billion cost of the additional compensation should not be added to the deficit. 
''One vote made a difference today for millions of Americans who have been out of work waiting for their unemployment benefits,'' Senator Jeanne Shaheen, Democrat of New Hampshire, said about Mr. Goodwin's arrival to cast his decisive vote.
The Senate must still give final approval to the unemployment bill, though the procedural victory assured passage as early as Wednesday. The House was expected to give quick final approval followed by the signature of President Obama.
Even after the vote Tuesday, Democrats accused Republicans of needlessly stalling the bill by using their procedural power to delay the vote by a day rather than allow final consideration.
Two Republicans, Senators Susan Collins and Olympia J. Snowe of Maine, joined 56 Democrats and 2 independents in mustering the minimum number required to advance the plan to provide jobless pay through November for those who have exhausted the standard 26 weeks of benefits. Senator Ben Nelson of Nebraska was the only Democrat to vote with 39 Republicans against the bill.
Republicans said they supported providing more jobless pay for struggling Americans but argued that the costs should be offset with spending cuts elsewhere to avoid adding to rising federal deficits. They proposed that money not yet spent from last year's economic stimulus plan be used to cover the costs.
''When given the option to pay for these benefits with unused stimulus funds, the president and Congressional Democrats chose adding to the country's red ink over fiscal responsibility,'' Senator John Cornyn, Republican of Texas, said.
Democrats argued that diverting stimulus money would weaken federal efforts to create jobs for the very people they were helping with the unemployment pay. They said unemployment pay had often been treated as an emergency need free of any deficit considerations.
About two million Americans have seen their benefits run out since the legislation stalled at the end of May. The difficulty that Democrats had in moving ahead with what has traditionally been a popular vote has forced the leadership to scale back expectations for what it can yet accomplish this year given the requirement to produce at least 60 votes in the Senate on every bill.
Before breaking for the August recess, Congressional leaders now hope to wrap up the unemployment aid, another bill to provide loans and incentives to help small businesses, and an overdue measure to provide money for combat operations in Iraq and Afghanistan. Senate Democrats also intend to confirm Elena Kagan to the Supreme Court after her nomination cleared the Judiciary Committee on Tuesday.
But many lawmakers say they believe the main legislative action of the first half of President Obama's term is approaching an end. Though Senator Harry Reid, the Nevada Democrat and majority leader, also hopes to debate an energy measure, he acknowledged on Tuesday that his plans for the bill were in flux even as others said there was not enough time to take a serious run at a comprehensive energy proposal.
''We're going to make a decision in the near future,'' Mr. Reid said. ''We're not really at a point where I can determine what I think is best for the caucus and the country at this stage.''
To most Democrats, the added unemployment pay was a priority, given the persistently bad employment outlook back home. Senator Tom Harkin, Democrat of Iowa, accused Republicans of a ''shameful effort'' to hold up the unemployment aid, bristling at suggestions by some Republicans and their conservative allies that the stream of jobless money was keeping people from seeking jobs.
''There's one job for five to eight people out there and to say somehow by giving them $15,000 a year, $300 a week, this is going to keep them from going to work,'' Mr. Harkin said. ''Preposterous. Absolutely preposterous.''
Republicans said their position was being mischaracterized by Democrats, who they said were forced to extending unemployment pay because their efforts at job creation had failed.
''The people in this country are not looking for those government-driven solutions,'' Senator Lisa Murkowski of Alaska, a member of the Republican leadership, said. ''Most of them are looking for government to get out of the way, to back off so that they have that ability to create those jobs.''
Mr. Goodwin, who at 36 became the newest and youngest member of the Senate, made a notable entry, taking the oath of office from Vice President Joseph R. Biden Jr. on Tuesday afternoon and then quickly providing the clinching vote for the stalled unemployment pay. Friends and family members in the Senate gallery applauded his first roll-call vote and drew a gentle chiding from the chair for violating Senate rules.
After the showdown, Mr. Goodwin, who is to serve until a special election in November, said he felt privileged that his first vote was one ''that helps millions of Americans and over 12,000 West Virginians who are still looking for work as the economy continues to turn around.''
''These are real issues that affect real West Virginians and real Americans in very real ways,'' he said.
Both parties expect the unemployment fight to play out in midterm election campaigns, and the White House is planning a signing ceremony for the measure.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Senators Mitch McConnell, right, and Jon Kyl after a vote Tuesday to end debate on an aid bill. (PHOTOGRAPH BY STEPHEN CROWLEY/THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (91%); POLITICAL PARTIES (91%); APPROVALS (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); UNEMPLOYMENT INSURANCE (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); LEGISLATION (89%); NATIONAL DEBT (78%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (78%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (78%); BUDGET DEFICITS (74%); PUBLIC DEBT (74%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (73%); JOB CREATION (73%); US ECONOMIC STIMULUS PLAN 2008-2009 (71%); US PRESIDENTS (66%)

PERSON: JOHN CORNYN (59%); JEANNE SHAHEEN (58%); JON KYL (58%); ROBERT BYRD (58%); BARACK OBAMA (58%); SUSAN COLLINS (58%); MITCH MCCONNELL (58%); BEN NELSON (57%); OLYMPIA SNOWE (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: WEST VIRGINIA, USA (92%); NEBRASKA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (96%)

LOAD-DATE: July 21, 2010



504 of 785 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 21, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; SQUARE FEET; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 982 words

HEADLINE: Fresh Start for a Rebirth Stalled by a Recession

BYLINE: By ALISON GREGOR

 BODY:
SAN JOSE, Calif. -- Once stigmatized as a rough neighborhood, this city's downtown has turned around in the last decade, when a new opera hall, museums, a hockey arena and a convention center began attracting suburban residents taking advantage of a growing light-rail system.
Residential and commercial construction was poised to follow. But that development momentum stalled in 2008 when the economy receded, leaving the city's first high-rise buildings with few buyers. At the same time, a proposal to develop north San Jose into a second urban hub ground to a halt. Plans to build high- and midrise housing, shops and hotel rooms next to successful technology enterprises were shelved. 
Now that the economy shows signs of picking up, city officials and real estate developers are doubling their efforts to sell apartments and obtain development loans to restart what they say is a San Jose renaissance.
''There's no question that downtown San Jose is like night and day to what it was 10, 15 years ago,'' said Barry Swenson, a native and president of Barry Swenson Builder, who has erected several high-rise towers. ''The downtown is clean as a whistle, there are flowers everywhere, and the streetscape's good.''
With the goal of creating as many as 10,000 apartments, the city began waiving affordable housing requirements in 2004. Developers fell in line to get approval for the first high-rise towers to be built in this sprawling suburban city, the country's 10th-largest with a population of just under 1 million.
Though builders nationwide began pulling back from condominiums in 2006, some San Jose developers persisted. By 2007, 20 towers were reported to be in various stages of development. But just four projects of about 20 stories each were built -- City Heights with 124 units; Axis with 329 units; The 88 with 197 units; and 360 Residences with 213 units, which opened in May. The complexes offer amenities like pools, fitness centers and doormen.
''Unfortunately, they're coming to market at one of the most miserable times,'' said Shiloh Ballard, the director of housing and community development for the Silicon Valley Leadership Group, a consortium of area business executives. ''If they had come to market three years ago, all the units would have sold.''
As it stands, much of the market envisioned for the condo units -- young, well-paid, single technology workers seeking an urban lifestyle who often land in San Francisco -- has disappeared. They have either been laid off, suffered salary cuts or, since housing prices have fallen throughout the Bay Area, now can afford San Francisco.
The remaining potential buyers have apparently thought twice about paying as much as $700 a square foot for a high-rise condo in a market where the going rate for low-rise apartments has been at most $425.
Still, some of the high-rise developments got to market early enough to attract prerecession buyers. Construction on City Heights, developed by Mr. Swenson's company, began in June 2005, and half its 124 units were sold by November 2007 before sales stalled, the developer said.
Guerrilla marketing tactics (including a fake picket line of ''protesters'' seeking ''better views'' to attract the attention of potential buyers) and steep price cuts to $372 a square foot have been required to move the remaining units. Penthouses originally priced as high as $1.4 million were reduced to the $600,000 range. The building is more than 80 percent sold, Mr. Swenson said, and prices have reverted to the original $550 a square foot.
Wilson Meany Sullivan, a developer based in San Francisco, built a parking garage and installed a Safeway as part of constructing the 197-unit 88, which is near San Jose State University. Plans for a second high-rise tower have been deferred for now, said Seth Bland, a partner in the development group.
Mr. Bland said the developers tried to import the sort of product -- and prices -- more typical of San Francisco. Purchase prices for studio apartments start in the high $200,000s, and penthouses go for more than $2 million. The building is more than half sold, said Paul A. Zeger, the president of Pacific Marketing Associates, which is marketing The 88.
The recession also significantly set back city plans to populate north San Jose -- home to more than 1,200 technology companies -- with permanent residents in as many as 32,000 new apartments and houses by 2030.
To create this urban hub near a light-rail system that transports passengers to downtown San Jose and other parts of Silicon Valley, construction of housing units would be connected to job growth in the area -- which has largely been thwarted by the recession.
About 26.7 million square feet of new industrial space is being planned. Before the recession, condo and rental projects were on the drawing board, some with thousands of units and some in high-rise buildings, including a two-tower complex with 460 units proposed by Barry Swenson Builder. Now, only one project is under way.
The Irvine Company Apartment Communities plans to build Crescent Village, 1,750 rental apartments on nearly 40 acres near the light-rail system in north San Jose. Crescent Village will consist of five four-story ''villages'' atop underground parking garages.
The development will have amenities like a park, pools, fitness centers and club rooms, said Darin J. Schoolmeester, a principal with MVE & Partners, the architecture firm designing Crescent Village. He said Crescent Village would include retail space, perhaps for small markets, delis, coffee shops or restaurants.
Mr. Schoolmeester said that even though financing for such master-planned developments withered in the recession, the model was still viable.
''When the economy starts to hum again,'' he said, ''we'll see a continuation of people really wanting to live in town, close to where everything is, instead of dealing with a commute.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Above, a deck on the 21st floor of The 88, a 197-unit condo project near San Jose State University. Left, a drawing of Crescent Village, a 1,750-apartment project set for north San Jose. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY PETER DaSILVA FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES
 MYON ARCHITECTURAL PARADIGMS) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CONSTRUCTION (91%); REAL ESTATE DEVELOPMENT (90%); RECESSION (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (89%); SUBURBS (89%); REAL ESTATE (89%); STADIUMS & ARENAS (89%); CONDOMINIUMS (89%); RESIDENTIAL CO-OWNERSHIP (89%); COMMERCIAL & INSTITUTIONAL CONSTRUCTION (77%); HOUSING AUTHORITIES (77%); BUILDING & HOUSING CODES (77%); COMMERCIAL & RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (77%); RESIDENTIAL CONSTRUCTION (77%); HOUSING MARKET (77%); RESIDENTIAL CONDOMINIUMS (77%); HOME PRICES (74%); HOUSING ASSISTANCE (74%); CITY GOVERNMENT (73%); CITIES (73%); MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (72%); EXECUTIVES (71%); LOW COST HOUSING SCHEMES (71%); APPROVALS (70%); REAL ESTATE VALUATIONS (69%); WAGES & SALARIES (63%); EXERCISE & FITNESS (61%)

ORGANIZATION: SAN JOSE STATE UNIVERSITY (59%)

GEOGRAPHIC: SAN JOSE, CA, USA (97%); SAN FRANCISCO, CA, USA (92%); SAN FRANCISCO BAY AREA, CA, USA (92%); SILICON VALLEY, CA, USA (79%) CALIFORNIA, USA (97%) UNITED STATES (97%)

LOAD-DATE: July 21, 2010



505 of 785 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 21, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Sports Desk; Pg. 14

LENGTH: 945 words

HEADLINE: Worlds Apart In Downtown Newark

BYLINE: By JOHN BRANCH

 BODY:
NEWARK -- Inside the tall glass atrium of Prudential Center on Tuesday, well-dressed people smiled and congratulated one another for the 17-year, $102 million contract that the Devils handed to Ilya Kovalchuk.
Beyond the security guard at the closed door of the news conference, the midday din of a struggling city could not be heard.
But a block away, over on chaotic Broad Street across from City Hall, about 20 workers picketed and blew whistles. They wore signs, sandwich-board style, that read ''Put Newark to Work'' and ''Living Wages Would Stop Foreclosures in Newark.'' The unemployment rate in Newark, New Jersey's largest city, was estimated at 13.5 percent in May. It was 9.5 percent across the country. 
Joe Rizzo, an organizer from the Laborers' Union, said he had heard something about the Kovalchuk deal. For the Devils, right?
''What gets me a little upset is when you relate it to what's happening in the real world,'' Rizzo said.
The juxtaposition of Kovalchuk's proposed deal was striking, on the streets and in the headlines. Like the hyper-hyped LeBron James free-agent sweepstakes a couple of weeks earlier, the Kovalchuk announcement felt like an unseemly fantasy diversion amid the rat-a-tat news of unemployment, foreclosures and battered school budgets.
When the Kovalchuk deal was announced Monday, the Web site for The Star-Ledger newspaper (NJ.com) ran side-by-side headlines that highlighted the growing discrepancy between the real world and the sports world.
''N.J. faces $10.5B budget deficit heading into next year,'' one read.
''Here are the official numbers on Ilya Kovalchuk's 17-year, $102 million deal with the Devils,'' said the other.
Kovalchuk, a 27-year-old Russian who has scored 338 goals in eight N.H.L. seasons, would be paid $6 million each of the next two years. His salary would jump to $11.5 million for the next five years. Starting in 2018, the salary would start to drop, petering out to $550,000 in each of the final five years.
The deal would be the longest contract in N.H.L. history -- ''I'll be only 44 at that time,'' Kovalchuk said Tuesday with a straight face -- but was considered a ploy against the N.H.L.'s salary cap, which limits how much teams can spend on players each season. Later Tuesday, the league rejected the contract, meaning it will have to be restructured before it can be made official.
When cap amounts are computed, teams are charged the yearly average of each contract, meaning that Kovalchuk's deal would count for $6 million a year.
Gov. Chris Christie, trying to mend the state budget through major cuts (last week, he proposed reducing and capping the salaries of hundreds of school superintendents) and fiscal restraint, declined to comment on Kovalchuk's contract.
After Tuesday's news conference, the Devils' chairman, Jeff Vanderbeek, said that requests for Devils season tickets had surged overnight. He explained that a recession in the world at large and a $102 million contract for a hockey franchise were ''not apples to apples.'' After all, the Devils must fit their entire roster under a cap of about $59.4 million this season, and the team undertook an extensive cost-benefit analysis.
Such a contract, Vanderbeek said, ''is not directly correlated to our economy.''
Still, people on the streets of Newark, within a block or two of the arena where the Devils play, seemed dumbstruck to learn that a player received such a long, hefty contract during these times. Most did not know the player's name (''Starts with a V, I think,'' William Spinks said) and had never been to a Devils game.
Haqqah Aziz sold $2 hot dogs on Broad Street, a carnival of people selling and standing, hawking and talking.
''All you've got to do is say, 'I got one job,' and I'll get 500 people in one hour, right here,'' Aziz said.
Had he walked the block to the arena -- maybe down Market Street, where about half of the stores sat empty and shuttered by metal gates -- he would have found a different slice of life entirely.
On the far side of the arena, there was a large catering truck and a line of television trucks. Three men in dark suits walked down the sidewalk, one carrying flowers intended for Kovalchuk's wife.
About 25 people were lined up awaiting the evening's ''American Idol'' concert at the arena, while about the same number of Devils fans milled about on the concrete plaza outside the atrium. A few wore Kovalchuk jerseys. A couple of the fans bought the shirts when he was traded to the team from the Atlanta Thrashers during last season. The others bought theirs on Monday night or Tuesday, after the first reports of the deal.
At 1 p.m., 12 video cameras were aimed at a dais with four seats and a Devils backdrop. A few of Kovalchuk's teammates -- forwards Zach Parise and Patrik Elias and goalie Martin Brodeur among them -- sat in front-row chairs.
The fans from outside were welcomed in, and they stood near the back. One man held a baby who cried. Or cheered. Something.
Kovalchuk entered, smiling sheepishly. He was accompanied by Vanderbeek (''The man who signs the checks,'' Kovalchuk called him); General Manager Lou Lamoriello; and John MacLean, the recently hired coach.
They smiled. People smiled back at them.
Outside the glass windows, a couple pushed a stroller, the man carrying a crib mattress under one arm.
Over on Broad Street across from City Hall, the union pickets had packed up their giant inflatable rat and skunk and the huge sign that read ''Put Newark to Work.''
The street was filled with noise -- women selling ice cream ringing bells to attract customers to their helado carts, the rush of traffic, a siren echoing off the old buildings.
For a few moments, it rained.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Ilya Kovalchuk's contract would have been the longest in N.H.L. history, but the league rejected it as a violation of the salary cap. (PHOTOGRAPH BY BRUCE BENNETT/GETTY IMAGES)
Students marched in Newark in April, above, to protest Gov. Chris Christie's proposed cuts to New Jersey's schools budget. A far smaller gathering watched Kovalchuk. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY RICHARD PERRY/THE NEW YORK TIMES
 BRUCE BENNETT/GETTY IMAGES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: SPORTS (89%); SPORTS & RECREATION (89%); WAGES & SALARIES (89%); BUDGETS (77%); PRESS CONFERENCES (77%); LIVING WAGE (76%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (76%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (69%); SCHOOL BUDGETS (64%); BUDGET DEFICITS (64%)

ORGANIZATION: NEW JERSEY DEVILS (91%)

PERSON: RICK PERRY (64%); LEBRON JAMES (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEWARK, NJ, USA (94%) NEW JERSEY, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: July 21, 2010



506 of 785 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 21, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; EDITORIAL; Pg. 26

LENGTH: 287 words

HEADLINE: California's Great De-Rocking Debate

 BODY:
Pity poor serpentine, the official state rock in California. After 45 years, it is in danger of being dethroned.
Serpentine is a green or black rock that can be polished to a high sheen, making it useful for ornamental work, jewelry and decorative items. But serpentine also was enshrined originally to help promote the mining and commercial use of asbestos. These days, asbestos symbolizes a public health catastrophe. So the pick axes are out for serpentine. 
Like many states, California has many state symbols, including the official state dirt, which the official Web site says ''acknowledges the importance of soil.'' Do not laugh. This is important.
After a bill was passed by the State Senate to defrock serpentine and not to look for a replacement (because most rocks can cause health risks in one way or another), overheated partisans emerged to either champion or disparage serpentine.
Health advocates point out that serpentine often contains asbestos, which can cause cancer and respiratory diseases if the rock is disturbed and the dust inhaled. (Like if you beat your pendant to smithereens.)
Geologists say serpentine is integral to our understanding of geology and plate tectonics and hosts gorgeous wildflowers and many rare species of plants that grow only on serpentine lands. It also allows slippage along active faults and reduces the hazard of large earthquakes. And it combines chemically with atmospheric carbon dioxide, putting it on the right side of the battle against global warming.
It's hard to decide which is sillier: naming a state rock, or un-naming it. To our minds, Californians have other worries, starting with a crippled economy. Or maybe they could just name an official state risky home loan.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Editorial

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); ASBESTOS (90%); GEOLOGY & GEOPHYSICS (90%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (78%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (73%); LEGISLATION (69%); CANCER (67%); GLOBAL WARMING (65%); RESPIRATORY DISEASE (53%)

GEOGRAPHIC: CALIFORNIA, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: July 21, 2010



507 of 785 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 21, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 11

LENGTH: 1204 words

HEADLINE: Cutting Home Care Now, Paying for It Later?

BYLINE: By JOHN LELAND

 BODY:
HILLSBORO, Ore. -- As states face severe budget shortfalls, many have cut home-care services for the elderly or the disabled, programs that have been shown to save states money in the long run because they keep people out of nursing homes.
Since the start of the recession, at least 25 states and the District of Columbia have curtailed programs that include meal deliveries, housekeeping aid and assistance for family caregivers, according to the Center on Budget and Policy Priorities, a research organization. That threatens to reverse a long-term trend of enabling people to stay in their homes longer.
For Afton England, who lives in a trailer home here, the news came in a letter last week: Oregon, facing a $577 million deficit, was cutting home aides to more than 4,500 low-income residents, including her. Ms. England, 65, has diabetes, spinal stenosis, degenerative disc disease, arthritis and other health problems that prevent her from walking or standing for more than a few minutes at a time.
Through a state program, she has received 45 hours of assistance a month to help her bathe, prepare meals, clean her house and shop. The program had helped make Oregon a model for helping older and disabled people remain in their homes. 
But state legislators say home care is a service the state can no longer afford. Cuts affecting an additional 10,500 people are scheduled for Oct. 1.
''They yanked the rug out from underneath us,'' said Ms. England, who lives on $802 a month from Social Security. ''I'm scared. I'm petrified. I can't function on my own. I took care of my husband for eight years. Already I've given up many of my freedoms. Now they've taken our dignity. I'd like them to try living in my body for a week.''
Her case manager, Brandi Lemke, shook her head. ''This is not saving any money,'' she said.
Ms. Lemke said she feared that Ms. England would ''end up in the hospital because of the diabetes'' and be in assisted living by the end of the year. ''If she takes a fall,'' Ms. Lemke said, ''she may require more than assisted living can handle.''
Nursing homes here cost the state an average of $5,900 a month; home and community-based services cost $1,500 a month.
Other states have made similar cuts:
Florida placed 69,000 people on waiting lists for home or community services last year, and more than 5,700 of them ended up in Medicaid nursing homes.
Alabama cut housekeeping services -- useful for people who can no longer do some cleaning tasks -- for more than 1,000 elderly residents.
Arizona sliced independent living supports and respite programs for family caregivers.
Kansas, with a $131 million shortfall, will cut independent-living services for 2,800 people with disabilities in the next year.
In Illinois, providers of Meals on Wheels have stopped adding clients because the state was not reimbursing them.
''I'm not getting a cost-of-living adjustment, and now I'm not getting food,'' said Joyce Plennert, 83, who is on a waiting list for Meals on Wheels in Palatine, Ill. ''Now I'm worried my home services will be cut. Without that, I'd be in a nursing home, if I could find one with room.''
Colorado, Mississippi, Missouri, Nevada, New Jersey, New York and Texas have all made cuts or frozen spending at a time when the elderly population -- and the need for services -- is growing.
In California, which faces a budget shortfall of $19.1 billion for the 2010-11 fiscal year, Gov. Arnold Schwarzenegger's office proposed eliminating adult day health care centers that serve 45,000 people and in-home supportive services that help more than 400,000 elderly, disabled or blind residents. The Legislature rejected these cuts but has not yet produced an alternative budget. The state already cut Alzheimer's day care centers and assistance for caregivers.
Because Medicaid regulations require states to provide nursing home care to receive federal Medicaid money, legislators often have more leeway to cut from home services. Advocates for the elderly and the disabled worry that these cuts are just the beginning, because state ledgers tend to recover more slowly than the national economy.
''The situation is grim, and it's safe to say that present trends are expected to continue,'' said JoAnn Lamphere, the director of state government relations for health and long-term care for AARP. ''Nearly every state has proposed cuts of some sort to Medicaid. Some might seem small, but it's death by a thousand slashes.''
The cuts in Oregon have been particularly painful to people who work with the elderly, because for more than three decades the state has been a leader in rebalancing long-term care away from nursing facilities and toward the home. The cuts here indicate how fragile these services can be against states' needs to reduce spending.
''I'm seeing in a matter of months 30 years of work go down the drain,'' said Donald Bruland, the director of senior and disability services for the Rogue Valley Council of Governments.
The state spends more than half its Medicaid long-term-care dollars on home care and has a separate $13 million program for people who do not qualify for Medicaid; on average, states spend just 25 percent of their long-term-care budgets on home and community-based care.
Bruce Goldberg, director of the Oregon Department of Human Services, said the agency did not have an estimate for how many of the people losing home care would end up in assisted-living facilities or in nursing homes -- or, if they did, how the state would pay for them.
''We're in new territory,'' Dr. Goldberg said. ''Long-term care is a cobbled-together system with many holes, and they just got deeper.''
Last week, the Oregon legislature's emergency board scheduled a session for Thursday to reconsider some of the cuts.
In Portland, Ken Poe, 66, requires assistance because of polio, which he got when he was 9. He has little muscle strength and requires oxygen constantly. The state provides 20 hours of care a month in his home.
Mr. Poe, a former pilot and flight instructor, lives as independently as he can, he said -- he still drives, though he needs help getting to and from his car -- but said he could not afford to pay his aides on the $1,300 a month he gets from Social Security. He often borrows money from a home credit line at the end of the month. Because of severe osteoporosis, he worries about falling in the shower without an aide.
''There are times when I'm struggling to get to the kitchen when I wonder how much longer I can do this,'' he said. ''But this is my comfort zone. It may look like a mess'' -- he gestured to cardboard boxes filling the living room -- ''but the boxes are my system for getting around. Moving to an assisted-living facility would bring on a depression.''
For states, having to cut the Medicaid programs is a double loss, because they come with matching dollars from the federal government. This creates state jobs and much-needed revenue.
Without these, said James A. Davis, a gerontologist at Marylhurst University and executive director of United Seniors of Oregon, ''it really is a death spiral.''
''So often the programs to go are the early interventions that save money and keep people healthy,'' Professor Davis said. ''That comes back to bite you.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: In Portland, Ore., Ken Poe, above, says he could not afford to pay his home aides on his Social Security income. Janet Turner, left, helps him with cooking and housework. (A11)
 Diabetes and spine problems have left Afton England unable to walk or stand at length. Home aides help her bathe, prepare meals and go shopping. ''I can't function on my own,'' she says. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY LEAH NASH FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) (A18) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: DISABLED PERSONS (90%); BUDGET DEFICITS (90%); BUDGETS (90%); COMPANION & HOMEMAKER SERVICES (90%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (90%); NURSING & RESIDENTIAL CARE FACILITIES (89%); AGING (89%); NURSING HOMES (89%); SENIOR CITIZENS (89%); LONG TERM HEALTH CARE (89%); POOR POPULATION (78%); MEDICAID (78%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (76%); CAREGIVER SUPPORT (76%); LOW INCOME PERSONS (76%); TRENDS (76%); DISEASES & DISORDERS (75%); WALKING & JOGGING (73%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (73%); MUSCULOSKELETAL DISORDERS & INJURIES (73%); DIABETES (73%); RECESSION (72%); ECONOMIC NEWS (72%)

ORGANIZATION: CENTER ON BUDGET & POLICY PRIORITIES (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: PORTLAND, OR, USA (79%) OREGON, USA (94%); DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: July 21, 2010



508 of 785 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 21, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; EDITORIAL; Pg. 26

LENGTH: 363 words

HEADLINE: Hiring and Fairness

 BODY:
Boston, Chicago and San Francisco set a welcome example earlier in the decade when they abandoned counterproductive policies that often barred former offenders from municipal jobs, no matter how minor their crime nor how distant in the past. Connecticut, New Mexico and Minnesota have recently passed laws protecting the employment rights of former offenders. Other states should quickly follow. 
City governments recognized years ago that discrimination against former offenders had rendered a huge portion of the urban population unemployable. The records also are notoriously unreliable, often flagging people who were falsely arrested or tried but found innocent of a crime.
Boston responded in 2006 with an exemplary nondiscrimination law that covers municipal hiring and hiring by companies that do business with the city. The city does not conduct a criminal record review for applicants, except for sensitive jobs: police officers or those required to work with children, the disabled or other vulnerable people.
The records search also comes at the end of the process, when the applicant has been deemed qualified and is about to be hired. If the city decides to revoke its provisional offer based on a criminal record, applicants get to challenge the reports.
A law pending in the Massachusetts Legislature would give job applicants statewide access to criminal background reports that have been used to deny them employment. It would exclude from reports felony offenses more than 10 years old and would create a board to investigate the misuse of information on record.
A new law that takes effect in Connecticut in October bars government employers or licensing agencies from looking into a prospective employee's criminal history in connection with most jobs until the person has been ''deemed otherwise qualified for the position.'' It also requires the agency to take into account the relationship of the crime to the job, the extent of the applicant's rehabilitation and the time that has elapsed since the conviction or release.
Confining people with criminal convictions to the very margins of society is unfair and self-defeating. These sensible new laws recognize that.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Editorial

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: EMPLOYMENT (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); CRIMINAL OFFENSES (89%); LEGISLATION (89%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (78%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); CITY LIFE (78%); CRIMINAL CONVICTIONS (78%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (78%); EMPLOYMENT SEARCH (78%); CITIES (78%); BACKGROUND CHECKS (77%); DISCRIMINATION (76%); INVESTIGATIONS (74%); FELONIES (73%); CITY GOVERNMENT (73%); LICENSES & PERMITS (67%)

GEOGRAPHIC: BOSTON, MA, USA (93%) MASSACHUSETTS, USA (93%); CONNECTICUT, USA (93%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: July 21, 2010



509 of 785 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 21, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; ADVERTISING; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 787 words

HEADLINE: Eyewear, With a Bit of Disney and a Touch of Apple

BYLINE: By STEPHANIE CLIFFORD

 BODY:
A wind tunnel. A concierge. A store that's shaped like an eyeball.
It doesn't exactly sound like an eyeglasses retailer, but then, it's not supposed to.
Trying to pull itself out of the recession, Luxottica, the $6.6 billion eyewear company with retail outlets like Sunglass Hut and LensCrafters, is experimenting with a concept store that draws a little bit from Apple, and a lot from Disneyland.
The idea is to make buying eyewear more of an event -- and in the process, entice new customers from discount chains and online shopping. 
''Crises are not only about negative things,'' said Andrea Guerra, Luxottica's global chief executive. ''Where the world is changing and changing fast, your thoughts have to be bold.''
So when a grandmother goes to pick up her reading glasses, she must navigate around a wind machine aimed at runners on treadmills (so sporty types can test the wind resistance of glasses), and shoppers snapping pictures of themselves on touch screens (can I pull off pink cat-eye frames?). There is also a children's area that has a soft wall and videos.
The Luxottica concept, especially in a staid category like eyewear, is unusual and risky. Stanton Kawer, chief executive of Blue Chip Marketing Worldwide, an ad agency specializing in retail accounts that did not work on the project, said it was a smart gamble in these troubled times for retailers.
''It's a great hub for research and innovation,'' Mr. Kawer said. Ten years ago, ''we would have said leave that to Orlando and Anaheim, but today, I think that's terrific.''
The first store opened Wednesday in Hawthorn, Australia, a suburb of Melbourne, and the company plans to build 10 to 15 more, including in the United States, China and Britain, over the next three years.
In addition to selling eyeglasses, the company, which is based in Italy, hopes to use the stores as a sort of live research and development lab -- copying successful elements to use in its existing retail outlets in the coming months.
''If the Internet was perfect for everybody, obviously no one would shop at retail stores,'' said Chris Beer, chief executive of Asia Pacific, greater China and South Africa for Luxottica. ''The reality is, you need to create a connection, create a personal experience, and that's what we've done.''
The construction for the Hawthorn store, called OPSM Eye Hub (OPSM is Australia's equivalent of LensCrafters), began early this year and cost about two to three times as much as a regular LensCrafters outlet in the United States.
Luxottica was starting to recover from a tough 2009 -- its first-quarter sales rose 6 percent from a year earlier -- and hoped a new type of retail experience would help build on that recovery. Like most retailers, Luxottica is waging a two-front war: one against the economic downturn, the other against the siphoning of customers by Internet shopping.
At Eye Hub, a concierge greets customers, and, taking a lesson from a Web home page, ''explains what the store has to offer, then we ask that customer how they would like to interact with the store,'' Mr. Beer said.
Also drawing from the Internet, Eye Hub might display a single style of glasses in several different areas -- men's best sellers, sports glasses and glasses for round faces, for instance. ''Some parts of the stores are men's and ladies, some are just fashion, some are by look, some are by face shape,'' Mr. Beer said.
In addition to the wind machine and treadmill, the store also has a machine that simulates glare on snow or water, complete with recreations of blizzard conditions or sunsets.
So that shoppers can see how they look in glasses, there are 41 touch screens that function as both mirrors and cameras. Customers can look at themselves in the screens and snap images. Eventually, they will be able to post the images on Facebook or other sites to solicit friends' opinions before making a purchase.
Eye Hub is a stand-alone store of about 16,000 square feet and is laid out in the shape of an eyeball. The ''iris'' at the center houses the more expensive brands, like Dolce & Gabbana and Versace.
The Eye Hub includes sections where customers can research eye problems and prescriptions, similar to areas devoted to education at Apple stores. Also like Apple, there are ways to transact a sale other than at a cash register. Salespeople can complete a sale and perform final adjustments on glasses by pressing a button to turn a clear glass wall into a frosted screen to create a semi-private space.
Whether customers will see the new Eye Hub as a place to spend money, not just play with Luxottica's toys, will determine how many concept stores will be built.
''This is a huge lab we're opening,'' Mr. Guerra said. ''We are experimenting.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Luxottica's Eye Hub store in Australia is an experiment in interactive merchandising. (B1)
 Tamsyn Lewis, an Olympic runner, testing glasses in the wind tunnel at the Eye Hub store in Australia, opened Wednesday. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY MORGANNA MAGEE) (B11) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: RETAILERS (90%); OPTICAL GOODS STORES (90%); OPHTHALMIC GOODS (90%); INTERNET RETAILING (78%); OPHTHALMIC GOODS MFG (78%); SALES FIGURES (78%); RECESSION (77%); ECONOMIC NEWS (77%); EXECUTIVES (74%); DISCOUNT & CLUB STORES (73%); CUSTOMER ACQUISITION STRATEGY (70%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING AGENCIES (65%); INTERIM FINANCIAL RESULTS (60%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING (52%)

COMPANY: LENSCRAFTERS INC (85%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS621320 OFFICES OF OPTOMETRISTS (85%); NAICS446130 OPTICAL GOODS STORES (85%)

GEOGRAPHIC: ORLANDO, FLORIDA, USA (78%); MELBOURNE, AUSTRALIA (68%) FLORIDA, USA (78%) UNITED STATES (92%); AUSTRALIA (90%); CHINA (90%); ASIA (53%)

LOAD-DATE: July 21, 2010



510 of 785 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 21, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 12

LENGTH: 419 words

HEADLINE: U.S. Home Construction Declined by 5% in June

BYLINE: By CHRISTINE HAUSER

 BODY:
Construction starts on residential buildings declined in June to the lowest level since October, the government reported on Tuesday, as the sector struggles with a tepid recovery and the end of a government tax credit. 
The Commerce Department reported that housing starts in June were at a seasonally adjusted annual rate of 549,000, about 5 percent below the revised May estimate of 578,000. The June rate was at its lowest level since October 2009 and also fell below analysts' estimates of 580,000, according to a Bloomberg survey.
The June figures were primarily the result of a 20 percent decline for condominiums and apartments.
Another indicator in the report showed that building permits for June were slightly higher at 586,000, up 2 percent compared with May, while those for single-family homes dropped to 421,000 in June, about 3 percent below the figure for May.
Economists watch the figures for housing starts and permits each month because the procurement of a permit to build and the start of construction provide a snapshot of the economy in a variety of ways, including the level of confidence in the economy, the state of the jobs market and possible spending by builders and consumers.
''It reflects what builders are thinking about the housing market,'' said Patrick Newport, an economist with IHS Global Insight. Referring to the June figures, he said, ''They just don't think they are going to sell many homes, and for good reason.''
The median time to sell a home in the United States has crept up to about 14 months, he said. ''We need to start creating more jobs,'' Mr. Newport said. A better jobs market would generate demand and get construction back on track.
The numbers also highlighted the dependency of the market on government support in the form of an $8,000 tax credit for buyers who signed contracts before April 30.
''The reason they were down is further payback from the second homeowners' tax credit,'' Mr. Newport said of the construction starts.
Another factor that could be affecting the numbers is the overcapacity in the housing market, economists said. And builders acknowledge that any new housing sales will be up against a market of low-priced homes facing foreclosure.
''Financial distress on the part of many households, ongoing labor market weakness and vicious competition from an enormous overhang of existing homes all point to a very tough slog for home builders in the months and quarters ahead,'' Joshua Shapiro, the chief United States economist for MFR Inc., said.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: A new single-family home being built in Thornton, Colo. Housing starts fell in June to the lowest level since October. (PHOTOGRAPH BY MATTHEW STAVER/BLOOMBERG NEWS) CHART: Housing Construction: New private housing starts and permits authorized during the month, at a seasonally adjusted annual pace. (Source: Commerce Department) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: REAL ESTATE (91%); CONSTRUCTION (91%); BUILDING PERMITS (90%); HOUSING STARTS (90%); RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (90%); RESIDENTIAL CONSTRUCTION (90%); LABOR SECTOR PERFORMANCE (89%); HOUSING MARKET (89%); MULTIFAMILY REAL ESTATE (79%); CONDOMINIUMS (79%); RESIDENTIAL CO-OWNERSHIP (79%); HOMEOWNERS (78%); ECONOMIC RECOVERY (78%); STATISTICS (78%); JOB CREATION (77%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (74%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (73%); RESIDENTIAL CONDOMINIUMS (73%); HOME PRICES (72%); COMMERCE DEPARTMENTS (72%); FORECLOSURE (70%)

ORGANIZATION: US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (84%)

GEOGRAPHIC: COLORADO, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: July 21, 2010



511 of 785 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 21, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Foreign Desk; Pg. 10

LENGTH: 919 words

HEADLINE: Foreign Leaders Restate Support for Afghanistan

BYLINE: By RICHARD A. OPPEL Jr. and MARK LANDLER; Alissa J. Rubin contributed reporting.

 BODY:
KABUL, Afghanistan -- American, European and other foreign leaders met here Tuesday to pledge anew their support for Afghanistan, agree to entrust it with more spending decisions, and embrace its president's commitment for Afghan forces to take charge of security by 2014. They acknowledged that neither the public in their own countries nor the Afghan people had much patience left.
The transition timetable, which President Hamid Karzaioutlined last year, is nonbinding and essentially unenforceable, and much depends on how and when responsibilities will be transferred. The conference's final statement stopped short of any firm commitment to the timetable, instead expressing ''support for the president of Afghanistan's objective.'' 
The most concrete commitment was a promise to increase to 50 percent the proportion of international development funds to be disbursed through Afghanistan's own budgeting process, a change to be made over the next two years and a huge shift from the current situation. Now, many donor countries send money directly to individual ministries or to nongovernmental organizations, undercutting the government's ability to plan how to use the funds. Critics of the move pointed out that most Afghan ministries had proved unable to spend the money they already got.
Mr. Karzai promised to make concrete efforts to reduce corruption and find a way to end the fighting in his country, echoing pledges in the past. He painted a picture of a country that could flourish, lifting its ''people from poverty to prosperity and from insecurity to stability.''
''Our vision is to be the peaceful meeting place of civilizations,'' he said in an address. ''Our location in the center of the new Silk Road makes us a convergence point of regional and global economic interests.''
Whether Afghanistan can get there without an enormous infusion of further foreign aid and the presence of a significant number of foreign troops seems doubtful -- at least for the next few years. That point was underscored by the vague language around the timeline for handing over security responsibility.
The security transition timetable, though not the main focus of this meeting, was perhaps the most significant element for NATO leaders, most of whom will face election challenges well before 2014. The Western European democracies with the most troops in the country -- Britain, France and Germany -- are under great domestic pressure to reduce their presence, while the United States, which has by far the heaviest military presence, is hewing to a ''conditions based'' approach that allows its forces to slow any drawdowns in areas where the insurgency appears more tenacious or where Afghan troops and the police appear to have inadequate capabilities.
But for all players, shifting security to Afghan control is the basis of the exit plan.
Secretary of State Hillary Rodham Clinton acknowledged the unpopularity of the war in remarks to foreign leaders.
''We know the road ahead will not be easy,'' Mrs. Clinton said. ''Citizens of many nations represented here, including my own, wonder whether success is even possible -- and if so, whether we all have the commitment to achieve it.''
But, she said, the Afghans had presented the most detailed plans yet for how to hand off control to Afghan security forces.
''Today was a real turning point,'' Mrs. Clinton said.
The overall significance of the conference was hard to gauge because much of the final communique was a list of boards and commissions to be created, laws to be drafted and enforced, and schedules to be fleshed out. The same themes, if not always the exact pledges, have been sounded many times before by Mr. Karzai's government, to little effect.
Mr. Karzai spoke only briefly about the reintegration of the Taliban and reconciliation with them, although it is a major effort of his government and of considerable concern to many Afghans and to foreign troops who are fighting here. The sparse commentary seemed to signal that months of Afghan government consultations, done internally and with foreign allies, had not produced consensus on exactly how to proceed.
The criticism of the plan to send more money through the budget process was pointed.
''The government cannot even spend its own annual government budget,'' said Mohammed Younus Fakoor, a political analyst who commented on the independent television network Tolo. ''How will they be able to spend more of the donors' money?''
The concerns of women were a special focus for Mrs. Clinton, who has made women's rights, especially in the developing world, a recurring theme. She met with leaders among Afghan women before the conference began to discuss their concerns that the peace effort with the Taliban would lead to renewed disenfranchisement for many women.
Fouzia Kofi, a former deputy speaker in the Afghan Parliament, said she was concerned by recent signals from Mr. Karzai's government. If the reconciliation process is mishandled, she warned, it could ''take the country back hundreds of years.''
Arezo Qani, who works with disadvantaged women in northern Afghanistan, expressed fears that rearming local militias, something the United States has pushed, would also threaten women. And she said women should be consulted in the drafting of new laws.
Mrs. Clinton assured them that protecting women's rights was a ''personal commitment of mine.'' While she said the United States was open to an Afghan-led reconciliation, she added that ''it can't come at the cost of women's lives.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Ban Ki-moon, the United Nations secretary general, joined President Hamid Karzai of Afghanistan and Secretary of State Hillary Rodham Clinton for a group photo after a meeting in Kabul. (PHOTOGRAPH BY MUSADEQ SADEQ/ASSOCIATED PRESS) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: INTERNATIONAL ASSISTANCE (89%); ARMED FORCES (85%); TALKS & MEETINGS (78%); FOREIGN RELATIONS (78%); WAR & CONFLICT (77%); REBELLIONS & INSURGENCIES (77%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (73%); CORRUPTION (72%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (69%); NONGOVERNMENTAL ORGANIZATIONS (68%)

ORGANIZATION: UNITED NATIONS (59%)

PERSON: HILLARY RODHAM CLINTON (89%); HAMAD KARZAI (78%); BAN KI-MOON (59%)

GEOGRAPHIC: KABUL, AFGHANISTAN (93%) AFGHANISTAN (96%); UNITED STATES (93%); FRANCE (79%); GERMANY (79%); EUROPE (79%); WESTERN EUROPE (79%)

LOAD-DATE: July 21, 2010



512 of 785 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 21, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; ECONOMIC SCENE; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1264 words

HEADLINE: Overcome By Heat And Inertia

BYLINE: By DAVID LEONHARDT. 
E-mail: leonhardt@nytimes.com

 BODY:
WASHINGTON
This city just endured its hottest June since records began in 1872, according to the National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration. So did Miami. Atlanta suffered its second-hottest June, and Dallas had its third hottest.
In New York, the weather was relatively pleasant: only the fourth-hottest June since 1872. Then again, New York is on pace for its hottest July on record.
Yet when United States senators and their aides file into work on Wednesday, on yet another 90-degree day, they may be on the verge of deciding to do approximately nothing about global warming. The needed 60 votes don't seem to be there, at least not at the moment.
Harry Reid, the Senate majority leader, and President Obama may still find a way to cobble together the votes, as they did on health care and financial regulation. Perhaps they can somehow persuade moderate Republicans to support a market-based limit on power plant emissions -- a policy that power plants themselves seem open to. 
Or perhaps Mr. Reid and Mr. Obama can get Democrats to support a less ambitious set of rules that would require vehicles, buildings and power plants to meet certain energy standards. Several Republicans support that approach. Democrats are divided between thinking that it's the most realistic chance for progress and worrying that it's a fig leaf that may delay more significant action.
Either way, most Senate watchers, inside and out, think the odds of a major climate bill are not great. And if this White House and this Democratic Congress can't pass one, you have to wonder what the future of climate policy looks like.
All the while, the risks and costs of climate change grow. Sea levels are rising faster than scientists predicted just a few years ago. Himalayan glaciers are melting. In the American West, pine beetles (which struggle to survive the cold) are multiplying and killing trees.
According to NASA, 2010 is on course to be the planet's hottest year since records started in 1880. The current top 10, in descending order, are: 2005, 2007, 2009, 1998, 2002, 2003, 2006, 2004, 2001 and 2008.
Hot is the new normal.
The most efficient way to begin attacking the global swelter is no mystery. It involves raising the price of carbon emissions, which are warming the planet, and then letting the private sector find innovative ways to use less dirty energy. Conservative economists, like Gregory Mankiw, support this approach. So do liberals, like Joseph Stiglitz.
But taxing carbon has never had much of a political chance. It's too honest. It acknowledges that the best way to reduce the use of a product is to increase its price. We would all prefer a free lunch.
So Congress has been laboring to disguise a price increase in a more palatable package.
Last June, the House passed a cap-and-trade bill. It set a national cap on carbon emissions and required companies to have permits for such emissions. To keep emitting as much as they had been, companies would have to buy permits from more efficient companies.
Republican leaders, though, were only too happy to cast cap and trade as ''cap and tax.'' In the process, they helped scare away senators who had long supported this very idea, like Lindsey Graham. The sad paradox is that cap and trade -- which trusts in the efficiency of markets -- was originally a Republican policy, signed by the first President Bush to reduce acid rain, and disliked at the time by many liberals.
With a comprehensive cap off the table, Senate leaders began thinking instead about a narrower version that would apply only to power plants, not to emissions from vehicles or factories. This utility-only cap has two advantages.
One, it goes after the emissions that energy experts think will be among the cheapest to reduce. Two, it involves another layer of political disguise. The cap would apply to unlovable utilities, not to American families and businesses.
Of course, the cap would ultimately raise utility rates. That's the point. So long as dirty energy remains so cheap, people are going to use huge amounts of it.
But some policy makers haven't been willing to acknowledge this. They continue to look for a solution without downsides. For them, a tempting option is a series of new rules requiring people to use cleaner energy. In a few cases, such rules really are a free lunch, in that they force people to take steps -- like home insulation -- that save money. But most rules increase costs. They force people away from the energy sources they are now using.
The classic example is the fuel economy rules from the 1970s that required car companies to make fewer gas guzzlers. The newly imposed scarcity of guzzlers, in turn, increased their price. But the relationship wasn't obvious. Americans do not think of fuel economy rules as a tax on large vehicles.
This explains why the rule-based approach seems to be the best bet for winning Republican votes. Senator Richard Lugar, Republican of Indiana, has proposed new rules not just for vehicles but also for appliances, building codes and power plants.
If these regulations were tough enough, they could make a difference, as the fuel economy rules have. So some Democrats and environmentalists see this approach as their best remaining chance. ''There's a way Senator Reid and the president could manage this to get a very strong energy bill,'' Hal Harvey, head of the ClimateWorks Foundation in San Francisco, said. ''The victory is there for them to have.''
On the other hand, such rules would require government regulators to make all kinds of decisions -- about which dishwashers qualified as efficient, about which alternative energies power plants had to use and the like. Businesses and consumers couldn't look simply for the cheapest solution, as they could if Congress put a price on carbon. They would have to comply with specific provisions.
The result would almost certainly be higher, albeit better disguised, costs than with a carbon cap or tax. Even many advocates admit that new rules won't do enough, on their own, to reduce emissions and slow warming. Only a cap or a tax can accomplish that at a reasonable cost.
Thus the opposition among other Democrats and environmentalists to accepting the Lugar approach as a compromise -- and Mr. Reid's difficulty in finding 60 votes for it.
For one thing, the Lugar critics think that some Republicans may, in the end, be willing to vote for a utility-only cap. And even if the alternative was to do virtually nothing, critics say that might be better than a modest bill that let the Senate pretend it was seriously attacking global warming.
Robert Stavins, the Harvard economist, told me he would actually prefer a bill that cut emissions less in the short term but created a template for much bigger cuts in the future. ''Success, to me, would be the beginning of political acceptance of carbon pricing,'' he said.
I'll confess to being torn about these arguments. A utility-only cap, even a flawed one, really would represent a whole different kind of progress than a souped-up version of fuel economy rules. A cap -- any decent cap -- remains the best benchmark of success.
Yet if the Lugar approach were the only one that could pass, should we be so confident that it would put off further action? It's not clear to me how another failure on energy policy will somehow make success more likely in the future.
All of this will be decided in the next few weeks, before the Senate breaks for its August recess, or in September, before the midterm election campaign takes over. Meanwhile, the temperature in Washington this week is supposed to hit 99.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: What heat wave? A visitor to the National Zoo in Washington cools off. (PHOTOGRAPH BY JIM LO SCALZO/EUROPEAN PRESSPHOTO AGENCY) (B10) CHART: Temperatures Are Rising: The last two 12-month periods, ending in May and June 2010, have been the warmest since scientists began keeping records. The chart shows how global surface air temperatures have varied from their average for the years 1951 through 1980. (Source: NASA) (B10) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (90%); POWER PLANTS (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); WEATHER (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); ELECTRIC POWER PLANTS (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); UTILITIES INDUSTRY (90%); EARTH & ATMOSPHERIC SCIENCE (89%); OCEANOGRAPHY (89%); EMISSIONS (89%); GLOBAL WARMING (89%); CLIMATOLOGY (89%); PRICE INCREASES (86%); CLIMATE CHANGE (78%); GLACIERS & ICEBERGS (75%); OCEANS (73%); LIBERALISM (72%); US PRESIDENTS (71%); GREENHOUSE GASES (70%); MOUNTAINS (68%); BANKING & FINANCE (68%); PRICE CHANGES (64%)

ORGANIZATION: NATIONAL OCEANIC & ATMOSPHERIC ADMINISTRATION (84%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (73%); HARRY REID (73%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (94%); WEST USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: July 21, 2010



513 of 785 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 21, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; OP-ED CONTRIBUTOR; Pg. 27

LENGTH: 855 words

HEADLINE: What 7 Republicans Could Do

BYLINE: By THOMAS L. FRIEDMAN

 BODY:
The hour is late, but there is still a sliver of time to pass a serious energy bill out of this Congress. To do so, though, would require President Obama to rustle up votes with a passion that he has failed to exhibit up to now, and, more importantly, it would require at least seven Republican senators to put the national interest above party and politics. Yes, I know that is all unlikely. You can laugh now. But just remember this: If we don't get a serious energy bill out of this Congress, and Republicans retake the House and Senate, we may not have another shot until the next presidential term or until we get a ''perfect storm'' -- a climate or energy crisis that is awful enough to finally end our debate on these issues but not so awful as to end the world. But, hey, by 2012, China should pretty much own the clean-tech industry and we'll at least be able to get some good deals on electric cars. 
The energy bill now being discussed in the Senate -- which would raise energy-efficiency standards, require utilities to get 15 percent or more of their power from renewable sources, like wind and solar, and create a limited cap on carbon emissions from power plants -- is already watered down just to get 53 or so Democratic votes. But at least it gets us started on ending our addiction to oil and mitigating climate change. Unfortunately, right now it is not clear that a single Republican senator will even vote for this watered-down bill.
That is pathetic. Rather than think seriously about our endless dependence on oil, the G.O.P. has focused its energies on making ''climate change'' a four-letter word and labeling any Democrat who supports legislation that would in any way raise energy prices to diminish our dependence on oil as a ''carbon taxer.''
Unfortunately, Obama and the Democrats never effectively fought back. They should have said: ''O.K., you Republicans don't believe in global warming? Fine. Forget about global warming. That's between you and your beach house. How about this? Do you believe in population growth? Do you believe in the American dream? Because, according to the U.N., the world's population is going to grow from roughly 6.7 billion people today to about 9.2 billion by 2050. And in today's integrated world, more and more of those 9.2 billion will aspire to, and be able to, live like Americans -- with American-size cars, homes and Big Macs. In that world, demand for fossil fuels is going to go through the roof -- and all the bad things that go with it.
''If we take that threat seriously now and pass an energy bill that begins to end our oil addiction, we can shrink the piles of money we send to the worst regimes in the world, strengthen our dollar by keeping more at home, clean up our air, take away money from the people who finance the mosques and madrassas that keep many Muslim youths backward, angry and anti-American and stimulate a whole new industry -- one China is already leapfrogging us on -- clean-tech. Nothing would improve our economic and national security more, yet Republicans won't lift one finger to make it happen.
''They would rather we send more Americans to fight terrorism in the Middle East, let petro-states hostile to our interests get richer and let China take the lead in the next great global industry than ask Americans to pay a little more for the gas they use or the carbon pollution they put into the air. If OPEC, China and Russia could vote, they would be 100 percent supportive of the Republicans.
''How about we stop honoring our soldiers and our military families and start helping them? Nope. The Republican view of fighting the war on terrorism is that rather than ask all of us to make a small sacrifice to weaken our foes and buttress our troops, we should ask only a few of us to make the ultimate sacrifice. And that's called being tough?''
It gets worse. As Fred Krupp, the president of Environmental Defense Fund, notes: U.S. utility companies today ''are sitting on billions of dollars in job-creating capital -- but they will not invest in new energy projects until they have certainty on what their future carbon obligations will be. In just one state, Indiana, there are 25 power plants 50 years old or older. The fleet needs to be modernized, and Senate paralysis is keeping it from happening. A recent study from the Peterson Institute projects annual investment in the sector in the next 10 years would rise by 50 percent as a result of climate legislation -- an increase of nearly $11 billion a year.'' That's new employment from a private sector stimulus.
Can you imagine how high the stock market would soar and how easy a compromise with Democrats would become if Republicans offered an energy policy consistent with their values and our interests? What if the G.O.P. said: We will support a carbon tax provided one-third of the revenue goes toward cutting corporate taxes, one-third toward cutting payroll taxes for every working American and one-third toward paying down the deficit. The G.O.P. would actually help us get a better energy policy.
Surely there are seven Republican senators who can see this. Aren't there?

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: NATURAL GAS & ELECTRIC UTILITIES (91%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); US PRESIDENTS (89%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (89%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (89%); CLIMATE CHANGE (88%); EMISSIONS (78%); ENERGY DEVELOPMENT PROGRAMS (78%); WIND ENERGY (78%); LEGISLATION (78%); ELECTRIC POWER PLANTS (78%); SOLAR ENERGY (78%); ENERGY & UTILITY POLICY (78%); ENERGY & UTILITY SECTOR PERFORMANCE (78%); RENEWABLE ENERGY (78%); UTILITIES INDUSTRY (78%); POLITICS (77%); POPULATION GROWTH (77%); POWER PLANTS (73%); ENERGY EFFICIENCY & CONSERVATION (73%); POPULATION SIZE (73%); ENVIRONMENTAL TECHNOLOGY (72%); AUTOMOTIVE TECHNOLOGY (72%); FOSSIL FUEL POWER PLANTS (71%); POPULATION & DEMOGRAPHICS (71%); GLOBAL WARMING (70%); GREENHOUSE GASES (70%); MOTOR VEHICLES (67%); ELECTRIC VEHICLES (67%); PRICE INCREASES (66%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (78%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: July 21, 2010



514 of 785 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 21, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 1057 words

HEADLINE: As Recovery Wavers, Federal Reserve Is in the Hot Seat Again on Stimulus Action

BYLINE: By SEWELL CHAN

 BODY:
WASHINGTON -- With unemployment high and inflation low, a question is being asked more often and more loudly: Can and should the Federal Reserve do more to get the economy moving?
In two days of Congressional testimony that begin on Wednesday afternoon, Ben S. Bernanke, the Fed chairman, is likely to answer yes, but not just yet.
Mr. Bernanke's view is that the economic recovery is continuing, though at a modest clip, and that recent developments -- the stock market's swoon, Europe's financial turmoil and weak job creation -- are discouraging but do not yet justify additional monetary stimulus. 
Mr. Bernanke says he believes that there are situations that could justify new measures on top of what the Fed has done so far: keeping short-term interest rates to near-record lows and amassing a portfolio of government bonds and mortgage-backed securities, which has put downward pressure on long-term rates.
But to take new action, Mr. Bernanke and other Fed officials would have to be convinced that the economy was moving onto a perilous path of deflation, or that the recovery was so painfully sluggish that it lacked enough momentum to generate private sector job growth.
Some economists are urging the Fed to resume purchases of mortgage bonds or Treasury securities, or even buy new categories of assets, which could have the effect of further lowering long-term interest rates.
So far, the debate within the Fed has occurred largely outside of public view, but it reflects how the economic picture has darkened from just a few months ago, when the prospects for a gradually improving economy and a robust stock market seemed more hopeful. Back then, the dominant talk was when to start tightening monetary policy and selling assets on the Fed's balance sheet.
''Now there is a general recognition that that talk was premature,'' said Peter N. Ireland, a professor of economics at Boston College and a former economist at the Federal Reserve Bank of Richmond.
Though far from a consensus, a growing number of experts seem to be in favor of additional easing of the supply of credit, given that interest rates the central bank directly controls can go no lower.
''The unemployment rate is so high, and there is such misallocation of labor in the economy, that the Fed should be willing to experiment with stuff that is pretty risky and untested,'' said Peter J. Klenow, a professor of economics at Stanford and a former economist at the Federal Reserve Bank of Minneapolis.
Karen E. Dynan, a former Fed economist who is now co-director of economic studies at the Brookings Institution, said that new data on retail sales, consumer confidence and housing starts were all discouraging.
''Recent indicators suggest a loss of momentum, and suggest that the recovery is not on a firm footing,'' she said. ''All of this has increased pressure on the Fed to do more.''
Mr. Ireland said it was imperative that the Fed consider additional measures as part of its ''contingency planning'' for a further weakening of the recovery.
''There has to be a discussion about whether asset purchases should be resumed if we move into the late summer, and especially into the fall, and we're seeing a bounce in the unemployment rate and further declines in spending,'' he said, while cautioning that he still did not believe such steps were needed.
But all three of those economists agreed that new asset purchases would entail risk.
Professor Klenow noted that buying longer-term Treasury debt might not have much effect on long-term interest rates, because government securities were very liquid.
The Fed might instead consider buying corporate bonds, or assets backed by consumer loans. Doing so could spur the willingness of private investors to lend, Professor Klenow said, but it might not help small businesses, the sector of the economy that needs loans the most. And it would surely spur criticism by economists and others who are fearful about the Fed making decisions to allocate credit by favoring some sectors over others.
In addition, although core inflation, which excludes the highly volatile prices of food and energy, has been running at about half of the Fed's target of nearly 2 percent, inflation expectations ''have not come down nearly as much as one would expect, given how much slack there is in the economy,'' Ms. Dynan said.
The size of the Fed's balance sheet, which has more than doubled since the financial crisis of 2008, and the large amount of bank reserves sitting at the Fed has made officials at the central bank nervous about the potential for rapid inflation once banks decide to start lending more vigorously again, she noted.
''Their caution about deploying more expansionary measures has been warranted, but they need to be watching economic conditions very carefully,'' Ms. Dynan said.
A speech Mr. Bernanke gave in 2002, shortly after he left a professorship at Princeton to join the Fed's board of governors, has been widely cited of late. In it, Mr. Bernanke argued that a determined central bank could always reverse deflation, and generate inflation, through its control of the money supply.
But generating inflation is not the same thing as putting people back to work, a goal that the Fed's monetary toolbox seems less equipped to meet.
Long-term interest rates are already quite low. The yield on the benchmark 10-year Treasury note has fallen below 3 percent, and the average yield for a 30-year fixed-rate mortgage has hovered around 4.5 percent. With the cost of borrowing so low, the Fed might have reached the point of diminishing returns in its capacity to lower rates further.
Furthermore, if the Fed were to suddenly announce a big new program of asset purchases, it could cause inflation expectations to jump. That could raise nominal interest rates and lead to a rise in the price of oil as investors use commodities to hedge against inflation. In such a worst-case situation, the recession could become even worse.
Mr. Bernanke has been known to recite the first precept of the Hippocratic Oath: do no harm. Those familiar with his thinking compare additional monetary easing to a powerful but experimental drug whose side effects are not fully known.
So for now the Fed is very much in the role of the anxious doctor, waiting to see if the patient can recover on his own without an additional dose of untested medicine.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: In Congressional testimony this week, the Fed chairman, Ben Bernanke, is likely to be asked about additional stimulus. (PHOTOGRAPH BY J. SCOTT APPLEWHITE/ASSOCIATED PRESS) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (92%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (90%); INTEREST RATES (90%); ECONOMIC RECOVERY (89%); STOCK EXCHANGES (89%); CENTRAL BANKS (89%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (89%); BANKING & FINANCE (89%); BUSINESS EDUCATION (85%); MONETARY POLICY (78%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (78%); CONSUMER CONFIDENCE (78%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (78%); TREASURY SECURITIES (78%); ECONOMIC POLICY (78%); JOB CREATION (78%); BONDS (78%); REAL ESTATE (78%); PUBLIC DEBT (78%); PUBLIC POLICY (78%); TESTIMONY (77%); PUBLIC FINANCE (77%); DIVESTITURES (75%); MORTGAGE INVESTMENTS (73%); MORTGAGE BACKED SECURITIES (73%); DEFLATION (73%); SALES FIGURES (70%); GOVERNMENT BONDS (68%); CONSTRUCTION (68%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (61%); RESEARCH INSTITUTES (60%); RETAIL SALES (50%)

COMPANY: FEDERAL RESERVE BANK OF RICHMOND (63%); FEDERAL RESERVE BANK OF MINNEAPOLIS (61%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS521110 MONETARY AUTHORITIES - CENTRAL BANK (63%); SIC6011 FEDERAL RESERVE BANKS (63%)

PERSON: BEN BERNANKE (90%)

GEOGRAPHIC: BOSTON, MA, USA (79%) MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (92%); EUROPE (79%)

LOAD-DATE: July 21, 2010



515 of 785 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 21, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Foreign Desk; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 1005 words

HEADLINE: U.S. and South Korea Plan Naval Drill as a Message

BYLINE: By ELISABETH BUMILLER and EDWARD WONG; Elisabeth Bumiller reported from Seoul, and Edward Wong from Beijing. Choe Sang-hun contributed reporting from Seoul. Helen Gao contributed research from Beijing.

 BODY:
SEOUL, South Korea -- The United States and South Koreaannounced Tuesday that the first in a series of large-scale naval exercises off Japan and the Korean Peninsula would begin next week, despite objections from China.
The exercises, they said, are meant as a show of force and a ''first step'' in trying to deter North Korea from acts of aggression in the region, nearly four months after the sinking of a South Korean warship for which the United States and South Korea have blamed the North.
The first of the exercises, to be conducted from Sunday to Wednesday on the Sea of Japan, to the east, is to include an American aircraft carrier -- the nuclear-powered George Washington, one of the largest warships in the world -- 20 other ships and submarines, and 100 aircraft. It will involve 8,000 men and women from the American and South Korean armed services. 
The Defense Department said that later exercises would be conducted on the Yellow Sea, which is on the western side of the Korean Peninsula and is claimed by China as a military operations zone. Adm. Robert F. Willard, the commander of the United States Pacific Command, and American military officials would not say whether those exercises would include the George Washington.
As recently as last October, the George Washington participated in naval exercises in the Yellow Sea with South Korea.
China, which has growing naval ambitions and is North Korea's most important ally and biggest trading partner, has made clear that it objects to any foreign operations on the Yellow Sea. Most pointedly, on Tuesday, the state-run English-language newspaper China Daily announced China's own just-completed exercises there.
The report said the purpose of the Chinese exercise, Warfare 2010, had been to improve defense capabilities against long-distance attacks. Four helicopters and four rescue vessels took part in the exercise on Saturday. The next day, tanks were loaded onto vessels at a port in Shandong Province. Trains were also used to transport tanks and other military equipment to ships.
In a sign that China was moderating its response, the report cited military analysts saying that the drill had been a routine logistics mission and that it had little to do with the imminent exercises by the United States and South Korea, though one analyst was quoted as saying the timing was not an ''entire coincidence.''
The United States appeared to shrug off the Chinese drill.
''I don't think it's a cause for any concern,'' Geoff Morrell, the Pentagon press secretary, who is traveling with Defense Secretary Robert M. Gates, said Tuesday in Seoul. ''We operate in international waters, and we wouldn't preclude them from doing the same thing.''
China has refused to agree with the conclusion of South Korea's investigation into the March sinking of its warship, the Cheonan, in which 46 sailors died. The investigation, conducted with the help of international experts, found that a North Korean torpedo had sunk the ship. North Korea has denied responsibility and called the report a lie.
Earlier, Admiral Willard referred to the case in dismissing Chinese objections to the joint exercises. ''If I have a concern vis-a-vis China,'' he said, ''it is that China exert itself to influence Pyongyang so that incidents like the Cheonan don't happen in the future.''
On Wednesday morning, Mr. Gates and Secretary of State Hillary Rodham Clinton climbed up to an observation deck in the demilitarized zone and peered through binoculars into a gloomy drizzle at North Korea in the distance. ''It's stunning how little has changed there and yet how much South Korea continues to grow and prosper,'' Mr. Gates said. ''The North, by contrast, stagnates in isolation and deprivation.''
The exercises come at a time when China is expanding the mission of its navy and asserting its sovereignty over waters claimed by other Asian nations. Chinese admirals say the navy is prepared to go beyond its traditional role of coastal defense and engage in ''far sea defense'' -- sending ships to waters between the Strait of Malacca, off Singapore, and the Persian Gulf to protect economic interests.
The Chinese Navy is pushing operations into parts of the Pacific usually dominated by the United States Navy, and China is making bolder claims to portions of the South China Sea claimed by other Asian countries.
The drumbeat of Chinese concern over the United States-South Korean exercises has been steady. In early July, People's Daily, the official newspaper of the Communist Party, reported that Gen. Ma Xiaotian, deputy chief of the general staff of the People's Liberation Army, said that China ''strongly opposed'' the exercises.
Last week, the online edition of People's Daily published a detailed five-point criticism by Maj. Gen. Luo Yuan, a deputy secretary general with the army's Academy of Military Sciences, who stressed the importance of the Yellow Sea as ''a gateway to China's capital region and a vital passage to the heartland of Beijing and Tianjin.
''In history, foreign invaders repeatedly took the Yellow Sea as an entrance to enter the heartland of Beijing and Tianjin,'' he said. ''The drill area selected by the United States and South Korea is only 500 kilometers away from Beijing. China will be aware of the security pressure from military exercises conducted by any country in an area that is so close to China's heartland.'' General Luo quoted a saying from Mao: ''We will never allow others to keep snoring beside our beds.''
The United States and South Korea announced the timing of the first exercise after Mr. Gates met with Defense Minister Kim Tae-young on Tuesday.
''This exercise will demonstrate the resolute will and capabilities of both the South Korean and U.S. militaries,'' said Gen. Han Min-koo, chairman of South Korea's Joint Chiefs of Staff, in a statement released by the South Korean military. ''Based on our defense readiness, we will instantly retaliate against any provocation from now on and wrap up our operation at the scene of the provocation.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Defense Secretary Robert M. Gates with American troops Tuesday near Seoul, South Korea. On Wednesday, he and Secretary of State Hillary Rodham Clinton visited the demilitarized zone. (POOL PHOTO BY MARK WILSON) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MILITARY OPERATIONS (91%); ARMED FORCES (90%); MILITARY VESSELS (90%); NAVAL VESSELS (90%); DEFENSE DEPARTMENTS (89%); MARINE VESSELS (76%); MARINE CARGO HANDLING (74%); HELICOPTERS (69%)

PERSON: ROBERT M GATES (71%); HILLARY RODHAM CLINTON (59%)

GEOGRAPHIC: SEOUL, KOREA, REPUBLIC OF (91%) PACIFIC OCEAN (94%); NORTH CENTRAL CHINA (78%); SHANDONG, CHINA (58%) UNITED STATES (99%); KOREA, REPUBLIC OF (98%); CHINA (98%); NORTHERN ASIA (93%); KOREA, DEMOCRATIC PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF (93%)

LOAD-DATE: July 21, 2010



516 of 785 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 21, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 12

LENGTH: 455 words

HEADLINE: West Virginia Governor to Seek Byrd's Senate Seat

BYLINE: By BERNIE BECKER

 BODY:
Joe Manchin III, West Virginia's popular Democratic governor, announced on Tuesday that he would run in this year's special election for the Senate seat formerly held by the late Robert C. Byrd. 
Calling the decision to enter the race among the toughest he has ever made, Mr. Manchin said he would do his best in the Senate to follow in Mr. Byrd's footsteps.
''I have always had a desire to serve at the highest level, to put myself in a position that I could serve the people of West Virginia,'' Mr. Manchin, 62, said at a news conference.
The governor announced his candidacy a day after signing legislation that establishes an Aug. 28 primary and a Nov. 2 general election for the seat. The winner will serve the rest of the six-year term that Mr. Byrd, a Democrat who served more than 50 years in the Senate, won in 2006.
Carte P. Goodwin, Mr. Manchin's former general counsel and his appointee to fill the seat temporarily, was sworn in to the Senate on Tuesday.
Mr. Manchin, who easily won a second term as governor in 2008, has been viewed as a likely candidate for the seat since shortly after Mr. Byrd died last month. His entry into the race probably increases the Democrats' chances to hold the seat.
Representative Shelley Moore Capito, the only Republican in West Virginia's Congressional delegation, is widely viewed as her party's strongest candidate for the seat -- though it is far from certain that she will enter the special election.
A compromise approved by West Virginia lawmakers was intended to allow Ms. Capito to run both for re-election to the House and in the special election. But she has told party leaders that she is reluctant to be a part of both races.
Kent Gates, a spokesman for Ms. Capito, signaled on Tuesday that he expected her to reveal her plans by Thursday morning. A historically Democratic state, West Virginia has gone Republican in the last three presidential elections.
Mr. Manchin, who also served a term as West Virginia's secretary of state, has built a reputation as a centrist. He earned praise this year for his performance in the aftermath of the explosion that killed 29 at the Upper Big Branch mine.
Mr. Manchin will remain governor if he loses the Senate race.
For their part, Republicans in Washington have already made it clear that they will attack the governor for having supported both the stimulus package and health care overhaul, as well as for entering the Senate race after saying he intended to complete his current term as governor.
Brian Walsh, a spokesman for the National Republican Senatorial Committee, said in a Tuesday statement that it was ''clear that, if elected, Joe Manchin will be a loyal rubber stamp for President Obama's reckless spending agenda in Washington.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Vice President Joseph R. Biden Jr. greeted Carte P. Goodwin and his family Tuesday at an enactment of his swearing in as senator. A special election in November will decide a successor. (PHOTOGRAPH BY STEPHEN CROWLEY/THE NEW YORK TIMES)
 Gov. Joe Manchin III of West Virginia announced on Tuesday that he would run for the Senate seat of the late Robert C. Byrd. (PHOTOGRAPH BY CRAIG CUNNINGHAM/CHARLESTON DAILY MAIL, VIA ASSOCIATED PRESS) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: GOVERNORS (91%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); ELECTIONS (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); US SENATE ELECTIONS (89%); POLITICAL PARTIES (89%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (89%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (78%); APPOINTMENTS (78%); 2010 WEST VIRGINIA COAL MINE EXPLOSION (78%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (78%); POLITICS (78%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (78%); PRESS CONFERENCES (73%); US ECONOMIC STIMULUS PLAN 2008-2009 (71%); APPROVALS (64%); US PRESIDENTS (61%); LAWYERS (52%); HEALTH CARE REFORM (50%)

PERSON: JOE MANCHIN (92%); ROBERT BYRD (92%); JOE BIDEN (79%); SHELLEY MOORE CAPITO (78%); BARACK OBAMA (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: WEST VIRGINIA, USA (97%) UNITED STATES (97%)

LOAD-DATE: July 21, 2010



517 of 785 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 21, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1068 words

HEADLINE: States Embrace Core Standards For the Schools

BYLINE: By TAMAR LEWIN

 BODY:
Less than two months after the nation's governors and state school chiefs released their final recommendations for national education standards, 27 states have adopted them and about a dozen more are expected to do so in the next two weeks.
Their support has surprised many in education circles, given states' long tradition of insisting on retaining local control over curriculum. 
The quick adoption of common standards for what students should learn in English and math each year from kindergarten through high school is attributable in part to the Obama administration's Race to the Top competition. States that adopt the standards by Aug. 2 win points in the competition for a share of the $3.4 billion to be awarded in September.
''I'm ecstatic,'' said Arne Duncan, the secretary of education. ''This has been the third rail of education, and the fact that you're now seeing half the nation decide that it's the right thing to do is a game-changer.''
Even Massachusetts, which many regard as having the nation's best education system -- and where the proposed standards have been a subject of bitter debate -- is expected to adopt the standards on Wednesday morning. New York signed up on Monday, joining Connecticut, New Jersey and other states that have adopted the standards, though the timetable for actual implementation is uncertain.
Some supporters of the standards, like Randi Weingarten, president of the American Federation of Teachers, worry that the rush of states to sign up -- what Ms. Weingarten calls the ''Race to Adopt'' -- could backfire if states do not have the money to put the standards in effect.
''I'm already watching the ravages of the recession cutting the muscle out of efforts to implement standards,'' she said. ''If states adopt these thoughtful new standards and don't implement them, teachers won't know how to meet them, yet they will be the basis on which kids are judged.''
The effort has been helped by financial backing from the Bill & Melinda Gates Foundation to most of the organizations involved in drafting, evaluating and winning support for the standards. The common core standards, two years in the making and first released in draft form in March, are an effort to replace the current hodgepodge of state policies.
They lay out detailed expectations of skills that students should have at each grade level. Second graders, for example, should be able to read two-syllable words with long vowels, while fifth graders should be able to add and subtract fractions with different denominators.
Adoption of the standards does not bring immediate change in the classroom. Implementation will be a long-term process, as states rethink their teacher training, textbooks and testing.
Those states that are not winners in the Race to the Top competition may also have less incentive to follow through in carrying out the standards.
''The heavy lifting is still ahead, and the cynic in me says that when 20 states don't get Race to the Top money, we'll see how sincere they are,'' said Chester E. Finn Jr., president of an education research group in Washington, the Thomas B. Fordham Foundation, a longtime advocate of national standards. ''They could just sit on their hands, chill out and say, 'Well, we don't really have the money right now to retrain our teachers.' ''
Yet even promises of support for national standards are a noteworthy shift. Many previous efforts to set national standards have made little headway. In 1995, for example, the Senate rejected proposed history standards by a vote of 99 to 1.
The problem of wide variations in state standards has become more serious in recent years, as some states weakened their standards to avoid being penalized under the federal No Child Left Behind law. This time, the standards were developed by the states themselves, not the federal government. Last year, the National Governors Association and the Council of Chief State School Officers convened English and math experts to put together benchmarks for each grade.
Texas and Alaska said they did not want to participate in developing the standards. And Virginia has made it known that it does not plan to adopt the standards.
Increasingly, national standards are seen as a way to ensure that children in all states will have access to a similar education -- and that financially strapped state governments do not have to spend limited resources on developing their own standards and tests.
''We'll have states working together for the first time on curriculum, textbooks, assessment,'' said Mr. Duncan. ''This will save the country billions of dollars.''
An analysis by Mr. Finn's institute, to be released Wednesday, determined that the new common core standards are stronger than the English standards in 37 states and the math standards in 39 states.
In most others, the report found that the existing standards are similar enough to the proposed common core standards that it was impossible to say which were better.
States that adopt the standards are allowed to have additional standards, as long as the common core represents at least 85 percent of their English and mathematics standards.
In closely watched Massachusetts, even those who see the common core standards as a comedown for a state whose students score highly on national assessment tests say they have lost the battle.
''They're definitely going to be adopted,'' said Jim Stergios, executive director of Pioneer Institute, a nonprofit, nonpartisan public policy organization.
Mr. Stergios' group found the common standards less rigorous than Massachusetts' existing ones.
''Vocabulary-building in the common core is slower,'' he said, citing one example. ''And on the math side, they don't prepare eighth-grade students for algebra one, which is the gateway to higher math.''
Others analyzing the two sets of standards disagreed.
Achieve Inc., a Washington-based education reform group, found the common core standards ''more rigorous and coherent.'' WestEd, a research group that evaluated the standards for the Massachusetts Business Alliance for Education, found them comparable. And Mr. Finn's group said the Massachusetts standards and the common core standards were ''too close to call.''
But Mr. Stergios pointed out that the other groups had either funding from the Gates Foundation or connections to those who developed the standards.
''We're really the only ones who had no dog in this fight,'' he said.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: President Obama with Arne Duncan, the secretary of education, last month in Michigan. (PHOTOGRAPH BY DOUG MILLS/THE NEW YORK TIMES) (A3) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ACADEMIC STANDARDS (90%); PUBLIC SCHOOLS (89%); PRIMARY & SECONDARY SCHOOL TEACHERS (89%); EDUCATIONAL INSTITUTION EMPLOYEES (89%); TEACHING & TEACHERS (89%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (89%); PRIMARY SCHOOLS (89%); CURRICULA (78%); GOVERNORS (78%); TEACHER EDUCATION (78%); TEXTBOOKS (78%); EDUCATION SYSTEMS & INSTITUTIONS (78%); EDUCATION DEPARTMENTS (73%); RECESSION (71%); ECONOMIC NEWS (71%); FOUNDATIONS (69%); TEACHER UNIONS (64%)

ORGANIZATION: AMERICAN FEDERATION OF TEACHERS (54%)

PERSON: ARNE DUNCAN (73%); BARACK OBAMA (69%)

GEOGRAPHIC: MICHIGAN, USA (79%); CONNECTICUT, USA (79%); NEW JERSEY, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: July 21, 2010



518 of 785 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 21, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 802 words

HEADLINE: Inside the Times

 BODY:
International
LEADERS RENEW VOWS
Of Support for Afghanistan
American, European and other foreign leaders met in Kabul, Afghanistan, to pledge anew their support for Afghanistan and embrace its president's commitment for Afghan forces to take charge of security by 2014 -- while acknowledging that neither the public in their own countries nor the Afghan people had much patience left. PAGE A10
TWO U.S. TRAINERS KILLED 
Two American trainers were killed in Kabul during a seemingly routine training practice in marksmanship after an Afghan Army sergeant turned his weapon on an American trainer and a gunfight began. PAGE A10
National
CUTS IN HOME CARE PUT
Elderly and Disabled at Risk
As states face severe budget shortfalls, many have cut home-care services for the elderly or the disabled, programs that have been shown to save states money in the long run because they keep people out of nursing homes. PAGE A11
QUESTIONING SPYMASTER PICK
Telling a Senate panel that he would not be a ''hood ornament,'' James R. Clapper Jr., the Obama administration's candidate to become national intelligence director, pledged that despite the job's vague authority, he would try to bring an end to turf battles and bureaucratic bloat in America's spy agencies. PAGE A16
DISPUTING PENTAGON RULES
A coalition of news organizations has demanded that the Pentagon's public affairs office rescind parts of its guidelines for reporting on Guantanamo Bay. PAGE A13
New York
SUSPECT DENIES ROLE
In Kennedy Airport Plot
Abdul Kadir, a former government official of Guyana, testified in court that he was not involved in a terrorism scheme aimed at New York City, saying that he had feigned interest in the plan because he hoped that its architects would help him raise money to build a mosque. PAGE A22
NEW SCRUTINY FOR INSPECTORS
Three months after a safety inspector admitted falsifying hundreds of reports concluding that buildings were free of cancer-causing asbestos, the city agency that licensed him says it has taken steps to ensure better oversight. PAGE A20
Business
TRAINEE PROGRAM ACCUSED
Of Exploiting Workers
From across Asia, about 190,000 trainees now toil in factories and farms in Japan. For businesses, the government-sponsored trainee program has offered a loophole to hiring foreign workers. But with little legal protection, the work force is exposed to substandard, sometimes even deadly, working conditions, critics say. PAGE B1
BP SELLS $7 BILLION IN ASSETS
With its runaway well apparently under control, BP is now betting its future more than ever on deepwater wells. The company said it had agreed to sell $7 billion worth of oil and gas fields to the Apache Corporation. The assets being sold are all on land. PAGE B1
CONCERN OVER BANK TESTS
Recent assurances by government leaders in Europe that their countries' banks will pass stress tests, whose results will be released Friday, have left economists anything but reassured. PAGE B4
Sports
U.S.C. CLEANS HOUSE
In Wake of Sanctions
The University of Southern California swiftly rebuked the main figures who helped land its athletic program on probation, firing the athletic director Mike Garrett, returning Reggie Bush's Heisman Trophy and beefing up the compliance staff. The university also removed from campus jerseys of Bush and the basketball star O. J. Mayo. PAGE B15
KNICK WILL NOT PLAY FOR U.S.
The Knicks forced Amar'e Stoudemire, the team's new free agent addition, to withdraw from the United States national team, citing insurance concerns. Because of a 2005 knee surgery, Stoudemire's contract is not insured against a career-ending knee injury. PAGE B16
PINIELLA SAYS HE WILL RETIRE
Lou Piniella, who won the World Series as manager of the Cincinnati Reds in 1990, and who is currently the skipper for the Chicago Cubs, announced that he would retire at season's end. PAGE B14
Arts
OLD FOOTAGE OFFERS A LOOK
At an Elusive Artist
''Jean-Michel Basquiat: The Radiant Child'' is a film homage to the artistic wunderkind, constructed around a rare question-and-answer interview with Basquiat that its creator, Tamra Davis, filmed in 1985. Stephen Holden writes that the film keeps its subject at enough of a remove to enhance his mystique. PAGE C1
HANDLING A SPOILED POP STAR
Carl Hiaasen's latest novel, ''Star Island,'' is about the self-destructive escapades of an over-the-hill former child star. Review by Janet Maslin. PAGE C1
Dining
CHEFS COURT FARMERS
For Best Ingredients
Once, farmers begged top chefs to give their produce a whirl. But with carrots, corn and tomatoes being accorded the fanatical attention once reserved for foie gras and truffles, chefs now come knocking. Visits to specialty farms in New York, New Jersey, Connecticut and Pennsylvania have become a big part of the run-up to a high-stakes opening. PAGE D1
Op-ed
MAUREEN DOWD PAGE A27
THOMAS FRIEDMAN PAGE A27

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Summary

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ESPIONAGE (88%); US PRESIDENTS (77%); EMPLOYMENT (76%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (75%); RECRUITMENT & HIRING (75%); LABOR FORCE (75%); BUDGETS (75%); COMPANION & HOMEMAKER SERVICES (74%); SENIOR CITIZENS (74%); AGING (74%); NURSING & RESIDENTIAL CARE FACILITIES (74%); TESTIMONY (72%); HOME HEALTH CARE (71%); TERRORISM (71%); NURSING HOMES (69%); FOREIGN LABOR (66%); OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (65%); CRUDE OIL & NATURAL GAS EXTRACTION (63%); CARCINOGENS (50%); CANCER (50%)

COMPANY: APACHE CORP (80%)

TICKER: APA (NYSE) (80%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS213111 DRILLING OIL & GAS WELLS (80%); NAICS211111 CRUDE PETROLEUM & NATURAL GAS EXTRACTION (80%); SIC1381 DRILLING OIL & GAS WELLS (80%); SIC1311 CRUDE PETROLEUM & NATURAL GAS (80%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: KABUL, AFGHANISTAN (93%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%) NEW YORK, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (95%); AFGHANISTAN (94%); EUROPE (79%); ASIA (79%); JAPAN (79%); CUBA (54%)

LOAD-DATE: July 21, 2010



519 of 785 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 21, 2010
The New York Times on the Web

SECTION: Section ; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 

LENGTH: 227 words

HEADLINE: A Jump in Enrollment Helps UnitedHealth

BYLINE: By THE ASSOCIATED PRESS

 BODY:
The health insurer UnitedHealth Group said Tuesday its second-quarter net income rose 31 percent as enrollment and costs were better than Wall Street had expected. 
The company's total enrollment grew about 1 percent, to 32.5 million compared with last year, with gains in Medicare and Medicaid businesses offsetting commercial health insurance losses.
Commercial insurance, which includes employer-sponsored group coverage and individual policies, makes up more than 75 percent of UnitedHealth's medical enrollment. That segment's enrollment fell by 440,000, or less than 2 percent, from a year ago.
Last year, commercial enrollment fell 6 percent in the second quarter compared with 2008, as UnitedHealth and other insurers dealt with employer job cuts during the recession.
The company earned $1.12 billion, or 99 cents a share, up from the $859 million, or 73 cents a share, in the period a year earlier. Revenue increased 7 percent, to $23.26 billion.
Analysts surveyed by Thomson Reuters expected earnings of 75 cents a share on nearly $23 billion in revenue.
UnitedHealth raised its profit forecast for the current year to $3.40 to $3.60 a share, from $3.15 to $3.35 a share, on $93 billion in revenue. Analysts had expected a profit of $3.33 a share and $92.18 billion in revenue.
Shares of UnitedHealth, which is based in Minnetonka, Minn., rose 1 cent, to $30.83.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: INSURANCE (91%); HEALTH INSURANCE (91%); INTERIM FINANCIAL RESULTS (90%); COMPANY EARNINGS (90%); COMMERCIAL LINES INSURANCE (90%); LAYOFFS (78%); EARNINGS PREANNOUNCEMENTS (78%); COMPANY PROFITS (78%); RECESSION (78%); ECONOMIC NEWS (78%); INSURANCE POLICIES (78%); MEDICARE (73%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (72%); MEDICAID (58%); BUSINESS FORECASTS (52%)

COMPANY: UNITEDHEALTH GROUP INC (92%)

TICKER: UNH (NYSE) (92%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS524114 DIRECT HEALTH & MEDICAL INSURANCE CARRIERS (92%); SIC6324 HOSPITAL & MEDICAL SERVICE PLANS (92%); SIC6321 ACCIDENT & HEALTH INSURANCE (92%)

GEOGRAPHIC: MINNESOTA, USA (50%) UNITED STATES (50%)

LOAD-DATE: July 21, 2010



520 of 785 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 21, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; LETTERS; Pg. 26

LENGTH: 709 words

HEADLINE: Social Class and College Admissions

 BODY:
To the Editor:
Re ''The Roots of White Anxiety'' (column, July 19):
Ross Douthat's critique of elite colleges -- that they are not interested in admitting lower-class whites -- might have been more compelling had it been written 10 years ago.
In fact, the nation's most elite colleges and universities are now fully engaged in efforts similar to those undertaken decades ago to increase the enrollment of ethnic minorities: not simply promoting the few lower-class whites who bothered to apply but actively working to increase the number applying altogether. 
By working closely with organizations like Questbridge, which brings selective colleges together with lower-income students of all ethnicities, race-based allowances are rapidly transitioning into those based on social class. Increasing numbers of these students on campuses speak to the success of these efforts.
And perhaps most important, my experience has shown that when admissions committees make decisions, the mostly liberal, secular, often nonwhite admissions officers thoroughly embrace the importance of the diversity offered by 4-H members, evangelicals, Republicans and aspiring military officers.
If there's an elitism issue, it's not originating in the admissions office.
Nate Budington Amherst, Mass., July 19, 2010
The writer was an admissions officer at Williams College for nine years.
To the Editor:
Ross Douthat presents the classic misdirection of conservative politics. Rather than identifying the true causes of America's diminished meritocracy -- wrongheaded supply-side economic policies that unravel the social safety net -- he blames the well-known conservative bogyman: affirmative action.
The future of our nation depends less on an equitable number of ''red state'' students attending elite universities than on ensuring that every student in America has the financial opportunity to attend community college or that the country's public universities have the federal support to abate tuition spikes.
Put simply, conservative policies have created the pretext for these grievances, not the prejudices of elite university admissions committees.
Dave Hodapp Columbus, Ohio, July 19, 2010
To the Editor:
In ''The Roots of White Anxiety,'' Ross Douthat confounds two issues: the underrepresentation of low-income white students in elite universities and the low number of white Christian students at these same institutions. This association is puzzling considering that evangelical Christianity is enjoying somewhat of a renaissance in elite institutions (see ''The Holy and the Ivy,'' published in Christianity Today in 2005).
The lack of low-income students (of all races) at elite institutions is an issue of great concern, but I caution Mr. Douthat against naming systemic bias against white Christians as being among the primary causes of the problem.
Julie J. Park Oxford, Ohio, July 19, 2010
The writer is an assistant professor in the department of educational leadership at Miami University.
To the Editor:
I grow weary of hearing of the ''disadvantages'' that white working-class/red state/evangelical Christian/rural/(fill in your favored conservative identity marker) students face when trying to get into elite universities.
What Ross Douthat and the authors of the study on which the column is based don't emphasize is that it is precisely these people who are not applying for admission to these institutions. No wonder they are underrepresented.
I served on the admissions board of an Ivy League university for six years and could count on one finger the number of coal miner's children from West Virginia who applied during that period.
Despite energetic recruiting efforts, the most academically talented of white, rural, working-class students overwhelmingly choose to attend their state colleges and universities or religious institutions, where they feel they will fit in socially with their peers more comfortably. This problem stems in part from how they perceive elite institutions.
I am certainly not saying that the atmosphere at elite universities might not benefit from having a few more Idaho farm kids around, but beating the drums of the politics of envy a la Pat Buchanan serves no useful purpose whatsoever.
Anthony R. Kaney King of Prussia, Pa., July 20, 2010

GRAPHIC: DRAWING (DRAWING BY GRACIA LAM) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CHRISTIANS & CHRISTIANITY (92%); ACADEMIC ADMISSIONS (91%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY ADMISSIONS (91%); COLLEGES & UNIVERSITIES (90%); LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (89%); CONSERVATISM (89%); WRITERS (89%); LOW INCOME PERSONS (89%); RELIGION (89%); LIBERALISM (78%); TUITION FEES (77%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (77%); ETHNIC GROUPS (77%); STUDENT DEMOGRAPHICS (77%); COMMUNITY COLLEGES (77%); AFFIRMATIVE ACTION IN EDUCATION (75%); AFFIRMATIVE ACTION (74%); POOR POPULATION (74%); POLITICAL PARTIES (72%); PUBLIC POLICY (71%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (71%); ETHNICITY (70%); ECONOMIC POLICY (64%); ECONOMIC NEWS (64%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (59%)

GEOGRAPHIC: COLUMBUS, OH, USA (74%) OHIO, USA (92%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: July 21, 2010



521 of 785 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 21, 2010
The New York Times on the Web

SECTION: Section ; Column 0; Editorial Desk; LETTERS; Pg. 

LENGTH: 316 words

HEADLINE: Improving Conditions for Egg-Laying Hens

 BODY:
To the Editor:
In your July 12 editorial ''A Humane Egg,'' you disparage the modern, sanitary housing systems for egg-laying hens, which have improved chickens' health and well-being, improved consumer food safety and kept eggs a nutritious and economical staple on kitchen tables and restaurant menus nationwide. 
These modern systems allow hens to stand up, turn around, lie down and walk to clean water and nutritious food troughs. Groups like the American Veterinary Medical Association support these modern egg-laying housing systems.
The California law adds an arbitrary and unscientific requirement that chickens be prohibited from touching one another or the side of any enclosure. Yet there is no scientific proof that the requirement will improve chicken well-being or food safety.
The new law will cost American family farmers, and ultimately California consumers, hundreds of millions of dollars.
Gene Gregory President, United Egg Producers Alpharetta, Ga., July 13, 2010
To the Editor:
Today tens of thousands of American farmers don't even own the livestock they raise, and the conditions they raise animals in are dictated to them by a handful of extremely powerful companies that are concerned only with the bottom line.
So while The Times is to be commended for continuing to highlight the many terrible aspects of factory farms, including inhumane confinement practices, let's not forget that because of the extraordinary consolidation and vertical integration of American agriculture over the last 60-plus years, American farmers are enduring extraordinary suffering as well.
Inhumane confinement, illegal anticompetitive practices and factory farming hurt animals, the environment, the consumer, the public health and the farmer. Reversing the agricultural trends of the last half century is a policy area where almost everyone's interests are aligned.
Regina Weiss Brooklyn, July 12, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CHICKEN EGG PRODUCTION (90%); FARMERS & RANCHERS (90%); LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); POULTRY (90%); FACTORY FARMS (89%); ANIMALS (89%); ANIMAL FARMING & BREEDING (89%); FOOD SAFETY (78%); FAMILY FARMS (78%); RESTAURANTS (77%); TRENDS (76%); RESTRAINT OF TRADE (76%); AGRICULTURE CONSOLIDATION (73%); BUSINESS & PROFESSIONAL ASSOCIATIONS (71%); ANTITRUST & TRADE LAW (64%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (59%)

ORGANIZATION: AMERICAN VETERINARY MEDICAL ASSOCIATION (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: CALIFORNIA, USA (92%); GEORGIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: July 21, 2010



522 of 785 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 21, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Foreign Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1298 words

HEADLINE: Britain's Leader Carves Identity As Slasher of Government Bloat

BYLINE: By JOHN F. BURNS

 BODY:
CORRECTION APPENDED
LONDON -- In the five years David Cameron spent rebuilding the Conservative Party in opposition, opinion polls showed that as he sought to rebrand it by offering a compassionate but persistently fuzzy image, voters had trouble defining what sort of a prime minister he would make.
Not any longer.
After 10 weeks in office, Mr. Cameron, who met with President Obama in Washington on Tuesday, has emerged as one of the most activist prime ministers in modern times, rivaling in some respects even Margaret Thatcher, the ''Iron Lady'' who as the Conservative leader in the 1980s attacked unions and government bloat while privatizing national industries and vigorously pursuing free-market policies.
With a relentless battery of policy announcements, Mr. Cameron and his coalition of Conservatives and Liberal Democrats have proposed to couple the deep deficit cuts the conservatives sketched out during the May general election campaign with a wider effort to break the mold of big government in Britain that, despite Lady Thatcher's best efforts, has largely prevailed since World War II. 
In so doing, they have charted an economic course of almost savage austerity, an approach that contrasts starkly with the policies of Mr. Obama, who wrote to Mr. Cameron and other leaders last month warning against premature cuts in government spending that might drive the world into a double-dip recession.
Mr. Obama has chosen a different path for the United States, deferring the kind of sharp budget cuts now being rolled out across Europe, and at his meeting with Mr. Cameron the two leaders, in effect, agreed to disagree.
In a radio interview with NPR before going to the White House, Mr. Cameron expressed his viewpoint diplomatically. ''Every country has to deal with its budget deficit, but the time at which we do it can vary,'' he said.
And vary significantly, as Mr. Cameron's government has shown. A budget last month proposed an austerity campaign of extraordinary severity, setting across-the-board cuts over the next five years of 25 percent and more. But that has proved to be only the scene-setter for an ambitious -- and politically risky -- bid to dismantle Britain's sprawling bureaucracy. If successful, it will lift what the new leaders say is the state's heavy hand on public life, restricting its reach into schools and hospitals, slashing welfare benefits and reviewing intrusive law-and-order Labour programs that have alarmed advocates for civil liberties.
At 43, Mr. Cameron is Britain's youngest prime minister in nearly 200 years, and he appears to have surprised even himself. As opposition leader, he developed a reputation for blandness, but all that changed after the May 6 general election, when the Conservatives' cautious, middle-of-the-road campaign failed to win the outright majority many had thought was theirs for the taking.
To achieve a parliamentary majority, Mr. Cameron reached out to the Liberal leader, Nick Clegg, and the two men vaulted ahead of their parties by drawing up a plan for a radical reshaping of the way Britain was governed.
Their proposals for slashing spending go beyond anything Britain has experienced in its modern history, even under Lady Thatcher. They sharply reverse course from a Labour government that, for 13 years under Tony Blair and Gordon Brown, expanded the state's power at a pace never seen outside of wartime, turning Britain into one of the most heavily taxed, tightly regulated countries in the developed world, with government accounting for 21.1 percent of the work force and half of the economy.
So far, the course charted by Mr. Cameron and his deputy prime minister, Mr. Clegg, remains largely visionary. At best, they face months, and potentially years, of slug-it-out battles with opponents, including skeptics in their own parties, as well as with newly restive labor unions and a recalcitrant bureaucracy. Their austerity drive alone could bring the coalition down, if people like Mr. Obama who fear that budget-slashing could drive economies like Britain's back into recession prove to be right.
The main hallmark of the coalition's program is a plan to halve the annual budget deficit of $235 billion within five years, and to achieve that by across-the-board cuts in almost all government ministries. All the departments involved have been told to prepare a plan for cuts as high as 40 percent, and some may have to cut much deeper than others to compensate for high-spending ministries like those responsible for the military and for Britain's $290 billion annual welfare outlays, which are unlikely to make even the 25 percent reductions.
The National Health Service, while protected from cuts, has been ordered to shed thousands of jobs. The coalition's plan is to hand real power -- and 70 percent of the health budget -- to general practitioners, who, in the coalition plan, would decide for the first time in the health service's 60-year history what kind of treatment patients would get, and where they would get it.
In a bid to lift some of the poorest standards for literacy and educational achievement in Europe, parents are to gain wider powers to establish so-called academies, independent but publicly financed schools in which head teachers and their staff would be freed from the stifling oversight of local councils and the central education authorities.
A system of legal aid that is one of the world's most expensive would be slashed, with deep cuts in lawyer's fees and cases that could be paid out of the taxpayers' pockets, including divorces. The BBC, financed by $5.3 billion in license fees paid by everyone in Britain with a television set, faces deep cuts as the coalition considers reducing the $220 annual license. Tens of thousands of government workers are likely to lose their jobs, and those who stay are likely to face a two-year wage freeze and potentially sharp pension cutbacks.
In a country with 2.5 million long-term unemployed people, the coalition plans savings of tens of billions of dollars in welfare payments, including radical cuts in the rent the government would pay for subsidized housing. After newspaper accounts telling of immigrant families receiving more than $150,000 a year in taxpayer-paid rent to live in large houses in some of London's most fashionable districts, the coalition has said that it will place a cap of $600 a week on such payments.
A catalog of laws and practices that advocates of civil liberties have deemed intrusive are to be reviewed. These include 28-day detention orders for people suspected of terrorism, a Labour plan for national ID cards, and the wide use by the police and other enforcement agencies of an elaborate network of closed-circuit television cameras.
Weakened and divided by its May election defeat and temporarily rudderless as it awaits the election this fall of a new leader to succeed Mr. Brown, Labour has resolved to halt many of the changes by all means possible. In the short term, that points to a new and prolonged season of labor unrest, particularly by public sector unions.
Beyond that, Labour has said it will work to ensure that the new coalition is a one-term government, doomed to defeat in a popular backlash in the 2015 general election -- and doomed much sooner if strains already showing within the coalition widen to the point of collapse.
Correction: July 30, 2010, Friday
This article has been revised to reflect the following correction: An article on July 21 about David Cameron, Britain's new prime minister, and his austerity measures to slash the national budget, misstated the number of unemployed people in the country. It is 2.5 million, not 8 million. The article also misstated the government portion of the total work force in Britain. It is 21.1 percent, not ''about half.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Prime Minister David Cameron of Britain met President Obama in Washington on Tuesday. A recent chill thawed. (PHOTOGRAPH BY DOUG MILLS/THE NEW YORK TIMES) (A1)
 Prime Minister David Cameron of Britain with Lady Thatcher, one of his Conservative predecessors, in London last month. (PHOTOGRAPH BY SUZANNE PLUNKETT/REUTERS) (A8) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PRIME MINISTERS (91%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); ELECTIONS (89%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (89%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (89%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (89%); BUDGETS (89%); BUDGET CUTS (88%); SCHOOL BUDGETS (86%); CONSERVATISM (78%); LIBERALISM (78%); POLLS & SURVEYS (78%); VOTERS & VOTING (78%); INTERVIEWS (77%); BRITISH PRIME MINISTERS (77%); PUBLIC FINANCE (77%); ECONOMIC POLICY (74%); ECONOMIC NEWS (74%); PRIVATIZATION (74%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (74%); BUDGET DEFICITS (73%); US PRESIDENTS (71%); RECESSION (65%); WORLD WAR II (52%)

PERSON: DAVID CAMERON (94%); BARACK OBAMA (89%)

GEOGRAPHIC: LONDON, ENGLAND (93%) UNITED KINGDOM (94%); UNITED STATES (94%); EUROPE (79%)

LOAD-DATE: July 30, 2010



523 of 785 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 22, 2010
Correction Appended 
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section E; Column 0; Style Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1675 words

HEADLINE: Six Easy Pieces, 31 Challenging Days

BYLINE: By ERIC WILSON

 BODY:
IMAGINE that horrible though all-too-familiar feeling: You are standing before a fully stuffed closet and yet have nothing to wear.
Now, imagine something worse: Your closet contains only six items, and you are restricted to wearing only those six items for an entire month.
Now, if you can bear it, imagine something unspeakable:
No one notices. 
Nearly a month into what amounted to just such a self-inflicted fast of fashion, Stella Brennan, 31, an insurance sales executive from Kenosha, Wis., realized last week that not even her husband, Kelly, a machinist, had yet figured out that she had been wearing the same six items, over and over, since June 21. The sad punch line is that Mr. Brennan is the one who actually does the laundry in the family.
During her experiment -- something called a ''shopping diet,'' actually -- which ended on Wednesday, Ms. Brennan made do with the following: a black blazer and pants from H & M; two button-down shirts, one black and one pink; a pair of Old Navy jeans; and one well-worn pink T-shirt.
How she settled on those items was complicated by the fact that she has two young children, a golden retriever and three cats, and that she was starting a new job last month with an hourlong commute. She said she needed ''six items that are animal-hair-, kid-, food- and wrinkle-resistant. I need these items to be professional, but also work for playing football with my son and tea parties.''
She agonized the longest over the T-shirt -- the button-down shirts and suit separates were for work, but the right T-shirt could be worn casually with jeans or dressed up with the blazer. Her revelation at the end of 31 days, after her husband still had not noticed, even when she wore her floral-printed pajamas to do yard work: ''Obviously, I didn't need all of these clothes.''
This self-imposed exercise in frugality was prompted by a Web challenge called Six Items or Less (sixitemsorless.com). The premise was to go an entire month wearing only six items already found in your closet (not counting shoes, underwear or accessories). Nearly 100 people around the country, and in faraway places like Dubai and Bangalore, India, were also taking part in the regimen, with motives including a way to trim back on spending, an outright rejection of fashion, and a concern that the mass production and global transportation of increasingly cheap clothing was damaging the environment.
Meanwhile, an even stricter program, the Great American Apparel Diet, which began on Sept. 1, has attracted pledges by more than 150 women and two men to abstain from buying for an entire year. (Again, undies don't count.) And next month, Gallery Books will publish a self-help guide, called ''The Shopping Diet,'' by the red-carpet stylist Phillip Bloch. (''Step 1: Admit You're an Overshopper''... ''Step 9: Practice Safe, Responsible Shopping''... ''Step 10: Make the Diet a Way of Life.'')
Though their numbers may be small, and their diets extreme, these self-deniers of fashion are representative, in perhaps a notable way, of a broader reckoning of consumers' spending habits. As the economy begins to improve, shoppers of every income appear to be wrestling with the same questions: Is it safe to go back to our old, pre-recession ways? Or should we? The authors of these diets -- including some fashion marketing and advertising executives, interestingly enough -- seem to think not.
Sally Bjornsen, the founder of the Great American Apparel Diet (thegreatamericanappareldiet.com), said she was prompted to stop buying clothes for a simple reason: ''I was sick and tired of consumerism,'' she said.
Last summer, Ms. Bjornsen, 47, said she was thinking about how years of easy credit had led to overspending on cars, homes and luxury goods. Then, looking in her own closet, she realized that she was part of the problem, she said. For her job, as a representative of commercial photographers in Seattle and before that as a marketing executive at fashion companies like Nike and Nordstrom, she'd spent $5,000 to $10,000 a year on clothes.
''I was buying in an egregious way,'' Ms. Bjornsen said. ''I was just kind of grossed out by the whole thing.''
Independently, the ''six items'' experiment was conceived by two friends, Heidi Hackemer, 31, a strategic business director at the New York advertising agency BBH, and Tamsin Davies, 34, the head of innovation at Fallon London, after an informal discussion about their desires to pare down their wardrobes. The idea snowballed into a creative challenge, Six Items or Less.
The rules were not hard and fast. If a person owned, for example, several similar black blazers -- as Ms. Brennan, the Wisconsin executive, did -- she could count them as one item.
''Our whole thing was not to put a philosophy behind it, and not be too preachy,'' Ms. Hackemer said. The challenge has proved so popular that she said it would be repeated this fall.
Her six items were a black dress, a pair of black jeggings (a jeans-leggings hybrid), a black tank top, a black blazer, a gray skirt and denim shorts. The combinations she came up with were surprisingly diverse enough to get her through the month, ''but once you hit Week 3, you think, You've got to be kidding me.''
Sixers, as Six Items or Less enthusiasts call themselves, have formed something of an online fashion support network, especially when they feel tempted to fall off the wagon.
Ms. Brennan did sound ripe for some kind of fashion intervention. In a recent interview, she spoke of a rack of clothes in the back of her closet that still had the tags on them, and clothes that she has not worn in 15 years but that she cannot stand to part with, and her 72 pairs of ''active'' shoes (meaning those that she actively wears, not the ones still in the boxes), and a closet full of clothes for her 3-year-old daughter, and, lest she forget, a wardrobe of clothes for her dog.
''My daughter doesn't care what she wears, and I'm turning her into a monster,'' Ms. Brennan said. ''We're ruining the next generation of girls with fashion.''
THE dieters' comments reflect the complicated and sometimes confused relationships between consumers and their closets -- which perhaps was to be expected in a nation where women, on average, own seven pairs of jeans but wear only four regularly, according to the September issue of Consumer Reports' ShopSmart magazine. One in four women asked by the magazine said she owned 10 pairs or more.
Still, the month has been grueling. One Sixer from Venice, Calif., confessed online to splurging on T-shirts at a James Perse sample sale. Addy, from Milwaukee, wrote that she had become so bored with her six items ''that I don't even have a desire to get up in the morning,'' and she complained of mood swings.
But others describe a life-changing experience. Sneha Lakshman, 32, a founder of Dig Design, a Web and mobile products company in Bangalore, said by phone that she had decided, ''That's it, I'm going to wear only black from now on.''
Kelli Bauman, 24, a visual communications student from Indianapolis, said she was facing up to her compulsive-shopping habits. She described herself as the type who gets excited about buying cleaning products; a thrice-weekly shopper at Target. ''I feel like I am programmed to want to buy new things,'' she said. ''When my jeans got a hole in them, I wanted to buy new jeans that instant.''
Just look at how far she has come. ''I've only been to Target twice this whole time.'' On one visit, she bought wasp spray and toothpaste for herself, but splurged on gifts for a bride-to-be -- buying for someone else was like a ''gateway drug,'' she said.
Another Sixer, Dean Kakridas, 42, the director of business development at Frog Design, an innovation firm in Austin, Tex., said that he was obsessed with efficiency. ''I kind of question everything,'' he said, including why he was spending 20 minutes every morning figuring out what to wear.
He wanted to identify the clothes that made him happiest and fit his lifestyle. He chose a pair of G-Star jeans, two button-down shirts, two short-sleeve polo shirts and, cleverly, a pair of shorts from Life After Denim that are reversible (one side is solid charcoal; the other is plaid). Speaking like a programmer, he said: ''Anything that removes complexity or cycles from your day is really valuable. I have freed a lot of bandwidth in my head.'' (After three weeks on the program, however, he was quoting Coco Chanel: ''I don't do fashion. I am fashion.'')
The most interesting thing to many of the Sixers was how few people noticed what they were doing. Except, that is, for those who did. Mr. Kakridas said that his wife disapproved.
''My wife jabs at me almost on a daily basis,'' he said. ''She tries to get me to waver from the commitment and get me to cheat. She hid my Febreze from me.''
As with any diet, abstinence is not for everyone.
Of the 150-plus-people who signed up for the Great American Apparel Diet, about half have given up. Ms. Bjornsen's own sister quit after four weeks. And she has herself cheated twice, once when she realized she had forgotten to bring her workout clothes to the gym, a second time when her husband told her that her pajamas looked worn out and gross. Though she said she feels no guilt about those indulgences, Ms. Bjornsen said that she was looking forward to the end of the diet on Aug. 31.
She had thought about ways to make money off the diet, she said, but instead she plans to pass on the management of the Web site to continuing and future participants.
''It's taken about 10 to 20 years to build up the idea that nothing is good unless it is new,'' Ms. Bjornsen said. ''Five years from now, if the diet is still going, it would be interesting to see how that changes.''

CORRECTION-DATE: July 29, 2010, Thursday

 CORRECTION:
This article has been revised to reflect the following correction: An article last Thursday about a fashion movement to wear the same six items for 31 consecutive days misspelled the name of a product used to eliminate odors from fabrics. It is Febreze, not Fabreze.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: MIXOLOGIST: Heidi Hackemer, a founder of Six Items or Less, with the pieces she chose to wear for a month, above, and with some of the outfits assembled from them, right. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY TONY CENICOLA/THE NEW YORK TIMES) (E1)
CASUAL: Sneha Lakshman of Bangalore, India, chose a variety of tops. Accessories like the hat were ''freebies.'' (PHOTOGRAPHS BY NAMAS BHOJANI FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES)
TWO IN ONE: Dean Kakridas of Austin, Tex., shows off three of his choices at a San Diego hotel. These reversible shorts cleverly expanded his options. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY SANDY HUFFAKER FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES)
 ROOM TO MOVE: Tamsin Davies of London, a founder of Six Items or Less, included a sexy black dress in her month long ''diet'' choices. She said she found the experience liberating. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY ANDREW TESTA FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) (E6) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MEN'S CLOTHING (76%); DOGS (65%); CATS (65%); CHILDREN (51%)

GEOGRAPHIC: AUSTIN, TX, USA (70%) WISCONSIN, USA (77%); TEXAS, USA (74%); KARNATAKA, INDIA (66%) INDIA (90%); UNITED STATES (77%)

LOAD-DATE: July 29, 2010



524 of 785 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 22, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 823 words

HEADLINE: A Business Built of Kewpie Dolls Is Struggling to Survive

BYLINE: By JULIE CRESWELL

 BODY:
For most of the 78 years since its founding in Omaha, the Oriental Trading Company has been the life of the party.
In the market for hibiscus hula skirts ($5.99 apiece)? Ring-shaped shot glasses ($4.99 a dozen)? Perhaps neon vampire teeth ($7.99 a gross)?
All that and more can be found inside the Oriental Trading catalog, a dizzying compendium of enough plastic doodads and cheap whatsits to satisfy the sugared-up 6-year-old in anyone. 
Only now, the company's business seems to be deflating faster than a cow print latex balloon ($9.95 for 25). Oriental Trading is struggling to pay its creditors after being sold for $1 billion in 2006 to the Carlyle Group, a big private investment firm with long, deep ties to Washington power brokers.
It is just the latest setback for the venerable Oriental Trading, which made headlines last year when the son of its founder lost nearly $189 million in a single year on the game tables of Las Vegas.
The company missed an interest payment in late May on part of its $640 million in bank loans. It is currently in talks with its lenders to fix its tilting finances. Oriental Trading, which mails out 300 million catalogs annually, has been hit hard by rising postal costs.
But the company, with annual revenue of about $485 million, has also struggled to shoulder the mountain of debt stemming from its leveraged buyout by Carlyle, whose private equity empire includes brand names like Hertz, AMC Entertainment, Dunkin' Donuts and Baskin-Robbins.
Carlyle bought Oriental Trading from another private equity firm in a deal valued at $1 billion in the midst of the biggest buyout boom in history.
Critics contend that private equity firms sometimes saddle the companies they buy with dangerous levels of debt. So far, however, these investment firms have proven to be extremely astute at shepherding their companies through the recession. Many have negotiated with lenders to delay loan payments or ease the terms on their companies' debts.
''The banks continue to try to work and do what they can with troubled borrowers,'' said Scott Tuhy, an analyst with Moody's Investors Service, which downgraded Oriental Trading's debt earlier this month. ''It seems they would rather avoid a bankruptcy filing in many of these cases.''
Among the possible outcomes is that Oriental Trading could be sold to another firm, it could declare bankruptcy or the banks could take it over, wiping out the investment made by Carlyle.
''This investment didn't work out the way we expected, but our overall portfolio is in very good shape,'' Christopher Ullman, a spokesman for Carlyle, said in a statement. He declined to make any further statements because of current negotiations.
Oriental Trading traces its history back to the Great Depression, when Harry Watanabe, a Japanese immigrant, bought a gift shop in Omaha. He built the business one Kewpie doll at a time, selling his cheap imports to traveling carnivals from a trailer hooked up to the family car, according to an article in Forbes magazine.
Later, his son, Terry, took over the business and increased sales by shipping catalogs to church groups, schools and the offices of pediatricians.
In January 2000, Brentwood Associates, a Los Angeles private equity firm, took a stake in Oriental Trading for an undisclosed amount. Six years later, Carlyle swooped in.
Terry Watanabe, who has not had any investment in Oriental Trading since 2006, has struggled in recent years. He claimed that Harrah's Entertainment had provided him with prescription pain medication and alcohol that he claims fueled his gambling spree.
This month, local prosecutors in Las Vegas dropped criminal charges against Mr. Watanabe for the debt he owes the casino. Harrah's and Mr. Watanabe agreed to dismiss their civil lawsuits and enter arbitration. A spokesman for Mr. Watanabe declined to comment on the case.
Sales declined at Oriental Trading, which had 30 consecutive years of revenue growth before it was acquired by Carlyle, when consumers sharply curbed their spending in 2008. Meanwhile, postal rates soared by 20 percent, causing the company to reduce the number of catalogs it mailed.
''They slowed down some of the mailings to save money, but that meant fewer customers received catalogs and fewer placed orders,'' said Mr. Tuhy of Moody's.
In an e-mailed statement, a spokesman for Oriental Trading said: ''Despite a challenging economic environment the past two years, Oriental Trading Company has stabilized its revenues over the past six months.''
Early last year, Oriental Trading negotiated waivers on the terms of some of its loans with the banks after it became clear the company was going to breach them. But those waivers will expire in mid-August, and cash on its books had fallen to just $5.7 million in early April from $17.4 million earlier in the year, according to analysts at Standard & Poor's.
''They are burning through cash,'' said Mariola Borysiak, an analyst with S.& P.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PRIVATE EQUITY (89%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (88%); BUYINS & BUYOUTS (88%); LEVERAGED BUYOUTS (88%); CORPORATE DEBT (78%); BUSINESS INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (78%); CREDIT BUREAUS (74%); FINANCIAL RATINGS (71%); FINANCIAL RATING DOWNGRADES (64%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (63%); GREAT DEPRESSION (61%)

COMPANY: ORIENTAL TRADING CO (94%); DUNKIN' BRANDS GROUP INC (82%); MOODY'S INVESTORS SERVICE LTD (63%); CARLYLE GROUP LP (56%)

TICKER: DNKN (NASDAQ) (82%); CG (NASDAQ) (56%)

INDUSTRY: SIC5063 ELECTRICAL APPARATUS & EQUIPMENT (94%); NAICS722515 SNACK & NONALCOHOLIC BEVERAGE BARS (82%); SIC5812 EATING PLACES (82%); NAICS551112 OFFICES OF OTHER HOLDING COMPANIES (56%); SIC6799 INVESTORS, NEC (56%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: July 22, 2010



525 of 785 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 22, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Personal Tech; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 732 words

HEADLINE: I.B.M. Unveils a New Generation of Mainframes

BYLINE: By STEVE LOHR

 BODY:
The mainframe business is to I.B.M. what manufacturing is to the American economy, a shrinking but strategically vital part of the franchise.
With the introduction of a new generation of mainframes on Thursday, I.B.M. is trying to tighten its grip on corporate and government data centers. The new machines are faster, more powerful and more energy efficient. But the most significant change, analysts say, is that other kinds of computers can now be plugged into the mainframe to manage a data center almost as if it were a single computer.
The new machines, some customers say, are the most significant change in mainframe design in a decade or more. 
The mainframe move by I.B.M. is part of the intensifying battle in the market for large computers, including ones running the Unix operating system.
In the market for Unix-based machines, I.B.M. and Hewlett-Packard are trying to grab business from Oracle, which completed its acquisition of Sun Microsystems this year. Sun had been losing share in the last few years, and rivals are trying to exploit the uncertainty surrounding Oracle's plans for Sun, said Matthew Eastwood, an analyst at IDC, a firm that researches technology.
As the economy gradually recovers, companies have renewed spending on smaller data center computers, so-called industry standard machines, powered by personal computer-style microprocessors made by Intel and Advanced Micro Devices.
Intel reported a sharp rebound last week in sales of chips for server computers, and I.B.M. this week said its sales of industry standard servers rose 30 percent in the second quarter.
To date, corporate customers have not yet revived spending on bigger machines, mainframes and Unix-based servers. But analysts expect that to change in the second half of this year, helped by new products, like the I.B.M. mainframe models.
I.B.M. stands alone in the mainframe market, after competitors dropped out years ago, including Amdahl, Fujitsu and Hitachi. So to some degree, new models compete against the previous I.B.M. models. The company says the new Z series mainframe runs more than 40 percent faster than its predecessor and is up to 90 percent more energy efficient.
Conserving space and energy is important to many corporations, as they try to increase their computing capabilities without having to add to their real estate or their electricity bills.
Martin Kennedy, a managing director at Citigroup, is adopting the compact new mainframe and estimates that it will consume 60 percent less energy than its predecessor. Citigroup also plans to opt for a water-cooled model, which should trim power consumption by a further 12 percent. ''That was compelling to us,'' Mr. Kennedy said.
The ability to plug other computers into the mainframe and manage hardware and software applications, customers say, is appealing. In theory, they say, that should make it possible to extend mainframe strengths in security and always-on availability to other systems.
In addition, customers say, the new design is intended to make it possible to blend tasks, parceling out various parts of a complex application to different computer systems, more efficiently than in the past. For example, a bank might want to track A.T.M. transactions for fraud in real-time. The A.T.M. customer data is held on the mainframe, which also handles banking transactions. But the pattern analysis for fraud is best done on a Unix machine.
Being able to plug a Unix machine into the new mainframe should make doing such complex applications easier and less expensive, said Niels Simanis, a senior technology manager at Danske Bank, a large bank based in Denmark.
The new mainframe design, said Rodney C. Adkins, an I.B.M. senior vice president, is mainly ''about data center integration, being able to treat the data center as a single system.''
Having the mainframe act as the brainy control point for data centers, analysts note, would also tend to lock customers further into I.B.M.'s technology. And a healthy mainframe business is important to the company's strategy. The machines alone generate yearly sales estimated at $3 billion, about 3 percent of the company's revenue.
But all mainframe-related business, including storage, software, financing and services, accounts for more than 20 percent of I.B.M.'s revenue and more than 40 percent of its profits, according to A. M. Sacconaghi, an analyst at Bernstein Research.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: An I.B.M. engineer, Joseph Corrado, working with a test unit of the new Z series mainframe. (PHOTOGRAPH BY I.B.M.) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MAINFRAME COMPUTERS (93%); SEMICONDUCTOR MFG (90%); COMPUTER EQUIPMENT (90%); COMPUTING & IT TRADE (89%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (89%); ENERGY EFFICIENCY & CONSERVATION (89%); NETWORK SERVERS (89%); NEW PRODUCTS (78%); ELECTRICITY TRANSMISSION & DISTRIBUTION (78%); MARKET SHARE (78%); ELECTRIC POWER INDUSTRY (78%); ENERGY CONSUMPTION (76%); PERSONAL COMPUTERS (76%); COMPUTER CHIPS (76%); BUSINESS FORECASTS (76%); NATURAL GAS & ELECTRIC UTILITIES (76%); COMPUTER OPERATING SYSTEMS (76%); COMPUTER SOFTWARE (73%); MICROPROCESSORS (70%)

COMPANY: ORACLE CORP (73%); FUJITSU LTD (72%); ORACLE AMERICA INC (56%); HEWLETT-PACKARD CO (56%); CITIGROUP INC (56%); INTEL CORP (55%); ADVANCED MICRO DEVICES INC (54%)

TICKER: ORCL (NASDAQ) (73%); FUJ (LSE) (72%); 6702 (TSE) (72%); HPQ (NYSE) (56%); C (NYSE) (56%); C (BMV) (56%); 8710 (TSE) (56%); INTC (NASDAQ) (55%); AMD (NYSE) (54%); AMD (FRA) (54%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS541512 COMPUTER SYSTEMS DESIGN SERVICES (73%); NAICS541511 CUSTOM COMPUTER PROGRAMMING SERVICES (73%); NAICS511210 SOFTWARE PUBLISHERS (73%); SIC7379 COMPUTER RELATED SERVICES, NEC (73%); SIC7372 PREPACKAGED SOFTWARE (73%); SIC7371 COMPUTER PROGRAMMING SERVICES (73%); NAICS334118 COMPUTER TERMINAL & OTHER COMPUTER PERIPHERAL EQUIPMENT MANUFACTURING (72%); NAICS334111 ELECTRONIC COMPUTER MANUFACTURING (56%); SIC7373 COMPUTER INTEGRATED SYSTEMS DESIGN (56%); SIC5045 COMPUTERS & COMPUTER PERIPHERAL EQUIPMENT & SOFTWARE (56%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (56%); NAICS522210 CREDIT CARD ISSUING (56%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (56%); NAICS334413 SEMICONDUCTOR & RELATED DEVICE MANUFACTURING (55%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: July 22, 2010



526 of 785 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 22, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; OP-ED COLUMNIST; Pg. 27

LENGTH: 770 words

HEADLINE: Don't Write Off Men Just Yet

BYLINE: By NICHOLAS D. KRISTOF

 BODY:
The yang of America's labor force is this: over a 40-year career, a man earns $431,000 more than a woman on average, according to the Center for American Progress.
The yin of America's labor force is this: in this decade, for the first time in American history, men no longer inevitably dominate the labor force. Women were actually the majority of payroll employees for the five months that ended in March, according to one measure from the federal Bureau of Labor Statistics. That's mostly because about three-quarters of Americans who lost their jobs in the Great Recession were men.
Now men again fill a slight majority of payroll jobs because they are more likely to work in summer jobs such as construction. America may now teeter back and forth, with men predominant in the summers and women in the winters. 
With women making far-reaching gains, there's a larger question. Are women simply better-suited than men to today's jobs? The Atlantic raised this issue provocatively in this month's issue with a cover story by Hanna Rosin bluntly entitled, ''The End of Men.''
''What if the modern, postindustrial economy is simply more congenial to women than to men?'' Ms. Rosin asked. She adds: ''The postindustrial economy is indifferent to men's size and strength. The attributes that are most valuable today -- social intelligence, open communication, the ability to sit still and focus -- are, at a minimum, not predominately male. In fact, the opposite may be true.''
It's a fair question, and others also have been wondering aloud if a new age of femininity is dawning. After all, Ms. Rosin notes that Americans who use high-tech biology to try to pick a baby's sex seek a girl more often than a boy. And women now make up 51 percent of professional and managerial positions in America, up from 26 percent in 1980.
It's also true that while men still dominate the American power elite, they also dominate the bottom rungs of the ladder. By some counts, America's prisoners are 90 percent male, and most estimates are that homeless people are disproportionately male.
If school performance predicts career success, then women may do even better a few decades from now, for girls clearly excel in school as never before. The National Honor Society, for top high school students, says that 64 percent of its members are girls. The Center on Education Policy cites data showing that boys lag girls in reading in every American state.
Yet count me a skeptic. My hunch is that we're moving into greater gender balance, not a fundamentally new imbalance in the other direction. Don't hold your breath for ''the end of men.''
One reason is that women's gains still have a catch-up quality to them. Catch-up is easier than forging ahead.
Moreover, the differences in educational performance are real but modest. In math, boys and girls are about equal. In verbal skills, 79 percent of elementary schoolgirls can read at a level deemed proficient, compared with 72 percent of boys, according to the Center on Education Policy.
At the very top, boys more than hold their own: 62 percent of kids who earn perfect 2,400 scores on the S.A.T. are boys.
Some education experts, like Richard Whitmire, author of ''Why Boys Fail,'' argue that the success of girls has to do in part with how schools teach children. Tweaking curriculums by exposing kids to more books full of explosions might lead boys to do better in reading -- and if boys continue to lag, there'll be more of a push for boy-friendly initiatives.
I think we exaggerate the degree to which the sexes are mired in conflict. As Henry Kissinger once said, ''Nobody will ever win the battle of the sexes. There's too much fraternizing with the enemy.'' We men want our wives and daughters to encounter opportunity in the workplace, not sexual harassment; women want their husbands and sons to be in the executive suite, not jail. Nearly all of us root for fairness, not for our own sex.
The truth is that we men have typically benefited as women have gained greater equality. Those men who have lost their jobs in the recession are now more likely to have a wife who still has a job and can keep up the mortgage payments. And women have been particularly prominent in the social sector, devising new programs for the mostly male ranks of the jobless or homeless.
So forget about gender war and zero-sum games. Odds are that we men will find a way to hold our own, with the help of women. And we'll benefit as smart and talented women belatedly have the opportunity to deploy their skills on behalf of all of humanity -- including those of us with Y chromosomes.
Gail Collins is off today.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LABOR FORCE (91%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); EMPLOYMENT (89%); LABOR SECTOR PERFORMANCE (78%); RECESSION (78%); ECONOMIC NEWS (78%); SCHOOL PERFORMANCE (77%); STATISTICS (77%); LABOR DEPARTMENTS (73%); LAYOFFS (73%); DISMISSALS (71%); HISTORY (71%); INTELLIGENCE & COGNITION (70%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (67%); STUDENT HONOR SOCIETIES (60%); HIGH SCHOOLS (60%); HOMELESSNESS (50%)

ORGANIZATION: BUREAU OF LABOR STATISTICS (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (99%)

LOAD-DATE: July 22, 2010



527 of 785 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 22, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 24

LENGTH: 589 words

HEADLINE: Trial Focuses on Iran Ties Of Kennedy Plot Suspect

BYLINE: By A. G. SULZBERGER

 BODY:
The trial of two men accused of plotting to attack Kennedy International Airport took an unexpected twist on Wednesday when prosecutors suggested that one of the men, a former government official in Guyana, had spied on behalf of the Iranian government.
The former government official, Abdul Kadir, admitted under cross-examination that in the mid-1980s he drafted reports about Guyana's economy, foreign policy and military for the Iranian ambassador to Venezuela, which included details like the low morale in the army. The hand-written documents included a ''five-year development plan'' that made reference to infiltrating the military, police and other government agencies. 
Mr. Kadir, testifying in United States District Court in Brooklyn for the second straight day, appeared surprised by the direction of the questioning. He initially denied having been in contact with Iranian officials, but admitted to it after being confronted with the material he had written. Nevertheless he said he was not a spy, insisting he was focused instead on promoting Islam and that the letters he sent included no state secrets but information freely available in the newspapers.
''Is it fair to say you're a spy for the Iranian government?'' asked Marshall L. Miller, the lead federal prosecutor on the case.
''No sir,'' replied Mr. Kadir, a Muslim convert who was mayor of the second-largest city in Guyana before serving in Parliament.
Though he was adamant that he was not working for the Iranian government, his ties to Iran run deep, and he admitted that he had continued to correspond with Iranian officials. He traveled to Iran twice and sent several of his children there to receive religious training. Prosecutors noted that he had repeatedly communicated with Mohsen Rabbani, an Iranian diplomat who was accused of directing a deadly terrorist attack on a Jewish center in Argentina.
Mr. Kadir was en route to Iran when he was arrested three years ago, carrying a computer drive with photos of him and his children posing with guns, which prosecutors suggested he would use to demonstrate his ability to stage an attack. He said he was celebrating the anniversary of the death of Ayatollah Khomeini and that the guns in the photos were just toys. ''My relationship with Iran is that Iran is a center of religious learning,'' he said.
The revelations of the surprising depth of the connections prompted questions about the decision to allow Mr. Kadir to testify. Until Wednesday, he had appeared to be a secondary figure, with most of the focus on his co-defendant Russell Defreitas, accused as the mastermind of the plot to blow up the fuel tanks at Kennedy Airport, where he used to work as a cargo handler.
Closing arguments are scheduled for Monday.
''Now this has become a case in which Defreitas is a footnote,'' said Karen J. Greenberg, the executive director of the Center on Law and Security at New York University, who has been watching the testimony. ''This is the story prosecutors have been trying to tell for years.''
Mr. Kadir strongly denied wanting to involve himself in a terrorist plot that he says was unexpectedly broached by Mr. Defreitas. But pressed repeatedly to explain why he never rejected the plan, he offered a host of reasons, including his hope that they would financially support his mosque, his expectation that they could be rehabilitated and his belief in hospitality.
''As Muslims, I think it would be un-Islamic to tell them to get out of my house if they came to me with an idea I didn't agree with,'' he said.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Abdul Kadir, on trial over a plot against Kennedy Airport. (PHOTOGRAPH BY ANDRES LEIGHTON/ASSOCIATED PRESS) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (90%); MUSLIMS & ISLAM (90%); TESTIMONY (90%); TERRORIST ATTACKS (89%); RELIGION (89%); ADMISSIONS & CONFESSIONS (78%); EMBASSIES & CONSULATES (78%); AIRPORTS (78%); CROSS EXAMINATIONS (78%); WITNESSES (78%); FOREIGN RELATIONS (78%); ARMED FORCES (76%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (76%); TERRORISM (73%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (73%); CITY GOVERNMENT (73%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (73%); ARRESTS (73%); FOREIGN POLICY (71%); ANNIVERSARIES (60%)

GEOGRAPHIC: GUYANA (94%); IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (94%); VENEZUELA, BOLIVARIAN REPUBLIC OF (92%); ARGENTINA (79%); UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: July 22, 2010



528 of 785 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 22, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section E; Column 0; Style Desk; SKIN DEEP; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 1059 words

HEADLINE: Seeking to Shine (Not to Be Shiny)

BYLINE: By ANDREW ADAM NEWMAN

 BODY:
THE term ''mattifying'' is popping up a lot these days in beauty magazines and skin care aisles. You won't find it in the dictionary, but most women seem to know that it refers to a product's ability to reduce the appearance of oiliness on the face, which is a particular problem in summer.
Now men are being introduced to the concept of mattification, with new products that are meant to be patted on their heads and faces. Men, it turns out, don't like that shiny look, either.
''Sometimes I'll be talking on the phone with my hand resting on my face, and then I'll have all this oiliness on my hand,'' said Karl Gerstheimer, 42, a lawyer in Windsor, Ontario. ''I don't want to look like Mr. Oily Face.'' 
A few years ago, Mr. Gerstheimer could not find men's skin care products that addressed the issue, but now he has plenty of choices. So far his favorite is Oil Free Moisturizer by Baxter of California, which promises a ''shine-free matte finish.''
''When I was trying other moisturizers, I was finding that sometimes by midmorning that I would have that visibly oily skin,'' Mr. Gerstheimer said. ''But now I find I don't have that problem.''
Although many men prefer not to use moisturizer -- or, at least, prefer not to admit that they do -- enough have embraced anti-shine products to make the category blossom. Mintel, the market research firm, predicts that there will be 36 new ''mattifying moisturizers'' for men in 2010, a 56 percent increase over the number introduced in 2008.
The overall market for men's grooming products has flourished. Retail sales reached $5.6 billion in 2009, up from $3.8 billion in 2004, an increase of 46 percent, according to Packaged Facts, a market research firm.
Depending on how you look at it, men have either been buying beauty products despite the bad economy or perhaps because of it, since looking good may provide an edge in the job market and the workplace.
''If your face is oily and sweaty, it looks like you're not in the control of the situation,'' said Jason Chen, grooming editor at GQ. ''Men are not going to powder their faces or walk around with those oil-blotting tissues that women carry, but a mattifying moisturizer is something you can just slap on in the morning. It's sort of a way for men to have makeup without having makeup.''
When Lee Jacobs, who was married on a beach in Santa Barbara, Calif., in 2003, first saw his wedding photographs, he was mortified.
''My face was shiny in the pictures,'' said Mr. Jacobs, 47, who at the time was a marketing manager at Kao Brands, which makes personal-care brands like Jergens.
When Mr. Jacobs looked for men's products that addressed shine, he found none, and decided to design his own line, Matte for Men. In 2007, he introduced his first product, Complete Face and Head Care Lotion, with oil-absorbing ingredients, like oats, that are intended to reduce glare on shaved scalps, too. Today the line includes a shave gel, face wash and cleaning cloths.
One customer is Josh Waggoner, 34, a real estate agent in Tucson, who often shows houses when the temperature is well over 100 degrees. He used to keep a roll of paper towels in his car to blot his perspiration-and-oil sheen, but now he uses the original lotion from Matte for Men.
''I didn't seek the product out because I thought it was going to help me close more deals, but you really do feel better dealing with customers when your face isn't all greasy looking,'' Mr. Waggoner said.
Mattifying agents are widely used in women's makeup, but rarely are they added to products for men. Many men's moisturizers advertise themselves as oil-free, but only recently has there been much selection in products that don't just leave out the oil, but also add ingredients like clay to absorb secretions and control shine.
Some men have started recognizing oily skin as a problem worthy of a trip to the doctor. Dr. Ranella Hirsch, a dermatologist in Cambridge, Mass., said that she sees far more men than she used to and often recommends mattifying moisturizers to them, inexpensive unscented brands available in drugstores.
''With shine in particular, it's a subject that men have only recently felt comfortable talking about,'' she said. Now, patients tell her they worry that their glistening faces might put them ''at a competitive disadvantage.''
Men's skin tends to be thicker than women's and to contain more glands that produce sebum, the medical term for oil. Testosterone can activate those glands, said Dr. Kenneth Beer, a dermatologist in West Palm Beach, Fla. So when male patients complain about oily skin, one of the first questions he asks is whether, for either bodybuilding or anti-aging purposes, they are taking anabolic steroids, which mimic testosterone.
''A lot of men -- and some women -- are using anabolic steroids, and that really whips the oil glands into overdrive,'' Dr. Beer said. ''We're seeing more men come in with that than we used to, and we try to tell them to back off the testosterone.''
Men can be a tough sell, said Patricia Finn, director of marketing for Jack Black, a men's brand that recently introduced a product called All Day Oil-Control Lotion. Men tend to be skeptical of so-called beauty products, and want visible proof that something works, she said.
''Our product specialist will do a half-face test and show them their image in the mirror, and that's when a guy will see what a mattifying product will do for him,'' Ms. Finn said. ''When guys can see that difference, they're hooked.''
Mr. Gerstheimer, the lawyer in Canada, has a comprehensive mattifying regimen. At home, he uses a clay mask made by Anthony Logistics for Men and an after-shave and toner by Kiehl's called Blue Astringent Herbal Lotion. At work, he tucks Matte for Men Complete Cleansing Cloths in his desk drawer.
His wife teases him about these habits, as does his brother-in-law -- who then asks if he has any products that he can spare, he said.
''Since I turned 40, I don't really care what people think,'' said Mr. Gerstheimer, who also uses anti-aging creams. ''I have to live with my face, so I'm going to do what I need to take care of it, because I want to look good when I'm 50 or 60.''
In that case, he is lucky that his skin is on the oily side, according to Dr. Beer.
''A consolation for people with oily skin is that they tend to age better and not wrinkle as much,'' he said.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: OH, DEAR: Lee Jacobs, above, at his wedding. He now makes matte skin products for men. (PHOTOGRAPH BY, LEFT, JOSHUA LOTT FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES)
 CHOICES: Products for men that reduce skin oil are proliferating. (PHOTOGRAPH BY TONY CENICOLA/THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: COSMETICS & TOILETRIES (90%); SKIN CARE PRODUCTS (90%); MEN (89%); COSMETICS (77%); MEN'S MARKET (76%); NEW PRODUCTS (71%); MARKET RESEARCH FIRMS (68%); MARKET RESEARCH (68%); MARKET RESEARCH & ANALYSIS (68%); EMPLOYMENT (60%); RETAIL SALES (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: SANTA BARBARA, CA, USA (55%) CALIFORNIA, USA (90%); ONTARIO, CANADA (56%) UNITED STATES (90%); CANADA (56%)

LOAD-DATE: July 22, 2010



529 of 785 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 22, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; NEWS ANALYSIS; Pg. 20

LENGTH: 1132 words

HEADLINE: For Christie, A Bold Move On 2 Fronts Carries Risks

BYLINE: By RICHARD PEREZ-PENA; Ken Belson contributed reporting.

 BODY:
EAST RUTHERFORD, N.J. -- Gov. Chris Christie on Wednesday called for a daring approach to a long-festering set of problems, with thousands of jobs and millions in state revenue at stake: a state takeover of Atlantic City's withering casino district and a retreat from the government's longtime role in running sports sites.
But with the audacity come risks, practical and political. Mr. Christie aims to stem the downward slide of the casinos and the neighborhoods around them, but it is not clear that he can overcome the fast-growing competition and other market forces. A commission convened by the governor wrote that ''it is reasonable to ask if Atlantic City gaming is savable.''
Mr. Christie's proposal to privatize the money-losing Izod Center and the Meadowlands Racetrack here could lead them to go out of business. The governor committed the state to helping salvage the huge, stalled Xanadu development project nearby, knowing that it might ultimately be forced to foreclose. 
''It is bold and it is risky,'' Mr. Christie, standing at the 50-yard line of the New Meadowlands Stadium, said of the 29-page plan, drafted by the commission, which he appointed in January. But, he added, ''we can't continue as a state, given the fiscal situation that we're in, to continue to subsidize losing efforts anywhere.''
The most radical step in Mr. Christie's plan concerns Atlantic City, which emerged as a resort town in the late 19th century, as train lines supplied a steady stream of people seeking escape from the crowding and heat of Philadelphia, Newark and New York. It reached its heyday in the early 20th century, after the construction of a string of grand hotels, and its population peaked in 1930 at more than 66,000, far more than the current 40,000.
The city went into decline after World War II, as growing car ownership made day trips to other destinations easy and air travel enticed affluent people to travel farther for their vacations. The arrival of casinos in 1978 lifted the city's economy and image, but residents have long complained that too few of the benefits trickle down to what remains a largely poor city.
The advent of gambling at racetracks and other sites in Connecticut, Delaware, New York and Pennsylvania in recent years poses the most severe threat to Atlantic City in generations. This year, Atlantic City casino revenue is down almost 30 percent from the same period in 2006, and the casinos have shed about 12,000 jobs since then. In the first quarter of this year, 7 of the 11 casinos posted operating losses.
The decline has been felt far beyond the Boardwalk; the casino industry pumps nearly $1 billion in taxes into state and local governments each year. Mr. Christie is proposing to create an agency to take over an array of functions from the Atlantic City government and other bodies: reducing crime, promoting the area to tourists and helping finance new development.
While the new agency would include representatives of local government and the casino industry, it would give the state a strong hand where Mr. Christie said local government had failed.
The governor's plan reveals the internal tug of war between his stance as a small-government conservative Republican in favor of privatization and his instincts as a pragmatic politician who has been more than willing to flex his muscles.
''I'm not somebody who goes to the idea of state takeovers of anything lightly,'' Mr. Christie said. But he added that the unprecedented intervention was the only hope for making Atlantic City safer and, in turn, attracting investment in new casinos, conventions and other forms of entertainment.
''Atlantic City is dying,'' he said. ''If anybody's got a better idea, come forward with it.''
Thus Mr. Christie demonstrated once again his willingness to reach for big goals and break some furniture along the way, and to push the state deep into what have traditionally been matters for local government. The proposal will also test his ability to propel his agenda through the Democrats who control the Legislature; they reacted warily to the plan.
Some Democrats complained that Mr. Christie's announcement was designed to take the air out of the gambling ''summit'' that the Legislature plans to hold in Atlantic City on Aug. 5. And his plan to involve the state more heavily in Atlantic City, while withdrawing from the Meadowlands, met with resistance along predictable regional lines.
''Those proposals are of grave concern to legislators who represent the northern region of the state,'' said the Assembly speaker, Sheila Y. Oliver, Democrat of Essex County. Ms. Oliver said the state should instead explore introducing gambling to the Meadowlands, an idea that South Jersey lawmakers say would be deadly to Atlantic City.
Stephen M. Sweeney, the Senate president, said the governor's plan was less than met the eye.
''He wants to attract the best casino operators?'' Mr. Sweeney said. ''We already have most of them. More nongambling attractions? Yeah, we knew that. Anybody can figure out you need to do something about crime and clean the streets.''
Mr. Sweeney said the best hope of aiding Atlantic City would be to overturn a federal law that limits casino sports betting to Nevada, an idea the governor did not take up.
At the Meadowlands complex, the Izod Center has lost what were once its two major tenants, the Devils hockey team, in 2007, and the Nets basketball team, this year. Meadowlands Racetrack does a dwindling business. The Sports and Exposition Authority, which operates both sites and a few others, loses $30 million a year.
The governor's plan calls for selling or leasing the Izod Center and the racetrack to private operators, but it is not clear that any would step forward.
Some $2 billion in public and private money has already been spent on Xanadu, a retail and entertainment complex near the sports arenas. But after ownership changes, cost overruns, recession and years of delay, the state says $875 million is still needed to finish it.
Rather than abandon the project, Mr. Christie endorsed the idea of using some state financing to help complete it, but he said that most of the money must come from private sources. His commission's report said that if work did not proceed, the state should aggressively defend its rights, ''including possible foreclosure and damages.''
Six months into his governorship, Mr. Christie in his speech on Wednesday took on several of the state's longest-running and most intractable challenges. Now, any failures could become his.
''Atlantic City, Xanadu -- these are big things that he can't just wipe his hands and walk away from,'' said Patrick Murray, the director of the Monmouth University Polling Institute. ''He's taking a political risk, but he has to, and I think it's a calculated one.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Gov. Chris Christie on the Atlantic City Boardwalk on Wednesday announcing a plan for a state takeover of the casino district. (PHOTOGRAPH BY COLIN ARCHER/AGENCY NEW JERSEY FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) (A24) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News Analysis

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: GOVERNORS (90%); SPORTS & RECREATION FACILITIES & VENUES (89%); CASINOS (89%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (78%); DESTINATIONS & ATTRACTIONS (77%); HOTELS & MOTELS (77%); STADIUMS & ARENAS (76%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (72%); PRIVATIZATION (72%); AFFLUENT MARKET (70%); COMPANY LOSSES (68%); WORLD WAR II (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: ATLANTIC CITY, NJ, USA (94%); NEWARK, NJ, USA (78%); PHILADELPHIA, PA, USA (73%) NEW JERSEY, USA (94%); NEW YORK, USA (92%); DELAWARE, USA (79%); CONNECTICUT, USA (79%); PENNSYLVANIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: July 22, 2010



530 of 785 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 22, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 18

LENGTH: 406 words

HEADLINE: Oakland, Seeking Financial Lift, Approves Giant Marijuana Farms

BYLINE: By MALIA WOLLAN

 BODY:
OAKLAND, Calif. -- This city, which has been at the vanguard of medical marijuana legalization on everything from taxation to trade schools to the unionization of marijuana workers, voted Tuesday to permit industrial-size marijuana farms. 
After hours of public testimony, the City Council voted 5 to 2 to permit large-scale indoor marijuana plantations. The struggling city, which faces a $31 million deficit and has a 17 percent unemployment rate, estimates that the marijuana factories could bring in as much as $38 million annually in fees and taxes.
''As the industry continues to emerge and grow, we know that other cities are looking at this,'' said Councilwoman Rebecca Kaplan, who is running for mayor. ''It's important for Oakland to be a vital part of the growth and development of licensed facilities.''
While the city has been one of the most welcoming in the state to medical marijuana purveyors, how the drug is grown has been largely unregulated. Oakland's new law, which requires a final vote from the City Council next week, would bring large-scale marijuana cultivators above ground, mandating that they pay a $211,000 annual fee, provide security, conduct criminal background checks on employees, install camera surveillance and fire-safe electrical systems, and buy insurance.
If the plan receives final approval, the city would begin issuing large-scale production permits in January.
Last year, the city's four licensed medical marijuana dispensaries sold some 6,000 pounds of marijuana worth $28 million and requiring approximately 45,000 square feet of space to grow. City officials estimate that farmers in the new facilities could produce 70,000 pounds a year.
If California voters approve a statewide ballot measure in November legalizing recreational marijuana use for adults, the city would be well positioned to capitalize on the new market.
During the raucous Tuesday meeting -- marked by hissing, booing and applause -- the council heard testimony from marijuana farmers, including small-scale cultivators who grow their crops in closets and those intending to create marijuana farms larger than football fields.
Nearly all the speakers urged the council to act quickly and to expand the permitting process to include medium-size farmers.
''You want to be the Silicon Valley of cannabis?'' asked Jeff Wilcox, who is seeking a permit for a business park for medical marijuana cultivation. ''You've got to start now.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: At an Oakland City Council hearing, most audience members spoke in favor of a proposal to allow medical marijuana farms. Among the audience members was Steve DeAngelo, left, owner of a marijuana dispensary. (PHOTOGRAPH BY JIM WILSON/THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CANNABIS (92%); CITY GOVERNMENT (91%); HERBAL MEDICINE (90%); DECRIMINALIZATION (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); CONTROLLED SUBSTANCES CRIME (90%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (90%); CITIES (90%); TAXES & TAXATION (90%); MEDICAL MARIJUANA (90%); DRUG LIBERALIZATION (89%); APPROVALS (86%); LABOR UNIONS (78%); LEGISLATION (77%); MAYORS (77%); SUBSTANCE ABUSE (73%); SPORTS & RECREATION FACILITIES & VENUES (73%); REFERENDUMS (72%); BALLOTS (72%); BACKGROUND CHECKS (66%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (56%)

GEOGRAPHIC: SAN FRANCISCO BAY AREA, CA, USA (93%); OAKLAND, CA, USA (92%) CALIFORNIA, USA (93%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: July 22, 2010



531 of 785 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 22, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; POLITICAL TIMES; Pg. 18

LENGTH: 1112 words

HEADLINE: Choice, Referendum and Midterm Elections' Real Meaning

BYLINE: By MATT BAI

 BODY:
WASHINGTON -- So is it a choice, or is it a referendum? According to strategists in both parties and an army of Washington commentators, this is the operative question in November's Congressional elections.
Democrats, of course, are hoping they can make voters see the elections as a choice between two parties -- one that offers a workable agenda and one that clings to discredited ideas. The argument here goes something like this: ''Look, we get that the last 18 months haven't exactly been a day at Disneyland, but seriously, do you really want to put those guys in charge again?''
Republicans, meanwhile, keep talking about the elections as an up-or-down vote on President Obama and the Democratic Congress -- which, if polls can be believed, is about as popular as head lice. 
It's hard to blame Republicans for adopting this strategy, given its simplicity, but in terms of governing the country after you win, the notion of a straight referendum may come with significant risk. To understand why, it's worth thinking about how Democrats got into this predicament in the first place.
Four years ago, it was a Republican president, George W. Bush, and his party's leaders in Congress who found themselves burdened by an unpopular war, a weakening economy and allegations of corruption. The Republicans' most trusted strategist, Karl Rove, repeatedly made the case that voters in 2006 faced a choice between dueling ideologies, rather than a vote of confidence on Republican rule.
Democrats, however -- among them Rahm Emanuel, then the congressman in charge of Democratic House campaigns -- framed the race primarily as a national referendum on the governing party and its president. They got their wish.
Now, of course, in one of those classic Washington turnabouts, it is Mr. Rove and his brethren who frame the midterm elections as a national referendum on the Democratic agenda. Republicans offered a vivid, if less-than-subtle preview of this strategy during a special election for a Pennsylvania House seat in the spring, when they unleashed several advertisements that barely mentioned the Democratic candidate and eventual winner, Mark Critz. Instead, the ads featured House Speaker Nancy Pelosi, who to conservatives embodies all the excesses of the liberal status quo. In one, a 50-foot Pelosi lumbered Frankenstein-like through the helpless countryside.
This week, the Republican Senate nominee in Missouri, Roy Blunt, started showing an ad that concludes with a promise that he will ''work for Missouri, not Barack Obama.''
And now it is Mr. Emanuel, the White House chief of staff, who tells anyone who will listen that elections are about choosing between divergent paths. In fact, the White House is trying to frame November in the public mind as a choice not simply between two parties and their agendas, but between two presidents and their eras.
Since the Republicans have, at the moment, no obvious elected leader, Democrats have tried to insert Mr. Bush into the role, implying that a Republican victory in November would somehow unravel the space-time continuum and land us all back in the dark days of steroid hearings and Janet Jackson's wardrobe malfunction, a time of marauding Wall Street traders and ''with-us-or-against-us'' foreign policy. In a stunt this week, for instance, Democrats in Washington challenged more than a dozen Republican Senate candidates to name ''two policy differences with former President Bush.'' No one took them up on it.
An important question in all this is why Democrats should have to fear a referendum at all. After all, Mr. Obama inherited a perilous economy from his predecessor, and his party has passed a series of consequential laws, including a long-sought overhaul of health care and new regulations for Wall Street and credit cards. And yet all indications are that voters in much of the country -- and particularly independent voters -- remain furious with Democratic incumbents.
There are several trendy explanations for this ''paradox,'' as commentators have taken to calling it. Conservatives posit that the problem is ideological -- that laws enacted by Congress have simply been too liberal for the voters. The president's allies, meanwhile, suggest that voters are blaming the party in power for a stubbornly sluggish economy. It's hard for Democrats to argue, for instance, that a $787 billion stimulus package saved or created some three million jobs when voters in some states are still reeling from double-digit unemployment.
It's just as likely, though, that much of the dissatisfaction with the governing party can be traced back to this whole choice-versus-referendum conundrum. Back in 2006, when Democrats were trying to figure out how to run against the Republican majorities, there was argument inside the party about whether they needed to offer some competing framework of ideas for the nation, or whether the more prudent course was to ask for a vote of no confidence on the party in power and leave it at that.
The consensus, in the end, was that there was no point in muddying a nice, clean referendum with a lot of controversial notions of governance. So Democrats issued a pamphlet with gauzy notions of ''broad prosperity'' and health care for all, but almost nothing by way of specific policies or the costs involved. This campaign-by-referendum worked so well that Democrats barely altered the formula in 2008, when Mr. Obama and his party's Congressional candidates ran, successfully, under the vague banner of ''change.''
The problem with this strategy was that ''change'' meant wildly different things to different people, and neither of these elections amounted to a mandate for any discernible set of choices. The stimulus bill and the health care law may or may not have been good policy, but the sheer scope and cost of those agenda items seemed to jolt a lot of the independent voters who had conditionally supported Mr. Obama. Having failed to establish a rationale for such expansive measures during the campaign, Democrats were easily caricatured by their adversaries as a bunch of 1970s liberals who would spend money wherever they could.
The relevant lesson here, perhaps, is that the choice-versus-referendum question is also a trade-off, on some level, between short-term and long-term considerations. As Democrats proved in 2006 and in 2008, the path of least resistance is to seek a referendum on the current leadership, which chronically anxious voters seem inclined to jettison every few election cycles.
But as Republicans may find out if they win in November, a successful referendum only helps you gain power. Gaining the trust of voters is something different altogether.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: President Obama and George W. Bush, together on Jan. 16, are familiar with the debate on the meaning of midterm elections. (PHOTOGRAPH BY LUKE SHARRETT/THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ELECTIONS (93%); REFERENDUMS (91%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (91%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (90%); MIDTERM ELECTIONS (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); VOTERS & VOTING (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); US FEDERAL ELECTIONS (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); US PRESIDENTS (88%); PLATFORMS & ISSUES (78%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (78%); LIBERALISM (77%); CONSERVATISM (77%); CORRUPTION (69%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (77%); GEORGE W BUSH (67%); RAHM EMANUEL (57%); NANCY PELOSI (57%); ROY BLUNT (57%); KARL ROVE (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: MISSOURI, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (95%)

LOAD-DATE: July 22, 2010



532 of 785 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 22, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Foreign Desk; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 1113 words

HEADLINE: Clinton Visits Korean Border and Announces More Sanctions Against North

BYLINE: By MARK LANDLER and ELISABETH BUMILLER

 BODY:
SEOUL, South Korea -- The Obama administration announced Wednesday that it would impose further economic sanctions against North Korea, throwing legal weight behind a choreographed show of pressure on the North that included an unusual joint visit to the demilitarized zone by Secretary of State Hillary Rodham Clinton and Defense Secretary Robert M. Gates.
The measures, announced here by Mrs. Clinton after talks with South Korean officials, focus on counterfeiting, money laundering and other dealings that she said the North Korean government used to generate hard currency to pay off cronies and cling to power. 
While the United States already places heavy sanctions on North Korea, American officials insisted that the new measures would further tighten the financial vise around the secretive and isolated North Korean leader, Kim Jong-il, who, according to regional intelligence, is in declining health.
The unilateral American action came two months after a South Korean-led investigation found North Korea responsible for the March sinking of the Cheonan, a South Korean warship, which killed 46 sailors. The North's bellicose behavior, analysts say, reflects a deepening power struggle inside the country. But the United States has struggled to build consensus about how harshly to confront the Kim government.
While the United Nations Security Council voted to condemn the sinking of the warship, it did not name North Korea as the culprit because of resistance from China, the North's neighbor and most important ally.
Mrs. Clinton demanded that the North take responsibility for the attack, saying it would continue to be a pariah until it did so. She ruled out any negotiations with the North Korean government until it agreed to relinquish its nuclear weapons. And she said that the United States would expand and stiffen its sanctions to ''target their leadership, target their assets.''
''These measures are not directed at the people of North Korea, who have suffered for too long due to the misguided and maligned priorities of their government,'' Mrs. Clinton said at a news conference, flanked by Mr. Gates and South Korea's defense and foreign ministers. ''They are directed at the destabilizing, illicit and provocative policies pursued by that government.''
Her announcement punctuated a visit rich in symbols of American diplomacy and military might, organized to mark the 60th anniversary of the start of the Korean War. On Tuesday, the United States and South Korea confirmed that they would stage large-scale military exercises in the seas off Japan and the Korean Peninsula, as a show of deterrence against the North.
Then, on Wednesday, Mr. Gates and Mrs. Clinton traveled to Panmunjom, in the demilitarized zone, where they clambered up an observation post in a gloomy drizzle to peer into the North. Later, as the pair toured a small building that straddles the military demarcation line between North and South, a North Korean soldier stared at them through a window.
Neither acknowledged the soldier. Afterward, the two stood before a phalanx of cameras, under the gaze of guards from the North Korean side, to proclaim solidarity with South Korea.
''It is stunning how little has changed up there and yet how much South Korea continues to grow and prosper,'' Mr. Gates said, noting that this was his third visit to the demilitarized zone -- the first being in the early 1990s when he was director of central intelligence.
It was Mrs. Clinton's first visit. ''Although it may be a thin line,'' she said, referring to the narrow strip of land separating the two sides, ''these two places are worlds apart.''
Mrs. Clinton is heading to a regional security meeting in Vietnam on Thursday, where she is likely to face more reluctance to point fingers at North Korea over the Cheonan. On Tuesday, the meeting's sponsor, the Association of Southeast Asian Nations, issued an opening statement that said it ''deplored'' the sinking but did not name the aggressor.
The administration's show of solidarity with South Korea has complicated ties with China. In addition to its balkiness at the United Nations, Beijing has objected to the joint naval exercises, which have frayed an already tense relationship between the militaries of China and the United States and also prompted a rebuke from North Korea on Thursday. Earlier this year, Beijing brusquely canceled a planned visit by Mr. Gates.
''I remain open to rebuilding and strengthening military-to-military dialogue between the United States and China,'' Mr. Gates said. But he added, ''We are obviously concerned by some of the things China has said, some of the things China is doing in the military arena; they are worrying.''
Administration officials would not give specifics on the planned North Korean sanctions, but said they would mainly build on those already put in place by the Treasury Department or enshrined in the latest Security Council resolution against North Korea.
Mrs. Clinton said the United States would designate North Korean companies and individuals involved in weapons proliferation and other illicit activity. As an example, American officials cited trade in counterfeit cigarettes. The sanctions would also focus on liquor, exotic foods and other luxury goods, which the government in Pyongyang uses in a vast system of patronage. And they will take aim at North Korean officials who use diplomatic privilege to cloak their dealings.
Mrs. Clinton said she would send her adviser on nonproliferation and arms control, Robert J. Einhorn, in coming days to discuss the sanctions with countries in Asia. Because no legitimate American banks do business with the North, the effectiveness of the measures will depend heavily on persuading banks in other countries to shun North Korea.
Given the North's profound isolation, some analysts question how much more damage sanctions can do.
The strategy of aiming sanctions at the country's elite is similar to the latest United Nations sanctions against Iran. A previous effort to punish politically connected North Koreans, by freezing assets in a Macao-based bank, Banco Delta Asia, where many of them had accounts, was quite successful, analysts said.
But the Bush administration later agreed to have the Macao government unblock those accounts in an effort to lure North Korea back to negotiations over its nuclear program -- a quid pro quo that ultimately led nowhere. The Obama administration insists that it will not cut such deals with the North to restart talks.
''They made commitments over the last years to the denuclearization of the Korean Peninsula, which they have reneged on,'' Mrs. Clinton said. ''They just refuse to actually do it.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: The aircraft carrier George Washington will take part in joint military exercises by the United States and South Korea that were announced this week. (PHOTOGRAPH BY TRUTH LEEM/REUTERS) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: EMBARGOES & SANCTIONS (91%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (89%); KOREAN WAR (78%); STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (78%); TALKS & MEETINGS (77%); DEFENSE DEPARTMENTS (77%); FOREIGN RELATIONS (77%); PRESS CONFERENCES (73%); WAR & CONFLICT (72%); MILITARY WEAPONS (72%); MONEY LAUNDERING (71%); CURRENCIES (71%); MILITARY OPERATIONS (70%); ARMED FORCES (67%); NUCLEAR WEAPONS (66%); ANNIVERSARIES (60%); COUNTERFEITING (56%); UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (51%)

ORGANIZATION: UNITED NATIONS SECURITY COUNCIL (55%)

PERSON: HILLARY RODHAM CLINTON (79%); ROBERT M GATES (78%); KIM JONG IL (73%); BARACK OBAMA (69%)

GEOGRAPHIC: SEOUL, KOREA, REPUBLIC OF (90%) KOREA, REPUBLIC OF (98%); UNITED STATES (98%); KOREA, DEMOCRATIC PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF (96%); NORTHERN ASIA (79%); CHINA (79%)

LOAD-DATE: July 22, 2010



533 of 785 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 22, 2010
Correction Appended 
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 561 words

HEADLINE: Wells Fargo Posts a Loss, But Reports Some Gains

BYLINE: By ERIC DASH

 BODY:
Wells Fargo, the nation's largest consumer bank, said Wednesday that second-quarter earnings fell 3 percent, to $3.06 billion, as a slowdown in lending was offset by the improvement in the financial health of consumer and corporate borrowers. 
Wells Fargo released about $500 million it had previously set aside to cover losses and suggested the worst of its troubles were over. Bank executives said that a stronger economy and tighter lending standards had helped control losses and that as long as conditions did not significantly worsen, they expected to release more reserves in coming quarters.
''We believe credit quality has indeed turned the corner,'' Howard Atkins, Wells Fargo's chief financial officer, said in a statement.
Unlike many of the biggest banks, Wells does not have a large trading operation, so it sidestepped the shaky market conditions that caused sharp declines in profit at Goldman Sachs, Bank of America and Citigroup. But just as at other consumer giants, the bank's executives warned that the new financial legislation could significantly lower revenue.
''We remain concerned that some aspects of regulatory reform may have unintended negative impacts for America's financial system, consumers and businesses,'' John G. Stumpf, Wells Fargo's chief executive, said in a statement.
The bank's $3.06 billion profit, which amounts to 55 cents a share, beat analyst expectations. However, it compares with a profit of $3.17 billion, or 57 cents a share, a year earlier. Revenue in the quarter was $21.4 billion, down 5 percent. Net income applicable to common shareholders rose 12 percent, to $2.88 billion.
Mr. Stumpf said that the bank was making ''strong progress'' on its merger with the Wachovia Corporation, the troubled lender it acquired during the financial crisis to give it a foothold in the eastern United States. The process, Mr. Stumpf said, was about half finished and had already achieved about 80 percent of the projected annual cost savings. By the end of July, Wells Fargo expects to have converted Wachovia branches in markets like California, Texas and Kansas, where the two banks competed. The bank is expected to convert Wachovia branches in the New York area in early 2011.
Bank executives were also pleased with the improvement in credit performance. The bank said charge-offs fell 16 percent in its consumer and corporate loan books, and fewer borrowers were falling behind on their credit card, home equity and mortgage loans.
''We have seen credit quality improve earlier and to a greater extent than we had previously expected,'' Michael J. Loughlin, Well Fargo's chief credit and risk officer, said.
In particular, the so-called Pick-a-Pay option-ARM mortgages and commercial loans that it acquired with the purchase of Wachovia are performing better than expected. That will allow the bank to book a gain of $506 million in the quarter, and could result in at least another $1.8 billion in additional income over the next several years.
The company's shares closed up 15 cents to $ 26.06.

CORRECTION-DATE: July 23, 2010, Friday

 CORRECTION:
This article has been revised to reflect the following correction: A headline on Thursday about Wells Fargo's quarterly earnings misstated the company's results in some editions. Wells Fargo reported earnings of $3.06 billion and beat analysts' expectations; it did not post a loss.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: John Stumpf, head of Wells Fargo. The bank earned $3 billion in the second quarter. (PHOTOGRAPH BY JAMES ESTRIN/THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: INTERIM FINANCIAL RESULTS (90%); COMPANY LOSSES (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); EXECUTIVES (90%); COMMERCIAL BANKING (90%); RETAIL BANKING (90%); COMPANY EARNINGS (90%); MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (89%); MORTGAGE LOANS (89%); COMMERCIAL LENDING (89%); ECONOMIC NEWS (78%); COMPANY PROFITS (78%); CONSUMER LENDING (78%); COMMON STOCK (78%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (78%); RISK MANAGEMENT (78%); BANK FAILURES (78%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (73%); SHAREHOLDERS (73%); MERGERS (73%)

COMPANY: WELLS FARGO & CO (98%); GOLDMAN SACHS GROUP INC (90%); BANK OF AMERICA CORP (90%); CITIGROUP INC (90%)

TICKER: WFC (NYSE) (98%); GS (NYSE) (90%); BAC (NYSE) (90%); BAC (LSE) (90%); 8648 (TSE) (90%); C (NYSE) (90%); C (BMV) (90%); 8710 (TSE) (90%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (98%); SIC6712 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (98%); NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (90%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (90%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (90%); SIC6289 SERVICES ALLIED WITH THE EXCHANGE OF SECURITIES OR COMMODITIES, NEC (90%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (90%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (90%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (90%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (90%); NAICS522210 CREDIT CARD ISSUING (90%)

PERSON: JOHN G STUMPF (89%); HOWARD I ATKINS (59%)

GEOGRAPHIC: CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); TEXAS, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: July 23, 2010



534 of 785 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 22, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 15

LENGTH: 1019 words

HEADLINE: Senate Democrats' Plan to Aid Small Businesses Hits G.O.P. Resistance

BYLINE: By DAVID M. HERSZENHORN; Carl Hulse contributed reporting.

 BODY:
WASHINGTON -- Perhaps the last best hope of Democrats to pass legislation aimed at creating jobs before the November elections seemed to be crumbling in the Senate on Wednesday as Republicans signaled that they would block a bill to expand government lending programs and grant an array of tax breaks to small businesses.
Wrangling over the small-business measure began in earnest after Senate Democrats, breaking a two-month partisan logjam, finally succeeded in winning an extension of unemployment insurance. The vote was 59 to 39, with two Republicans joining Democrats in support of the extended benefits, which are retroactive to June 1. One Democrat, Senator Ben Nelson of Nebraska, voted against it. 
Shortly after the vote, the majority leader, Senator Harry Reid, turned to the small-business bill, one of the few items left on the Senate's dwindling agenda before the August recess. Indeed, it had been on the floor intermittently over the last several weeks, only to be pulled to make way for other legislation including the extension of unemployment insurance.
But with some Democrats viewing the small-business bill as critical to their political prospects in November, Senate Republicans were not about to let it through easily, and have insisted on a chance to offer amendments.
In a bid to save the bill, Democrats released a new version of it on Wednesday night without a $30 billion lending program. But Mr. Reid immediately introduced an amendment that would restore the fund, and he continued to block any Republican amendments. Democratic aides said talks with the Republicans would continue, and they were still hopeful that some form of the measure would be approved.
President Obama called on the Senate to approve the bill in a statement in the Rose Garden on Monday. ''We all have to continue our efforts to do everything in our power to spur growth and hiring,'' he said. ''And I hope the Senate acts this week on a package of tax cuts and expanded lending for small businesses, where most of America's jobs are created.''
He also raised the issue in his weekly radio and Internet address on Saturday. The White House said Mr. Obama would continue pushing for the bill.
''Small businesses are the engine of private sector job creation, and the president will fight against any attempts by the partisan minority to block progress on legislation that helps our economic recovery,'' a spokeswoman, Amy Brundage, said.
Senator Mary L. Landrieu, Democrat of Louisiana and chairwoman of the small-business committee, who is a main author of the legislation, said the Senate Republican leader, Mitch McConnell of Kentucky, seemed intent on denying Mr. Obama and the Democrats a chance to pump up the economy ahead of the midterm elections.
''I think Senator McConnell knows and believes this bill could actually create millions of jobs and doesn't want to give the president and Democrats credit for doing what we do, which is standing up for the middle class,'' Ms. Landrieu said.
''If Democrats don't stand for small business, I don't know what we stand for,'' she added. ''I don't want to go into this election standing for Wall Street and big business.''
The main point of disagreement is the centerpiece of the legislation: a proposed $30 billion lending program that would make credit available to small businesses through local banks. Some Republicans have decried the proposal as a mini ''bailout'' and said they would vote against it.
The most prominent potential Republican supporter of the bill, Senator Olympia J. Snowe of Maine and the senior Republican on the small-business committee, said Wednesday that she firmly opposed the $30 billion program because it echoed the huge bailout of Wall Street, the Troubled Asset Relief Program, which has become a political liability for lawmakers who supported it even though many economists say it was a success.
''It has all the quality and features of the TARP program,'' Ms. Snowe said in an interview outside the Senate chamber. ''I think we've been down that road.''
With Ms. Snowe opposed, Democrats were trying to persuade other Republicans, including Senator George LeMieux of Florida, to support the bill but seemed to be coming up short. A senior Republican aide said the bill would be approved only if Democrats dropped the $30 billion plan. In a letter to Mr. Reid and Mr. McConnell, the Independent Community Bankers of America and 29 state community banking associations urged approval of the lending plan.
If it is dropped, what would be left is a package of slightly more than $12 billion in tax breaks for small businesses, including provisions that would allow quicker tax write-downs of capital expenditures, known as accelerated depreciation, as well as a break on capital gains taxes from the sale of certain small-business stock if the stock is held for more than five years. Administration officials said a pared bill would still be helpful.
The bill would also expand several Small Business Administration loan programs, increasing loan limits and, in some cases, eliminating borrower fees. And it would allow small business to carry back general business tax credits to offset their tax bills from the previous five years.
Mr. McConnell said Mr. Obama and the Democrats had only themselves to blame for the delay in acting on the small-business measure, because they had repeatedly pulled it off the floor and had also denied Republicans an opportunity to offer amendments. ''If the president wants to criticize someone for slowing it down, he should point the finger at his own party for repeatedly taking it off the floor,'' Mr. McConnell said.
The extension of unemployment insurance provides benefits through November to millions of Americans who have been out of work for six months or more, ending a politically charged fight.
The $34 billion unemployment measure now heads to the House, where approval as early as Thursday was expected.
Democrats were harsh in their criticism of Republicans who held up the unemployment money by refusing to vote for it unless some way was found to keep the costs from being added to the deficit.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Democrats are trying to persuade some Republicans, including Senator George LeMieux of Florida, to support a jobs bill. (PHOTOGRAPH BY LUKE SHARRETT/THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (92%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); LEGISLATION (90%); SMALL BUSINESS (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); SMALL BUSINESS ASSISTANCE (90%); UNEMPLOYMENT INSURANCE (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); ELECTIONS (90%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (89%); JOB CREATION (89%); TAXES & TAXATION (78%); MIDTERM ELECTIONS (78%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (78%); ECONOMIC RECOVERY (77%); SMALL BUSINESS LENDING (77%); TAX LAW (77%); APPROVALS (76%); US PRESIDENTS (68%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (78%); MARY LANDRIEU (58%); HARRY REID (58%); BEN NELSON (58%); MITCH MCCONNELL (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEBRASKA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: July 22, 2010



535 of 785 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 22, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 776 words

HEADLINE: Inspector Reports That a Program to Help Prevent Foreclosures Has Fallen Short

BYLINE: By SEWELL CHAN

 BODY:
WASHINGTON -- The Obama administration's program to help homeowners avoid foreclosure has fallen far short of its goals, in part because the Treasury Department has failed to spell out what its objectives should be, according to an assessment offered to Congress on Wednesday.
Only 390,000 homeowners have seen their mortgage terms permanently modified since the $50 billion program was announced in March 2009. That is a small fraction of the three to four million borrowers who were supposed to receive assistance under the program, which is financed by money from the $700 billion Wall Street bailout authorized in late 2008. 
Neil M. Barofsky, the special inspector general for the Troubled Asset Relief Program, as the bailout is called, testified that ''one of the greatest failures'' by the Treasury Department had been the absence of clear goals for the program.
''It's a simple recommendation that we made, that Treasury put forth how many people it truly expects to help stay in their houses through permanent modifications,'' Mr. Barofsky told members of the Senate Finance Committee. ''It's a recommendation that all three of us on this panel have made to Treasury and that Treasury has ignored.''
That criticism was echoed by Elizabeth Warren, chairwoman of the Congressional Oversight Panel for the bailout, and Richard J. Hillman, managing director for financial markets and community investment at the Government Accountability Office.
Mr. Hillman said a recent G.A.O. report had found that the program ''made limited progress in preserving homeownership, has suffered from inconsistent program implementation, and continues to confront additional challenges.''
Ms. Warren, who is a candidate to lead the new Consumer Financial Protection Bureau created under the far-reaching financial regulatory legislation signed by President Obama on Wednesday, said the bailout program had been successful in averting an economic collapse, but she too was critical about the way the mortgage-modification program had been handled.
''Fifteen months into this program, for every one family that appears to have made it to a permanent modification that's likely to stabilize that family in that home, 10 more have been moved out through foreclosure,'' she said. ''This is a program that's just -- it's behind the curve.''
Asked by Senator Max Baucus, Democrat of Montana and chairman of the Finance Committee, why the program was not working, Ms. Warren said: ''It's too slow. It's too small.''
She noted that the program was based upon fees paid to servicers to renegotiate mortgage terms.
''In many cases, the servicers can continue to make more money if the family goes through foreclosure,'' she said. ''It's just not a program that's working for homeowners. It's not a program in some cases that's working for investors. And most importantly, it's not a program that's working for the economy over all.''
Herbert M. Allison Jr., the assistant Treasury secretary who oversees the bailout program, said in an interview by phone that the criticisms of the mortgage plan were overstated and that the program had helped 1.3 million homeowners.
The program offers mortgage servicers incentive payments if they complete mortgage modifications, which typically involve reductions in principal or in the interest rate. But to qualify for the permanent modifications, borrowers have to document economic hardship, demonstrate a certain debt-to-income ratio and prove that they live in the home -- a threshold that many homeowners have not been able to meet.
Mr. Allison said the department was limited in its ability to compel servicers, who participate in the program voluntarily, to reduce mortgage amounts. ''If we started to compel them, the risk is that we would lose servicers,'' he said. ''They could claim that it was a material change to the contract, and exit the program.''
He added: ''We can't control outcomes, because we can't control the number of people who become delinquent, who have hardships, who have debt-to-income ratios above 31 percent, who decide to pay and remain current, who decide to remain in their homes.''
Other parts of the hearing reiterated previous criticisms made about the handling of the bailout: that the money was used to bolster big banks even as smaller, community-based financial institutions failed; that the government decided to fully pay the counterparties who would have lost money if the American International Group, the giant insurer, had been allowed to fail; and that the Treasury had compelled General Motors and Chrysler to close thousands of auto dealerships without sufficient consideration of the effect on employment.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Neil M. Barofsky, a special inspector general, said the Treasury had failed to spell out clear goals for home-loan modification. (PHOTOGRAPH BY BRENDAN SMIALOWSKI/GETTY IMAGES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (91%); HOMEOWNERS (90%); FORECLOSURE (90%); BAILOUTS (90%); TROUBLED ASSET RELIEF PROGRAM (90%); CREDIT CRISIS (90%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); MORTGAGE LOANS (89%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (79%); US PRESIDENTS (78%); PERSONAL FINANCE (78%); 2010 WALL STREET & BANKING REFORM (78%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (75%); GOVERNMENT CONTROLLERS & AUDITORS (73%); BANKING & FINANCE AGENCIES (71%); BANKING & FINANCE (71%); BANKING & FINANCE REGULATION (71%)

ORGANIZATION: US GOVERNMENT ACCOUNTABILITY OFFICE (54%)

PERSON: ELIZABETH WARREN (79%); BARACK OBAMA (78%); MAX BAUCUS (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: July 22, 2010



536 of 785 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 22, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 952 words

HEADLINE: Traders at Morgan Stanley Help Profits Top Estimates

BYLINE: By GRAHAM BOWLEY

 BODY:
Morgan Stanley faced near death during the credit crisis in 2008. Then it became so cautious that it missed the stock market boom in 2009. Now, however, it appears to have found its groove.
Along with the rest of Wall Street, Morgan Stanley took a hit to revenue and profit in the second quarter, a period that included a stock market flash crash and rising fears over the European debt crisis.
Profit fell 22 percent from the first quarter to $1.4 billion, the company said on Wednesday. A year earlier, the firm posted a loss of $138 million. 
Morgan Stanley's new army of traders seemed to navigate the riled markets better than its rivals -- and certainly better than Wall Street had expected.
''These were clearly challenging market conditions,'' said Howard Chen, an analyst at Credit Suisse. ''Morgan Stanley was less worse than others.''
Morgan was the last of the Wall Street banks to report its second-quarter earnings. Goldman Sachs disappointed markets on Tuesday with an 82 percent drop in earnings from last year, hurt by a slowdown in trading.
James P. Gorman, Morgan's chief executive, said in a conference call with investors that worries about global growth, indebted European governments and financial regulation had bred a ''lack of conviction'' among investors in May and June.
That is, investors large and small pulled out of the markets, causing a slowdown in bond trading and other activities like underwriting.
The flash crash on May 6, which officials are still investigating, had a particular souring effect on investor confidence, Morgan Stanley said. Ordinary investors withdrew billions of dollars from its wealth management business, which trades stocks and bonds for small accounts.
But Morgan more than held its own in equities trading, helping to lift its overall earnings beyond analysts' expectations -- the biggest positive earnings surprise ever for Morgan, according to Capital IQ. Total revenue across all its businesses was $7.95 billion, down 12 percent from the first quarter but a 53 percent rise from a year earlier.
Morgan Stanley's results on Wednesday caused its shares to buck a declining market and close up 6.3 percent at $26.80.
''Its equities business was flat while Goldman's was down to the tune of 49 percent,'' said Alan Villalon, a financial analyst at First American Funds, a mutual fund company in Minneapolis. ''They managed the quarter better than the other players.''
Other financial giants, like JPMorgan Chase, Bank of America and Citigroup, also reported disappointing results from their trading operations when they announced second-quarter earnings over the last week.
Morgan Stanley scaled down its trading activities after it suffered painful losses in the turmoil of the credit crisis. That move would later disappoint its investors, when the bank missed out on the boom in markets last year. Rivals like Goldman took big bets and made hefty profits from trading. Morgan Stanley did not return to profitability until the third quarter of last year.
But it has since moved to rebuild its trading activities, adding 400 new salesmen and traders, a strategy that appears to be paying off, at least for now.
Ruth Porat, Morgan Stanley's chief financial officer, said the firm's larger sales force meant it could be closer to clients during the market uncertainty, a stance that helped it win some business from rivals.
''We didn't have big misses,'' she said in an interview. ''We had some market gains, but it is still early days.''
Earnings were heightened by $750 million in extra revenue resulting from an accounting change in the value of its debt and by a one-time $345 million tax benefit.
Analysts said the company showed cost restraint by reducing the proportion of its revenue it set aside for salaries -- despite having to pay a $361 million charge for a British bank tax on bonuses.
In its investment banking business, underwriting revenue was $597 million, 30 percent lower than a year ago. Morgan attributed the drop to ''lower levels of market activity.''
Its asset management business was still losing money in the quarter. That unit is being overhauled by Gregory J. Fleming, the former Merrill Lynch executive who joined Morgan Stanley at the beginning of the year.
On Tuesday, Goldman Sachs reported a quarterly profit of $613 million, its worst quarterly performance since the depths of the financial crisis in late 2008. Its profits were hit by the turmoil in markets as well as the cost of settling a civil fraud suit with the Securities and Exchange Commission.
''In some respects, M.S.'s more conservative approach to balance sheet deployment to its trading businesses since the credit crisis, which drew criticism from investors last year, may be playing to the company's benefit in a period where deploying principal capital in fickle markets carries a higher level of risk,'' Barclays Capital analysts wrote in a research note.
Looking forward, Ms. Porat said in the conference call that the global economic outlook remained a concern, but she said the fear of a double dip recession was overstated. Nevertheless, she said, it would take time for investors to regain their poise.
''We are not expecting a rapid rebound in volumes,'' she said.
As part of its strategy to rebalance the bank after the big risks it took before the credit crisis, Morgan has concentrated a lot of resources on building its retail wealth management business, and this unit's performance in the latest quarter was disappointing, analysts said.
But Mr. Gorman, who took over as chief executive from John J. Mack in January, said he was confident about its future.
''The retail investor will not disappear, I am sure,'' he said. ''I have been doing this for a long time.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: James P. Gorman, Morgan Stanley's chief executive, said investors pulled back from the markets. (PHOTOGRAPH BY CHESTER HIGGINS Jr./THE NEW YORK TIMES 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CREDIT CRISIS (90%); COMPANY EARNINGS (90%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (89%); INTERIM FINANCIAL RESULTS (89%); BANKING & FINANCE (89%); SECURITIES TRADING (89%); STOCK EXCHANGES (89%); BONDS (89%); INVESTIGATIONS (78%); STOCK MARKET CRASHES (78%); CORPORATE DEBT (78%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (78%); BOND MARKETS (78%); COMPANY PROFITS (77%); COMPANY LOSSES (76%); EURO CRISIS (76%); PUBLIC DEBT (76%); DEBT CRISIS (73%); MUTUAL FUNDS (71%); EXECUTIVES (66%); CONFERENCE CALLS (51%); WEALTH MANAGEMENT (50%)

COMPANY: MORGAN STANLEY (96%); GOLDMAN SACHS GROUP INC (90%); BANK OF AMERICA CORP (58%); CITIGROUP INC (58%); CREDIT SUISSE GROUP AG (56%)

TICKER: MS (NYSE) (96%); GS (NYSE) (90%); BAC (NYSE) (58%); BAC (LSE) (58%); 8648 (TSE) (58%); C (NYSE) (58%); C (BMV) (58%); 8710 (TSE) (58%); CSGN (SWX) (56%); CS (NYSE) (56%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (96%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (96%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (90%); NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (90%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (90%); SIC6289 SERVICES ALLIED WITH THE EXCHANGE OF SECURITIES OR COMMODITIES, NEC (90%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (90%); NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (58%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (58%); SIC6712 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (58%); NAICS522210 CREDIT CARD ISSUING (58%); NAICS524126 DIRECT PROPERTY & CASUALTY INSURANCE CARRIERS (56%)

PERSON: JAMES GORMAN (74%)

GEOGRAPHIC: MINNESOTA, USA (69%) EUROPE (79%); UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: July 22, 2010



537 of 785 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 22, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1097 words

HEADLINE: No Fed Plans To Provide More Support, Bernanke Says

BYLINE: By SEWELL CHAN

 BODY:
WASHINGTON -- The chairman of the Federal Reserve, in saying that it had no immediate plans to provide additional support to the economy, dashed the hopes of some economists and executives who have been pushing for action to add momentum to the sluggish recovery.
The chairman, Ben S. Bernanke, said Wednesday that the recovery was continuing at a modest pace, though with a ''somewhat weaker outlook.''
He projected that the unemployment rate would remain well above 7 percent through the end of 2012, and the duration of President Obama's current term. That, too, was a discouraging note to Washington incumbents facing tough re-election fights.
Mr. Bernanke's statement that the Fed had no imminent plans to go beyond its current strategy of keeping short-term interest rates exceptionally low pushed stock prices down. The Dow Jones industrial average fell 1.07 percent, or 109.43 points, to close at 10,120.53. 
In presenting the Fed's semiannual monetary policy report to Congress, Mr. Bernanke said that it would take ''a significant amount of time'' to restore the 8.5 million jobs lost in the United States in 2008 and 2009, and that ''the economic outlook remains unusually uncertain.''
He also warned that financial conditions, particularly the European debt crisis, had ''become less supportive of economic growth in recent months.''
Testifying before the Senate Banking Committee, Mr. Bernanke for the first time publicly discussed additional monetary policy tools the Fed could use to prop up the economy, having lowered short-term interest rates as far as they can go and purchased nearly $2 trillion in mortgage-backed securities and Treasury debts to push long-term rates down.
First, he said, the Fed could signal to the markets that it intended to keep its benchmark federal funds rate, the rate at which banks lend to one another overnight, at zero to 0.25 percent for even longer than the ''extended period'' the Fed has been projecting.
Second, the Fed could lower the interest rate it pays on excess reserves, the deposits that banks keep at the Fed in excess of what they are required to keep, from its current level of 0.25 percent.
Third -- and the mostly widely discussed option -- the Fed could again expand the size of its balance sheet, which stands at about $2.3 trillion, by buying additional Treasury debts or mortgage-backed securities, or even other classes of assets, like municipal bonds.
On a smaller scale, the Fed could also reinvest the cash it received when the underlying principal on mortgage bonds on its books was repaid, a step that would also keep the Fed's balance sheet from shrinking.
''We have not come to the point where we can tell you precisely what the leading options are,'' Mr. Bernanke told Senator Richard C. Shelby of Alabama, the top Republican on the Banking Committee.
''Clearly, each of these options has got drawbacks, potential costs. So we're going to continue to monitor the economy closely and continue to evaluate the alternatives that we have, recognizing, as I said, that policy is already quite stimulative.''
When Mr. Shelby asked whether the Fed was ''running out of options,'' Mr. Bernanke replied, ''I think we do still have options, but they're not going to be the conventional options.''
Mr. Bernanke told Senator Jim Bunning, Republican of Kentucky, that the Fed had no plans to take those actions ''in the near term,'' but added, ''I do think that there is some potential for some of those steps to be effective, and we'll continue to look at them.''
Minutes from the June meeting of the Federal Open Market Committee, the Fed's main policy-making arm, indicated that a few officials had a new worry: deflation. Those officials believe that inflation -- which is running at about half the Fed's desired range of 1.7 to 2 percent -- has been so low that it could turn into a dangerous spiral of falling prices like the one that has plagued Japan since the mid-1990s.
''Forecasts are very uncertain, but I don't view deflation as a near-term risk for the United States,'' Mr. Bernanke told Mr. Shelby, noting that inflation expectations had remained stable.
''I think the Federal Reserve does have the capacity, the tools, should deflation occur -- which, again, I don't believe is very likely -- to reverse it, and we would be very assiduous in doing that,'' the chairman added. ''I don't consider that to be a very high risk at this point.''
Mr. Bernanke's testimony took a more cautious tone than he did in February.
The chairman noted weakness in the housing market, ''with the overhang of vacant or foreclosed houses weighing on home prices and construction.''
He called the slow recovery of the job market ''an important drag on household spending.'' And he noted that the growth in private payrolls -- about 100,000 jobs a month in the first half of the year -- was ''insufficient to reduce the unemployment rate materially.''
The Fed expects the economy to grow this year by 3 to 3.5 percent, picking up only slightly, to 3.5 to 4.5 percent, in 2011 and 2012. The unemployment rate is projected to drop to 7 to 7.5 percent by the end of 2012 -- still far higher than the 5 to 5.3 percent that the Fed now considers to be full employment.
Mr. Bernanke said of the committee's last meeting: ''Most participants viewed uncertainty about the outlook for growth and unemployment as greater than normal, and the majority saw the risks to growth as weighted to the downside.''
Hours before his testimony, Mr. Bernanke had looked on as President Obama signed into law a far-reaching overhaul of the financial regulatory architecture.
In his appearance before the senators, he said the new law, along with tougher standards for bank capital and liquidity now being developed by international regulators, ''will place our financial system on a sounder foundation and minimize the risk of a repetition of the devastating events of the past three years.''
As has become common, senators of both parties pressed Mr. Bernanke to weigh in on the fiscal questions that have bitterly divided Congress. Mr. Bernanke held to his view that additional small-scale fiscal stimulus could be beneficial to the economy now, if combined with medium-term measures to rein in the high deficits.
''I would be reluctant to withdraw that support too precipitously in the near term,'' Mr. Bernanke told the committee's chairman, Senator Christopher J. Dodd, Democrat of Connecticut. ''At the same time, to maintain confidence and keep interest rates low, it's important that we have a strong and credible plan to reduce deficits over the coming years.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Ben S. Bernanke, the Fed chairman, told the Senate Banking Committee that the recovery was continuing at a modest pace. (PHOTOGRAPH BY STEPHEN CROWLEY/THE NEW YORK TIMES) (B10) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (92%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); MONETARY POLICY (89%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (89%); INTEREST RATES (89%); BONDS (89%); PUBLIC DEBT (89%); PUBLIC POLICY (89%); ECONOMIC POLICY (88%); MORTGAGE BACKED SECURITIES (86%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (78%); US FEDERAL FUNDS RATES (78%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (78%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (78%); ELECTIONS (78%); DEBT CRISIS (78%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (76%); MUNICIPAL BONDS (76%); PUBLIC FINANCE (75%); US PRESIDENTS (70%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (70%); MORTGAGE INVESTMENTS (68%); STOCK INDEXES (68%); EURO CRISIS (65%)

PERSON: BEN BERNANKE (91%); BARACK OBAMA (55%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: July 22, 2010



538 of 785 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 22, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 682 words

HEADLINE: Obama Signs a Contentious Overhaul of the U.S. Financial System

BYLINE: By HELENE COOPER

 BODY:
WASHINGTON -- President Obama signed a sweeping expansion of federal financial regulation on Wednesday, signaling perhaps the Democrats' last major legislative victory before the midterm elections in November, which could recast the Congressional landscape.
Within minutes of the bill signing, several Wall Street groups were leveling criticism at the new regulations, reflecting Mr. Obama's increasingly fractious relations with corporate America.
The Business Roundtable complained in a statement that the law ''takes our country in the wrong direction'' and may discourage investment and job growth, echoing concerns made by the United States Chamber of Commerce and other business organizations. 
In a signal that Wall Street is ready to keep lobbying as regulators work out the details of how to apply the new law, Larry Burton, the roundtable's executive director, said: ''We will work with President Obama and policy makers to ensure this legislation is implemented in a manner that continues to promote sustainable economic growth and job creation.''
Still, Democrats and White House officials were euphoric about passage of the legislation, a response to the 2008 financial crisis that tipped the nation into the worst recession since the Great Depression.
The law subjects more financial companies to federal oversight and regulates many derivatives contracts while creating a consumer protection regulator and a panel to detect risks to the financial system.
A number of the details have been left for regulators to work out, inevitably setting off complicated tangles down the road that could last for years.
But ''because of this law, the American people will never again be asked to foot the bill for Wall Street's mistakes,'' Mr. Obama said before signing the legislation. ''There will be no more taxpayer-funded bailouts. Period.''
He was surrounded by a group of mostly Democratic lawmakers and advocates of the overhaul legislation, including the House speaker, Nancy Pelosi of California, and the Senate majority leader, Harry Reid of Nevada, as well as Senator Christopher J. Dodd of Connecticut and Representative Barney Frank of Massachusetts, chairmen of crucial committees involved in developing the legislation.
The White House orchestrated a major signing ceremony at the Ronald Reagan Building across from the Commerce Department to trumpet the new law.
Mr. Obama took pains to try to show how the complex legislation, with its dense pages on derivatives practices, will protect ordinary Americans.
''If you've ever applied for a credit card, a student loan or a mortgage, you know the feeling of signing your name to pages of barely understandable fine print,'' Mr. Obama said. ''But what often happens as a result is that many Americans are caught by hidden fees and penalties, or saddled with loans they can't afford.''
He said the law would crack down on abusive practices in the mortgage industry, simplifying contracts and ending hidden fees and penalties, ''so folks know what they're signing.''
The law expands federal banking and securities regulation from its focus on banks and public markets, subjecting a wider range of financial companies to government oversight.
It also imposes regulation for the first time on opaque markets like the enormous trade in credit derivatives.
It creates a council of federal regulators, led by the Treasury secretary, to coordinate the detection of risks to the financial system, and it provides new powers to constrain and even dismantle troubled companies.
And it creates a powerful regulator, to be appointed by the president and housed in the Federal Reserve, to protect consumers of financial products.
The first visible result may come in about two years, the deadline for the consumer regulator to create a simplified disclosure form for mortgage loans.
Mr. Obama acknowledged three Republican senators -- Susan Collins and Olympia J. Snowe of Maine and Scott P. Brown of Massachusetts -- who broke with their party to approve the bill, saying that they ''put partisanship aside, judged the bill on the merits and voted for reform.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: After signing the billWednesday in the Ronald Reagan Building, President Obama shared the moment with Paul A. Volcker, a former Federal Reserve chairman. (PHOTOGRAPH BY DOUG MILLS/THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US PRESIDENTS (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (90%); LEGISLATION (90%); BUSINESS & PROFESSIONAL ASSOCIATIONS (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); MIDTERM ELECTIONS (89%); POLITICAL PARTIES (89%); FINES & PENALTIES (78%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (78%); AGENCY RULEMAKING (78%); ECONOMIC DEPRESSION (78%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (78%); MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (78%); DERIVATIVE INSTRUMENTS (78%); CONSUMER LAW (78%); BAILOUTS (78%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (78%); PUBLIC POLICY (78%); EXECUTIVES (78%); ELECTIONS (78%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (76%); JOB CREATION (75%); ECONOMIC POLICY (73%); ECONOMIC NEWS (73%); RECESSION (73%); CREDIT CARDS (71%); CONSUMER LENDING (70%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (70%); COMMERCE DEPARTMENTS (70%); GREAT DEPRESSION (66%); CONSUMER PROTECTION (65%); MORTGAGE LOANS (60%); STUDENT LOANS (60%); STUDENT FINANCIAL AID (60%)

ORGANIZATION: BUSINESS ROUNDTABLE (57%); UNITED STATES CHAMBER OF COMMERCE (57%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (92%); HARRY REID (58%); CHRISTOPHER DODD (58%); NANCY PELOSI (57%); BARNEY FRANK (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); CONNECTICUT, USA (79%); NEVADA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (99%)

LOAD-DATE: July 22, 2010



539 of 785 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 22, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; EDITORIAL; Pg. 26

LENGTH: 560 words

HEADLINE: The Next Deadline

 BODY:
American combat troops are on target to leave Iraq by the end of August. President Obama -- with the backing of his generals -- is right to keep to his timetable, despite a recent series of bloody attacks by insurgents. 
The United States, whose forces are now heavily engaged in Afghanistan, needs to relieve some of the strain on its overstretched military. After seven years, it is time for the Iraqis to take responsibility for their own security. They seem increasingly able to do so, although the country will likely be a violent place for years to come.
After Aug. 31, there will still be 50,000 American troops in Iraq, advising the Iraqi military and providing backup. All American troops are supposed to be gone by the end of next year. That makes it even more urgent for Iraq's leaders to get on with running their country.
Four months after national elections gave a cross-sectarian alliance led by Ayad Allawi, a former prime minister, a two-seat lead over Prime Minister Nuri Kamal al-Maliki's Shiite coalition, Iraqi politicians are still squabbling over who should form the new government. Until that is sorted out, Mr. Maliki is in charge -- a caretaker with limited authority.
The list of problems for the new government to address is long. Iraq's economy is growing, but even the most optimistic estimate puts unemployment at 15 percent. Despite billions of dollars in American aid -- too much of it squandered on corruption and mismanagement -- Iraqis still lack adequate electricity.
Iraqi politicians also have yet to settle some of the most difficult, and potentially combustible, political issues. The government has to come up with a better plan for protecting, and employing, former Sunni insurgents whose decision to switch sides helped quell the violence. They are increasingly the target of revenge killings by Al Qaeda in Iraq. The Parliament still has not agreed on laws for negotiating oil contracts and for sharing oil revenues. Competing Kurdish and Arab claims to the oil-rich city of Kirkuk must be settled.
The Obama administration has been careful not to favor any one politician or group, while quietly prodding Mr. Maliki, Mr. Allawi and Kurdish leaders to craft a multiethnic coalition government. The Americans also have been encouraging the Iraqis to consider a variety of political reforms -- including trimming the prime minister's powers -- to make a deal more feasible and give Iraq much-needed checks and balances. So far, there is no sign of an agreement.
Visiting Washington last week, Foreign Minister Hoshyar Zebari pleaded with Secretary of State Hillary Rodham Clinton to do more. He told The Washington Post that the Americans have not pushed back hard enough against Iran, Turkey and others that are jockeying to ensure their various Iraqi allies come out on top.
Sending Vice President Joseph Biden Jr. to Baghdad recently was a good idea, but he clearly failed to resolve the impasse. We hope that President Obama is making the case for compromise directly to Iraqi leaders. The promise of continued American economic aid should give him considerable leverage.
If this drags on much longer, Mr. Obama may have to turn to the United Nations to lay compromise proposals on the table and convene Iraqi leaders for a decision-making meeting. There is not a lot of time left for Iraq's leaders to get their act together.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Editorial

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ARMED FORCES (90%); PRIME MINISTERS (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (90%); US PRESIDENTS (89%); REBELLIONS & INSURGENCIES (89%); POLITICS (89%); IRAQ WAR (78%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); MUSLIMS & ISLAM (78%); TERRORISM (77%); STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (76%); PLATFORMS & ISSUES (73%); ELECTIONS (73%); AL-QAEDA (72%); TERRORIST ORGANIZATIONS (72%); CORRUPTION (71%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (68%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (65%); INTERNATIONAL ASSISTANCE (65%)

COMPANY: WASHINGTON POST CO (50%)

TICKER: WPO (NYSE) (50%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS517110 WIRED TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (50%); NAICS515120 TELEVISION BROADCASTING (50%); NAICS511120 PERIODICAL PUBLISHERS (50%); NAICS511110 NEWSPAPER PUBLISHERS (50%)

PERSON: NOURI AL-MALIKI (79%); HILLARY RODHAM CLINTON (79%); BARACK OBAMA (78%); JOE BIDEN (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: BAGHDAD, IRAQ (79%) UNITED STATES (98%); IRAQ (97%); AFGHANISTAN (92%); TURKEY (79%); IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (79%)

LOAD-DATE: July 22, 2010



540 of 785 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 22, 2010
The New York Times on the Web

SECTION: Section ; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 

LENGTH: 460 words

HEADLINE: Senate Gives Final Approval to Jobless Benefits

BYLINE: By CARL HULSE

 BODY:
WASHINGTON The Senate gave final approval Wednesday evening to legislation providing added unemployment benefits through November to millions of Americans who have been out of work for six months or more, ending a politically charged fight. 
After beating back a last round of Republican challenges, the Senate voted 59 to 39 to send the $34 billion unemployment measure to the House, where quick approval was expected as early as Thursday so the measure could be signed into law by President Obama.
Democrats were harsh in their criticism of Republicans who held up the unemployment money by refusing to vote for it unless some way was found to keep the costs from being added to the deficit. They noted that Republicans have not applied that same standard to tax cuts for the most affluent Americans.
''I wish they had that same sense of worry and outrage about the deficit when they were giving tax breaks, hundreds of billions of dollars to very wealthy Americans, hundreds of billions of dollars year after year after year to the wealthy Americans,'' Senator Robert P. Casey Jr., Democrat of Pennsylvania, said.
Republicans said the deficit has reached crisis proportions meriting tougher action by Congress, which they said should be able to find a way to distribute unemployment aid without adding to the deficit.
''Hard times require hard decisions,'' Senator Tom Coburn, Republican of Oklahoma, said. ''What we are seeing is the easy way out.''
The legislation provides unemployment pay for those who have exhausted their standard 26 weeks of aid. Those out of work can qualify for up to 99 weeks of benefits in some states. The money has been caught up in a political fight since the end of May, causing more than 2 million people to see their jobless checks dry up, with millions more in danger of having their benefits run out if the money was not approved.
Democrats were able to break the impasse Tuesday with the arrival of Carte Goodwin, the new Democratic senator from West Virginia, who provided the key 60th vote to break the filibuster. Even though passage of the measure was assured Tuesday, Republicans used their procedural power to delay a final vote until Wednesday evening while they forced Democrats to vote on a series of politically tinged proposals on immigration and estate taxes that had no chance of being approved.
Democrats said the Republican tactics showed insensitivity to Americans who were in need of the money. Republicans said that Democrats, despite their complaints about timing, did not keep the House in session Wednesday to vote after the Senate approval since Democrats wanted to attend a gala fundraiser. Democrats called that criticism unwarranted since it was Republicans who had dragged out the issue over several days.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: APPROVALS (91%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (90%); LEGISLATION (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); UNEMPLOYMENT INSURANCE (90%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (90%); FILIBUSTER (89%); TAXES & TAXATION (89%); TAX LAW (89%); POLITICS (78%); ESTATE TAX (74%); FUNDRAISING (73%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (73%); IMMIGRATION (50%)

PERSON: TOM COBURN (58%); BOB CASEY (58%); BARACK OBAMA (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: WEST VIRGINIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (96%)

LOAD-DATE: July 22, 2010



541 of 785 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 23, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Sports Desk; Pg. 10

LENGTH: 937 words

HEADLINE: The Yankees' Steinbrenner Long Before Steinbrenner

BYLINE: By RICHARD SANDOMIR

 BODY:
Since George Steinbrenner's death last week, the momentum for his Hall of Fame candidacy has accelerated. His case is strong: the Boss redefined baseball's economic landscape by exploiting free agency with abandon, and his teams won seven World Series in 37 years, more than any owner already enshrined in Cooperstown.
Keith Olbermann, the MSNBC anchor and baseball historian, said at Old-Timers' Day last Saturday that Steinbrenner is so deserving that veterans committee voters should convene this winter rather than wait until the next scheduled election in late 2011. 
But if Steinbrenner is deserving, what about Jacob Ruppert, his most important predecessor?
First with his co-owner Tillinghast L. Huston, and then as the sole owner, Ruppert established the Yankees as a dominant franchise and the sort of business that, when it thrived, was compared for its power to U.S. Steel.
If he were alive, Ruppert would be talking about the power of branding and would have understood the value of a owning a cable channel, as Steinbrenner did when he launched the YES Network.
In the Ruppert era that started with his purchasing the team in 1915 for less than $500,000 and lasted until his death in 1939, the Yankees truly became the Yankees: Babe Ruth was bought from the Boston Red Sox, Yankee Stadium was built, Lou Gehrig created his own legend, and the Yankees won seven World Series -- a better postseason winning percentage over a shorter period time than Steinbrenner's.
''Ruppert laid the foundation for this remarkable franchise,'' said Marty Appel, who is writing a book about the Yankees' history. ''He had an eye for the superstars who would put fannies in the seats, as George did.''
Glenn Stout, author of ''Yankees Century,'' said by e-mail: ''I've always, always thought Ruppert should have been a slam-dunk Hall of Famer.'' But he said that Ruppert's battles with the American League president Ban Johnson and anti-German sentiment after World War II might have hurt his chances of induction.
Still, he said: ''How else should an owner be measured, rather than by his record and impact on the game? Ruppert qualifies on both counts.''
Ruppert was a fan who loved to see his teams roll up early leads but was savvy enough to have the right people run the franchise. From Boston, he hired Ed Barrow as his business manager (the equivalent of the general manager). Running the farm system was George Weiss, a future general manager. Weiss and Barrow were long ago elected to the Hall, as were Miller Huggins and Joe McCarthy, two of the managers during Ruppert's reign.
''Back in the day, nobody gave owners credit for making ball clubs successful,'' said John Thorn, a baseball historian. ''With the Yankees, Ed Barrow got the credit.''
Similarly, any assessment of Steinbrenner must examine the role played by his baseball people, from Gabe Paul and Gene Michael to Bob Watson and Brian Cashman.
There are few owners in the Hall -- and even though Connie Mack was the proprietor of the Philadelphia Athletics, he was elected as their manager. He won 3,776 games and five World Series, but also lost 4,025 games.
Two years ago (but 29 years after his death), the Hall inducted Walter O'Malley, who moved the Dodgers to Los Angeles from Brooklyn and was the most influential and reviled owner of his time. In the same Hall class was Barney Dreyfuss, the Pittsburgh Pirates owner from 1900 to 1932 who helped create the World Series.
Bill Veeck, the promotional wizard, entered in 1991; 11 years earlier, Tom Yawkey, a benefactor of the Hall whose Red Sox never won the World Series in his tenure, got in.
Clark Griffith was inducted in 1946 and Charles Comiskey, known for the cheapness that possibly led to the Black Sox Scandal, entered in 1939. As part of a group of 17 players and executives from the Negro leagues and earlier incarnations of black baseball, four owners were elected, including Cum Posey of the Homestead Grays.
Memories of Ruppert have faded since his death. He had no children and never married. His heirs sold the Yankees in 1945 to Del Webb and Dan Topping, who had great October successes with Weiss as their general manager; Webb and Topping sold the team to CBS, which sold it to Steinbrenner.
Ruppert never made it to the veterans committee ballot until 2009, when he fell two votes short of the nine needed to be elected.
''When I was in high school and college, I thought it was remarkable that he wasn't in the hall,'' said K. Jacob Ruppert, Ruppert's great-grandnephew. ''Surely, I felt he would've been elected in the 1950s.''
Rick Hummel, a St. Louis Post-Dispatch columnist who is on the veterans committee for executives and pioneers, said that when players, managers, umpires, owners and executives were voted on by one panel, ''owners got almost no interest at all.'' He added: ''Players and managers got more cachet.''
In 2007, the committee was split into executives/pioneers and managers/umpires groups to give greater weight to those who did not wear uniforms. Players from before and after World War II are considered separately by two other committees.
Hummel said, ''I think I voted for Ruppert. I was very impressed with what I heard and read about him.''
He said that Steinbrenner did not make it to the final ballot where no one got the needed 9 of 12 votes.
The next vote of the executives/pioneers group could set up a final vote that will feature Ruppert and Steinbrenner, the most formidable Yankee owners.
Thorn thinks that the sentiment for Steinbrenner might hurt Ruppert's chances for election.
''He won't go in before Steinbrenner,'' he said, ''because we're in schmaltzville.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Jacob Ruppert, who bought the Yankees in 1915 and made them a dominant franchise, with Manager Joe McCarthy in 1936. (B10)
 The Yankees after winning the 1937 World Series: from left, Manager Joe McCarthy, Joe DiMaggio (seated), the owner Jacob Ruppert, Lou Gehrig and Tony Lazzeri. The Yankees won seven titles in Ruppert's tenure. (PHOTOGRAPH BY ASSOCIATED PRESS) (B12) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BASEBALL TOURNAMENTS (90%); BASEBALL (90%); SPORTS & RECREATION EVENTS (89%); CELEBRITIES (78%); STADIUMS & ARENAS (78%); SPORTS TEAM OWNERSHIP (77%); HISTORY (76%); WORLD WAR II (76%); CABLE TELEVISION (71%); WRITERS (64%); BRANDING (53%)

ORGANIZATION: BOSTON RED SOX (55%)

GEOGRAPHIC: BOSTON, MA, USA (90%) MASSACHUSETTS, USA (90%) UNITED STATES (90%)

LOAD-DATE: July 27, 2010



542 of 785 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 23, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Foreign Desk; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 914 words

HEADLINE: Kosovo's Declaration of Independence Is Within Law, U.N. Rules

BYLINE: By DAN BILEFSKY; Marlise Simons contributed reporting from Paris, and Stephen Castle from Brussels.

 BODY:
PRAGUE -- Kosovo's unilateral declaration of independence from Serbia in 2008 did not violate international law, the United Nations' highest court said Thursday in a ruling that Kosovo heralded as a victory but that legal experts warned could spur separatist movements around the world.
Legal experts said that while the International Court of Justice had ruled that Kosovo's declaration of independence was legal, it had avoided saying that the state of Kosovo was legal under international law, a narrow and carefully calibrated compromise that they said could allow both sides to declare victory in a dispute that remains raw even 11 years after the war there. 
Political analysts said the advisory opinion, passed in a 10-to-4 vote by the court judges, is likely to spur other countries to recognize Kosovo's independence. Of the 192 countries in the United Nations General Assembly, so far only 69, including the United States and a majority of European Union nations, have recognized Kosovo.
Reading the nonbinding opinion, whose political consequences could reverberate far beyond Kosovo, Hisashi Owada, president of the International Court of Justice, said that international law contained no ''prohibition on declarations of independence'' and consequently that Kosovo's declaration ''did not violate international law.''
Kosovo's ethnic Albanian leadership welcomed the court's decision.
''This is a great day for Kosovo, and my message to the government of Serbia is, 'Come and talk to us,' '' Kosovo's foreign minister, Skender Hyseni, said after leaving the court, The Associated Press reported.
But Serbia was adamant that it would never recognize what it had previously called a false state, while Russia, one of its staunchest allies, insisted that the court's decision did not provide a legal basis for Kosovo's independence.
The Serbian foreign minister, Vuk Jeremic, said the ruling could make separatist movements elsewhere ''tempted to write declarations of independence.''
The State Department said the ruling was ''a judgment we support,'' according to The Associated Press. ''Now it is time for Europe to unite behind a common future.''
James Ker-Lindsay, a Balkan expert at the London School of Economics, said the court had trod carefully in weighing the right of a people to self-determination over the right of a sovereign state to territorial integrity, and had decided to sidestep the issue altogether.
''It has essentially said that Kosovo's legitimacy will be conferred by the countries that recognize it rather than by the court,'' he said.
Kosovo's declaration of independence from Serbia on Feb. 17, 2008, marked the culmination of a showdown between Serbia and the West in which the United States and a majority of European nations said Serbia's violent repression of Kosovo's majority ethnic Albanians under a former Serbian president, Slobodan Milosevic, had forfeited Serbia's right to rule the territory.
Serbia and its ally Russia countered that the declaration of independence by Kosovo was a reckless breach of international law that would inspire separatists everywhere. Last year, the United Nations General Assembly, at Serbia's urging, referred Kosovo's declaration to the court, based in The Hague. Hearings began in December.
Analysts said that the legal legitimacy conferred on the independence declaration by the court could have profound consequences for global geopolitics by potentially being seized upon by secessionist movements in places as diverse as northern Cyprus, Somaliland, Nagorno-Karabakh, South Ossetia, Abkhazia and Transnistria.
But legal experts stressed that the court's studious avoidance of ruling on the legal status of Kosovo as a state had been calculated to avoid encouraging nationalist movements and left the issue of a territory's independence at the discretion of the countries that chose to recognize it.
''The court invariably is very prudent and avoids making political decisions,'' said Bert Barnhoorn, an expert at the Asser Institute for International Law, a policy organization in The Hague.
The panel's judges -- split almost evenly between countries that have recognized Kosovo's independence and those that have not -- have a history of narrow and conservative judgments.
Major European powers and the United States have been at pains to characterize Kosovo as a special case that should not serve as a precedent for other groups hoping to declare independence. But in hearings last December in The Hague, Spain, Russia and China -- all of which face secessionist movements in their own borders -- argued forcefully that Kosovo should remain a part of Serbia. China was so impassioned that it made its first oral pleading to the court since the 1960s.
''If the I.C.J. opinion establishes a new principle, an entire process of creating new states would open throughout the world, something that would destabilize many regions of the world,'' President Boris Tadic of Serbia told the Tanjug news agency before the ruling.
Mr. Milosevic, the former Serbian leader, revoked Kosovo's autonomy in 1989 and fiercely repressed ethnic Albanians, who make up most of its population. Some turned to armed rebellion. NATO intervened in 1999 to halt Mr. Milosevic's violent response to the rebels. After the war ended, the United Nations administered Kosovo for eight years, during which time it lingered in a legal limbo. After the failure of a negotiated settlement, Kosovo unilaterally declared independence in February 2008.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Kosovo Albanian children played on a bridge dividing the Serbian north and the Albanian south of the ethnically divided city of Mitrovica on Thursday. (PHOTOGRAPH BY LAURA BOUSHNAK/AGENCE FRANCE-PRESSE -- GETTY IMAGES)
 Passengers waved the United States, Kosovo and British flags in Pristina on Thursday after the U.N. upheld Kosovo's declaration of independence. (PHOTOGRAPH BY HAZIR REKA/REUTERS) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: SEPARATISM & SECESSION (93%); INTERNATIONAL LAW (92%); UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (91%); DECISIONS & RULINGS (90%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (90%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (90%); INTERNATIONAL COURTS & TRIBUNALS (90%); SETTLEMENTS & DECISIONS (89%); FOREIGN RELATIONS (89%); STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (89%); POLITICS (74%); EUROPEAN UNION (74%); JUDGES (73%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (69%); BUSINESS EDUCATION (65%)

ORGANIZATION: UNITED NATIONS (94%); UNITED NATIONS INTERNATIONAL COURT OF JUSTICE (84%); EUROPEAN UNION (56%)

GEOGRAPHIC: SERBIA (99%); KOSOVO (95%); EUROPE (93%); SERBIA & MONTENEGRO (93%); NETHERLANDS (93%); ALBANIA (93%); UNITED STATES (93%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: July 23, 2010



543 of 785 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 23, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 12

LENGTH: 1010 words

HEADLINE: Pet Owners, Squeezed by Oil Spill, Turn to Shelters

BYLINE: By LIZ ROBBINS

 BODY:
VIOLET, La. -- The trail of oil has invaded the marshes of St. Bernard Parish, seeping into the psyche of fishermen and flowing into the overcrowded shelter at the St. Bernard Parish Animal Services where Sasha, Melodie and Benny pace their cages awaiting adoption.
Here, the outcry over the spill -- barking, whimpering and mewing -- amounts to little more than muted protest. 
Since the BP oil disaster began, overwhelmed pet owners in coastal parishes, notably St. Bernard, and to a lesser degree, Plaquemines, have been dropping off their pets in droves. Some hand them over tearfully, others matter of factly.
''I think about how one day these animals are happy and go to sleep, and then the next day they wake up in a cage wondering, 'Hey, what's going on?' '' said Mary Gambill, 54, of Luling, La., who drove an hour south to St. Bernard to adopt Andrea, a yellow Lab whose ribs poked through her sickly coat.
''These aren't just scroungy dogs on the side of the road,'' Ms. Gambill said. ''These are pets.''
Some owners told the shelter's director, Beth Brewster, that they had to downsize to apartments that do not accept animals. Others said they were too busy cleaning the spill to properly care for them. Few people, however, are willing to admit that they cannot feed both family and pet.
''I think it's the uncertainty of the future,'' Ms. Brewster said. ''It's more logistics than it is poverty.''
In a proud parish where three dollar stores operate between shopping centers shuttered five years after Katrina, and where residents wait six hours for $100 food cards distributed weekly by Catholic Charities, the animal shelter's statistics reflect the jarring anxiety of the oil-ravaged economy.
In June 2009, owners brought 17 pets in to the shelter; last month, owners relinquished more than 100 pets, Ms. Brewster said. To make room in the kennels, the sickest animals and those most unlikely to be adopted -- primarily feral cats and aggressive dogs -- have been euthanized, she said.
The situation is different than after Hurricane Katrina in 2005, when owners abandoned their pets in haste, and later out of necessity when they themselves had no homes. Then, overcrowded shelters focused on rescue and reunion missions.
Now agencies like the Louisiana Society for the Prevention of Cruelty to Animals and the Humane Society of the United States are trying to ease the overcrowding by arranging adoptions with shelters throughout the country and by offering free veterinary services and pet food so owners can keep their pets.
''Once they get through our door, they've already gone through the emotions of grief in giving up their pet,'' said Jacob Stroman, director for the Plaquemines Animal Welfare Society, which has a policy of noneuthanization.
The mission, he said, is to reach owners before they turn to shelters as a last resort.
At St. Bernard Catholic Church on Tuesday, Thomas Lopez, 65, and his companion, Vera Kerschner, 48, carried away a 17.6-pound bag of Kibbles 'n Bits for their Chihuahua, Shelby.
''She's eating better than we are,'' Mr. Lopez, an unemployed fisherman, said with a laugh.
The couple was taking advantage of the Louisiana S.P.C.A.'s Gulf Coast Companion Animal Relief Program, which in its first week gave out 377 bags of dog food to owners who could prove a connection to the fishing industry, said Ana Zorrilla, the group's chief executive.
The program received a $100,000 grant from the A.S.P.C.A. and approximately $100,000 in private donations, while Del Monte donated 41,000 pounds of dog food.
On Thursday, Catholic Charities' distribution day in Plaquemines Parish, James Bennett, 43, a commercial fisherman now mowing lawns, signed up for veterinary services offered by the S.P.C.A. in New Orleans.
He will bring his whole brood -- six cats and seven dogs -- the 75 miles north from Venice, La., for their appointments next month. Mr. Bennett, who said he easily spends $350 a month on pet food, wonders, however, whether the oil spill has given owners a convenient excuse.
''I don't buy that -- they're giving up their dogs because they can't feed them?'' Mr. Bennett said at St. Patrick Church in Port Sulphur, La. ''I just think they are trying to get rid of them.''
Billy Nungesser, the outspoken president of Plaquemines Parish who owns seven dogs, including one he rescued from Katrina, instituted a parish pet food giveaway every two weeks.
''With all the stress and frustration and worrying about getting your job back, that pet keeps you sane and can help you get through that,'' Mr. Nungesser said in an interview.
Nonetheless, he said some owners had confided in him that they have had ''to choose between their kids and their pets.''
For Lena Nguyen, holding her 14-year-old Husky-Shepherd mix, Keno, by the leash, there is no choice.
''I'm broke,'' Ms. Nguyen said at St. Patrick Church on Wednesday, ''but if you give me $100,000, a million dollars, and tell me to trade Keno, thank you very much, I'll be poor, but I'll be happy.
''Keno is my heart, my everything.''
In the beginning of the disaster, animal shelter directors along the coast gathered in Port Sulphur for BP training on how to treat oily birds; no one expected cats and dogs to feel the brunt of the spill, too.
Ms. Brewster and Mr. Stroman, the shelter directors, have been encouraged by the response to the plight. One California woman last week mailed six cans of cat food to Mr. Stroman's shelter.
A couple from Hopedale (they declined to give their name) were delighted to adopt two azure-eyed Siamese kittens at St. Bernard. The woman, who said she had just been diagnosed with lymphoma, wanted company while her husband was out skimming oil for BP.
The St. Bernard shelter had a temporary reprieve this week after 30 small- and medium-sized dogs were taken to be transported to a shelter in Houston on Friday. Another five dogs, including Sasha, a retriever mix, were flown to a shelter in Lakeland, Fla., also on Friday.
The uglier, larger or heartworm-positive dogs, like the Labrador brothers, Rock and Rocker, were left behind. Again.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Lena Nguyen picked up free food for her dog Keno from the Louisiana S.P.C.A. through Catholic Charities in Port Sulphur.
 Dogs crowd the no-kill shelter PAWS (Plaquemines Animal Welfare Society), in the aftermath of the oil spill in Belle Chasse, La. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY CHERYL GERBER FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PETS (92%); DOGS (90%); OIL SPILLS (90%); OIL & GAS ACCIDENTS (90%); ANIMALS (90%); HURRICANE KATRINA (89%); ANIMAL WELFARE (89%); CATHOLICS & CATHOLICISM (78%); VETERINARY SERVICES (77%); PET FOODS (77%); CATS (77%); HURRICANES (72%); RELIEF ORGANIZATIONS (71%); POVERTY & HOMELESSNESS (64%); RETAILERS (63%); CHARITIES (62%); RELIGION (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: LOUISIANA, USA (93%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: July 23, 2010



544 of 785 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 23, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1518 words

HEADLINE: Awash in Oil, Awaiting a Pipeline

BYLINE: By ANDREW E. KRAMER

 BODY:
ATYRAU, Kazakhstan -- Even as the petroleum industry continues drilling in the Gulf of Mexico at considerable expense and risk, a single field here in Central Asia stands ready to produce two-thirds as much oil each day as the entire gulf does, with less danger to the environment.
But 30 years after its discovery, this field, known as the Tengiz, is still running at only about half speed. Blame geopolitics, not geology.
The problem with the Tengiz field, whose lead operator is the American company Chevron, is not a matter of extracting the oil. More than 100 working wells have already been successfully drilled into the scrub brush desert of western Kazakhstan, near the Caspian Sea. 
The challenge is getting the oil to the market.
The Tengiz field, one of the world's largest known petroleum reservoirs, is tied to a 935-mile pipeline to the Black Sea that the Russian government has declined for years to expand. That refusal has held even though Chevron is a minority partner in the Russian-led pipeline, the Caspian Pipeline Consortium, or C.P.C., which agreed a dozen years ago to more than double its carrying capacity when demand required.
As a result, instead of the 600,000 barrels a day from the Tengiz field that the planners had envisioned by now, Chevron has been limited to pumping about 420,000 barrels through the C.P.C. pipeline to the Black Sea -- the nearest entry point to international sea lanes. And Chevron has held off on further production investment that would raise the daily total to about a million barrels. (By comparison, the Gulf of Mexico's daily output is about 1.5 million barrels.)
For now, some of the Tengiz oil that cannot be accommodated by the pipeline moves via a costly bucket brigade of ships on the Caspian and overland railway tankers to the Black Sea. The effort has required Chevron to become Kazakhstan's largest railroad operator.
''If Chevron had our way and everything worked beautifully, we would have C.P.C. expanded five years ago,'' said Guy Hollingsworth, managing director for Chevron in Europe and Asia, referring to the pipeline.
But Chevron does not decide. As the pipeline's controlling partner, Russia has declined to expand it while trying to line up investors and international rights-of-way for a second, separate pipeline that would provide the next leg of the oil's journey by an overland link between the Black Sea and the Mediterranean.
Besides further controlling the transport of oil in the region, Russia is seeking to bypass shipping through the Bosporus Straits in Turkey, the typical passage out of the Black Sea, which is a potential bottleneck already operating at full capacity for oil tankers. Russian pipeline negotiations have long been led by the former president and now prime minister, Vladimir V. Putin, who has taken a keen personal interest in Eurasian energy politics.
The standoff over the C.P.C. expansion is a reminder that while environmental concerns pose a big risk to oil production in the United States and its waters, global politics can pose their own business risks to the industry.
In the years immediately after the breakup of the Soviet Union, many in the industry hoped the Caspian region could become a second Persian Gulf, lifting the fortunes of companies and countries and helping shift world oil supplies away from the Middle East.
The Caspian basin ''has been a success, but it hasn't lived up to the exaggerated expectations,'' Svante E. Cornell, research director for the Central Asia-Caucasus Institute at the School for Advanced International Studies at Johns Hopkins University, said.
''One of the problems has been the Russian government's unwillingness to expand the flow of oil,'' Mr. Cornell said.
Chevron is hardly the only company in the Caspian region plagued with transportation woes. Finding an outlet to world markets is a consuming headache of all the companies working in this foreboding, landlocked oil basin in Central Asia.
The operator of a separate, gigantic Caspian oil field -- a group whose partners include Exxon Mobil, Shell, ConocoPhillips, Total and Eni -- has yet to negotiate a suitable route for exports. Neither has BP, which is managing a major gas field in this region.
By comparison, Chevron's troubles are more subtle. The Tengiz field is productive and profitable, but is not yielding nearly as much oil and money as it could be. Chevron executives emphasize, too, that while exports by rail are more expensive, there is value in having a diversified transportation system.
Chevron won the Tengiz contract in 1993, signing a deal with Kazakhstan's government, whose national oil company has a minority stake in the investor group developing the field. (Besides Chevron, with its 50 percent stake, Exxon Mobil and the Russian oil company Lukoil are also shareholders.)
Despite the state oil company's involvement, the group is periodically squeezed by the Kazakh government for additional taxes and fines to prop up the national budget -- something that became more common during the recession. Just this month, for example, Kazakh authorities announced a new export tax of $2.73 a barrel, which will cost Chevron and its partners $1.6 million a day. The government also said it was conducting an investigation into illegal drilling, which could bring huge fines. The consortium has denied it deviated from the state-approved drilling plan.
Back in the mid-'90s, a plan took shape for an overland pipeline through Russia to the port of Novorossiysk on the eastern shore of the Black Sea. From there it could move by tanker ships, either to other Black Sea countries or, in most cases, through the Bosporus Straits in Turkey, down to the Mediterranean and from there, various ports around the world.
Under a 1998 deal, the Russian government agreed to the pipeline's being built in two phases. -- the first, at a capacity of 650,000 barrels a day. The second phase would more than double it to exceed 1.4 million barrels a day ''when shareholder forecasts required the capacity,'' according to a C.P.C. fact sheet.
Phase 1 was completed in October 2001. Phase 2, despite pent-up demand by Chevron and its partners, has yet to begin.
On the basis of the 1990s-era pipeline plans, the Chevron group invested hundreds of millions of dollars drilling wells and bringing them online. The even bigger expense, though, was constructing massive multibillion-dollar processing plants to remove the lethally poisonous hydrogen sulfide gas from the petroleum to make it fit for sale on the global market. Six such plants are now up and running.
The last to be built, at a cost of $7.4 billion, is a behemoth of pipes and tanks that, in a recent visit here, shimmered in the desert heat and occasionally issued a hissing burst of flame from one of its towers. The complex separates oil from vast quantities of hydrogen sulfide, then re-injects some of the gas into the earth. It is so huge that at one point during construction, completed two years ago, 18,000 laborers were clambering over the sand, welding and hammering it all together.
Yet even before the plant was finished, Chevron learned that the pipeline expansion, which would enable the company to export the plant's output -- 285,000 barrels of processed oil per day -- would not be done in time.
As Russia has sought investors for the second pipeline, analysts say it needs to promise that there will be enough oil running through it to justify the cost of construction. Chevron's Tengiz oil has thus became one of its negotiating chips.
Chevron has already agreed to use this second pipeline. But determining the route has become a matter of international negotiations.
Russia initially proposed running it from the Bulgarian Black Sea port of Burgas to the Greek city of Alexandroupolis. But after a change in Bulgaria's government soured relations with Russia, the focus shifted to running a pipeline across Turkey instead -- stretching from the Black Sea port of Samsun to the Mediterranean port of Ceyhan. Various oil companies are now in talks about ensuring supplies for that pipeline.
Mikhail V. Barkov, a spokesman for Transneft, Russia's state pipeline company, said the government never formally linked expansion of the C.P.C. pipeline to a favorable resolution of this second pipeline plan. It was only a factor among several, he said.
In any case, Russian officials now say a final decision on the timing of the C.P.C. pipeline expansion will come in the fall. Ian MacDonald, Chevron's vice president for transportation in Europe and the Middle East, said contracts for the pipeline expansion work were already being negotiated.
When the pipeline expansion is approved, he said, Chevron will commit to additional work on the Tengiz field to elevate its output close to a million barrels of oil a day.
But meanwhile, Chevron's Tengiz field is not living up to its potential.
No new wells are being drilled here. And of the 107 prolific wells already in place, nine are simply left idle. Their stubby pipes protrude from the sand, covered in valves and gauges, like the tips of long straws, waiting to suck up the oil underneath.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: PLENTY OF CRUDE: The Tengiz oil field in Kazakhstan could produce a million barrels a day, but politics is blocking needed transportation. (PHOTOGRAPH BY VIKTOR KOROTAYEV FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES)(B1)
 The Tengiz field in Kazakhstan has been operating at half capacity because the Russian government has not cooperated with pipeline expansion agreements made by Chevron 12 years ago. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY VIKTOR KOROTAYEV FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES, LEFT, AND CHEVRON) (B4) MAP: Map showing the Caspian Pipeline Consortium 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PETROLEUM PRODUCTS (90%); PETROLEUM & COAL PRODUCTS MFG (89%); OIL & GAS MARINE TANKERS (89%); MARINE TANKERS (89%); PIPELINE TRANSPORTATION (78%); CRUDE OIL PIPELINES (78%); OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (78%); LAKES (77%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (73%); GEOLOGY & GEOPHYSICS (71%); PRIME MINISTERS (68%); BULK SHIPPING (58%)

PERSON: VLADIMIR PUTIN (52%)

GEOGRAPHIC: ATLANTIC OCEAN (94%); GULF OF MEXICO (93%); CASPIAN SEA (79%); MEDITERRANEAN SEA (79%) RUSSIAN FEDERATION (95%); KAZAKHSTAN (94%); ASIA (93%); CENTRAL ASIA (92%); EUROPE (79%); MEDITERRANEAN (79%); TURKEY (79%); UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: July 24, 2010



545 of 785 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 23, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 19

LENGTH: 443 words

HEADLINE: Economists Say Slump Has Ended In the City

BYLINE: By PATRICK McGEEHAN

 BODY:
New York City is gradually recovering from a deep but surprisingly short recession that ended in November, but its manufacturing industries are not pitching in by adding jobs, economists from the Federal Reserve Bank of New York said Thursday. 
The economists said it was now clear that the recession in the city that started in May 2008 ended in November 2009, a span of about 18 months. By their definition, the local recession was shorter than the national recession, which began in December 2007 and most likely ended in late summer 2009, though its end has not officially been pinpointed.
William C. Dudley, the president and chief executive of the New York Fed, said economic activity in the city and state had ''expanded at a relatively brisk pace since the beginning of the year.'' Mr. Dudley added, however, that a slowdown in hiring in June indicated that ''the recovery is likely to be a bit bumpy.''
Still, compared with the national economy, the city has rebounded faster than in past recessions.
Jason Bram, a senior economist with the New York Fed, said that after the last two deep recessions, the city's recovery did not begin for a year or more after the national economy began to grow again.
''This one appears to have been shallower and shorter than the last ones,'' Mr. Bram said.
By some measures, the city has been more resilient then the rest of the metropolitan region. The number of private-sector jobs in the city was higher in June than it had been a year before, while the rest of the state and New Jersey both had lower job counts over the year. The city's unemployment rate of 9.5 percent remains as high as the nation's and much higher than in the rest of New York State, the economists noted.
New Jersey appears to have stopped weakening, but there are few signs of a rebound, the economists said.
One bright spot in New Jersey has been private-sector job growth in the northern counties closest to New York. Another has been the state's manufacturing sector, where the number of jobs increased by 1.3 percent from May to June -- about twice as fast as manufacturing jobs grew nationally. The opposite has been true in New York State, where manufacturing jobs increased just 0.2 percent this spring.
Another troubling signal for job-seekers came from the New York Fed's latest survey of manufacturers in the state. Most of the respondents said they did not think that the level of general business activity was any better in July than it had been in June.
Even worse was that, on average, they said that they expected their sales to be 8 percent higher this year than last year, but that they did not expect to increase employment at all.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC NEWS (91%); RECESSION (91%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (90%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (90%); JOB CREATION (90%); MANUFACTURING SECTOR PERFORMANCE (89%); MANUFACTURING OUTPUT (89%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (77%); EMPLOYMENT SEARCH (72%); POLLS & SURVEYS (70%); EXECUTIVES (70%)

COMPANY: FEDERAL RESERVE BANK OF NEW YORK (96%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS521110 MONETARY AUTHORITIES - CENTRAL BANK (96%); SIC6011 FEDERAL RESERVE BANKS (96%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (90%) NEW YORK, USA (95%); NEW JERSEY, USA (93%) UNITED STATES (95%)

LOAD-DATE: July 23, 2010



546 of 785 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 23, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 12

LENGTH: 755 words

HEADLINE: Official Denies BP Put Cost Ahead of Safety at Oil Rig

BYLINE: By ROBBIE BROWN

 BODY:
KENNER, La. -- Government investigators on Thursday pressed a BP official who supervised the Deepwater Horizon about whether the company took shortcuts to save money and time by selecting riskier equipment at the oil rig.
The official, John Guide, the well team leader, denied that BP had chosen a potentially risky type of well casing over more traditional equipment because it would save the company three days and $7 million to $10 million.
''It just happened to be a case where it also saved money,'' Mr. Guide said. The casing's lower cost played no role in the decision, he said, even though the company considered it the ''best economic case.'' 
The federal panel investigating the causes of the rig explosion that resulted in the Gulf of Mexico oil spill has focused this week on whether financial calculations may have trumped safety considerations in the weeks before the disaster. When the rig exploded April 20, BP was 43 days behind schedule, costing the company about $1 million a day in rig rental rates, company officials say.
At the end of the hearings, the panel announced that two BP officials had been named ''parties of interest,'' making them potential targets of the investigation. The two men, Robert Kaluza, the well site manager on the rig, and Patrick O'Bryan, the vice president for drilling and completions, are the first individuals to be named from BP. They could not be reached for comment.
Also on Thursday, the widow of one of the 11 rig workers killed in the explosion testified that her husband had felt pressure to continue drilling for oil despite frequent equipment malfunctions and setbacks. The widow, Natalie Roshto, said her husband, Shane Roshto, a 22-year-old roustabout for Transocean, the rig's owner, expressed grave concerns about work conditions before his death.
''From Day 1, he deemed this the well from hell,'' Ms. Roshto said. ''He said Mother Nature just didn't want to be drilled here.''
Her testimony before the six-member panel in this suburb of New Orleans reinforced a growing perception that workers were concerned about the rig's safety standards. Ms. Roshto said her husband had not expressed similar concerns about other wells.
A confidential survey of rig workers conducted a month before the disaster showed that many were distressed about safety conditions and feared reprisals if they reported mistakes or other problems. The survey, commissioned by Transocean and obtained by The New York Times, said workers ''often saw unsafe behaviors on the rig.''
''For our men to be there drilling and their lives to be put under business interests, that's what I want to stress,'' said Ms. Roshto, who has also testified before Congressional investigators. ''I don't think we need to make any more safety rules. I think they need to be implemented harder for our men who work out there.''
Mr. Guide testified that workers were aware of a leak on a critical safety valve on emergency equipment. He said that the leak was detected in February and March and was repaired. But the equipment failed to activate after the explosion.
Investigators raised questions about BP's choice of the less-expensive casing. ''Is it true that decisions were made based on cost savings?'' asked Jason Mathews, a member of the federal Bureau of Ocean Energy Management, Regulation and Enforcement, which is overseeing the hearings along with the Coast Guard.
''The culture is that safety is the priority,'' Mr. Guide said.
''Culture is one thing,'' said Capt. Hung Nguyen of the Coast Guard, who is chairman of the panel. Enforcement, he added, ''is another thing.''
But Mr. Guide assigned blame to Transocean, which leased the rig to BP and employed most of its workers. ''We had faith that Transocean was attempting to maintain a safe ship,'' he said.
Captain Nguyen dismissed the answer. ''In the military, we often say hope is not a plan,'' he said. ''It seems like faith is not a very good business decision here.''
It also emerged at the hearings that a top BP official on the rig had expressed concerns about how workers were planning to close the well safely. The official, Mr. Kaluza, the well site leader, said after the disaster that he believed that workers might have taken unusual steps, including combining a safety test with the displacement of protective drilling solution, ''to save time.''
''Don't know why,'' Mr. Kaluza said, according to a BP document quoted by a lawyer for one of the rig workers. ''Maybe trying to save time. At the end of the well, sometimes they think about speeding up.''

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: OIL SPILLS (90%); OIL EXTRACTION (90%); 2010 GULF COAST OIL SPILL (90%); INVESTIGATIONS (89%); OIL & GAS ACCIDENTS (89%); DELAYS & POSTPONEMENTS (76%); WORKPLACE ACCIDENTS (74%); WORKPLACE HEALTH & SAFETY (73%); ACCIDENTAL FATALITIES (73%); POLLS & SURVEYS (63%)

COMPANY: BP PLC (91%)

TICKER: BP (NYSE) (91%); BP (LSE) (91%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS447110 GASOLINE STATIONS WITH CONVENIENCE STORES (91%); NAICS324110 PETROLEUM REFINERIES (91%); NAICS211111 CRUDE PETROLEUM & NATURAL GAS EXTRACTION (91%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW ORLEANS, LA, USA (79%) LOUISIANA, USA (92%); GULF OF MEXICO (79%); ATLANTIC OCEAN (79%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: July 23, 2010



547 of 785 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 23, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 11

LENGTH: 735 words

HEADLINE: Once in First Place, Americans Now Lag in Attaining College Degrees

BYLINE: By TAMAR LEWIN

 BODY:
Adding to a drumbeat of concern about the nation's dismal college-completion rates, the College Board warned Thursday that the growing gap between the United States and other countries threatens to undermine American economic competitiveness.
The United States used to lead the world in the number of 25- to 34-year-olds with college degrees. Now it ranks 12th among 36 developed nations.
''The growing education deficit is no less a threat to our nation's long-term well-being than the current fiscal crisis,'' Gaston Caperton, the president of the College Board, warned at a meeting on Capitol Hill of education leaders and policy makers, where he released a report detailing the problem and recommending how to fix it. ''To improve our college completion rates, we must think 'P-16' and improve education from preschool through higher education.'' 
While access to college has been the major concern in recent decades, over the last year, college completion, too, has become a leading item on the national agenda. Last July, President Obama announced the American Graduation Initiative, calling for five million more college graduates by 2020, to help the United States again lead the world in educational attainment.
This month, on becoming chairman of the National Governors Association, Gov. Joe Manchin III of West Virginia announced that he would lead a college-completion initiative.
In May, Grantmakers for Education, an organization for those who make gifts to educational programs, convened a group of philanthropists and policy experts to talk about how to bolster college-completion rates.
''We spend a fortune recruiting freshmen but forget to recruit sophomores,'' Michael McPherson, president of the Spencer Foundation, said at the meeting.
In April, Melinda Gates gave a speech at the American Association of Community Colleges convention, urging community college officials to lead the way on college completion and pledging that the Bill and Melinda Gates Foundation would contribute up to $110 million to improve remedial programs, in an effort to increase graduation rates.
''The stars are aligning in a way that gives me some hope,'' said William Kirwan, chancellor of the University System of Maryland, who hosted the Washington discussion along with Mr. Caperton. ''This is a problem that's been around for too long. But now there's beginning to emerge a focus of attention and activity that quite frankly we haven't had till now.''
Mr. Kirwan said that the United States had fallen behind other countries over several decades.
''We led the world in the 1980s, but we didn't build from there,'' he said. ''If you look at people 60 and over, about 39-40 percent have college degrees, and if you look at young people, too, about 39-40 percent have college degrees. Meanwhile, other countries have passed us by.''
Canada now leads the world in educational attainment, with about 56 percent of its young adults having earned at least associate's degrees in 2007, compared with only 40 percent of those in the United States. (The United States' rate has since risen slightly.)
While almost 70 percent of high school graduates in the United States enroll in college within two years of graduating, only about 57 percent of students who enroll in a bachelor's degree program graduate within six years, and fewer than 25 percent of students who begin at a community college graduate with an associate's degree within three years.
The problem is even worse for low-income students and minorities: only 30 percent of African-Americans ages 25-34, and less than 20 percent of Latinos in that age group, have an associate's degree or higher. And students from the highest income families are almost eight times as likely as those from the lowest income families to earn a bachelor's degree by age 24.
The problem begins long before college, according to the report released Thursday.
''You can't address college completion if you don't do something about K-12 education,'' Mr. Kirwan said.
The group's first five recommendations all concern K-12 education, calling for more state-financed preschool programs, better high school and middle school college counseling, dropout prevention programs, an alignment with international curricular standards and improved teacher quality. College costs were also implicated, with recommendations for more need-based financial aid, and further efforts to keep college affordable.

GRAPHIC: MAP: Falling Behind: Other countries have increased the percentage of students attaining college degrees, pulling ahead of the United States, where educational attainment differs by geography, as well as race and ethnicity.
CHARTS (Source: College Board (map)
 National Center for Education Statistics) (A14) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: COLLEGES & UNIVERSITIES (90%); GRADUATION RATES (90%); COMMUNITY COLLEGES (89%); UNIVERSITY ADMINISTRATION (89%); PUBLIC POLICY (89%); FOUNDATIONS (89%); TALKS & MEETINGS (78%); US PRESIDENTS (77%); GOVERNORS (77%); CONFERENCES & CONVENTIONS (74%); CHARITIES (71%); PHILANTHROPY (69%); SECONDARY SCHOOLS (68%)

ORGANIZATION: THE COLLEGE BOARD (91%)

PERSON: MELINDA GATES (58%); BARACK OBAMA (54%); JOE MANCHIN (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: MARYLAND, USA (79%); WEST VIRGINIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (99%)

LOAD-DATE: July 23, 2010



548 of 785 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 23, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; Movies, Performing Arts/Weekend Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1144 words

HEADLINE: Out on New York Harbor, Smooth Sailing and Jazz

BYLINE: By NATE CHINEN

 BODY:
THE waters were placid, the breeze was a balm and the Statue of Liberty was keeping her vigil about a hundred yards aft. Maybe more, maybe less. From the rear deck of the Spirit of New York one recent evening, she seemed plenty close, anyway, and oddly approachable: an onshore well-wisher, watching over the slow pivot that marked the midpoint of our tour. By chance, this was the moment at which the music stopped, and a voice overrode the applause: ''We're going to skip ahead 27 albums and play something new for you.''
That was Jay Beckenstein, the saxophonist and leader of Spyro Gyra, making a segue from ''Shaker Song,'' which opens the band's 1978 debut, into ''Unspoken,'' from an album released last year. We were aboard the Smooth Cruise, now in its 13th year, held each Wednesday through summer's end by Spirit Cruises. Most passengers were inside with the band, closing in on a swatch of dance floor, but the sound was also being piped on deck, where I slouched at a rail. I was having a suspiciously good time. 
Smooth jazz is all about pleasure, but I hadn't expected much. It isn't really my thing, this waxy, wine-lighted catchall genre -- also known by niche-programming terms like urban contemporary, chill and, confusingly, contemporary jazz. Not that I'm inclined to moralize about it; for me, smooth jazz has always been less of an affront than an afterthought, like frozen TV dinners. My fallback strategy is avoidance. So any thoughts of boarding a Smooth Cruise stirred a mild trepidation, along with a milder enthusiasm.
The enthusiasm was almost conceptual, rooted in the elegance of the pairing. I mean, Smooth Cruise: the two words seem meant for each other. Both cruises and smooth jazz hold the promise of a passive indulgence, of kicking back and letting go.
Not surprisingly, the luxury cruise industry is on top of this, with big-ticket enticements like the Smooth Jazz Cruise, which pokes around the Caribbean in January, and Dave Koz & Friends at Sea, off the Alaskan coast in August. ''The absolute finest in lifestyle entertainment,'' pledges Mr. Koz, the saxophonist, in an online mission statement; his weeklong cruise features himself, along with the likes of Kirk Whalum and Mindi Abair.
A more modest experience is proffered by Spirit Cruises, and a lesser commitment is required. The Smooth Cruise in New York runs a brisk two hours; a pair of tickets for the ''sunset'' outing was $82.72, but taxes and fees bring them to just over $100. (A ''moonlight'' option, the equivalent of a second set, is the same price.) A dinner buffet and drinks are optional.
And the Smooth Cruise, organized by Smooth Jazz New York, a subsidiary of Marquee Concerts, doesn't skimp on headliners. Next week's cruise will feature Pieces of a Dream, a band whose track record runs nearly as far back as Spyro Gyra's. Mr. Whalum will appear on Aug. 11, as one of the saxophonists in a popular Guitars and Saxes package; Ms. Abair, yet another saxophonist, is scheduled for Aug. 25. The Rippingtons will play the week in between on Aug. 18.
Not all of these artists luxuriate in their smoothness.
''We preceded smooth jazz by nearly a decade,'' Mr. Beckenstein said by phone a couple of days after the cruise. ''We came out of Weather Report and Miles Davis and the fusion movement. And smooth jazz, interestingly enough, was more of a radio format than it was a style of music. A whole generation of artists, especially after the success of Kenny G, was encouraged by record companies to chase the radio format. That's not what we did. So no, I've never considered myself a smooth jazz artist.''
Still, he allowed, Spyro Gyra is booked on the Capital Jazz SuperCruise in October out of Miami, along with Mr. Whalum, George Duke and others.
A similar ambivalence has plagued the smooth jazz economy in recent years. It buckled significantly in 2008, when WQCD-FM, the New York beacon long branded as CD101.9, switched to a rock format, like many other smooth jazz stations across the country. The shift has prompted its share of reflection. Last month Kenny G himself released an album with guest turns by Babyface and Robin Thicke, tactically aligning himself with R&B. The keyboardist Brian Culbertson did much the same on an album released this week. (His guests include Kenny Lattimore and Brian McKnight.)
The Smooth Cruise -- which often sells out its capacity of 600 each on two cruises a night -- is a haven from these market calculations, even though CD101.9 was its title sponsor for years.
''When they changed format -- well, that audience is still there,'' said Bill Zafiros, CD101.9's former event director, now a partner in Marquee Concerts. ''So what we're doing is serving that audience. And they're very passionate about this music.''
My experience confirmed his claim: the base for this particular ''lifestyle entertainment'' is loyal and enthusiastic, as well as ethnically and demographically diverse. While awaiting boarding, at Pier 61 at Chelsea Piers, I encountered only repeat customers, like Cheryl Davis and her husband, Richard, of Brooklyn. They said they hardly missed a Smooth Cruise last summer, and had similar plans for this year. (Another discovery made in line: the Smooth Cruise is partly sponsored by The New York Times, for the second year in a row.)
There are three decks on the Spirit of New York, and during a Smooth Cruise, the second deck is where the musicians set up on the dance floor, along the ship's port side. Seasoned cruisers either scored a spot within several feet of the musicians or made a beeline for the third deck, where a string of coveted tables overlooked the dance floor, as if along a horseshoe balcony.
Others headed straight to the buffet, though I can report that the food, at $19.23 a head (pretax was steam-tray grim, a defeated allotment of leathery prime rib, grayish salmon and congealed mac-and-cheese. Far better to make pre- or post-cruise restaurant reservations, thereby avoiding not only the buffet but also the need for a table.
Freedom to move about the ship is, after all, one thing that distinguishes the Smooth Cruise from a place like the Blue Note, where Spyro Gyra played a weeklong stand last year. Hence the leisurely Statue of Liberty sighting, and a later excursion to the windswept top deck, for a never-gets-old perusal of the Lower Manhattan skyline.
But that was me. Plenty of other patrons stayed put, listening raptly to the band. And as a long, flashy drum solo led inexorably toward the encore -- ''Morning Dance,'' a certifiable smooth-jazz classic, complete with synthesized steel drums -- the dance floor got blissfully crowded, as in the final stretch of a good wedding reception. That glow had barely faded by the time we were back at Pier 61, steeling ourselves for the grit of summer pavement. No doubt some of us were already making plans for next time.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: A smooth jazz cruise on the Spirit of New York approaches the Statue of Liberty. (C1)
The Smooth Cruise in New York books some of the best-known performers in jazz, like Spyro Gyra, with Julio Fernandez, above.
 A couple hit the dance floor as Spyro Gyra performed on a recent Smooth Cruise. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY JOSH HANER/THE NEW YORK TIMES) (C11) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: JAZZ & BLUES (90%); CRUISES (89%); WIND INSTRUMENTS (89%); MUSIC (76%); MUSIC GROUPS & ARTISTS (76%); MARINE PASSENGER TRANSPORT (73%); VISUAL & PERFORMING ARTS (71%); RECORD RELEASES (71%); FROZEN FOODS (69%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (94%); ALASKA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%); CARIBBEAN ISLANDS (79%)

LOAD-DATE: July 23, 2010



549 of 785 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 23, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Sports Desk; ANALYSIS; Pg. 15

LENGTH: 819 words

HEADLINE: Paul to Knicks? Unlikely

BYLINE: By HOWARD BECK

 BODY:
The murmurs and musings have burgeoned into a fully formed, substantive and fascinating drama: Chris Paul, one of the N.B.A.'s top point guards, wants to be traded out of New Orleans.
He has a plan, a list of preferred destinations and a deadline: opening night of 2010. The Summer of LeBron could soon give way to the Fall of Paul.
As a storyline, Paul's restlessness could dominate the rest of an already-dizzying N.B.A. off-season. In reality, nothing is likely to happen anytime soon, if at all. 
Paul, 25, is under contract for two more seasons and holds an option for the 2012-13 season. He has no way to force a trade, nor can he threaten to sit out games without forfeiting his salary. If he takes his trade demands public, the N.B.A. will fine him.
Because Paul cannot become a free agent until 2012, the Hornets have no urgent reason to deal him until at least next summer. By then, a new collective bargaining agreement could completely change the N.B.A. landscape.
In the meantime, the Hornets' front office -- led by the new general manager Dell Demps and the new coach Monty Williams -- should have ample opportunities to reshape the roster and perhaps persuade Paul to stay.
Paul's discontent has been a poorly kept secret in league circles. But the extent of his escape plan was not clear until CBSSports.com laid out the details Wednesday night. According to the report, which cited unnamed sources, Paul wants to play with another superstar and was emboldened by the newly formed LeBron James-Dwyane Wade-Chris Bosh partnership in Miami.
Paul reportedly wants out immediately and wants to land with the Knicks, the Orlando Magic or the Los Angeles Lakers. Subsequent reports by The Times-Picayune of New Orleans and ESPN listed the Knicks, the Magic, the Portland Trail Blazers and the Dallas Mavericks as the preferred destinations, with the Knicks ranking first, according to ESPN.
The Times-Picayune quoted a person close to Paul saying that no trade demand had been made.
The Knicks have some decent assets -- Danilo Gallinari, Anthony Randolph and Eddy Curry's expiring contract -- but probably do not have the right combination to make a direct trade for Paul.
It bears noting that Paul has no power to choose his destination. His contract does not include a no-trade clause (they are rare in the N.B.A.), which means he has no veto power. The Hornets would therefore be free to make the best deal for themselves, irrespective of Paul's wishes.
It is also unlikely that the Hornets' new management team would begin its tenure by trading Paul, a perennial All-Star and the face of the franchise. This is Demps's first job running a team, but he spent five years with the San Antonio Spurs, studying under some of the sharpest executives in the league.
Demps was just hired on Wednesday and has not yet had the chance to sit down with Paul and lay out his vision for the team. That meeting is expected to take place next week.
That Paul is trying to follow James's blueprint is not entirely surprising. The two are friends and they share the same agent, Leon Rose, and management team, LRMR -- the company founded by James and his friend Maverick Carter. Paul signed up with Rose and LRMR earlier this month after severing ties with Octagon.
On Thursday, as news of Paul's trade desires spread, James weighed in via his Twitter account, saying, ''Best of luck to my brother @oneandonlycp3. Do what's best for You and your family.''
The Hornets won a franchise-record 56 games and made the Western Conference semifinals in 2007-8, Paul's third season. They looked like a rising power in the West. But they have been regressing ever since, losing in the first round in 2009 and missing the playoffs in 2010 amid budget concerns and roster chaos. Coach Byron Scott, who was close to Paul, was fired last November.
Paul played just 45 games last season because of injury. In his absence, the rookie Darren Collison played like a star, which only made a Paul trade seem more likely.
The Hornets are handicapped by a small market and a poor local economy, and their ownership is in flux, with the owner George Shinn in negotiations to sell majority interest to his partner, Gary Chouest.
Amid the murmurings and the rumors, there is encouragement for the Knicks -- even if Paul never comes to New York.
By naming the Knicks, even privately, Paul has validated their rebuilding effort and their hope of becoming a desirable destination for star players. For most of the last decade, the Knicks were regarded as more dysfunctional and hopeless than the Hornets are now.
But the recent signing of Amar'e Stoudemire has changed perceptions and given every N.B.A. star a reason to take notice. In a toast at Carmelo Anthony's wedding, Paul even joked about the idea of a Stoudemire-Anthony-Paul partnership in New York.
The wedding guests chuckled. It was a far-fetched fantasy. But not as laughable as it once might have seemed.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO:Chris Paul, right, facing Larry Hughes and the Knicks last season, reportedly wants to play at Madison Square Garden. (PHOTOGRAPH BY AVI GERVER FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News Analysis

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BASKETBALL (90%); SPORTS (88%); SPORTS & RECREATION (88%); COLLECTIVE BARGAINING AGREEMENTS (70%); LABOR UNIONS (68%); COLLECTIVE BARGAINING (52%)

ORGANIZATION: NEW YORK NICKERBOCKERS (91%); CHARLOTTE HORNETS (83%)

PERSON: LEBRON JAMES (56%)

GEOGRAPHIC: LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (70%); MIAMI, FL, USA (53%) CALIFORNIA, USA (70%); FLORIDA, USA (53%) UNITED STATES (70%)

LOAD-DATE: July 23, 2010



550 of 785 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 23, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 537 words

HEADLINE: U.P.S., Citing a Strong Performance, Raises Outlook

BYLINE: By SUSANNA KIM

 BODY:
United Parcel Service, the package delivery company, said Thursday that its second-quarter net income increased 90 percent and raised its earnings outlook for the year, citing encouraging indications of future global trade. 
Increases in its international business, particularly from Asia, raised the volume of its export shipments by 15 percent.
''Our approach to international expansion using alliances, service partners and acquisitions has proved to be successful,'' the chief executive, D. Scott Davis, said during a conference call with analysts. The company had an overall 7 percent increase in its revenue per freight piece because of heavier average shipment weight, higher prices and fuel surcharge increases.
Mr. Davis said that despite expectations for a slow recovery in the United States and the uncertain economic outlook in Europe, ''we are more confident than we were earlier in the year in U.P.S.'s ability to grow and generate substantial profits.''
The company raised its forecast for full-year profit to a range of $3.35 to $3.45 a share from the outlook of $3.05 to $3.30 a share it forecast with its first-quarter results.
Analysts said the improved forecast was a factor in a rally in its stock price, which rose $3.14, or 5.2 percent, to $63.15 a share.
The company reported net income of $845 million, or 84 cents a share, in the quarter, up from $445 million, or 49 cents a share, a year earlier.
Second-quarter revenue was $12.2 billion, up from $10.8 billion.
Income per share was better than the 77 cents a share forecast by analysts surveyed by Thomson Reuters, and revenue topped the forecast of $11.96 billion.
While U.P.S. reported an improvement in all business segments, including a 57 percent increase in its domestic segment operating profit to $748 million, its average daily package volume increased only 1.2 percent.
''We are not yet where we need to be, but we are moving in the right direction,'' Mr. Davis said about domestic segment profit, which was hurt in part by a decline in its letter delivery business.
Kurt Kuehn, the chief financial officer, attributed the decline in domestic letter deliveries in part to fewer new-home sales and mortgage refinancings. Kevin W. Sterling, transportation services analyst with BB&T Capital Markets, said time-sensitive financial and legal documents in those areas were a large component of next-day letter delivery.
Mr. Sterling said U.P.S. and FedEx, which announced its fourth-quarter profit last month, presented similar outlooks for modest global economic growth, driven in part by Asia. Analysts follow the two companies, which survey customer shipping needs, as a proxy for overall economic health.
''If you're looking to gauge the global and domestic economy, look no further than U.P.S. and FedEx,'' Mr. Sterling said.
While Mr. Davis said he anticipated a business-led recovery, Mr. Sterling said he would be cautiously watching consumer activity around the back-to-school and early holiday seasons.
''Right now they're seeing strong trends, but no one knows what August and September hold,'' said Mr. Sterling. ''If the fall peak shipping season is strong, it usually means retailers are doing a little bit better and consumers are spending.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: U.P.S. reported an improvement in all business segments, including a 57 percent increase in domestic operating profit. (PHOTOGRAPH BY KEVORK DJANSEZIAN/GETTY IMAGES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PACKAGE SHIPPING (91%); INTERIM FINANCIAL RESULTS (90%); COURIERS & PACKAGE SERVICES (90%); ANNUAL FINANCIAL RESULTS (90%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (90%); EARNINGS PREANNOUNCEMENTS (90%); COMPANY EARNINGS (90%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (89%); COMPANY PROFITS (89%); FINANCIAL RESULTS (89%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (89%); ECONOMIC NEWS (88%); COMPANY REVENUES (78%); SHIPMENTS (78%); EARNINGS PER SHARE (78%); REAL ESTATE (78%); PRICE INCREASES (78%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (78%); BUSINESS FORECASTS (78%); NEW HOME SALES (78%); GLOBALIZATION (77%); EXPORT TRADE (77%); EMERGING MARKETS (77%); MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (73%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (72%); EXECUTIVES (71%); CONFERENCE CALLS (56%); MORTGAGE REFINANCING (50%)

COMPANY: UNITED PARCEL SERVICE INC (59%)

TICKER: UPS (NYSE) (59%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS541614 PROCESS, PHYSICAL DISTRIBUTION & LOGISTICS CONSULTING SERVICES (59%); NAICS488510 FREIGHT TRANSPORTATION ARRANGEMENT (59%); NAICS484121 GENERAL FREIGHT TRUCKING, LONG-DISTANCE, TRUCKLOAD (59%)

PERSON: D SCOTT DAVIS (79%)

GEOGRAPHIC: EUROPE (79%); UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: July 23, 2010



551 of 785 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 23, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Foreign Desk; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 527 words

HEADLINE: Yemen Clashes Reflect North-South Tensions

BYLINE: By ROBERT F. WORTH; Nasser Arrabyee contributed reporting from Sana, Yemen.

 BODY:
WASHINGTON -- Fighting has flared up across Yemen in recent days, with dozens of pro-government tribesmen killed in clashes with rebels in the north since the weekend, and five soldiers killed in a suspected Qaeda ambush Thursday in the southern province of Shabwa, witnesses and military officials said. 
The violence highlighted the multiple security threats facing Yemen, which drew global attention in December after a failed bombing attempt on a Detroit-bound commercial flight by a young Nigerian man trained by militants from Al Qaeda in Yemen. The United States and other Western countries have pressured Yemen to resolve separate insurgent movements in the north and south to focus more intensively on fighting Al Qaeda.
The government reached a truce with northern Houthi rebels in February, with the rebels agreeing to return detainees, open blocked roads and withdraw from civilian areas. But in recent days, clashes between the rebels and pro-government tribes have snowballed into open warfare, witnesses said. Many in Yemen fear the renewal of a conflict that has raged on and off since 2004.
The violence in the north started to spike last week, when Houthi fighters killed 11 soldiers and tribesmen fighting with the government in the Harf Sufyan area. A Houthi spokesman, Abu Hashem, said the group had fought only government soldiers.
The Houthi conflict has the potential to further destabilize Yemen, because it has sectarian overtones and has already once drawn in Saudi Arabia. The Saudis briefly became involved late last year after Houthi fighters crossed into Saudi territory and killed a Saudi border guard.
Many in the region feared that the conflict would spread, in part because the Houthis belong to an offshoot of Shiite Islam known as Zaydism and have been accused of drawing support from Shiite Iran. Saudi Arabia and other Sunni Arab countries are deeply concerned about Iran's influence in the region, but Iran has denied support for the Houthis, as have Houthi press officers.
Violence also appears to be on the rise in Yemen's south, where the five soldiers were reported killed Thursday morning, and a sixth seriously wounded. Last week, about 20 gunmen assaulted a government security compound in Zinjibar, killing three policemen and wounding 11. Al Qaeda's Arabian branch later claimed credit for the attack.
The attack on Thursday morning also appeared to be the work of Al Qaeda, according to Gen. Ahmed al-Maqdashi, the security chief of the Shabwa province. General Maqdashi added that the attack was carried out in coordination with ''subversive elements,'' official shorthand for the separatist Southern Movement.
The Southern Movement's leaders say they fight for economic justice and reject violence. But the movement is diverse, and some analysts said they feared that fringe elements may be collaborating with Al Qaeda.
The movement emerged three years ago with demonstrations by military retirees demanding that their pensions be paid. Since then, most members have started demanding secession from the north. North and south Yemen were separate countries before 1990. The north put down a rebellion by southerners in 1994.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ARMED FORCES (90%); TERRORISM (90%); REBELLIONS & INSURGENCIES (90%); AL-QAEDA (89%); TERRORIST ORGANIZATIONS (89%); MUSLIMS & ISLAM (89%); MILITARY BENEFITS (77%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (77%); SEPARATISM & SECESSION (77%); EYEWITNESSES (77%); SOCIAL JUSTICE (76%); BOMBINGS (73%); RELIGION (72%); BORDER CONTROL (71%)

ORGANIZATION: AL-QAEDA (83%)

GEOGRAPHIC: YEMEN (97%); SAUDI ARABIA (94%); IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (93%); UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: July 23, 2010



552 of 785 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 23, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; REUTERS BREAKINGVIEWS; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 740 words

HEADLINE: G.M. Acquisition Raises Concerns

BYLINE: By ANTONY CURRIE and RICHARD BEALES

 BODY:
Edward E. Whitacre Jr., the chief executive of General Motors, is walking a fine line with his just-announced $3.5 billion acquisition of the auto lender AmeriCredit. His desire to jump back into captive financing raised concerns that Mr. Whitacre was returning to the empire-building that characterized his days running AT&T. Such methods could overburden G.M.'s balance sheet and distract the company from its manufacturing business as it seeks to go public again. Snapping up AmeriCredit seems to avoid those pitfalls -- but only barely.
It's not as big an acquisition as feared. AmeriCredit is more digestible than Ally, the erstwhile G.M. auto financing unit formerly known as GMAC that was at one stage rumored to be in Mr. Whitacre's sights. And G.M. seems to have specific and limited aims for its new unit, namely to plug gaps in leasing and subprime financing for car buyers that Ally, a now independent auto lender, has only recently started to ramp up after the financial crisis. 
The approach should also keep the federal government relatively happy. In addition to owning 61 percent of G.M., it holds a controlling stake in Ally, after pumping $17 billion into the financial firm partly to help keep the automaker in business. It's smart of Mr. Whitacre to avoid buying a lender that would compete head to head with Ally's core business. It's also true that some investors in a putative initial public offering will like the idea of G.M. having a financing unit again.
Even so, the idea of a recently bankrupt G.M. getting back into subprime lending merits skepticism. But it is a legitimate business if not taken to extremes. G.M. has far fewer subprime credit and leasing customers than the industry average and doesn't expect to suddenly increase either category by a huge amount. And G.M. does not believe that it will need to inject any capital into AmeriCredit.
Such disciplined intentions are welcome. Still, concerns remain. G.M. is paying above the odds: a 25 percent premium and 1.6 times book value. And AmeriCredit gets the a majority of its revenue from financing other automakers' customers.
G.M.'s rivals could be tempted to send their business elsewhere. Keeping it will be G.M.'s next balancing act.
Regulating Ratings
Ford Motor Credit and others have decided against selling asset-backed securities this week because credit rating firms are refusing to let bankers quote their ratings. The standoff exposes contradictions between America's old and new financial rules. But the discord also highlights the complexities of regulating ratings at all.
In squeezing a late change into its financial overhaul package, Congress wanted to make rating agencies more accountable. It repealed a provision that had until now curtailed the rating firms' legal liability.
As lawyers read it, the agencies are classified as experts -- in the same bucket as, say, auditors -- if their rating opinions are included in public offering prospectuses. That means they could be held liable if they turn out to be wrong. Bankers now also think that they need consent from rating agencies for any such inclusion, which is currently being withheld.
The wires cross worst in the public asset-backed securities market, where a rule known as Reg AB requires ratings to be included in prospectuses. Corporate and municipal bond markets aren't subject to this rule. Since rating agencies are still publishing ratings, investors can still get them. But that doesn't help the public asset-backed securities market.
The Securities and Exchange Commission late on Thursday said it planned to give issuers a six-month pass from having to include ratings in their offer documents, giving it time to complete revisions to Reg AB. Proposed changes include removing the requirement to include ratings in prospectuses for asset-backed securities, instead mandating that companies retain a 5 percent share of any deals they sell.
Extracting references to ratings from rules is a laudable initial goal. It would remove a crutch that has encouraged some investors to buy complex securities they didn't understand. Better, though, would be for lawmakers to go further and tell the S.E.C. to stop according a select band of rating firms (currently 10) official recognition. Then, credit research competition would flourish and investors would truly have to make up their own minds.
For more independent financial commentary and analysis, visit www.breakingviews.com.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Edward E. Whitacre Jr., chief of G.M., acquired the auto lender AmeriCredit. (PHOTOGRAPH BY REBECCA COOK/REUTERS) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: AUTOMOBILE FINANCING (90%); AUTOMOTIVE MFG (89%); SUBPRIME LENDING (89%); AUTOMOBILE MFG (89%); INITIAL PUBLIC OFFERINGS (89%); BANKING & FINANCE (89%); AUTOMAKERS (78%); AUTOMAKER BANKRUPTCIES (73%); EXECUTIVES (73%); CREDIT BUREAUS (72%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (72%); FINANCIAL RATINGS (63%)

COMPANY: GENERAL MOTORS FINANCIAL CO INC (90%); GENERAL MOTORS CO (58%); FORD MOTOR CREDIT CO LLC (51%)

TICKER: GM (NYSE) (58%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS522210 CREDIT CARD ISSUING (90%); SIC6141 PERSONAL CREDIT INSTITUTIONS (90%); NAICS336112 LIGHT TRUCK & UTILITY VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (58%); NAICS336111 AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING (58%); NAICS522220 SALES FINANCING (51%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: July 23, 2010



553 of 785 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 23, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 19

LENGTH: 1117 words

HEADLINE: Many Ways To Measure The Misery From Heat

BYLINE: By JAMES BARRON; Reporting was contributed by Al Baker, Andrew Boryga, Ali Elkin, Michael M. Grynbaum, Emily B. Hager, Paige Jeffries and Patrick McGeehan.

 BODY:
Elizabeth Barrett Browning, in that famous sonnet -- ''How do I love thee? Let me count the ways'' -- did not count the ways she loved hot weather.
But there has to be a way to measure the hot weather's toll in more than just sweaty but wordy annoyance. That means creating a kind of ambient misery index, a way to account for the cumulative, quantifiable effects of 90-degree day after 90-degree day --12 so far this month.
The most severe effect could be measured in the pace of homicides: 44 through the first 20 days of this month, 9 fewer than in all 31 days of the unseasonably cool month of July 2009.
Let us further count the ways. 
There was Consolidated Edison's 12,963-megawatt day, which came uncomfortably close to the high of 13,141 megawatts. There were Con Ed workers' overtime claims, which are 70 percent higher than at this time last year. And there was the company's decision, in the days after July 4, to hire 15 freelance crews for help in repairing damaged overhead lines.
And the 2,446 heat-related calls to 311 on Sunday and Monday.
And the 4,225 calls to the Fire Department's Emergency Medical Service on July 6, the 103-degree day that was the hottest in New York in nearly nine years. That added roughly 30 percent to the service's usual call volume, making July 6 its fifth-busiest day in eight years.
And the 11 days this month on which the carriage horse drivers in Central Park had been sent back to their stables on orders from a thermometer-carrying officer with the American Society for the Prevention of Cruelty to Animals. Twice the drivers returned to the streets in the evening, believing things had cooled off enough to work. Twice they were sent back because the temperature was still above the 90-degree limit.
And the 25 to 50 Long Island Rail Road employees assigned to heat patrol, which involves inspecting tracks when the temperature on the running rails -- the ones the trains ride on, not the one that supplies the electricity that runs the trains -- hits 125 degrees. Twice this month, a railroad spokesman said, rail temperatures in various places reached 135.
And the 15-degree difference between the temperature inside Juan Delgado's Elmo suit and the temperature at 49th Street and Broadway, where he stands for six to seven hours a day. And the 25 to 30 minutes that ice packs last when taped under the unitards of Blue Man Group performers. Yes, it is true that economists have used the term ''misery index'' as an economic indicator (it is the unemployment rate plus the inflation rate). And yes, there is a band called Misery Index. Last Friday it played at the Obscene Extreme Festival in the Czech Republic. The weather was no cooler in Trutnov, the site of the festival, where the high on Friday was 93.
But in hotter-than-hot New York, where even David Letterman has been doing how-hot-is-it jokes in his monologue, an ambient misery index could account for statistics like this one: Beach attendance this month is already 32 percent higher than it was all of last summer. City officials also say 81,000 more swimmers have gone for a dip in city pools than at this point in 2009, an 11 percent increase.
Psychologists are weighing in, saying the prolonged hot weather has made patients ''sluggish,'' ''unmotivated to do things'' and ''hemmed in'' -- which ultimately fosters anxiety.
''They retreat to one room, unless you live in a house with central air-conditioning, and you're not supposed to be using that,'' said Alan Hilfer, the chief psychologist at Maimonides Medical Center in Brooklyn. ''Certainly I do. I go straight from the front door to the one room with air-conditioning. I feel trapped in the apartment. Maybe I want to write something, do some research, and I think about the 25- or 30-degree temperature difference between that room and the rest of the place.''
For more than 2,000 employees of Con Edison, July has been a nonstop campaign to keep the power flowing. The company declared a ''serious'' condition over the Fourth of July weekend, eliminating days off and vacations for all of the crews that work on its system of underground cables and overhead wires.
There was no break in that seven-day-a-week schedule until 7 a.m. Tuesday, when Con Ed officials decided that the heat no longer posed an immediate threat to its system. By then, many of the workers needed a breather, said John Miksad, senior vice president for the company's electric operations.
''We still have higher-than-normal staffing around the clock for whatever could happen,'' Mr. Miksad said, ''but we're not all-hands-on-deck like we were.''
Mr. Miksad said 52,000 customers in the city and in Westchester County had gone without power for some length of time this month. He said most were without electricity for only short periods of time.
For firefighters, the long stretch of hot days -- and uncomfortably warm nights -- has ''had a debilitating impact on the guys,'' said Stephen J. Cassidy, the president of the Uniformed Firefighters Association.
Mr. Cassidy said that about 10 p.m. on Monday, he came upon a group of firefighters sitting on the back of a fire truck, soaking themselves down after stripping off their gear.
He asked what kind of fire they had been sent to, and they told him: a simple mattress fire. ''But they had taken a beating because of how hot it was,'' he said. ''They are going through three, four, five sets of clothes a day, simply because conditions are so extreme.''
And the hot, hectic days just keep coming. ''Over the last two weeks, we have had seven days which have met the top-50 call-volume days,'' said John McFarland, deputy assistant chief of the Fire Department's Emergency Medical Service. ''Short of the blackout and swine flu, this is the most significant impact that we've had on E.M.S. It's been consistent, it's been busy, and we've been trying to meet a call volume that is excessive for the last two weeks.''
Some criminologists say that the homicide rate usually rises in hot weather. Paul J. Browne, the chief spokesman for the Police Department, provided homicide numbers for July that could be seized upon by those who embrace such a theory. Mr. Browne said there tended to be more shootings ''in weather that brings people outside.'' (Over all, though, major crime in New York City is down slightly this year, largely because of a decrease in grand larcenies.)
People are not the only ones who figure in the misery index. Consider the dairy industry in upstate New York.
''The cows really dislike the heat,'' said Jessica Ziehm, a spokeswoman for the State Department of Agriculture and Markets.
And when cows suffer, we all suffer. Ms. Ziehm said the unhappy cows were ''producing less milk because of it.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Gillele Polano, top, douses a friend in East Elmhurst, Queens
Juan Delgado, above, dressed as Elmo, works in the theater district
and Mady Spiegel, right, waits for play tickets in Central Park. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY TY CACEK FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES
FRED R. CONRAD/THE NEW YORK TIMES
KATIE ORLINSKY FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES)
Magdy Mahdy, left, battling the heat from the street and his food cart in Union Square. A cooling-off period at the 72nd Street dog run in Riverside Park, right. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY HIROKO MASUIKE FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES
 SUZANNE DeCHILLO/THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TRAINS (87%); ECONOMIC INDICATORS (76%); OVERTIME (72%); THERMAL SENSORS (68%); FIRE DEPARTMENTS (67%); WAGE VIOLATIONS (67%); FREELANCE EMPLOYMENT (67%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (61%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (60%); INFLATION (60%); ECONOMIC NEWS (60%)

COMPANY: CONSOLIDATED EDISON INC (56%); MAN GROUP PLC (50%)

TICKER: ED (NYSE) (56%); EMG (LSE) (50%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS221210 NATURAL GAS DISTRIBUTION (56%); NAICS221122 ELECTRIC POWER DISTRIBUTION (56%); SIC4924 NATURAL GAS DISTRIBUTION (56%); SIC4911 ELECTRIC SERVICES (56%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (50%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (50%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (50%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: July 23, 2010



554 of 785 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 23, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 15

LENGTH: 884 words

HEADLINE: Democrats Sketch Ad Plan For Defending House Seats

BYLINE: By JEFF ZELENY

 BODY:
WASHINGTON -- The Democrats' strategy to preserve their House majority became clearer Thursday as the party made a $28 million investment in television advertising for the final weeks of the fall campaign, a plan meant to build a defensive firewall to protect freshmen and some vulnerable longtime incumbents.
The Democratic Congressional Campaign Committee reserved television time on behalf of 40 lawmakers, 18 of whom were first elected two years ago, when President Obama ran atop the party's ticket. Nine others are Democrats who were elected in 2006, when the party swept control of Congress from the Republicans. 
The list of at-risk Democrats also contains well-established members, including John M. Spratt Jr. of South Carolina, chairman of the Budget Committee; Ike Skelton of Missouri, chairman of the Armed Services Committee; and Paul E. Kanjorski of Pennsylvania, a senior member of the Financial Services Committee. None of the 40 districts are held by Republicans, a signal that the Democratic plan is rooted in defense.
The decisions, which were confirmed by party strategists and advertising buys made on local television stations, help define more precisely the battlefield on which the two parties will fight for control of Congress over the next four months as Republicans work to reclaim the majority.
The Democratic committee plans to make two more waves of advertising buys to reserve time for television spots in the closing two weeks of the race. In addition to the junior members, party strategists have identified vulnerable veterans, including Chet Edwards of Texas, who is seeking his 11th term; Earl Pomeroy of North Dakota, who is seeking his 10th term; and Leonard Boswell of Iowa, who is seeking his eighth term.
Several incumbent Democrats are bracing for something they have rarely faced: serious competition. Their predicament is the latest sign of distress for their party and underlines why Republicans are confident of making big gains in November and perhaps even winning back the House.
Democrats are playing defense in every corner of the country, hoping to use their fund-raising advantages to preserve their 40-seat majority in the House. The $28 million in advertising commitments represents the bulk of the $34 million in cash that the party committee had available at the end of June.
''I feel very confident about the ability of my members, who are the greatest salespersons in America, to go into their districts and make the case for what we did,'' Speaker Nancy Pelosi told reporters on Thursday, adding that the party's accomplishments in Congress would ultimately prove to be winning issues in November.
While Ms. Pelosi and other party leaders worked aggressively to persuade Democrats to support key pieces of legislation, like health care, the economic stimulus and energy legislation, the list of 40 districts on Thursday suggested that support for the party's agenda was not a requirement for its campaign dollars.
Five first-term Democrats who supported the health care bill are receiving help from the campaign committee, but 10 Democrats who opposed the measure are also receiving support. An independent arm of the committee decides which races merit investment.
The Democratic House committee has a $17 million advantage over its Republican counterpart, so Democrats can afford to invest in far more districts. Yet only one of the contests being focused on is an open seat, in the Third Congressional District in Kansas, where Dennis Moore, a Democrat, is retiring.
''If you want to get an idea of what the Democrats' strategy is this fall, just follow the money,'' said Ken Spain, a spokesman for the National Republican Congressional Committee. ''The political environment has become so toxic that Democrats in Washington are gearing up to spend millions of dollars to defend what were once perceived as some of the most entrenched incumbents in Congress.''
Some of the 40 districts are represented by Democrats who have been viewed as ripe for a Republican takeover, but others provide the first sign that the ranks of vulnerable Democrats may be deeper than previously acknowledged. The list also was being studied by Republicans for any head fakes -- districts in which Democrats were trying to entice their rivals into spending their limited resources.
The 40 districts that Democrats selected, which can be added to or subtracted from, were based on polling, candidate fund-raising and the strength of Republican opposition. The group includes five seats in Ohio, four in Pennsylvania, three in Arizona and in Virginia, and two each in Florida, Illinois, Indiana, New York and Texas.
Several of the decisions signal new signs of worry from Democrats like Stephanie Herseth Sandlin of South Dakota, Betty Sutton of Ohio, Allen Boyd of Florida, Joe Donnelly of Indiana, Gerald E. Connolly of Virginia and Jerry McNerney of California.
''The D.C.C.C. is going to aggressively use every tool -- media, voter contact programs and research -- to retain the House,'' said Jennifer Crider, a spokeswoman for the committee. ''Voters will have a clear choice this November.''
The Republican committee has $17 million in available cash, according to records filed this week, and intends to make its first television advertising decisions as soon as next month.

GRAPHIC: MAP: Battlegrounds: The Democratic Congressional Campaign Committee will spend $28 million on TV ads in 40 districts across the country during the final weeks before the election.
 CHART 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MARKETING & ADVERTISING (91%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (90%); BROADCAST ADVERTISING (90%); TELEVISION INDUSTRY (90%); MEDIA PLANNING & BUYING (90%); TELEVISION ADVERTISING (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (89%); POLITICS (89%); LEGISLATION (78%); BUDGETS (78%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING EXPENDITURE (78%); PLATFORMS & ISSUES (78%); FUNDRAISING (73%); LOCAL TELEVISION STATIONS (73%); BANKING & FINANCE (73%); ENERGY REGULATION (50%)

ORGANIZATION: DEMOCRATIC CONGRESSIONAL CAMPAIGN COMMITTEE (84%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (58%); JOHN SPRATT (58%); CHET EDWARDS (58%); PAUL E KANJORSKI (58%); LEONARD L BOSWELL (58%); IKE SKELTON (58%); EARL POMEROY (58%); NANCY PELOSI (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NORTH DAKOTA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: July 23, 2010



555 of 785 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 23, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; Movies, Performing Arts/Weekend Desk; INSIDE ART; Pg. 25

LENGTH: 734 words

HEADLINE: Bring Us Your Videos Yearning to Be Art

BYLINE: By CAROL VOGEL

 BODY:
The jury selecting the 20 videos for YouTube Play, the video biennial in October that is the brainchild of the Solomon R. Guggenheim Foundation and YouTube, has been finally been chosen. And it includes recognizable names in the fields of art, music, film and video.
Last month the Guggenheim and YouTube announced they would inaugurate the event, in collaboration with HP and Intel and invited members of the public -- whether they consider themselves artists or not -- to post videos made within the last two years on a special Web site, youtube.com/play. 
Judging the submissions will be Takashi Murakami, Ryan McGinley, Douglas Gordon, Marilyn Minter and Shirin Neshat, artists known for their work in a variety of mediums; Stefan Sagmeister, a graphic designer; Laurie Anderson, the performance artist, musician and filmmaker; the music group Animal Collective; and the filmmakers Darren Aronofsky and Apichatpong Weerasethakul.
''I felt it was important that the jury be international and multidisciplinary,'' said Nancy Spector, deputy director and chief curator of the Guggenheim Foundation, who is the heading the jury.
The winning entries will be shown at all the Guggenheim's international branches -- as well as on the YouTube Play channel.
The Web site has received about 6,600 submissions so far. The deadline is July 31.
RICHTER ON PAPER
Gerhard Richter may be known for his dreamy photo-based paintings and colorful abstract canvases, but he has also created a large body of works on paper. Though rarely seen, these works offer an important peek into his art-making process.
On and off throughout his career Mr. Richter has used pencil, paper, crayon and watercolors not simply as a way of thinking through a painting but also as creations that stand on their own. ''He disavows drawings, but then he continues to draw,'' said Brett Littman, executive director of the Drawing Center.
Last year, on a trip to the Middlesbrough Institute of Modern Art in Britain, Mr. Littman saw a survey of Mr. Richter's drawings. Mr. Littman was so taken with them that he asked Gavin Delahunty, the curator at Middlesbrough, if he would bring a version of the exhibition to the Drawing Center. It will be the first time a show of just Mr. Richter's works on paper will be seen in the United States.
''Gerhard Richter: Lines Which Do Not Exist,'' on view from Sept. 11 through Nov. 18, will include more than 50 works from public and private collections including five on loan from the Museum of Modern Art here as well as from the Art Institute of Chicago. The rest of the show is made up of loans from Europe as well as nine from Mr. Richter.
Many of these works stand on their own and do not relate to specific paintings. ''He uses drawings as a way to experiment, to think about perception and form,'' Mr. Littman said. ''And the more you start looking at them, the more you see different kinds of ideas.''
In his landscape drawings, as in his paintings, he often begins with a photo but usually takes the images in a more free-hand direction. He also has made a series of ''drill drawings,'' for which he inserts a pencil into a motorized drill to produce circular patterns, thus divorcing the hand of the artist from the work of art.
Rather than hang works in chronological order, Mr. Littman said he would prop the drawings on shelves to provide, as he explained, ''a more flexible reading of Richter's work.''
MET HIRES CURATORS
A little over a year ago the Metropolitan Museum of Art announced it had completed a major round of layoffs (74 employees) and voluntary retirements (95). Now it is slowly starting to rebuild. This week it announced three curatorial appointments:
Xavier Salomon, chief curator at the Dulwich Picture Gallery in London, will become a curator of European paintings in January. Elizabeth Mankin Kornhauser, chief curator at the Wadsworth Atheneum in Hartford, is coming to the Met in September as a painting curator in the American Wing. Jennifer Perry, associate conservator for Asian paintings at the Cleveland Museum of Art, will join on Sept. 13 as the conservator for Japanese paintings.
''Despite the unprecedented challenges presented by the economic recession, it is our top priority to retain the most talented people in their fields,'' said Thomas P. Campbell, the Met's director, who explained that the appointments filled vacancies created by retirements or recent promotions.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: This 1984 watercolor on paper by Gerhard Richter will be included in the Drawing Center's show, opening on Sept. 11. (PHOTOGRAPH BY PRIVATE COLLECTION, BERLIN) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: INTERNET SOCIAL NETWORKING (90%); ARTISTS & PERFORMERS (90%); VISUAL ARTISTS (90%); FILM (90%); VISUAL & PERFORMING ARTS (89%); PAINTING (89%); MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (89%); SINGERS & MUSICIANS (77%); MUSIC (77%); MOVIE INDUSTRY (77%); EXHIBITIONS (72%); MUSIC INDUSTRY (72%); EXECUTIVES (72%); GRAPHIC DESIGN SERVICES (71%)

COMPANY: INTEL CORP (57%); INSTITUTE OF MODERN PROCEDURES INC (52%)

TICKER: INTC (NASDAQ) (57%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS334413 SEMICONDUCTOR & RELATED DEVICE MANUFACTURING (57%); SIC7379 COMPUTER RELATED SERVICES, NEC (52%)

GEOGRAPHIC: BERLIN, GERMANY (66%); CHICAGO, IL, USA (50%) ILLINOIS, USA (50%) UNITED STATES (79%); GERMANY (66%)

LOAD-DATE: July 23, 2010



556 of 785 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 23, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1046 words

HEADLINE: Mortgage Securities It Holds Pose Sticky Problem for Fed

BYLINE: By BINYAMIN APPELBAUM

 BODY:
WASHINGTON -- The Federal Reserve provided most of the money for new mortgages in the United States last year, effectively lending more than $1 trillion to American homeowners.
Now the legacy of that extraordinary intervention is hanging over the central bank as it faces growing demands for an encore to help revive the flagging economy.
While officials and economists generally regard the program as successful in supporting the housing market, it has left the Fed holding a vast pile of mortgage securities -- basically i.o.u.'s from homeowners -- that it does not want and cannot sell. 
Holding the securities could cost the Fed a lot of money and hamper its ability to fight inflation, while selling the securities could drain needed money from the still-weak economy.
Fed officials have expressed confidence that they can finesse the dilemma by gradually selling the securities as the economy starts to recover. But they are not eager to expand the challenge they face by beginning a new round of asset-buying, one tool the Fed could use to try to stimulate growth.
''In my view, any judgment to expand the balance sheet further should be subject to strict scrutiny,'' Kevin M. Warsh, a Fed governor, said in a speech last month in Atlanta. He warned that new purchases could undermine the Fed's ''most valuable asset'': its credibility.
Some Democrats want the Fed to pump more money into the economy to help reduce unemployment, one of the central bank's basic responsibilities. In testimony before Congress this week, Chairman Ben S. Bernanke said that the Fed retained that option, but did not now plan to expand on the steps it had already taken.
In part, Bernanke and other Fed officials say they believe that new asset purchases would be less effective now that private investors have returned to the market.
The Fed became one of the world's largest mortgage investors because no one else was interested. During the fall 2008 financial crisis, investors stopped buying the mortgage securities issued by the housing finance companies Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac. The two companies buy mortgages made by banks and other lenders, providing money for new rounds of lending, then package those loans into securities for sale to investors, replenishing their own coffers.
Two days before Thanksgiving 2008, the Fed announced that it would buy $500 billion in securities issued by the two companies. By the time the program wound down in March 2010, it had spent more than twice that amount. The central bank now owns mortgage securities with a face value of $1.1 trillion.
A wide range of economists say the Fed's program -- so big that purchases outstripped the issuance of new securities in some months -- helped to preserve the availability of mortgage loans and helped to hold interest rates near record lows. Rates that exceeded 6 percent in late 2008 remain below 5 percent today.
But the Fed now must deal with the cleanup.
The central bank could hold the securities until the borrowers repaid or refinanced their loans. Brian P. Sack, an executive at the Federal Reserve Bank of New York, estimated in March that borrowers would repay $200 billion by the end of 2011. And in the meantime, the Fed is collecting regular interest payments.
''We've been earning a fairly high income from our holdings and remitting that to the Treasury,'' Mr. Bernanke told Congress on Wednesday.
But holding the securities could make it harder to control inflation as the economic recovery gains strength, said Vincent Reinhart, the former head of the Fed's monetary policy division, now a resident scholar at the American Enterprise Institute.
The Fed bought the securities by pumping new money into the economy, stimulating growth. It could be difficult to reverse that effect without draining the money from the economy by selling the securities, Mr. Reinhart said.
''They created reserves, and those reserves ultimately can be inflationary,'' Mr. Reinhart said. ''The chief risk of keeping the balance sheet big and raising rates is that you might not be able to raise rates successfully'' because the impact would be mitigated by the effect of the extra money still sloshing around the system.
Holding the securities also could cost the Fed a lot of money.
The Fed paid some of the highest prices on record for mortgage securities, basically accepting very low rates of interest on its investments. As the economy recovers and interest rates rise, the Fed will need to accept increasingly large discounts to make the securities attractive to other investors.
David Zervos, head of global fixed-income strategy at the investment bank Jefferies & Company, estimates that the value of the portfolio will drop almost $50 billion each time interest rates increase by one percentage point.
Selling the securities at a loss would reduce the Fed's ability to transfer profits to the Treasury Department. Large enough losses could reduce the amount of capital held by the Fed, although it can always create more money.
But perhaps the greatest risk is that investors will begin to doubt the Fed's willingness to raise interest rates, knowing that each increase will damage its own balance sheet.
''It compromises their integrity and their inflation-fighting mandate, because fighting inflation would be a direct detriment to their portfolio,'' Mr. Zervos said.
The Fed could avoid these problems by selling the securities now, before interest rates start to rise. But doing so would reverse the benefits of the original program, draining money from the economy while it still is weak. It would also fly in the face of the demands for the Fed to do more for the economy.
A fire sale also could damage the banking industry by driving down the value of the comparable mortgage securities that banks hold in large quantities.
So far the Federal Open Market Committee, comprising the board of governors and a rotating selection of presidents from the regional reserve banks, has chosen to wait.
The approach favored by most of the committee, according to the minutes of its June meeting, is to start raising interest rates before beginning to sell the securities. By waiting ''until the economic recovery was well established,'' the minutes said, the Fed would limit the impact of the asset sales on the broader market.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Kevin M. Warsh, a Fed governor. (B1)
 Vincent Reinhart, a former Fed division head, said reserves could be inflationary. (PHOTOGRAPH BY JOSHUA ROBERTS/BLOOMBERG NEWS)(B5) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (91%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); HOMEOWNERS (90%); MORTGAGE INVESTMENTS (90%); MORTGAGE BACKED SECURITIES (90%); NEW ISSUES (89%); MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (89%); BANKING & FINANCE (89%); SECONDARY MORTGAGE MARKET (89%); CENTRAL BANKS (89%); ANNUAL FINANCIAL RESULTS (78%); REAL ESTATE (78%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (78%); INTEREST RATES (78%); RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (77%); HOUSING MARKET (77%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (71%); MORTGAGE LOANS (58%); THANKSGIVING (50%)

COMPANY: FEDERAL HOME LOAN MORTGAGE CORP (FREDDIE MAC) (84%); FEDERAL NATIONAL MORTGAGE ASSOCIATION (FANNIE MAE) (81%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS522292 REAL ESTATE CREDIT (84%); SIC6162 MORTGAGE BANKERS & LOAN CORRESPONDENTS (84%); SIC6111 FEDERAL & FEDERALLY-SPONSORED CREDIT AGENCIES (84%)

PERSON: KEVIN WARSH (73%); BEN BERNANKE (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (95%)

LOAD-DATE: July 23, 2010



557 of 785 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 23, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 729 words

HEADLINE: G.M. Spends $3.5 Billion For Lender To Subprime

BYLINE: By NICK BUNKLEY

 BODY:
DETROIT -- General Motors said on Thursday that it had agreed to buy a financing company, AmeriCredit, for $3.5 billion so it can lease more vehicles and increase sales to consumers with lower credit ratings.
The transaction, expected to close in the fourth quarter, gives G.M. a captive financing arm for the first time since 2007, when it sold control of GMAC Financial Services. G.M. recently considered starting a new financing arm or reacquiring GMAC, now known as Ally Financial, to strengthen its lending capabilities and to raise the carmaker's value ahead of a public stock offering.
''Our dealers have been telling us that not having an in-house finance arm hurt our ability to finance certain loans and leases,'' Edward E. Whitacre Jr., G.M.'s chief executive, said in a conference call. ''It hurt our ability to meet rising customer demand for G.M. cars and trucks. Now we're going to fix that.'' 
Analysts said G.M. and Chrysler, which lost its own captive financing arm, Chrysler Financial, during last year's bankruptcy reorganization, have been at a disadvantage because they no longer had as much of a say in which customers could get approved for loans as rivals like the Ford Motor Company and Toyota.
Jesse Toprak, the vice president of industry trends and insights at TrueCar.com, which tracks vehicle pricing, said G.M.'s sales could jump as much as 20 percent if it aggressively courted subprime buyers.
Mr. Toprak said many consumers had low credit scores because of isolated negative events like late bill payments but otherwise posed a low risk of default. As a result, they are being turned away by lenders who tightened their credit standards after the recession started.
''They're basically being ignored simply because of the paranoia. It used to be there was lending like drunken sailors, but now it's the opposite,'' Mr. Toprak said. ''If G.M. can fill in that void, there's a big potential for return for them.''
Shareholders of AmeriCredit, which is based in Fort Worth and has 3,000 employees, would receive $24.50 a share, a 24 percent premium over Wednesday's closing price of $19.70. AmeriCredit was founded in 1992 and has assets of about $10 billion.
G.M. will use money from its cash reserves, which stand at more than $30 billion as a result of the aid it received from the federal government before and during last year's bankruptcy.
''We're in the fortunate position that we have a very strong balance sheet,'' G.M.'s chief financial officer, Christopher P. Liddell, said. ''That gives us the flexibility to do acquisitions like this.''
Senator Charles E. Grassley, Republican of Iowa, questioned G.M.'s decision to make a big acquisition while most of the money spent rescuing the carmaker remained outstanding. He asked Neil M. Barofsky, the special inspector general of the Treasury Department's Troubled Asset Relief Program, to investigate the deal. The Treasury exchanged about $43 billion in aid to G.M. for a 61 percent stake; G.M. repaid all $6.7 billion in debt that remained.
''If G.M. has $3.5 billion in cash to buy a financial institution, it seems like it should have paid back taxpayers first,'' Mr. Grassley said in a statement.
G.M. said its ownership of the company would have minimal impact on its balance sheet and would not detract from its goal of regaining a strong investment-grade credit rating. AmeriCredit will maintain direct access to the capital markets for financing requirements, G.M. said.
G.M. executives have been seeking ways to improve sales in North America, where its earnings have greatly improved, but market share in the United States remains below year-ago levels. Owning AmeriCredit would let the company offer more leases and approve customers that Ally or other banks might reject.
G.M. said its sales to customers with subprime credit ratings had increased ''significantly'' since the start of a program with AmeriCredit aimed at writing loans for shoppers in that category last September. Ownership of AmeriCredit, which already has a relationship with about 4,000 G.M. dealerships, ''will allow us to provide a full range of financing alternatives for all customers throughout all economic cycles,'' Mr. Liddell said.
Currently, subprime customers account for 4 percent of G.M. sales, in line with the industry average, but about 40 percent of the population has a subprime rating, Mr. Liddell said.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: SUBPRIME LENDING (90%); FINANCIAL RATINGS (89%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (89%); BUSINESS INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (78%); MOTOR VEHICLES (77%); BUSINESS FORECASTS (77%); RECESSION (77%); ECONOMIC NEWS (77%); ANNUAL FINANCIAL RESULTS (77%); TRENDS (77%); SHAREHOLDERS (75%); AUTOMOTIVE MFG (73%); AUTOMOBILE MFG (73%); BANKING & FINANCE (73%); AUTOMAKERS (73%); EXECUTIVES (73%); STOCK OFFERINGS (70%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (60%); CONFERENCE CALLS (53%)

COMPANY: ALLY FINANCIAL INC (92%); FORD MOTOR CO (91%); GENERAL MOTORS FINANCIAL CO INC (58%); GENERAL MOTORS CO (58%); TRUECAR INC (54%)

TICKER: FORDP (PAR) (91%); F (NYSE) (91%); GM (NYSE) (58%)

INDUSTRY: SIC6141 PERSONAL CREDIT INSTITUTIONS (92%); NAICS522291 CONSUMER LENDING (92%); NAICS336112 LIGHT TRUCK & UTILITY VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (91%); NAICS336111 AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING (91%); SIC3711 MOTOR VEHICLES & PASSENGER CAR BODIES (91%); NAICS522210 CREDIT CARD ISSUING (58%); NAICS519190 ALL OTHER INFORMATION SERVICES (54%)

PERSON: CHUCK GRASSLEY (53%)

GEOGRAPHIC: DETROIT, MI, USA (92%) MICHIGAN, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: July 23, 2010



558 of 785 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 23, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1250 words

HEADLINE: Pentagon Faces New Pressures To Trim Budget

BYLINE: By THOM SHANKER and CHRISTOPHER DREW

 BODY:
WASHINGTON -- After nearly a decade of rapid increases in military spending, the Pentagon is facing intensifying political and economic pressures to restrain its budget, setting up the first serious debate since the terrorist attacks of 2001 about the size and cost of the armed services.
Lawmakers, administration officials and analysts said the combination of big budget deficits, the winding down of the war in Iraq and President Obama's pledge to begin pulling troops from Afghanistan next year were leading Congress to contemplate reductions in Pentagon financing requests.
Defense Secretary Robert M. Gates has sought to contain the budget-cutting demands by showing Congress and the White House that he can squeeze more efficiency from the Pentagon's bureaucracy and weapons programs and use the savings to maintain fighting forces.
But the increased pressure is already showing up in efforts by Democrats in Congress to move more quickly than senior Pentagon officials had expected in trimming the administration's budget request for next year. 
And in the longer term, with concern mounting about the government's $13 trillion debt, a bipartisan deficit-reduction commission is warning that cuts in military spending could be needed to help the nation dig out of its financial hole.
''We're going to have to take a hard look at defense if we are going to be serious about deficit reduction,'' said Erskine B. Bowles, a chief of staff to President Bill Clinton who is a co-chairman of the deficit commission. Senator Judd Gregg, a Republican from New Hampshire who is also on the debt commission, said that if the panel pushes for cuts in discretionary spending, ''defense should be looked at,'' perhaps through another base-closing commission.
Mr. Gates is calling for the Pentagon's budget to keep growing in the long run at 1 percent a year after inflation, plus the costs of the war. It has averaged an inflation-adjusted growth rate of 7 percent a year over the last decade (nearly 12 percent a year without adjusting for inflation), including the costs of the wars. So far, Mr. Obama has asked Congress for an increase in total spending next year of 2.2 percent, to $708 billion -- 6.1 percent higher than the peak under the Bush administration.
Mr. Gates is arguing that if the Pentagon budget is allowed to keep growing by 1 percent a year, he can find 2 percent or 3 percent in savings in the department's bureaucracy to reinvest in the military -- and that will be sufficient money to meet national security needs. In one of the paradoxes of Washington budget battles, Mr. Gates, even as he tries to forestall deeper cuts, is trying to kill weapons programs he says the military does not need over the objections of members of Congress who want to protect jobs.
Mr. Gates enjoys bipartisan support on Capitol Hill and has considerable sway within the administration. But while he may hold the line against major cuts for now, analysts say support for military spending could erode quickly once the Pentagon withdraws a substantial number of troops from Afghanistan.
''In the case of the Pentagon, they have been living very fat and very happy for so very long that they've almost lost touch with reality,'' said Gordon Adams, who oversaw national-security budgets under President Clinton.
Senator Daniel K. Inouye, Democrat of Hawaii and chairman of the Senate Appropriations Committee, said that he would be looking first at tax increases and changes in Social Security and Medicare to lower the deficit, and that there was ''no way'' Congress would make major cuts in the military while more than 100,000 troops were still at war. But once most of them return, ''I'm pretty certain cuts are coming -- in defense and the whole budget,'' he said.
The course of the war in Afghanistan will no doubt have an impact on the debate, as might the outcome of the midterm elections and ultimately the 2012 presidential race.
But the first signs of pressure on military spending have surfaced, as both the House and the Senate are moving to trim the administration's Pentagon budget request for the fiscal year that starts Oct. 1.
The Democrats on the Senate Appropriations Committee voted last week to cut $8 billion from the Pentagon's request for an $18 billion increase in its basic operations.
Representative Norm Dicks, Democrat of Washington and chairman of the House defense appropriations subcommittee, is planning to trim $7 billion from the administration's budget request. ''There's a lot of support up here for restraint,'' he said.
In the short run, the worries about the deficit could help Mr. Gates halt the two main arms programs he has identified this year -- an alternate engine for the new Joint Strike Fighter and the purchase of five more C-17 cargo planes from Boeing.
General Electric and Rolls-Royce have been lobbying hard to save their engine, which would compete with another one for up to $100 billion of business.
Mr. Inouye said that with the administration's opposition, ''and faced with a deficit, that deal is dead.''
Mr. Gates sought to set the terms of the broader debate with a speech in May at the Eisenhower Presidential Library and Museum in Abilene, Kan.
''Military spending on things large and small can and should expect closer, harsher scrutiny,'' Mr. Gates said. ''The gusher has been turned off, and will stay off for a good period of time.''
Mr. Gates followed up with orders for the armed services and the Pentagon's agencies to find $7 billion in spending cuts and efficiencies for 2012, growing to $37 billion annually by 2016.
Rahm Emanuel, Mr. Obama's chief of staff, said the president fully supported Mr. Gates's initiatives, which already have set in motion savings from canceling or trimming more three dozen weapons systems in 2009. ''This is not business as usual,'' Mr. Emanuel said.
Senior administration officials said they hoped Mr. Gates's effort would help quiet critics who asked why military spending had been exempted from the president's order for a 5 percent cut in the budgets of most domestic agencies.
At the moment, the administration projects that the Pentagon's base budget and the extra war spending will peak at $708 billion in the coming fiscal year, though analysts say it is likely that the Pentagon will need at least $30 billion more in supplemental war financing then.
Two-thirds of Pentagon spending is on personnel costs. It is possible that the Pentagon will have to look for the first time at cuts to the health benefits provided to active and retired military personnel and their families.
Some analysts said the Pentagon would eventually come under pressure to reduce the size of the armed forces.
Mr. Adams, the Clinton administration budget official, wrote in a recent analysis that for ''any real savings on defense budgets to occur, end strength must shrink.'' But the Pentagon strongly opposes cutting the number of troops, said Peter R. Orszag, director of the president's Office of Management and Budget.
''Secretary Gates and the military leadership have made it very clear that they do not support a reduction in end strength,'' Mr. Orszag said.
He said there is little comparison to the last period of significant cuts in military spending and personnel -- in the 1990s, after the collapse of communism.
''During the end of the cold war, one could imagine a significant downsizing of the American military,'' Mr. Orszag said. ''That is a fundamentally different proposition than the situation we find ourselves in today.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: WAGING WAR: Troops fought Thursday in the volatile Arghandab Valley, in Kandahar, Afghanistan. President Obama has pledged to start withdrawals next year. That and other factors could lead Congress to contemplate reductions in Pentagon financing requests. (PHOTOGRAPH BY RODRIGO ABD/ASSOCIATED PRESS) CHART: The War Chest: The United States currently spends about two-thirds as much money now on the military as it did during the peak spending year in World War II. (Sources: Congressional Research Service
Office of Management and Budget
 Center for Strategic and Budgetary Assessments) (A3) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BUDGETS (93%); BUDGET CUTS (91%); DEFENSE SPENDING (90%); BUDGET DEFICITS (90%); US PRESIDENTS (89%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (79%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (79%); ARMED FORCES (78%); IRAQ WAR (78%); POLITICAL PARTIES (78%); DEFENSE DEPARTMENTS (78%); MILITARY WEAPONS (78%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (78%); TERRORISM (77%); TERRORIST ATTACKS (77%); WORLD WAR II (73%); NATIONAL SECURITY (73%)

ORGANIZATION: CONGRESSIONAL RESEARCH SERVICE (59%); OFFICE OF MANAGEMENT & BUDGET (59%)

PERSON: ROBERT M GATES (79%); BARACK OBAMA (78%); BILL CLINTON (78%); JUDD GREGG (58%); ERSKINE BOWLES (56%)

GEOGRAPHIC: KANDAHAR, AFGHANISTAN (79%) NEW HAMPSHIRE, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%); AFGHANISTAN (92%); IRAQ (92%)

LOAD-DATE: July 23, 2010



559 of 785 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 23, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; HIGH & LOW FINANCE; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1430 words

HEADLINE: Perfect For a Job She Created

BYLINE: By FLOYD NORRIS. 
Floyd Norris on whether Dell's settlement will serve as a deterrent, at nytimes.com/norris.

 BODY:
Can Mary and Elizabeth remake the financial world for consumers?
They just might, if Elizabeth can get the job.
The women referred to are not the queens who, you may recall, did not get along too well. Their dispute ended badly for Mary.
Mary is Mary Schapiro, the chairwoman of the Securities and Exchange Commission, which this week moved to open up more price competition in the selling of mutual funds, and soon will deal with the issue of just how much responsibility a stock broker has to act in a client's best interests.
Elizabeth is Elizabeth Warren, the Harvard law professor who dreamed up the idea for the Bureau of Consumer Financial Protection, which became law when President Obama signed the Dodd-Frank law this week.
Whether or not she is named to run the bureau may depend on how willing the president is to anger the banks yet again, and whether he is willing to risk a big confirmation battle in the Senate. There may be people less popular in bank boardrooms than Ms. Warren, but none come immediately to mind. 
In making the decision, the president may want to keep in mind that those two organizations, the S.E.C. and the new bureau, will be largely responsible for the actions that will make the Dodd-Frank law visible to most Americans by the 2012 election.
Other provisions of the law -- creation of a financial stability panel, a more transparent derivatives market, limits on bank risk-taking through proprietary trading, a new way to liquidate big banks -- will be really noticed only if they fail and we get a new financial crisis. But the bureau and the commission could change the way financial products are sold and make it easier for those who are cheated to get compensation.
The bureau, more than most new agencies, is likely to be molded by its first boss.
While the average new agency is created by a law that gives it a bunch of duties no one had before, this agency is supposed to enforce laws long on the books that were enforced poorly, if at all, by the bank regulatory agencies. It will also establish new rules.
Never has the Biblical adage of ''No man can serve two masters'' been better proved than in bank regulation. The first duty of bank regulators is to protect the safety and soundness of banks, and it is easy to see why protecting consumers from hidden fees and unfair practices might seem to threaten bank profits and be contrary to the goal of healthy banks. To say the bank regulators neglected consumer protection is to be kind.
Logically, the belated discovery that financial consumer protection needs to be increased might have led to increased powers for the S.E.C., which was created to protect investors. But it stumbled badly in recent years, and that idea does not seem to have occurred to anyone.
Ms. Shapiro's move this week was to do something that sounds just like what Ms. Warren would propose for banks: bring fees out into the open, so everyone can see them.
The S.E.C. proposed rules to change the cozy system that lets ''no load'' mutual funds charge sales fees, known in the business as 12b-1 fees, that are taken from an investor's profits year after year. Under the proposal, the fees would be above board, and differing brokers selling funds could discount them if they chose to compete that way.
The commission will soon move to consider the issue of whether to require brokers to have a ''fiduciary duty'' to investors, meaning they would have to offer advice they believed to be in the customer's best interest. Such consideration is required by the new law, and how far the commission goes could help to determine just how consumer-oriented it is.
The most notable enforcement case of Ms. Shapiro's tenure can be read as an indication that she cares deeply about such issues.
Under current law, brokers serving retail investors are held to a limited standard requiring that investments be ''suitable'' to the buyer. But brokers for institutional investors have not faced even that minimal rule. That freed brokers to let clients view them as trusted advisers when pitching an investment. If and when the product blows up, the broker disclaims any responsibility for the bad investment decision made by the customer. The broker was simply a ''counterparty'' who took the other side of a trade that the customer wanted to do.
That essentially was Goldman Sachs's defense when the commission filed suit against it over a disastrous mortgage-backed securities deal that Goldman sold without telling customers that it had been partly created by the firm that wanted to bet it would fail. Goldman's settlement helps to establish a precedent that such sophistry must end.
The history between the banks and Ms. Warren goes back for many years. In their first epic battle, which lasted for nearly a decade, the banks scored a decisive victory. Their win, alas, was a pyrrhic one that led to hubris, bad lending practices and big losses.
In 1994, the Congress established the National Bankruptcy Review Commission, which was to suggest changes in the law. Ms. Warren, whose detailed research into why people file for bankruptcy is respected even among some of her critics, became the principal staff member for the commission, and soon ran afoul of the banks.
The banks wanted legal changes to make it harder for bankrupt people to escape credit card debt. The commission decided not to back most of what the banks wanted and to suggest a few things the banks hated.
The commission suggested weaker protection for mortgage lenders who lent out more than a home was worth. To combat what it saw as abuses by both debtors and creditors, the commission proposed changes like requiring audits of some claims by lenders and limiting the ability of banks to get borrowers to voluntarily reaffirm debts.
Even before the report came out in 1997, the banks had called on Congress to ignore the commission and pass a bill to crack down on consumer abuse of lenders. It took years, but in 2005, Congress passed and President George W. Bush signed the new law, called the Bankruptcy Abuse Prevention and Consumer Protection Act. The banks got pretty much what they wanted.
That act in fact did anything but protect consumers. Credit card lending had grown rapidly before it was passed, but it accelerated afterward. Banks thought there was new safety in lending to dubious credit risks because those borrowers could not use the bankruptcy laws to renege if they went broke.
That orgy of lending ended with the financial crisis. It is possible, even likely, that if the bankruptcy law passed in 2005 had been less friendly to the banks, they would have been less careless in their lending and lost less in the end.
Ms. Warren is one of the more intelligent people I know. She is not among the more diplomatic, which is a major reason she may not get the job. As chairwoman of the Congressional oversight panel on the bank bailouts, she has sometimes angered Treasury officials.
In a law review article calling for a financial consumer protection agency, she and a colleague explained the need as follows: ''Thanks to effective regulation, innovation in the market for physical products has led to greater safety and more consumer-friendly features. By comparison, innovation in financial products has produced incomprehensible terms and sharp practices that hurt consumers and reduce social welfare.''
There are more polite terms than ''sharp practices'' that she and her co-author could have used.
With the new law now enacted, liberal and labor groups are publicly demanding that Ms. Warren be appointed. Financial companies are doing their best to persuade the administration that she could not be confirmed.
The quandary faced by President Obama is reminiscent of one that confronted President Franklin Roosevelt after Congress created the S.E.C. in 1934. Then the president turned aside pleas from those who had pushed for reform and named Joseph P. Kennedy, a man who knew about financial industry abuses because he had taken part in them, as the commission's first chairman. Ferdinand Pecora, whose investigations had created the clamor for reform, was made a member, not the chairman, and he soon left the commission.
President Obama has no such ready compromise. The new office has a director, not a board, and it is hard to imagine what runner-up position could be offered to Ms. Warren.
The president could choose someone who will not ruffle too many feathers, and in the process avoid yet another Senate floor fight.
But if he names Ms. Warren, and she wins confirmation, she and Ms. Schapiro could become a dynamic duo in reforming Wall Street.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Mary Schapiro of the S.E.C., left, and Elizabeth Warren, who sought a consumer protection bureau, have tried to help consumers. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY MARK WILSON/GETTY IMAGES
 DANIEL ACKER/BLOOMBERG NEWS) (B6) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: 2010 WALL STREET & BANKING REFORM (90%); BANKING & FINANCE AGENCIES (89%); CONSUMER LAW (89%); SECURITIES LAW (89%); BANKING & FINANCE (89%); BANKING & FINANCE REGULATION (89%); CONSUMER PROTECTION (89%); REGULATORY COMPLIANCE (88%); WOMEN (78%); CONSUMER LENDING (78%); LIQUIDATIONS (78%); PERSONAL FINANCE (78%); AGENCY RULEMAKING (77%); LEGISLATION (75%); BANKING LAW (75%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (74%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (73%); MUTUAL FUNDS (71%); US PRESIDENTS (69%)

ORGANIZATION: SECURITIES & EXCHANGE COMMISSION (84%); BUREAU OF CONSUMER FINANCIAL PROTECTION (57%)

PERSON: ELIZABETH WARREN (92%); MARY L SCHAPIRO (91%); BARACK OBAMA (53%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: July 24, 2010



560 of 785 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 23, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 11

LENGTH: 834 words

HEADLINE: Taking to Streets and Court on Immigration

BYLINE: By JAMES C. McKINLEY Jr.

 BODY:
PHOENIX -- With just a week remaining before Arizona's stringent new immigration law is set to take effect, a federal judge in Phoenix heard, for the first time, from Obama administration lawyers urging her to strike down the controversial legislation while dozens of demonstrators argued both sides outside the courthouse.
As protesters blocked traffic, chanted, sang, yelled and banged on bass drums, lawyers from the Justice Department and for the State of Arizona sparred over whether the law, known locally as SB1070, violates the United States Constitution's supremacy clause, which says federal law generally trumps state law. The federal judge, Susan R. Bolton, asked pointed questions of both sides, but made no ruling from the bench before adjourning at 3 p.m. 
The hearing marked the first opportunity for the Obama administration to explain why it feels Arizona should not be allowed to empower local police to demand some proof of citizenship from people they suspect are illegal immigrants.
Edwin S. Kneedler, the lawyer for the federal government, argued that the federal government has the sole authority to enforce immigration laws under the Constitution and that Arizona was, in essence, establishing its own immigration policy -- which in some cases would be stricter than the federal law and does not take into account either humanitarian concerns or the government's foreign policy goals.
''The regulation of immigration is unquestionably, exclusively, a federal power,'' he said.
With Gov. Jan Brewer, who signed and has fervently defended the legislation, sitting in the courtroom, the lawyer representing Arizona, John J. Bouma, asserted that the state law actually mirrors the letter of the federal law, even if that federal law is not enforced fully in practice. He argued the state had every right to ask its peace officers to call up federal authorities and check on a person's immigration status during routine traffic stops or other arrests, even if it created a headache for federal authorities.
''You can't catch them if you don't know about them, and they don't want to know about them -- that's what they are saying,'' Mr. Bouma said, gesturing to the Justice Department lawyers.
''What we get is the plaintiff over here saying we cannot do anything,'' he added. ''That it's not Arizona's problem, that we should just live with it.''
As Judge Bolton questioned the federal government's counsel, she expressed skepticism that the state was indeed carrying out its own immigration enforcement policy. She asked several times whether the statute would actually take the decision about what to do with an illegal immigrant away from federal authorities.
''How does it become immigration enforcement policy? It's an immigration status check,'' she said. ''Arizona cannot remove anybody, and they don't purport they can.''
Her comments during the hearing, along with those she made during a hearing in the morning on another suit brought by civil rights groups, suggested she is likely to rule on whether certain parts of the law are pre-empted by federal law, rather than striking down the entire law.
The courtroom was packed with spectators, many from civil rights groups and charities that aid immigrants.
Outside the courthouse, people of all political stripes mounted noisy demonstrations. Charlene Greenwood, 46 and unemployed, described herself as a Tea Party member, wore a semiautomatic pistol on her hip and signs that read, ''Illegal immigrants have better health care than I do'' and, ''Bank robbers, drug dealers and prostitutes are just trying to support their families too.''
She said she regarded all illegal immigrants as criminals and people who support them as traitors. She said the state had to step in because the federal government had failed to stop illegal immigrants from entering the country.
About 30 protesters blocked traffic, many wearing T-shirts that said ''Stop the Hate.'' Several unfurled a large, white banner that blared ''Stop SB1070. We will not comply.'' Others in the group held a banner in Spanish saying: ''There is no problem with immigration; there is a problem with capitalism. Revolution is the solution.'' After two hours, the police cleared the intersection and arrested seven people.
Antoinette Murray, 45, said she feared the law would prompt police officers to stop citizens who look Hispanic and arrest them if they cannot produce the right documents. ''If they look at someone and they are of Mexican descent, they are going to be guilty until proven innocent,'' she said. ''It makes you guilty for being brown.''
Among the protesters were several illegal immigrants who were waiting for judges to decide their cases. Rudy Gomez, 37, said he came to the country illegally from Guatemala in 1997 and has been working as a roofer ever since.
He has four children and fears he may be caught and deported in the crackdown envisioned under the law, he said. ''I'm not doing anything wrong,'' he said. ''This is my home. This is where I live.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Protesters of Arizona's new immigration law marched in front of a federal courthouse in Phoenix on Thursday. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY ROY DABNER/EUROPEAN PRESSPHOTO AGENCY)
 Gov. Jan Brewer spoke to reporters Thursday after a hearing on Arizona's new immigration law, which is being challenged by the Justice Department. (PHOTOGRAPH BY JOSHUA LOTT/REUTERS) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: IMMIGRATION (93%); IMMIGRATION LAW (91%); JUDGES (90%); CONSTITUTIONAL LAW (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (90%); PUBLIC POLICY (90%); ARIZONA IMMIGRATION LAW (90%); LAWYERS (90%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (89%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (89%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (89%); SPECIAL INVESTIGATIVE FORCES (89%); LEGISLATION (89%); ILLEGAL IMMIGRANTS (78%); PROTESTS & DEMONSTRATIONS (77%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (77%); POLICE FORCES (73%); FOREIGN POLICY (66%); CITIZENSHIP (55%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (52%)

ORGANIZATION: US DEPARTMENT OF JUSTICE (83%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (88%); JAN BREWER (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: PHOENIX, AZ, USA (91%) ARIZONA, USA (98%) UNITED STATES (98%)

LOAD-DATE: July 23, 2010



561 of 785 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 23, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 991 words

HEADLINE: Chairman Says Fed Would Act if Needed

BYLINE: By SEWELL CHAN

 BODY:
WASHINGTON -- A day after signaling that he had no immediate plans to take further steps to prop up the economy, the Federal Reserve chairman said Thursday that he was prepared to do so if the outlook worsened.
The chairman, Ben S. Bernanke, who had described the nation's economic outlook as ''unusually uncertain'' in presenting the Fed's semiannual monetary policy report to Congress on Wednesday, was somewhat more explicit about his thinking in the second day of testimony.
''We are ready, and we will act if the economy does not continue to improve, if we don't see the kind of improvements in the labor market that we are hoping for and expecting,'' Mr. Bernanke told Representative Melvin L. Watt, Democrat of North Carolina, at a hearing of the House Financial Services Committee. 
''We have certainly utilized our principal tools, our most obvious conventional tools, anyway,'' Mr. Bernanke added. ''And so we would have to step into new areas. I do believe that there are things we could do, and we are considering all options.''
Mr. Bernanke, who called unemployment ''the most important problem we have right now,'' offered additional details in evaluating the steps the Fed could take, having exhausted the usual tools of monetary policy.
The Fed has held its benchmark short-term interest rate at a record low, a range of zero to 0.25 percent, since the end of 2008, and has been saying the rate would stay there for ''an extended period.''
Mr. Bernanke said the Fed could alter that language to communicate ''our intentions about future policy ease or future policy action, perhaps in a context of some conditionality or a framework that will help clarify our willingness to maintain policy support for the economy.''
Many economists do not expect the Fed to begin to tighten monetary policy until next year at the earliest. By altering the ''extended period'' language, the Fed could potentially lengthen that time horizon even further, damping inflation expectations.
Mr. Bernanke also said that the Fed could lower the interest rates it pays on excess reserves, the funds banks keep at the Fed above what they are required to -- currently about $1 trillion. Congress only authorized the Fed to start paying such interest in 2008, during the financial crisis; the rate is currently 0.25 percent.
Representative Gary Peters, Democrat of Michigan, asked Mr. Bernanke why the Fed did not immediately cut the rate to zero, which would increase the sum the Fed turns over to the Treasury each year and also potentially spur banks to lend.
Mr. Bernanke said that step ''certainly is an option,'' but said the rate was set at 0.25 percent largely for ''a technical reason'': propping up short-term money markets, like the federal funds market that banks use to lend money to each other overnight.
A third option is to further expand the Fed's balance sheet, which nearly tripled as the Fed bought mortgage bonds and government debt to put downward pressure on long-term rates.
But Republican lawmakers, in particular, were skeptical about any further actions by the Fed.
Representative Randy Neugebauer, Republican of Texas, asked: ''At what point in time do we say, maybe the marketplace just has to work itself through this, and that the Fed and the federal government need to just kind of be still for a while and let normal market forces come into play?''
Mr. Bernanke replied: ''We're not interfering with market forces. We're just trying to provide some support through accommodative financial conditions, to give the private sector the opportunity to invest and grow.''
Other lawmakers, mostly Democrats, pleaded with the Fed to do more.
''We have not moved as aggressively, as passionately, on the unemployment and the jobs situation during this downturn as we have on Wall Street and bailing out these companies,'' said Representative David Scott, Democrat of Georgia.
Mr. Bernanke told him: ''I would respectfully disagree that we haven't been doing anything or have not been urgent. We have pushed monetary stimulation to the highest point in American history. We have zero interest rates. We have tripled our balance sheet.''
The lack of consensus about what the Fed should do next was echoed by economists.
Richard C. Koo, chief economist at the Nomura Research Institute in Tokyo, told the committee that monetary policy was of limited help in recessions that follow the bursting of debt-financed asset bubbles.
Companies are paying down debts rather than trying to make profits, he said, and stimulus spending by governments remains essential.
''With disappearing borrowers and reluctant lenders, it is no wonder that, after nearly two years of zero interest rates and massive liquidity injections, industrial production is still at the level of 2004, and the unemployment rate is almost in double digits,'' he said.
Allan H. Meltzer, an economist at Carnegie Mellon University and the leading historian of the Fed, sided with Republicans who said that uncertainty -- compounded by government indebtedness -- was the greatest constraint on economic growth.
''We do not need more monetary stimulus,'' Mr. Meltzer testified. ''We need programs that get the banks to increase lending and businesses and consumers to increase spending. Reducing uncertainty and restoring confidence is the place to start.''
Fed Official to Retire
William L. Rutledge, the head of bank supervision at the Federal Reserve Bank of New York since 1999, announced Thursday that he would retire at the end of this year.
The Fed's Board of Governors has been moving to revamp how it regulates institutions. Much of that oversight is conducted by the 12 Fed district banks, and the New York Fed was criticized for failing to adequately oversee banks like Citigroup before the 2008 financial crisis.
The regulatory overhaul signed into law by President Obama on Wednesday gives the Fed new authority over the financial system. Mr. Rutledge called the law an ''important milestone.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Ben S. Bernanke, chairman of the Federal Reserve, on Capitol Hill Thursday. (PHOTOGRAPH BY JIM YOUNG/REUTERS) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (92%); BANKING & FINANCE (91%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); MONETARY POLICY (90%); PUBLIC POLICY (90%); ECONOMIC POLICY (90%); INTEREST RATES (86%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (79%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (78%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (78%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (78%); LABOR SECTOR PERFORMANCE (77%); PUBLIC FINANCE (77%); TESTIMONY (73%)

PERSON: BEN BERNANKE (90%); GARY PETERS (56%); MELVIN L WATT (56%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NORTH CAROLINA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: July 23, 2010



562 of 785 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 23, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; EDITORIAL; Pg. 22

LENGTH: 585 words

HEADLINE: With a Whimper

 BODY:
On Thursday, the Senate majority leader, Harry Reid, abandoned the fight for meaningful energy and climate legislation. The Republicans -- surprise -- had been fiercely obstructionist. But the Democratic leaders let them get away with it, as did the White House. It has been weeks since President Obama spoke out about the need for a serious climate bill to address the very real danger of global warming and to lessen this country's dependence on imported oil.
Last year, the House passed a decent if imperfect bill that would have placed economywide caps on greenhouse gas emissions. John Kerry and Joseph Lieberman offered an equivalent bill in the Senate. Mr. Reid counted noses and decided his best chance was with a stripped-down version that caps only emissions from power plants. Now even that bill has fallen by the wayside. 
Mr. Reid's latest version is not even a pale shadow of what is needed. It will include useful reforms related to the oil spill, and possibly some land conservation and energy efficiency provisions. But there is no cap of any sort. Without that, industry will have little incentive to reduce emissions or invest in cleaner energy sources or new technologies. The bill also fails to require utilities to derive a significant percentage of their power from renewable sources.
The Republicans obviously bear a good part of the responsibility for this failure. With a handful of exceptions, they have denied or played down the problem of global warming for years and did pretty much anything they could to protect industry from necessary regulation. There are, however, as many as a dozen Senate Democrats, mainly from the South, Appalachia and the Midwest, who share the blame.
They cowered before the shrill warnings that capping carbon emissions -- and making electricity from traditional fuels like coal more expensive -- would cripple the economy. Never mind the wealth of evidence that the costs will be minimal and, over time, will be richly repaid in terms of new jobs and industries.
Mr. Obama never fully committed to the fight. He raised hopes here and around the world last year when he pledged in Copenhagen to reduce United States greenhouse gas emissions by 17 percent. Until a couple of months ago, he talked a good game, praising the House bill that aimed at the 17 percent target and promising to make every effort to get the Senate to follow.
Then, despite the opportunity offered by the oil spill to press for a bold energy policy, the president essentially disappeared. What has passed for advocacy by the White House in recent days has consisted largely of one op-ed article by the energy adviser, Carol Browner, and daily assurances from the press secretary, Robert Gibbs, that the White House was ''working behind the scenes.''
Can the country hope for better in the months ahead? It must. The danger of global warming is not going away just because Washington's politicians don't want to deal with it.
Even a scaled-down bill would be an important start. There is no secret about what it must include: a cap on power plant emissions, minimum standards for renewable energy, strong efficiency standards, new incentives for more fuel-efficient cars, investments and loan guarantees for next-generation technologies.
There is no chance unless Mr. Obama comes out fighting: calling out the Republicans, shaming and rallying Democratic laggards and explaining to the American people that global warming and oil dependency are clear and present threats to American security.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Editorial

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: POLITICAL PARTIES (92%); EMISSIONS (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); LEGISLATION (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); GLOBAL WARMING (89%); GREENHOUSE GASES (89%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (78%); ENERGY REGULATION (78%); AIR QUALITY REGULATION (78%); ENERGY EFFICIENCY & CONSERVATION (78%); ENERGY DEVELOPMENT PROGRAMS (78%); ELECTRIC POWER PLANTS (78%); NATURAL GAS & ELECTRIC UTILITIES (78%); PUBLIC POLICY (78%); ENERGY & UTILITY POLICY (78%); RENEWABLE ENERGY (78%); UTILITIES INDUSTRY (78%); US PRESIDENTS (77%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (77%); OIL SPILLS (76%); IMPORT TRADE (76%); INDUSTRIAL POLLUTION (75%); POWER PLANTS (73%); FOSSIL FUEL POWER PLANTS (73%); LAND USE PLANNING (73%); PETROLEUM EXPORTS & IMPORTS (71%)

PERSON: HARRY REID (90%); JOHN KERRY (79%); CAROL BROWNER (58%); BARACK OBAMA (58%); JOE LIEBERMAN (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: July 23, 2010



563 of 785 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 23, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 285 words

HEADLINE: Rising Asian Sales Help 3M To a 43% Income Increase

BYLINE: By THE ASSOCIATED PRESS

 BODY:
The 3M Company, which makes a wide variety of industrial and consumer products, said Thursday that its quarterly net income rose 43 percent and raised its full-year outlook. 
The company, which makes products that range from Post-it stickers to film for flat-screen TVs, said its profit rose to $1.12 billion, or $1.54 a share, from $783 million, or $1.12 a share, a year earlier. Revenue rose to $6.73 billion from $5.72 billion.
Analysts surveyed by Thomson Reuters expected a profit of $1.48 a share on revenue of $6.66 billion, and stock in 3M, which is based in St. Paul, rose $2.45, to $84.75 a share.
The chief executive, George W. Buckley, said 3M began seeing an economic recovery in June 2009, but he cautioned that economic growth could slow later this year if stimulus spending tapered off faster than the economy picked up.
''This isn't a double-dip per se, it's just a soft spot, and very normal as economic growth takes a breather for a while and adjusts to new circumstances such as higher interest rates, lowering stimulus, or commodity inflation,'' he said. ''All are very normal in my view.''
Most of the revenue growth came in Asia, which was up 42 percent, and Latin America and Canada, which were up 21 percent. Sales in the United States rose 9 percent, and sales in Europe rose 4 percent, held back by the weak euro.
Operating profits at the industrial and transportation unit, its biggest division, rose 66 percent to $476 million. The division includes renewable energy, auto parts, and industrial adhesives. The company said operating profit at all of the businesses in that unit improved.
The company now expects full year earnings of $5.65 to $5.80 a share. Wall Street was expecting $5.63.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (90%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (90%); EMERGING MARKETS (90%); COMPANY EARNINGS (90%); COMPANY PROFITS (89%); FINANCIAL RESULTS (89%); ECONOMIC RECOVERY (78%); ADHESIVES & SEALANTS (73%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (73%); INFLATION (73%); ECONOMIC NEWS (73%); TELEVISION EQUIPMENT (57%); EXECUTIVES (54%); INTEREST RATES (51%)

COMPANY: 3M CO (97%)

TICKER: MMM (SWX) (97%); MMM (NYSE) (97%); MMM (FRA) (97%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS339114 DENTAL EQUIPMENT & SUPPLIES MANUFACTURING (97%); NAICS334510 ELECTROMEDICAL & ELECTROTHERAPEUTIC APPARATUS MANUFACTURING (97%); NAICS322230 STATIONERY PRODUCT MANUFACTURING (97%); SIC3845 ELECTROMEDICAL & ELECTROTHERAPEUTIC APPARATUS (97%); SIC3843 DENTAL EQUIPMENT & SUPPLIES (97%); SIC2678 STATIONERY, TABLETS, & RELATED PRODUCTS (97%)

PERSON: GEORGE W BUCKLEY (73%)

GEOGRAPHIC: EUROPE (79%); ASIA (79%); CANADA (79%); UNITED STATES (79%); LATIN AMERICA (52%)

LOAD-DATE: July 23, 2010



564 of 785 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 23, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Foreign Desk; NEWS ANALYSIS; Pg. 10

LENGTH: 1195 words

HEADLINE: Call to End War on Drugs Falls on Distracted Ears

BYLINE: By DONALD G. McNEIL Jr.

 BODY:
VIENNA -- Some of the world's top AIDS experts issued a radical manifesto this week at the 18th International AIDS Conference: They declared the war on drugs a 50-year-old failure and called for it to be abandoned.
No one heard.
Officially, the theme of the AIDS meeting, the world's largest public health gathering, is the need to attack the rapidly growing epidemic among addicts in Eastern Europe, Russia and Asia. It was held in Vienna because this city is the doorway to the East and, in this German-speaking country, all the conference signs are in English and Russian.
(In a lovely ironic touch, the conference hall is only a few steps from the Ferris wheel in the Orson Welles film noir classic set in postwar Vienna, ''The Third Man.'' On it, a cynical dealer of counterfeit drugs tells his pursuer to look down at the people below and says: ''Victims? Don't be melodramatic.... Would you really feel any pity if one of those dots stopped moving forever?'')
But the organizers' efforts to get publicity for the Vienna Declaration, which calls for drug users to be spared arrest and offered clean needles, methadone and treatment if they have AIDS, have come to naught. Almost no one here talks about the war on drugs. 
Instead, everyone is publicly worrying that the war on AIDS is falling apart. Donor money is evaporating in the recession, and it is looking likely that only about a third of the 33 million infected people in the world will have any hope of treatment.
Frustration is high. Speakers like Bill Gates were interrupted by demonstrators in Sherwood Forest green calling for a ''Robin Hood tax'' -- a tiny fee on the $4 trillion in currency transactions made daily by banks and hedge funds that could raise billions for AIDS.
Many activists blame the Obama administration, which is shifting its priorities to mother-and-child health. The halls are decorated with posters comparing Mr. Obama unfavorably with George W. Bush. On Wednesday, Archbishop Desmond Tutu criticized Mr. Obama in an Op-Ed article in The New York Times.
In his speech here, former President Bill Clinton said Ambassador Eric Goosby, the administration's global AIDS coordinator, ''ought to get some kind of Purple Heart for showing up.''
However, a new report from the Kaiser Family Foundation shows that the United States still gives more for AIDS assistance than all other countries put together, accounting for 58 percent of contributions. Its donations are still going up slightly, while those from Europe, Canada, Japan and Australia are flat or falling.
Officials from the Global Fund to Fight AIDS, Tuberculosis and Malaria say they fear they will not come close to the $17 billion target they set for their next donors' meeting in September.
The other, more welcome, distraction has been the exciting results of a South African clinical trial in which a vaginal gel with an antiretroviral drug protected 40 percent of the women using it. This is the first good news about microbicides in decades of work. A gel women can use secretly has long been sought, since many men disdain condoms and many women want to get pregnant.
The Vienna Declaration is only the second time that the International AIDS Society has issued such a document. The last was the 2000 Durban Declaration, which reaffirmed that H.I.V. was the cause of AIDS. It was a response to the government of South Africa, the conference's host, which at the time denied that the virus caused disease and refused to buy medicine for its citizens.
Outside of Africa, almost a third of all H.I.V. infections stem from drug injections.
The declaration contends that arresting drug users forces them into hiding, spreading the epidemic. It backs ''science-based public health approaches'' proved in clinical trials, which can include everything clean needle swaps, 12-step recovery programs and methadone.
Dr. Evan Wood, an AIDS policy expert at the University of British Columbia and the chief author, cited Portugal's approach. According to a 2009 report by the libertarian Cato Institute, in the decade since Portugal legalized possession of up to 10 days' worth of any drug, including cocaine and heroin, its AIDS rate dropped by half, overdose deaths fell, many citizens sought treatment, drug use among young people fell and drug tourism did not develop. The institute called the policy ''a resounding success.''
The declaration is largely aimed at countries of the former Soviet Union. In Russia, for example, close to 1 percent of its adult population is infected.
Nonetheless, the country forbids all methadone-type treatments, and the national health plan offers only abrupt detoxification, which has a high failure rate. The most frequent victims -- prisoners and people not living in their assigned residence areas -- are the least likely to get AIDS drugs, and activists say markups vastly inflate the prices of medications bought cheaply by foreign donors.
''The government says everything is fine,'' said Aleksandra Volgina, 31, the leader of Candle, a Russian AIDS organization based in St. Petersburg. ''We're even donors to the Global Fund, but we don't have treatment; we don't even have prevention.''
She has stayed off heroin thanks to a 12-step program her family paid for, she said, but every month she worries about whether the government pharmacy will have all three drugs she needs, and some of her friends have died for lack of them.
''What's going on in Russia is being silenced,'' she said. ''You can't even knock on the Health Ministry's door.''
Despite the quasi-Russian cast to the conference, no one from the Russian government attended, sponsors said.
Only two governments reacted to the declaration: Canada, which rejected it, and Georgia, whose first lady signed it in a public ceremony. The tiny former Soviet republic has a history of brutal treatment of drug addicts, Dr. Wood said. But it also has taken to defying Russia, with which it fought a brief war in 2008.
In the large American delegation here, almost every top official refused to discuss the declaration. Finally, one government official, speaking on the condition of anonymity, said he had just called the White House for guidance and was told no one had read it yet and there was no time to respond.
He did note that Dr. Goosby recently announced that countries getting American help to fight AIDS can use it to buy clean needles for addicts, a change from Bush administration policy.
The one exception to the official American silence was Dr. Nora D. Volkow, the normally low-profile director of the National Institute on Drug Abuse, who said she personally agreed with the declaration's premise.
''Addiction is a brain disease,'' she said. ''I'm a scientist. The evidence unequivocally shows that criminalizing the drug abuser does not solve the problem. I'm very much against legalization of drugs or drug dealing. But I would not arrest a person addicted to drugs. I'd send them to treatment, not prison.''
Asked if she feared being attacked by Congressional conservatives, she said: ''I took this job because I want drug users to be recognized as people with a disease. If I don't speak about it, why even bother to gather the data?''

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News Analysis

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: AIDS & HIV (91%); DRUG POLICY (90%); CONTROLLED SUBSTANCES CRIME (90%); CONFERENCES & CONVENTIONS (90%); EPIDEMICS (78%); MALARIA (78%); DISEASES & DISORDERS (77%); TUBERCULOSIS (73%); COUNTERFEIT DRUGS (72%); RECESSION (72%); ECONOMIC NEWS (72%); US PRESIDENTS (66%); FOUNDATIONS (64%); HEDGE FUNDS (62%); RELIGION (50%)

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (57%); BILL CLINTON (52%); BARACK OBAMA (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: EUROPE (92%); JAPAN (79%); ASIA (79%); CANADA (79%); UNITED STATES (79%); CENTRAL EUROPE (59%); EASTERN EUROPE (57%); GERMANY (57%)

LOAD-DATE: July 23, 2010



565 of 785 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 23, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; WHITE HOUSE MEMO; Pg. 13

LENGTH: 1017 words

HEADLINE: Persistent Issue of Race Is in the Spotlight, Again

BYLINE: By SHERYL GAY STOLBERG; .

 BODY:
WASHINGTON -- It was exactly one year ago on Thursday that President Obama plunged into a thicket of racial politics by declaring that a white police officer in Cambridge, Mass., had ''acted stupidly'' in arresting a black Harvard University professor in his own home. Suddenly, the president whose election suggested the promise of a postracial future was thrust into the wounds of the past.
Not much has changed. 
Mr. Obama sought Thursday to tamp down yet another racial uproar, this one over his administration's mishandling of the case of Shirley Sherrod, a black Agriculture Department official who was dismissed based on a video clip of remarks -- taken out of context -- that appeared to suggest she had discriminated against white farmers. One day after Agriculture Secretary Tom Vilsack apologized profusely to Ms. Sherrod and offered her a new job working on race relations for the agency, Mr. Obama offered his own apology.
During a seven-minute telephone call, White House officials said, the president shared some of his own personal experiences, and urged Ms. Sherrod to ''continue her hard work on behalf of those in need.''
Later, in an interview with ABC's ''Good Morning America,'' Mr. Obama weighed in publicly for the first time. ''He jumped the gun,'' the president said, referring to Mr. Vilsack, ''partly because we now live in this media culture where something goes up on YouTube or a blog and everybody scrambles.''
That, however, is unlikely to be the end of it for Mr. Obama, who has struggled since the beginning of his presidency with whether, when and how to deal with volatile matters of race. No matter how hard his White House tries to keep the issue from defining his presidency, it keeps popping back up, fueled in part by high expectations from the left for the first black president, and in part by tactical opposition politics on the right.
The Sherrod flap spotlighted how Mr. Obama is caught between these competing political forces, and renewed criticism from some of his supporters, especially prominent African-Americans, that he has been too defensive in dealing with matters of race -- and too quick to react to criticism from the right.
For many liberals, Ms. Sherrod's hasty dismissal carried strong echoes of the ouster of Van Jones, an environmental adviser to the president who was forced to resign after Fox News focused attention on some of his past work and statements, and his decision to sign a petition in 2004 questioning whether the Bush administration had allowed the terrorist attacks of September 2001 to provide a pretext for war in the Middle East.
''I think what you see in this White House is a hypersensitivity about issues of race, that has them often leaning too far to avoid confronting these issues, and in so doing lays the foundation for the very problem they would like to avoid,'' said Wade Henderson, president and chief executive of the Leadership Conference on Civil and Human Rights, an advocacy group here.
It is not as if Mr. Obama does not have expertise in the matter. While he was running for president he made what even his critics acknowledged was a serious and thoughtful effort to address race relations, during a speech in Philadelphia in March 2008. It followed a storm of controversy about racially inflammatory statements made by his pastor.
And as Michael Eric Dyson, a sociology professor at Georgetown University, notes, Mr. Obama wrote an entire book on race: ''Dreams From My Father,'' in which he dealt with his own complicated biracial history and struggle to fit into a country that sees things in black and white. Professor Dyson, who is working on a book about Mr. Obama and race called ''Presidential Race,'' says the president at times seems either unable or unwilling to talk about it.
''You've got one of the great intellects on race in the presidency, and yet he is hamstrung, there's a gag order,'' he said. ''Now some of that gag order is self-imposed, and some of it is at the behest of nervous white Americans who are fearful that Mr. Obama may racialize the presidency, so he's got a legitimate concern that he doesn't get pigeonholed. But the tragedy is that we need his leadership.''
The White House rejected the notion that he has not provided leadership, or is avoiding a conversation on race. ''I don't think anyone has confronted this issue more directly than the president,'' said David Axelrod, Mr. Obama's senior adviser.
Still, the Sherrod controversy has renewed calls for Mr. Obama to tackle race head-on. After the Harvard professor, Henry Louis Gates Jr., was arrested last summer, Mr. Obama convened a much-publicized ''beer summit'' at the White House -- a moment of reconciliation for Mr. Gates and the arresting officer.
In interviews, both Mr. Henderson and Charles J. Ogletree Jr., a Harvard law professor who represented Mr. Gates, suggested the president should now convene a national conference on race relations. Ward Connerly, a black conservative who leads an institute devoted to fighting racial preferences, endorsed the idea.
''This president has never wanted to have his fingerprints on the issue of race, and I can understand why -- if you're a self-identified black man and you're running for president, you know how treacherous the waters can be,'' Mr. Connerly said. ''But I think the president can, if he's masterful -- and he certainly is -- introduce this subject in a way that he's doing it as our leader, not as our black leader.''
Mr. Axelrod, though, threw cold water on the notion, saying Mr. Obama has ''pressing matters that are significant to all Americans,'' like the economy.
On Thursday, Ms. Sherrod stuck to her assertion that the White House had played a role in her ouster, even as Mr. Obama's advisers said that was not the case. The White House press secretary, Robert Gibbs, was once again peppered with questions about whether the Sherrod controversy was ''a teachable moment,'' and if so, what the lesson was and whether Mr. Obama should be the teacher.
''I don't think you have to have a teacher,'' Mr. Gibbs replied, ''for this to be a teachable moment.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: The case of Shirley Sherrod, the ousted Agriculture Department official, has renewed discussion of race in America. (PHOTOGRAPH BY CBS NEWS, VIA ASSOCIATED PRESS) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US PRESIDENTS (90%); AGRICULTURE DEPARTMENTS (90%); RACE & RACISM (90%); POLITICS (90%); AFRICAN AMERICANS (78%); INTERVIEWS (78%); FARMERS & RANCHERS (77%); PETITIONS (76%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (75%); LIBERALISM (73%); TERRORISM (71%); TELEVISION NEWS SHOWS (71%); RESIGNATIONS (68%); INTERNET SOCIAL NETWORKING (64%); EMPLOYEE TERMINATION (60%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (57%); TERRORIST ATTACKS (50%)

COMPANY: FOX ENTERTAINMENT GROUP INC (82%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS515120 TELEVISION BROADCASTING (82%); SIC4833 TELEVISION BROADCASTING STATIONS (82%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (90%); TOM VILSACK (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: MASSACHUSETTS, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (96%); MIDDLE EAST (65%)

LOAD-DATE: July 23, 2010



566 of 785 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 23, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1228 words

HEADLINE: Fiat Pushes Work Ethic at an Italian Plant

BYLINE: By LIZ ALDERMAN

 BODY:
POMIGLIANO D'ARCO, Italy -- In a country where Fiats line the streets, Italians have long clung to a revealing proverb: as Fiat goes, so goes Italy.
Fiat's efforts to make its workers more productive at a plant just north of Naples are testing that maxim as never before, and may signal whether Italians are willing to embrace the kind of change needed for Italy to skirt financial ruin and be more competitive with the countries of Northern Europe and the rest of the world.
Even some workers here in Pomigliano, Fiat's lowest-producing plant, complain of ingrained bad habits, citing peers who call in sick to earn money while working another job or skip work with a fake doctor's note -- especially when the local soccer team is playing.
Now, fresh from rescuing Chrysler in the United States, Sergio Marchionne of Fiat is pushing these workers to be more devoted to their jobs, mirroring a larger effort by the government to improve Italy's competitiveness and reduce its debt through austerity measures. 
But shifting a culture toward work and closing the divide with Italy's northern neighbors won't be easy. Embedded for generations here -- and on other parts of Europe's often-sweltering southern rim -- is a lifestyle that values flexibility for workers.
To some, Fiat is drawing the curtain on a humane working life.
''He wants to impose American-style standards,'' Nello Niglio, a factory worker, said of Mr. Marchionne's requirements to work longer hours and cut back on absences. ''But too much work is going to kill our workers.''
Much is riding on Italy being able to persuade its people to change their work habits if their financial futures are going to improve, both individually and as a nation.
Even if Italy escapes the kind of sovereign debt crisis that engulfed Greece earlier this year -- and that is not certain -- it has a mountain of debt that it needs to trim in coming years. While its deficit is low, at 5 percent of gross domestic product, debt is 115 percent, the same as that of Greece. To reduce it, Italy needs more robust economic growth to stoke government revenue.
A turnaround for Italy, which sported the undesirable ''sick man of Europe'' title until last year, becomes more crucial as Europe stumbles toward a two-track recovery in which Italy, Greece and other southern countries lag Germany, France and more productive economies to the north. Recent forecasts have reduced growth projections for the southern tier.
Economists fear that if unchecked, the financial divide that has long existed between Northern and Southern Europe could lead to instability in the 16-nation euro club over time.
''The fact that you have a great divide between the north and the south is penalizing in the sense that if part of a country is underperforming it can hurt the macroeconomic structure as a whole,'' said Davide Stroppa, global economist at the Italian bank UniCredit. ''If you have a large part of the euro zone underperforming, it's clearly a problem.''
Prime Minister Silvio Berlusconi is tackling the issue in an austerity package introduced in May that includes tying public salary to productivity gains, raising the retirement age and slashing government spending. While Italians are not denying that austerity is necessary, an estimated one million people went on strike last month to protest the latest squeeze on workers.
In Pomigliano, as elsewhere in Italy, workers acknowledged in recent interviews that the country must recalibrate. ''The competitiveness of the entire world is changing,'' said Gennario Nacco, a 21-year veteran of the Fiat plant.
The factory, which produces Alfa Romeos, is in many ways an extreme example of Italy's woes. The 5,200 employees have been operating the plant at 32 percent capacity for the last two years, since demand collapsed during the economic crisis.
Keeping the plant open would seem to make little economic sense. But Fiat, which generates nearly half the region's economic activity, faced political pressure to safeguard the livelihood of about 15,000 families in a poor area gripped by organized crime. Unemployment and growth rates here are among the worst in the country, while productivity has been about 20 percent lower.
Mr. Marchionne, who engineered a stunning turnaround of Fiat in 2006, pulling it from the brink of bankruptcy, called on employees to radically alter their work ethic to compete in the global marketplace. If they did so, he vowed to spare the plant from closure and shift production of the popular Panda car back from Poland.
''The less they work, the happier they are,'' observed Vittorio di Giola, owner of the Caffetteria Vicky, a favorite haunt of Fiat workers on the Viale Alfa Romeo, Pomigliano's main drag.
That view was acknowledged by some workers, union officials and even the town's mayor, Raffaele Russo. ''There are those who don't miss a chance to miss work,'' Mr. Russo said.
Just last month, Fiat erected large television screens inside the factory when Italy played in the World Cup to encourage employees to come to work, said Mr. Nacco, the longtime worker there. Still, some people did not show up. ''And Fiat was paying us to watch the game,'' he said.
Yet for every worker resisting the shift, many more have decided that having a job is better than unemployment. After months of tension, 63 percent of the employees voted in June to accept Fiat's plan, which would penalize employees for abusing sick days, give them shorter lunch breaks and forbid them from striking during periods of high demand.
In turn, Fiat would invest more than 700 million euros ($905 million) in the factory, which would operate 24 hours a day, six days a week. A third daily shift would double output to 280,000 cars annually by next summer.
Fiat declined to make Mr. Marchionne or other executives available to discuss the situation.
From the perspective of Mr. Niglio and other members of the union known as FIOM, the only one of five unions to vote against the plan, Mr. Marchionne is marching Italy on a path toward China.
''There, they work super shifts that lead to increased suicide rates,'' he said, ''and workers are no longer humans, but machines.'' He said Fiat was crushing their right to strike, and cautioned that longer hours would diminish the quality of work. Absenteeism, he insisted, has not been a problem in the factory for years.
Many Fiat workers, however, said they had long complained to managers about employees who regularly missed shifts, a problem that they said persisted today.
''When one person is missing, it slows down the whole group and everyone has to pick up the slack,'' Mr. Nacco said. ''The production of 200 cars, for example, is slowed to 160 if a person is gone. Imagine when this is multiplied across the factory.''
Absenteeism has fallen to about 3 percent from about 30 percent a couple of years ago, said Crescenzo Auriemma, the secretary for the region's umbrella group for auto unions. Managers are cracking down nonetheless, sending a doctor to the homes of employees who do not show up for work.
Mr. Nacco, along with other people who declined to be identified by name so as not to escalate tensions at the plant, said resistance would not disappear overnight. But he is hoping the new steps will guarantee a future for the factory that employed ''my father, my uncles, my nephew, my sister, -- and hopefully, one day, my son.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Last month, Fiat workers protested in Naples against Fiat's new production plan, but 63 percent of the employees approved it. (B1)
 Last month, Fiat workers protested in Naples against Fiat's new production plan, but 63 percent of the employees approved it. (PHOTOGRAPH BY ROBERTO SALOMONE FOR THE INTERNATIONAL HERALD TRIBUNE) (B4) MAPS: Fiat's factory in Pomigliano is its lowest-producing plant. (B4) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: EXTERNAL DEBT (87%); ETHICS (86%); ECONOMIC NEWS (78%); EURO CRISIS (78%); PUBLIC DEBT (78%); GROSS DOMESTIC PRODUCT (78%); FACTORY WORKERS (77%); GREEK DEBT CRISIS (76%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (76%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (72%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (72%); EMERGING MARKETS (72%); DEBT CRISIS (72%); EXTERNAL DEBT REDUCTION (67%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (65%); FUTURES (62%); SOCCER (54%)

COMPANY: FIAT SPA (92%)

TICKER: FSOR (PAR) (92%); F (BIT) (92%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS336111 AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING (92%); SIC3711 MOTOR VEHICLES & PASSENGER CAR BODIES (92%); SIC3523 FARM MACHINERY & EQUIPMENT (92%)

PERSON: SERGIO MARCHIONNE (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: ITALY (96%); EUROPE (94%); NORTHERN EUROPE (92%); UNITED STATES (92%); GREECE (91%); SOUTHERN EUROPE (79%); FRANCE (79%); GERMANY (79%)

LOAD-DATE: July 24, 2010



567 of 785 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 23, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 15

LENGTH: 720 words

HEADLINE: Democrats Call Off Effort For Climate Bill in Senate

BYLINE: By CARL HULSE and DAVID M. HERSZENHORN; John M. Broder contributed reporting.

 BODY:
WASHINGTON -- The effort to advance a major climate change bill through the Senate this summer collapsed Thursday even as President Obama signed into law another top Democratic priority -- a bill to restore unemployment benefits for millions of Americans who have been out of work for six months or more.
Bowing to political reality, Senator Harry Reid, the Nevada Democrat and majority leader, said the Senate would not take up legislation intended to reduce carbon emissions blamed as a cause of climate change, but would instead pursue a more limited measure focused on responding to the oil spill in the Gulf of Mexico and tightening energy efficiency standards. 
''We know where we are,'' Mr. Reid told reporters after reviewing the state of energy legislation with Senate Democrats and administration officials. ''We know that we don't have the votes.''
The decision was a major disappointment to conservation groups and lawmakers who had invested months in trying to negotiate legislation. The House last year passed its own climate change bill, a proposal that has created a backlash for some politically vulnerable Democrats. The outcome was also viewed as a setback by some utility executives who had hoped that Congress would set predictable rules governing carbon pollution.
Carol M. Browner, director of the White House Office of Energy and Climate Change Policy, who appeared with Mr. Reid and Senator John Kerry, the Massachusetts Democrat who is a chief author of the climate bill, said the Obama administration was not happy but would support Mr. Reid's decision.
''Obviously, everyone is disappointed that we do not yet have an agreement on comprehensive legislation,'' she said.
Congressional and White House officials said the decision was a pragmatic move that could produce some legislation rather than bogging down the Senate over a bill that had no chance given strong opposition from most Republicans and some Democrats. They noted that the White House had acted on its own to raise fuel efficiency standards and had pushed the development of alternative fuels.
Democrats said the slimmer package would ensure that BP would pay for the cleanup of the gulf oil spill, and would promote further production of natural gas as well as the manufacturing of natural gas vehicles, especially big trucks. They said it would also tighten household energy efficiency requirements and increase financing of the Land and Water Conservation Fund.
But even the Senate's ability to pass a bill with significant bipartisan elements before its scheduled August recess was in doubt given the intense focus on the November elections.
Separately on Thursday night the Senate rejected a House version of an emergency spending bill that also contained billions of dollars for domestic programs, including $10 billion to help states and local school districts avert teacher layoffs. Instead the Senate sent the House a version focused mainly on financing operations in Iraq and Afghanistan.
While Senate Democrats revised their energy plans, the House voted 272 to 152 to send Mr. Obama a $34 billion six-month extension of unemployment pay for Americans who had exhausted their standard 26 weeks of aid. Signing the measure hours later, Mr. Obama said it would ''restore desperately needed assistance to two and a half million Americans who lost their jobs in the recession.''
The bill had been the subject of a partisan battle, with Democrats saying that the economic crisis was an emergency that justified deficit spending, while Republicans argued that the cost should not be added to the deficit.
''We want to help those who are struggling with the current economic slowdown,'' said Representative Charles Boustany Jr., a Louisiana Republican. ''But we also agree with the American people that new spending must be paid for.''
In the final vote, 31 Republicans joined 241 Democrats in supporting the measure. Voting against it were 142 Republicans and 10 Democrats.
Democrats called the Republican opposition shameful given the financial struggles of many families. The bill had been stalled since late May, and advanced in the Senate this week only with the arrival of a new Democratic senator to succeed the late Robert C. Byrd of West Virginia.
''It shouldn't have been so hard,'' said the House speaker, Nancy Pelosi of California.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (92%); CLIMATE CHANGE (91%); LEGISLATION (91%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); US PRESIDENTS (89%); ALTERNATIVE FUEL VEHICLES (89%); OIL SPILLS (89%); ENERGY EFFICIENCY & CONSERVATION (89%); NATURAL GAS PRODUCTS (89%); AUTOMOTIVE FUELS (85%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (79%); APPROPRIATIONS (78%); GREENHOUSE GASES (78%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (78%); ENVIRONMENTAL & WILDLIFE ORGANIZATIONS (78%); SUPPLEMENTAL APPROPRIATIONS (78%); POLITICS (78%); ELECTIONS (78%); LAYOFFS (77%); BIOFUELS (76%); EMISSIONS (76%); ENERGY REGULATION (75%); EDUCATION SYSTEMS & INSTITUTIONS (74%); SCHOOL DISTRICTS (73%); UNEMPLOYMENT INSURANCE (72%); AIR POLLUTION (71%); WRITERS (69%); TEACHING & TEACHERS (63%)

PERSON: JOHN KERRY (79%); HARRY REID (79%); BARACK OBAMA (78%); CAROL BROWNER (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEVADA, USA (92%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%); ATLANTIC OCEAN (79%); GULF OF MEXICO (79%) UNITED STATES (94%); AFGHANISTAN (79%); IRAQ (79%)

LOAD-DATE: July 23, 2010



568 of 785 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 23, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1220 words

HEADLINE: With Voters Angry, More of the Rich Run as Populist Outsiders

BYLINE: By DAMIEN CAVE and MICHAEL LUO

 BODY:
MIAMI -- When Jeff Greene, a k a the Meltdown Mogul, recently brought his Democratic campaign for the United States Senate to a poor Miami neighborhood rife with the kinds of subprime mortgages that he became a billionaire betting against, did he:
A) Arrive in a Cadillac Escalade S.U.V., before stumping for energy conservation;
B) Tell the crowd that he was ''fed up and frustrated'' with Washington while suggesting job-creation ideas previously proposed by Washington politicians;
C) Receive a raucous welcome as an outsider who could turn Florida around. 
The answer? All of the above, of course.
Call it the Great Recession paradox. Even as voters express outrage at the insider culture of big bailouts and bonuses, their search for political saviors has led them to this: a growing crowd of uber-rich candidates, comfortable in boardrooms and country clubs, spending a fortune to remake themselves into populist insurgents.
The number of self-financed candidates has crept up the last few election cycles, and this year seems to be on pace for another uptick.
Through just the second quarter of the year, at least 42 House and Senate candidates -- 7 Democrats and 35 Republicans -- in 23 states had already donated $500,000 or more of their own money to their campaigns, according to the most recent data available from the Center for Responsive Politics. That list does not even include governors' races, and the roster promises to grow as the campaign season progresses and spending escalates.
Historically, self-financed candidates have tended to lose. The National Institute on Money in State Politics recently found that of those candidates who received more than half of all campaign contributions from themselves or an immediate family member, only 11 percent won from 2000 to 2009.
But this year might be different, with a down economy making it harder for traditional candidates to raise money, and with anti-incumbency fever at record levels.
''They're running in a more favorable context,'' said Jennifer A. Steen, a professor of political science at Arizona State University, who has studied self-financed candidates. ''So we should expect them to do better.''
Having gobs of personal cash to toss into a race seems to be especially potent in California and Florida, with their expensive media markets. The governors' races are a prime example. In California, Meg Whitman, a Republican and former chief executive of eBay, has swamped all other self-financed candidates across the country, using $90 million of her own money to trounce Steve Poizner, who contributed $24 million from his own pocket, in the Republican primary.
And in Florida, Rick Scott, the former head of Columbia/HCA Healthcare -- a large hospital chain that paid $1.7 billion in fines for fraudulently billing government programs like Medicare -- has become so visible on television that his latest ads start with him saying ''Me again.'' Mr. Scott has shocked the Republican establishment by becoming the clear front-runner after spending more than $20 million on advertisements.
Mr. Greene, though, is the biggest surprise so far. A Democrat who had been a Republican; a brash, gold-watch-and-Prada-sunglasses-wearing investor with friends like Mike Tyson and Heidi Fleiss, even he admits he has been surprised by how quickly his campaign has picked up support. He entered just before the filing deadline in April. Democratic officials laughed him off initially. But not anymore.
Recent polls show that Mr. Greene, 55, has pulled roughly even in the primary with Representative Kendrick B. Meek, the Miami Democrat who had been the party favorite, though Gov. Charlie Crist still leads as an independent in a three-way general election.
Mr. Greene's campaign finance report filed last week starkly illustrates the impact of his wealth. He took in just $3,036 in outside contributions, while lending himself -- and spending -- $5.9 million in the second quarter, not far off from what Mr. Meek has raised in 18 months.
Mr. Greene insists that for self-financed candidates, now is the moment. ''If 2008 was the year of change, 2010 is the year of frustration,'' he said in an interview.
His approach, like that of many other rich candidates, is simple: tap into voter anger (''I'm fed up,'' Mr. Greene tells crowds) then argue that only those who have succeeded in business can drive economic recovery, without kowtowing to special interests.
So Linda E. McMahon, a Connecticut Republican who made her fortune with professional wrestling before her Senate run, has recently produced a television ad declaring that ''politicians have had their chance, and blown it'' while her jobs plan ''is backed by experience.''
Mr. Greene, in turn, told the crowd in Liberty Square, the poor Miami neighborhood: ''My whole life I've created jobs, I mean, literally thousands of jobs. And that's why I'm running.''
Sara Smith, president of the Liberty Square Resident Council, said she welcomed Mr. Greene's campaign to the area, which Mr. Meek has represented in Congress since 2002. ''We're looking for candidates who are going to go up the road and help us,'' Ms. Smith said.
But some skeptical voters, burned by an economy that has often worked for the few, not the many, are asking how voting in the wealthy would actually lead to broad-based improvement.
After all, while Carly Fiorina, a Republican who is challenging Senator Barbara Boxer in California, declares on her Web site that she will ''fight for every job'' if elected, as chief executive of Hewlett-Packard in 2003, she cut about 18,000 jobs.
Mr. Greene's claims have also come under scrutiny. In an interview, he said hundreds of people were hired to work on buildings he invested in since he started buying properties in the 1970s in Massachusetts, where he grew up. But most of his fortune, estimated at $1.4 billion by Forbes in 2008, comes from derivatives that let him profit from the collapse of subprime mortgages.
Mr. Greene described this as an underdog's victory: ''I went up against the big banks and won,'' he said -- even though he first needed two of those banks, Merrill Lynch and JPMorgan Chase & Company, to grant him special status as an institutional investor, rather than as an individual.
Ultimately for many voters, it will come down to trust. Can these privileged candidates be trusted more than traditional politicians to fight for those who are struggling?
Mr. Greene, again, is an extreme test case. He speaks often on the stump about working as a busboy at the Breakers resort in Palm Beach to help pay for college. But these days, he lives in an oceanfront mansion when he is not on one of his yachts or his plane with gold seat-belt buckles.
In Century Village -- a Boca Raton retirement complex and a petri dish for Democratic Florida opinion -- the mix brought both calculated support, and disdain. Marvin Manning, who introduced Mr. Greene to about 150 retirees, said his lack of political experience might be ''for the best.''
But Adelle Pastman, 73, said Mr. Greene seemed to be treating the Senate as just another acquisition. ''I just don't like that a person has so much money that they feel they can politic themselves into office,'' she said.
Ms. Pastman winced at the thought from behind large glasses just before Mr. Greene put on his Pradas and drove away in his S.U.V.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Jeff Greene in Florida is among a group of wealthy candidates financing their own campaigns.(A1)
 Jeff Greene, a Florida billionaire, has been striking populist themes as he travels in his mostly self-financed campaign for the Senate. He visited Lake Worth, above, and Boca Raton. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY MICHAEL F. McELROY FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) (A15) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: WEALTHY PEOPLE (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); POLITICS (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (89%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (89%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (78%); US SENATE ELECTIONS (78%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (78%); FUNDRAISING (78%); PRIMARY ELECTIONS (78%); POLITICAL SCIENCE (78%); GOLF & COUNTRY CLUBS (76%); RECESSION (74%); ECONOMIC NEWS (74%); CAMPAIGN FINANCE (73%); SUBPRIME LENDING (72%); MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (72%); SUBPRIME MORTGAGES (72%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (71%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (71%); BAILOUTS (69%); FINES & PENALTIES (65%); HOSPITALS (60%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (60%); MEDICARE (60%); JOB CREATION (56%); EXECUTIVES (50%)

COMPANY: HCA HOLDINGS INC (50%)

ORGANIZATION: CENTER FOR RESPONSIVE POLITICS (54%)

TICKER: HCA (NYSE) (50%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS622110 GENERAL MEDICAL & SURGICAL HOSPITALS (50%); NAICS621493 FREESTANDING AMBULATORY SURGICAL & EMERGENCY CENTERS (50%); SIC8062 GENERAL MEDICAL & SURGICAL HOSPITALS (50%); SIC8011 OFFICES & CLINICS OF DOCTORS OF MEDICINE (50%)

PERSON: MARGARET C WHITMAN (74%); RICK SCOTT (55%)

GEOGRAPHIC: MIAMI, FL, USA (92%) FLORIDA, USA (94%); CALIFORNIA, USA (92%); ARIZONA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: July 23, 2010



569 of 785 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 23, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; OP-ED COLUMNIST; Pg. 23

LENGTH: 803 words

HEADLINE: Addicted To Bush

BYLINE: By PAUL KRUGMAN

 BODY:
For a couple of years, it was the love that dared not speak his name. In 2008, Republican candidates hardly ever mentioned the president still sitting in the White House. After the election, the G.O.P. did its best to shout down all talk about how we got into the mess we're in, insisting that we needed to look forward, not back. And many in the news media played along, acting as if it was somehow uncouth for Democrats even to mention the Bush era and its legacy.
The truth, however, is that the only problem Republicans ever had with George W. Bush was his low approval rating. They always loved his policies and his governing style -- and they want them back. In recent weeks, G.O.P. leaders have come out for a complete return to the Bush agenda, including tax breaks for the rich and financial deregulation. They've even resurrected the plan to cut future Social Security benefits. 
But they have a problem: how can they embrace President Bush's policies, given his record? After all, Mr. Bush's two signature initiatives were tax cuts and the invasion of Iraq; both, in the eyes of the public, were abject failures. Tax cuts never yielded the promised prosperity, but along with other policies -- especially the unfunded war in Iraq -- they converted a budget surplus into a persistent deficit. Meanwhile, the W.M.D. we invaded Iraq to eliminate turned out not to exist, and by 2008 a majority of the public believed not just that the invasion was a mistake but that the Bush administration deliberately misled the nation into war. What's a Republican to do?
You know the answer. There's now a concerted effort under way to rehabilitate Mr. Bush's image on at least three fronts: the economy, the deficit and the war.
On the economy: Last week Mitch McConnell, the Senate minority leader, declared that ''there's no evidence whatsoever that the Bush tax cuts actually diminished revenue. They increased revenue, because of the vibrancy of these tax cuts in the economy.'' So now the word is that the Bush-era economy was characterized by ''vibrancy.''
I guess it depends on the meaning of the word ''vibrant.'' The actual record of the Bush years was (i) two and half years of declining employment, followed by (ii) four and a half years of modest job growth, at a pace significantly below the eight-year average under Bill Clinton, followed by (iii) a year of economic catastrophe. In 2007, at the height of the ''Bush boom,'' such as it was, median household income, adjusted for inflation, was still lower than it had been in 2000.
But the Bush apologists hope that you won't remember all that. And they also have a theory, which I've been hearing more and more -- namely, that President Obama, though not yet in office or even elected, caused the 2008 slump. You see, people were worried in advance about his future policies, and that's what caused the economy to tank. Seriously.
On the deficit: Republicans are now claiming that the Bush administration was actually a paragon of fiscal responsibility, and that the deficit is Mr. Obama's fault. ''The last year of the Bush administration,'' said Mr. McConnell recently, ''the deficit as a percentage of gross domestic product was 3.2 percent, well within the range of what most economists think is manageable. A year and a half later, it's almost 10 percent.''
But that 3.2 percent figure, it turns out, is for fiscal 2008 -- which wasn't the last year of the Bush administration, because it ended in September of 2008. In other words, it ended just as the failure of Lehman Brothers -- on Mr. Bush's watch -- was triggering a broad financial and economic collapse. This collapse caused the deficit to soar: By the first quarter of 2009 -- with only a trickle of stimulus funds flowing -- federal borrowing had already reached almost 9 percent of G.D.P. To some of us, this says that the economic crisis that began under Mr. Bush is responsible for the great bulk of our current deficit. But the Republican Party is having none of it.
Finally, on the war: For most Americans, the whole debate about the war is old if painful news -- but not for those obsessed with refurbishing the Bush image. Karl Rove now claims that his biggest mistake was letting Democrats get away with the ''shameful'' claim that the Bush administration hyped the case for invading Iraq. Let the whitewashing begin!
Again, Republicans aren't trying to rescue George W. Bush's reputation for sentimental reasons; they're trying to clear the way for a return to Bush policies. And this carries a message for anyone hoping that the next time Republicans are in power, they'll behave differently. If you believe that they've learned something -- say, about fiscal prudence or the importance of effective regulation -- you're kidding yourself. You might as well face it: they're addicted to Bush.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US PRESIDENTS (90%); IRAQ WAR (90%); TAXES & TAXATION (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (89%); TAX LAW (88%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (78%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); SOCIAL SECURITY (78%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (77%); BUDGETS (73%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (73%); BANKING & FINANCE (69%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (65%); DEREGULATION (53%)

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (91%); BILL CLINTON (79%); MITCH MCCONNELL (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: IRAQ (93%); UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: July 23, 2010



570 of 785 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 23, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 881 words

HEADLINE: Inside The Times

 BODY:
International
COURT RULES ON DECLARATION OF KOSOVO'S INDEPENDENCE
Kosovo's unilateral declaration of independence from Serbia in 2008 did not violate international law, the United Nations' highest court said in a ruling that Kosovo heralded as a victory but that legal experts warned could spur separatist movements around the world. PAGE A4
PAKISTAN ARMY CHIEF TO STAY 
The government extended the term of Pakistan's army chief by three years, a move backed by the United States as it seeks to encourage Pakistan to become a more reliable ally against Taliban and Qaeda militants. PAGE A4
VIOLENCE IN YEMEN
Fighting has flared up across Yemen in recent days, with dozens of pro-government tribesmen killed in clashes with rebels in the north, and five soldiers killed in an ambush, believed to have been carried out by Al Qaeda, in the south. PAGE A6
U.S. LIFTS INDONESIAN BAN
The United States is lifting a ban on military contact with an elite Indonesian special forces unit implicated in past killings of civilians and other abuses, Defense Secretary Robert M. Gates announced. PAGE A6
GUARDS IN SOMALIA DEFECT
Somali officials acknowledged that members of Somalia's presidential guard had defected to the Shabab, the radical Islamist group that claimed responsibility for the recent bombings in Uganda. PAGE A8
Obituaries
BUFF COBB, 82
With Mike Wallace, her husband at the time, she hosted ''Mike and Buff,'' one of television's first talk shows. On the show, the couple would engage in heated debate over a different topic each day. PAGE B9
National
OFFICIAL DENIES BP PUT COST AHEAD OF SAFETY AT OIL RIG
Government investigators pressed a BP official who supervised the Deepwater Horizon about whether the company took shortcuts to save money and time by selecting riskier equipment at the oil rig. The official denied BP had done so. PAGE A12
BP's partners in the blown-out Macondo well in the Gulf of Mexico distanced themselves from the oil giant in a Senate subcommittee hearing, though their arguments met a skeptical audience. PAGE A12
As the threat of a storm stalled efforts to permanently seal BP's blown-out well in the Gulf of Mexico, the government said that the well would be left closed off and unattended if ships had to leave the area. PAGE A14
WARNING ABOUT EDUCATION
Adding to a drumbeat of concern about the nation's college-completion rates, the College Board warned that the growing gap between the United States and other countries threatened to hurt American economic competitiveness. PAGE A11
HEARING ON ARIZONA LAW
With a week remaining before Arizona's stringent new immigration law is set to take effect, a federal judge in Phoenix heard from Obama administration lawyers urging her to strike down the law while demonstrators argued both sides outside the courthouse. PAGE A11
New York
MANY SCHOOL DISTRICTS REQUIRE IMMIGRATION PAPERS
Immigration violations cannot be used as a basis to deny children equal access to a public school education. But one in five school districts is routinely imposing enrollment barriers on immigrant children, intentionally or not. PAGE A16
Business
MARKETS SURGE UPWARD ON STRONG QUARTERLY RESULTS
Corporations from AT&T to U.P.S. say that business is finally picking up, and investors are cheering. Robust quarterly results from some of the nation's bellwether corporations galvanized Wall Street. Stocks soared in a broad rally that lifted the market 2.25 percent. PAGE B1
A GULF'S WORTH OF OIL
Even as the petroleum industry continues drilling in the Gulf of Mexico, a field in Atyrau, Kazakhstan, stands ready to produce two-thirds as much oil each day as the entire gulf does, with less danger to the environment. But the field, the Tengiz, is still running at only about half speed. Blame geopolitics. PAGE B1
FED'S MORTGAGE SECURITIES
The Federal Reserve provided most of the money for new mortgages in the United States last year, effectively lending more than $1 trillion to American homeowners. Now the central bank faces growing demands for an encore to help revive the flagging economy. PAGE B1
G.M. TO PURCHASE LENDER
General Motors said that it had agreed to buy a financing company, AmeriCredit, for $3.5 billion so it can lease more vehicles and increase sales to consumers with lower credit ratings. The transaction gives G.M. a captive financing arm for the first time since 2007. PAGE B3
Sports
CONTADOR FENDS OFF CHALLENGE FOR TOUR LEAD
Alberto Contador held off Andy Schleck in the biggest climb of the Tour de France. The two best overall Tour riders -- Contador and Schleck -- seemed to have decided that the moment that most likely would decide which one of them would win the Tour had come. PAGE B10
Weekend
OUT ON NEW YORK HARBOR, SMOOTH SAILING AND JAZZ
The Smooth Cruise, now in its 13th year, held each Wednesday through summer's end by Spirit Cruises, mixes stimulating views and easy listening. PAGE C1
SPIES, LIES AND SEX APPEAL
In ''Salt,'' directed by Phillip Noyce from a screenplay by Kurt Wimmer, Angelina Jolie plays either a Russian mole, a C.I.A. superassassin or a little of both. A review by A. O. Scott. PAGE C1
Op-ed
DAVID BROOKS PAGE A23
Online
Coverage of the Comic-Con International at the San Diego Convention Center, where the comics industry is drawing film and other entertainment heavyweights.
nytimes.com/artsbeat

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Summary

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: DECISIONS & RULINGS (90%); ARMIES (90%); SEPARATISM & SECESSION (90%); INTERNATIONAL LAW (90%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (89%); SETTLEMENTS & DECISIONS (89%); DEATHS & OBITUARIES (84%); REBELLIONS & INSURGENCIES (78%); ARMED FORCES (76%); MUSLIMS & ISLAM (76%); TALIBAN (76%); US PRESIDENTS (75%); AL-QAEDA (75%); TERRORIST ATTACKS (75%); IMMIGRATION (74%); JUDGES (73%); IMMIGRATION LAW (73%); TERRORIST ORGANIZATIONS (72%); DEFENSE DEPARTMENTS (71%); BOMBINGS (71%); OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (68%); CRUDE OIL & NATURAL GAS EXTRACTION (68%); OIL & GAS EXTRACTION (68%); INVESTIGATIONS (67%); ARIZONA IMMIGRATION LAW (62%); COLLEGES & UNIVERSITIES (60%); GRADUATION RATES (60%)

ORGANIZATION: UNITED NATIONS (84%); AL-QAEDA (56%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (58%); ROBERT M GATES (56%)

GEOGRAPHIC: PHOENIX, AZ, USA (65%) GULF OF MEXICO (92%); ARIZONA, USA (92%); ATLANTIC OCEAN (92%) SERBIA (96%); UNITED STATES (94%); KOSOVO (94%); PAKISTAN (94%); SOMALIA (93%); YEMEN (92%); SERBIA & MONTENEGRO (92%); UGANDA (79%)

LOAD-DATE: July 23, 2010



571 of 785 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 23, 2010
The New York Times on the Web

SECTION: Section ; Column 0; Editorial Desk; LETTER; Pg. 

LENGTH: 138 words

HEADLINE: More Projects Like the Census, to Create More Jobs

 BODY:
To the Editor:
Re ''End of Census, and for Many, End of a Job'' (front page, July 12): 
Can't we create some more projects like the United States Census? There are so many unmet needs in this country, and as your article points out, so many qualified workers who are aching to use their skills in some meaningful way.
Rather than arguing over extending unemployment benefits yet again, perhaps Republicans and Democrats could agree to tie those payments to work.
As one who was unemployed myself last summer and fall, I can almost guarantee that most of the long-term unemployed would prefer to work for their pay -- honing their skills or developing new ones, and doing something productive with their days -- rather than sit home combing through job Web sites and sending resumes into the void.
Mary-Powel Thomas Brooklyn, July 12, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: JOB CREATION (90%); LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (90%); UNEMPLOYED PERSONS (88%); UNEMPLOYMENT INSURANCE (88%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (87%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (74%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (71%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (91%)

LOAD-DATE: July 23, 2010



572 of 785 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 23, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1518 words

HEADLINE: Awash in Oil, Awaiting a Pipeline

BYLINE: By ANDREW E. KRAMER

 BODY:
ATYRAU, Kazakhstan -- Even as the petroleum industry continues drilling in the Gulf of Mexico at considerable expense and risk, a single field here in Central Asia stands ready to produce two-thirds as much oil each day as the entire gulf does, with less danger to the environment.
But 30 years after its discovery, this field, known as the Tengiz, is still running at only about half speed. Blame geopolitics, not geology.
The problem with the Tengiz field, whose lead operator is the American company Chevron, is not a matter of extracting the oil. More than 100 working wells have already been successfully drilled into the scrub brush desert of western Kazakhstan, near the Caspian Sea. 
The challenge is getting the oil to the market.
The Tengiz field, one of the world's largest known petroleum reservoirs, is tied to a 935-mile pipeline to the Black Sea that the Russian government has declined for years to expand. That refusal has held even though Chevron is a minority partner in the Russian-led pipeline, the Caspian Pipeline Consortium, or C.P.C., which agreed a dozen years ago to more than double its carrying capacity when demand required.
As a result, instead of the 600,000 barrels a day from the Tengiz field that the planners had envisioned by now, Chevron has been limited to pumping about 420,000 barrels through the C.P.C. pipeline to the Black Sea -- the nearest entry point to international sea lanes. And Chevron has held off on further production investment that would raise the daily total to about a million barrels. (By comparison, the Gulf of Mexico's daily output is about 1.5 million barrels.)
For now, some of the Tengiz oil that cannot be accommodated by the pipeline moves via a costly bucket brigade of ships on the Caspian and overland railway tankers to the Black Sea. The effort has required Chevron to become Kazakhstan's largest railroad operator.
''If Chevron had our way and everything worked beautifully, we would have C.P.C. expanded five years ago,'' said Guy Hollingsworth, managing director for Chevron in Europe and Asia, referring to the pipeline.
But Chevron does not decide. As the pipeline's controlling partner, Russia has declined to expand it while trying to line up investors and international rights-of-way for a second, separate pipeline that would provide the next leg of the oil's journey by an overland link between the Black Sea and the Mediterranean.
Besides further controlling the transport of oil in the region, Russia is seeking to bypass shipping through the Bosporus Straits in Turkey, the typical passage out of the Black Sea, which is a potential bottleneck already operating at full capacity for oil tankers. Russian pipeline negotiations have long been led by the former president and now prime minister, Vladimir V. Putin, who has taken a keen personal interest in Eurasian energy politics.
The standoff over the C.P.C. expansion is a reminder that while environmental concerns pose a big risk to oil production in the United States and its waters, global politics can pose their own business risks to the industry.
In the years immediately after the breakup of the Soviet Union, many in the industry hoped the Caspian region could become a second Persian Gulf, lifting the fortunes of companies and countries and helping shift world oil supplies away from the Middle East.
The Caspian basin ''has been a success, but it hasn't lived up to the exaggerated expectations,'' Svante E. Cornell, research director for the Central Asia-Caucasus Institute at the School for Advanced International Studies at Johns Hopkins University, said.
''One of the problems has been the Russian government's unwillingness to expand the flow of oil,'' Mr. Cornell said.
Chevron is hardly the only company in the Caspian region plagued with transportation woes. Finding an outlet to world markets is a consuming headache of all the companies working in this foreboding, landlocked oil basin in Central Asia.
The operator of a separate, gigantic Caspian oil field -- a group whose partners include Exxon Mobil, Shell, ConocoPhillips, Total and Eni -- has yet to negotiate a suitable route for exports. Neither has BP, which is managing a major gas field in this region.
By comparison, Chevron's troubles are more subtle. The Tengiz field is productive and profitable, but is not yielding nearly as much oil and money as it could be. Chevron executives emphasize, too, that while exports by rail are more expensive, there is value in having a diversified transportation system.
Chevron won the Tengiz contract in 1993, signing a deal with Kazakhstan's government, whose national oil company has a minority stake in the investor group developing the field. (Besides Chevron, with its 50 percent stake, Exxon Mobil and the Russian oil company Lukoil are also shareholders.)
Despite the state oil company's involvement, the group is periodically squeezed by the Kazakh government for additional taxes and fines to prop up the national budget -- something that became more common during the recession. Just this month, for example, Kazakh authorities announced a new export tax of $2.73 a barrel, which will cost Chevron and its partners $1.6 million a day. The government also said it was conducting an investigation into illegal drilling, which could bring huge fines. The consortium has denied it deviated from the state-approved drilling plan.
Back in the mid-'90s, a plan took shape for an overland pipeline through Russia to the port of Novorossiysk on the eastern shore of the Black Sea. From there it could move by tanker ships, either to other Black Sea countries or, in most cases, through the Bosporus Straits in Turkey, down to the Mediterranean and from there, various ports around the world.
Under a 1998 deal, the Russian government agreed to the pipeline's being built in two phases. -- the first, at a capacity of 650,000 barrels a day. The second phase would more than double it to exceed 1.4 million barrels a day ''when shareholder forecasts required the capacity,'' according to a C.P.C. fact sheet.
Phase 1 was completed in October 2001. Phase 2, despite pent-up demand by Chevron and its partners, has yet to begin.
On the basis of the 1990s-era pipeline plans, the Chevron group invested hundreds of millions of dollars drilling wells and bringing them online. The even bigger expense, though, was constructing massive multibillion-dollar processing plants to remove the lethally poisonous hydrogen sulfide gas from the petroleum to make it fit for sale on the global market. Six such plants are now up and running.
The last to be built, at a cost of $7.4 billion, is a behemoth of pipes and tanks that, in a recent visit here, shimmered in the desert heat and occasionally issued a hissing burst of flame from one of its towers. The complex separates oil from vast quantities of hydrogen sulfide, then re-injects some of the gas into the earth. It is so huge that at one point during construction, completed two years ago, 18,000 laborers were clambering over the sand, welding and hammering it all together.
Yet even before the plant was finished, Chevron learned that the pipeline expansion, which would enable the company to export the plant's output -- 285,000 barrels of processed oil per day -- would not be done in time.
As Russia has sought investors for the second pipeline, analysts say it needs to promise that there will be enough oil running through it to justify the cost of construction. Chevron's Tengiz oil has thus became one of its negotiating chips.
Chevron has already agreed to use this second pipeline. But determining the route has become a matter of international negotiations.
Russia initially proposed running it from the Bulgarian Black Sea port of Burgas to the Greek city of Alexandroupolis. But after a change in Bulgaria's government soured relations with Russia, the focus shifted to running a pipeline across Turkey instead -- stretching from the Black Sea port of Samsun to the Mediterranean port of Ceyhan. Various oil companies are now in talks about ensuring supplies for that pipeline.
Mikhail V. Barkov, a spokesman for Transneft, Russia's state pipeline company, said the government never formally linked expansion of the C.P.C. pipeline to a favorable resolution of this second pipeline plan. It was only a factor among several, he said.
In any case, Russian officials now say a final decision on the timing of the C.P.C. pipeline expansion will come in the fall. Ian MacDonald, Chevron's vice president for transportation in Europe and the Middle East, said contracts for the pipeline expansion work were already being negotiated.
When the pipeline expansion is approved, he said, Chevron will commit to additional work on the Tengiz field to elevate its output close to a million barrels of oil a day.
But meanwhile, Chevron's Tengiz field is not living up to its potential.
No new wells are being drilled here. And of the 107 prolific wells already in place, nine are simply left idle. Their stubby pipes protrude from the sand, covered in valves and gauges, like the tips of long straws, waiting to suck up the oil underneath.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: PLENTY OF CRUDE: The Tengiz oil field in Kazakhstan could produce a million barrels a day, but politics is blocking needed transportation. (PHOTOGRAPH BY VIKTOR KOROTAYEV FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES)(B1)
 The Tengiz field in Kazakhstan has been operating at half capacity because the Russian government has not cooperated with pipeline expansion agreements made by Chevron 12 years ago. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY VIKTOR KOROTAYEV FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES, LEFT, AND CHEVRON) (B4) MAP (B1) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PETROLEUM PRODUCTS (90%); PETROLEUM & COAL PRODUCTS MFG (89%); MARINE TANKERS (89%); OIL & GAS MARINE TANKERS (89%); OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (78%); PIPELINE TRANSPORTATION (78%); CRUDE OIL PIPELINES (78%); LAKES (77%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (73%); GEOLOGY & GEOPHYSICS (71%); PRIME MINISTERS (68%); BULK SHIPPING (58%)

PERSON: VLADIMIR PUTIN (52%)

GEOGRAPHIC: ATLANTIC OCEAN (94%); GULF OF MEXICO (93%); MEDITERRANEAN SEA (79%); CASPIAN SEA (79%) RUSSIAN FEDERATION (95%); KAZAKHSTAN (94%); ASIA (93%); CENTRAL ASIA (92%); EUROPE (79%); TURKEY (79%); MEDITERRANEAN (79%); UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: July 27, 2010



573 of 785 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 23, 2010
The New York Times on the Web

SECTION: Section ; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 

LENGTH: 391 words

HEADLINE: House Passes Jobless Benefit Extension

BYLINE: By CARL HULSE

 BODY:
WASHINGTON -- The House approved legislation on Thursday that would restore unemployment pay for millions of Americans who have exhausted their standard benefits. The bill was sent to President Obama for his signature, and administration officials said Mr. Obama would sign it immediately. 
The $34 billion measure was the subject of a fierce partisan battle in Congress over whether the cost should be offset with spending cuts or tax increases to avoid enlarging the federal deficit, as Republican opponents demanded. Democrats countered that the economic crisis amounted to a fiscal emergency, permitting the measure to be financed with deficit spending.
The vote in the House was 272 to 152, with 31 Republicans joining 241 Democrats in supporting the measure. Voting against were 142 Republicans and 10 Democrats.
''Today we put this sad chapter behind us,'' said Representative Sander Levin, Democrat of Michigan and chairman of the Ways and Means Committee.
The fact that 31 Republicans sided with the Democratic majority showed the political sensitivity of the issue. Though they have been voting almost unanimously against most Democratic proposals, Republicans were somewhat splintered on the unemployment question.
The extended unemployment benefits, traditionally provided by the federal government in times of high joblessness, were caught in a stalemate from the end of May until a crucial vote in the Senate on Tuesday; over those six weeks, benefits ran out for an estimated 2 million Americans without jobs.
Democrats accused their opponents of employing a double standard, saying that Republicans who insisted on offsetting the cost of extended benefits with spending cuts never did the same to pay for tax cuts for affluent Americans.
Republicans, on the other hand, said the deficit was growing so large that the federal government could not afford to dole out more aid without reducing spending elsewhere.
''Republicans want to help those looking for work,'' said Representative Charles Boustany, Republican of Louisiana. ''We want to help those who are struggling with the current economic slowdown. But we also agree with the American people that new spending must be paid for.''
Both parties expect the fight over the unemployment benefits, which flared repeatedly all year, to be a defining issue in the November mid-term elections.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (92%); UNEMPLOYMENT INSURANCE (91%); BUDGET DEFICITS (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); LEGISLATION (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); NATIONAL DEBT (89%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (89%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (78%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); PUBLIC FINANCE (78%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (78%); TAXES & TAXATION (78%); US PRESIDENTS (77%); MIDTERM ELECTIONS (77%); ELECTIONS (77%); TAX INCREASES (76%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (76%); TAX LAW (76%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (75%); ECONOMIC NEWS (73%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (73%); EMPLOYMENT (64%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (88%); SANDER M LEVIN (58%); CHARLES W BOUSTANY JR (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (96%)

LOAD-DATE: July 23, 2010



574 of 785 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 23, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; LETTERS; Pg. 22

LENGTH: 345 words

HEADLINE: The Sherrod Affair: A Rush to Judgment, an Apology

 BODY:
To the Editor:
Re ''Faster Than a Speeding Blog'' (editorial, July 22):
In the wake of the embarrassing firing-and-rehiring controversy involving Shirley Sherrod, an Agriculture Department official, we now see a clear pattern to the reactions of the Obama administration in particular, and of the Democratic leadership in general. 
It goes something like this: Conservative pundits make an inflammatory charge involving race; Democrats immediately react as if it were absolutely true; further investigation reveals that the charge is a distortion largely unsupported by fact; and Democrats then fall all over themselves apologizing for their unseemly stampede to a deeply flawed judgment.
The Acorn contretemps comes to mind in this connection. Race remains the hot button in American political discourse, from the disingenuous denials of the Tea Party to President Obama's ill-advised foray into the Henry Louis Gates Jr. affair. Conservative pundits have used it to play the Democrats like the chords of a piano.
The next time this issue arises -- and it will -- Democratic leaders need to step back, breathe deeply, count to 1,000 and, most important, get the facts.
Vaughn A. Carney Stowe, Vt., July 22, 2010
To the Editor:
The Sherrod affair has unfortunately confirmed my suspicion of the Obama administration: it has no backbone.
The administration seems not to realize that American politics is a contact sport, not a cerebral exercise. An attack demands an immediate counterattack. Smearing Shirley Sherrod was an attack; firing her was not a counterattack, it was a misguided attempt at damage control.
The Democratic position on virtually every issue (including, or especially, the economy) is far stronger than the opposition's, but the administration's defense of its policies is tepid at best.
The Sherrod affair shows that the right keeps on attacking, even when it is wrong, and the left keeps on retreating, even when it is right. For this Democratic president and this Democratic Congress, this is not a formula for success.
Charles T. Grant Minneapolis, July 22, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: POLITICAL PARTIES (91%); CONSERVATIVE MEDIA (90%); CONSERVATISM (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (90%); LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); US PRESIDENTS (89%); DISMISSALS (78%); TEA PARTY MOVEMENT (77%); POLITICS (76%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (59%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (76%)

GEOGRAPHIC: VERMONT, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: July 23, 2010



575 of 785 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 23, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; HIGH & LOW FINANCE; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1430 words

HEADLINE: Perfect For a Job She Created

BYLINE: By FLOYD NORRIS. 
Floyd Norris on whether Dell's settlement will serve as a deterrent, at nytimes.com/norris.

 BODY:
Can Mary and Elizabeth remake the financial world for consumers?
They just might, if Elizabeth can get the job.
The women referred to are not the queens who, you may recall, did not get along too well. Their dispute ended badly for Mary.
Mary is Mary Schapiro, the chairwoman of the Securities and Exchange Commission, which this week moved to open up more price competition in the selling of mutual funds, and soon will deal with the issue of just how much responsibility a stock broker has to act in a client's best interests.
Elizabeth is Elizabeth Warren, the Harvard law professor who dreamed up the idea for the Bureau of Consumer Financial Protection, which became law when President Obama signed the Dodd-Frank law this week.
Whether or not she is named to run the bureau may depend on how willing the president is to anger the banks yet again, and whether he is willing to risk a big confirmation battle in the Senate. There may be people less popular in bank boardrooms than Ms. Warren, but none come immediately to mind. 
In making the decision, the president may want to keep in mind that those two organizations, the S.E.C. and the new bureau, will be largely responsible for the actions that will make the Dodd-Frank law visible to most Americans by the 2012 election.
Other provisions of the law -- creation of a financial stability panel, a more transparent derivatives market, limits on bank risk-taking through proprietary trading, a new way to liquidate big banks -- will be really noticed only if they fail and we get a new financial crisis. But the bureau and the commission could change the way financial products are sold and make it easier for those who are cheated to get compensation.
The bureau, more than most new agencies, is likely to be molded by its first boss.
While the average new agency is created by a law that gives it a bunch of duties no one had before, this agency is supposed to enforce laws long on the books that were enforced poorly, if at all, by the bank regulatory agencies. It will also establish new rules.
Never has the Biblical adage of ''No man can serve two masters'' been better proved than in bank regulation. The first duty of bank regulators is to protect the safety and soundness of banks, and it is easy to see why protecting consumers from hidden fees and unfair practices might seem to threaten bank profits and be contrary to the goal of healthy banks. To say the bank regulators neglected consumer protection is to be kind.
Logically, the belated discovery that financial consumer protection needs to be increased might have led to increased powers for the S.E.C., which was created to protect investors. But it stumbled badly in recent years, and that idea does not seem to have occurred to anyone.
Ms. Shapiro's move this week was to do something that sounds just like what Ms. Warren would propose for banks: bring fees out into the open, so everyone can see them.
The S.E.C. proposed rules to change the cozy system that lets ''no load'' mutual funds charge sales fees, known in the business as 12b-1 fees, that are taken from an investor's profits year after year. Under the proposal, the fees would be above board, and differing brokers selling funds could discount them if they chose to compete that way.
The commission will soon move to consider the issue of whether to require brokers to have a ''fiduciary duty'' to investors, meaning they would have to offer advice they believed to be in the customer's best interest. Such consideration is required by the new law, and how far the commission goes could help to determine just how consumer-oriented it is.
The most notable enforcement case of Ms. Shapiro's tenure can be read as an indication that she cares deeply about such issues.
Under current law, brokers serving retail investors are held to a limited standard requiring that investments be ''suitable'' to the buyer. But brokers for institutional investors have not faced even that minimal rule. That freed brokers to let clients view them as trusted advisers when pitching an investment. If and when the product blows up, the broker disclaims any responsibility for the bad investment decision made by the customer. The broker was simply a ''counterparty'' who took the other side of a trade that the customer wanted to do.
That essentially was Goldman Sachs's defense when the commission filed suit against it over a disastrous mortgage-backed securities deal that Goldman sold without telling customers that it had been partly created by the firm that wanted to bet it would fail. Goldman's settlement helps to establish a precedent that such sophistry must end.
The history between the banks and Ms. Warren goes back for many years. In their first epic battle, which lasted for nearly a decade, the banks scored a decisive victory. Their win, alas, was a pyrrhic one that led to hubris, bad lending practices and big losses.
In 1994, the Congress established the National Bankruptcy Review Commission, which was to suggest changes in the law. Ms. Warren, whose detailed research into why people file for bankruptcy is respected even among some of her critics, became the principal staff member for the commission, and soon ran afoul of the banks.
The banks wanted legal changes to make it harder for bankrupt people to escape credit card debt. The commission decided not to back most of what the banks wanted and to suggest a few things the banks hated.
The commission suggested weaker protection for mortgage lenders who lent out more than a home was worth. To combat what it saw as abuses by both debtors and creditors, the commission proposed changes like requiring audits of some claims by lenders and limiting the ability of banks to get borrowers to voluntarily reaffirm debts.
Even before the report came out in 1997, the banks had called on Congress to ignore the commission and pass a bill to crack down on consumer abuse of lenders. It took years, but in 2005, Congress passed and President George W. Bush signed the new law, called the Bankruptcy Abuse Prevention and Consumer Protection Act. The banks got pretty much what they wanted.
That act in fact did anything but protect consumers. Credit card lending had grown rapidly before it was passed, but it accelerated afterward. Banks thought there was new safety in lending to dubious credit risks because those borrowers could not use the bankruptcy laws to renege if they went broke.
That orgy of lending ended with the financial crisis. It is possible, even likely, that if the bankruptcy law passed in 2005 had been less friendly to the banks, they would have been less careless in their lending and lost less in the end.
Ms. Warren is one of the more intelligent people I know. She is not among the more diplomatic, which is a major reason she may not get the job. As chairwoman of the Congressional oversight panel on the bank bailouts, she has sometimes angered Treasury officials.
In a law review article calling for a financial consumer protection agency, she and a colleague explained the need as follows: ''Thanks to effective regulation, innovation in the market for physical products has led to greater safety and more consumer-friendly features. By comparison, innovation in financial products has produced incomprehensible terms and sharp practices that hurt consumers and reduce social welfare.''
There are more polite terms than ''sharp practices'' that she and her co-author could have used.
With the new law now enacted, liberal and labor groups are publicly demanding that Ms. Warren be appointed. Financial companies are doing their best to persuade the administration that she could not be confirmed.
The quandary faced by President Obama is reminiscent of one that confronted President Franklin Roosevelt after Congress created the S.E.C. in 1934. Then the president turned aside pleas from those who had pushed for reform and named Joseph P. Kennedy, a man who knew about financial industry abuses because he had taken part in them, as the commission's first chairman. Ferdinand Pecora, whose investigations had created the clamor for reform, was made a member, not the chairman, and he soon left the commission.
President Obama has no such ready compromise. The new office has a director, not a board, and it is hard to imagine what runner-up position could be offered to Ms. Warren.
The president could choose someone who will not ruffle too many feathers, and in the process avoid yet another Senate floor fight.
But if he names Ms. Warren, and she wins confirmation, she and Ms. Schapiro could become a dynamic duo in reforming Wall Street.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Mary Schapiro of the S.E.C., left, and Elizabeth Warren, who sought a consumer protection bureau, have tried to help consumers. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY MARK WILSON/GETTY IMAGES
 DANIEL ACKER/BLOOMBERG NEWS) (B6) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: 2010 WALL STREET & BANKING REFORM (90%); BANKING & FINANCE REGULATION (89%); BANKING & FINANCE AGENCIES (89%); CONSUMER LAW (89%); BANKING & FINANCE (89%); CONSUMER PROTECTION (89%); SECURITIES LAW (89%); REGULATORY COMPLIANCE (88%); PERSONAL FINANCE (78%); LIQUIDATIONS (78%); CONSUMER LENDING (78%); WOMEN (78%); AGENCY RULEMAKING (77%); LEGISLATION (75%); BANKING LAW (75%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (74%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (73%); MUTUAL FUNDS (71%); US PRESIDENTS (69%)

ORGANIZATION: SECURITIES & EXCHANGE COMMISSION (84%); BUREAU OF CONSUMER FINANCIAL PROTECTION (57%)

PERSON: ELIZABETH WARREN (92%); MARY L SCHAPIRO (91%); BARACK OBAMA (53%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: July 27, 2010



576 of 785 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 23, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1228 words

HEADLINE: Fiat Pushes Work Ethic at an Italian Plant

BYLINE: By LIZ ALDERMAN

 BODY:
POMIGLIANO D'ARCO, Italy -- In a country where Fiats line the streets, Italians have long clung to a revealing proverb: as Fiat goes, so goes Italy.
Fiat's efforts to make its workers more productive at a plant just north of Naples are testing that maxim as never before, and may signal whether Italians are willing to embrace the kind of change needed for Italy to skirt financial ruin and be more competitive with the countries of Northern Europe and the rest of the world.
Even some workers here in Pomigliano, Fiat's lowest-producing plant, complain of ingrained bad habits, citing peers who call in sick to earn money while working another job or skip work with a fake doctor's note -- especially when the local soccer team is playing.
Now, fresh from rescuing Chrysler in the United States, Sergio Marchionne of Fiat is pushing these workers to be more devoted to their jobs, mirroring a larger effort by the government to improve Italy's competitiveness and reduce its debt through austerity measures. 
But shifting a culture toward work and closing the divide with Italy's northern neighbors won't be easy. Embedded for generations here -- and on other parts of Europe's often-sweltering southern rim -- is a lifestyle that values flexibility for workers.
To some, Fiat is drawing the curtain on a humane working life.
''He wants to impose American-style standards,'' Nello Niglio, a factory worker, said of Mr. Marchionne's requirements to work longer hours and cut back on absences. ''But too much work is going to kill our workers.''
Much is riding on Italy being able to persuade its people to change their work habits if their financial futures are going to improve, both individually and as a nation.
Even if Italy escapes the kind of sovereign debt crisis that engulfed Greece earlier this year -- and that is not certain -- it has a mountain of debt that it needs to trim in coming years. While its deficit is low, at 5 percent of gross domestic product, debt is 115 percent, the same as that of Greece. To reduce it, Italy needs more robust economic growth to stoke government revenue.
A turnaround for Italy, which sported the undesirable ''sick man of Europe'' title until last year, becomes more crucial as Europe stumbles toward a two-track recovery in which Italy, Greece and other southern countries lag Germany, France and more productive economies to the north. Recent forecasts have reduced growth projections for the southern tier.
Economists fear that if unchecked, the financial divide that has long existed between Northern and Southern Europe could lead to instability in the 16-nation euro club over time.
''The fact that you have a great divide between the north and the south is penalizing in the sense that if part of a country is underperforming it can hurt the macroeconomic structure as a whole,'' said Davide Stroppa, global economist at the Italian bank UniCredit. ''If you have a large part of the euro zone underperforming, it's clearly a problem.''
Prime Minister Silvio Berlusconi is tackling the issue in an austerity package introduced in May that includes tying public salary to productivity gains, raising the retirement age and slashing government spending. While Italians are not denying that austerity is necessary, an estimated one million people went on strike last month to protest the latest squeeze on workers.
In Pomigliano, as elsewhere in Italy, workers acknowledged in recent interviews that the country must recalibrate. ''The competitiveness of the entire world is changing,'' said Gennario Nacco, a 21-year veteran of the Fiat plant.
The factory, which produces Alfa Romeos, is in many ways an extreme example of Italy's woes. The 5,200 employees have been operating the plant at 32 percent capacity for the last two years, since demand collapsed during the economic crisis.
Keeping the plant open would seem to make little economic sense. But Fiat, which generates nearly half the region's economic activity, faced political pressure to safeguard the livelihood of about 15,000 families in a poor area gripped by organized crime. Unemployment and growth rates here are among the worst in the country, while productivity has been about 20 percent lower.
Mr. Marchionne, who engineered a stunning turnaround of Fiat in 2006, pulling it from the brink of bankruptcy, called on employees to radically alter their work ethic to compete in the global marketplace. If they did so, he vowed to spare the plant from closure and shift production of the popular Panda car back from Poland.
''The less they work, the happier they are,'' observed Vittorio di Giola, owner of the Caffetteria Vicky, a favorite haunt of Fiat workers on the Viale Alfa Romeo, Pomigliano's main drag.
That view was acknowledged by some workers, union officials and even the town's mayor, Raffaele Russo. ''There are those who don't miss a chance to miss work,'' Mr. Russo said.
Just last month, Fiat erected large television screens inside the factory when Italy played in the World Cup to encourage employees to come to work, said Mr. Nacco, the longtime worker there. Still, some people did not show up. ''And Fiat was paying us to watch the game,'' he said.
Yet for every worker resisting the shift, many more have decided that having a job is better than unemployment. After months of tension, 63 percent of the employees voted in June to accept Fiat's plan, which would penalize employees for abusing sick days, give them shorter lunch breaks and forbid them from striking during periods of high demand.
In turn, Fiat would invest more than 700 million euros ($905 million) in the factory, which would operate 24 hours a day, six days a week. A third daily shift would double output to 280,000 cars annually by next summer.
Fiat declined to make Mr. Marchionne or other executives available to discuss the situation.
From the perspective of Mr. Niglio and other members of the union known as FIOM, the only one of five unions to vote against the plan, Mr. Marchionne is marching Italy on a path toward China.
''There, they work super shifts that lead to increased suicide rates,'' he said, ''and workers are no longer humans, but machines.'' He said Fiat was crushing their right to strike, and cautioned that longer hours would diminish the quality of work. Absenteeism, he insisted, has not been a problem in the factory for years.
Many Fiat workers, however, said they had long complained to managers about employees who regularly missed shifts, a problem that they said persisted today.
''When one person is missing, it slows down the whole group and everyone has to pick up the slack,'' Mr. Nacco said. ''The production of 200 cars, for example, is slowed to 160 if a person is gone. Imagine when this is multiplied across the factory.''
Absenteeism has fallen to about 3 percent from about 30 percent a couple of years ago, said Crescenzo Auriemma, the secretary for the region's umbrella group for auto unions. Managers are cracking down nonetheless, sending a doctor to the homes of employees who do not show up for work.
Mr. Nacco, along with other people who declined to be identified by name so as not to escalate tensions at the plant, said resistance would not disappear overnight. But he is hoping the new steps will guarantee a future for the factory that employed ''my father, my uncles, my nephew, my sister, -- and hopefully, one day, my son.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: A worker at the Fiat plant in Pomigliano d'Arco argued before most employees accepted the company's revival plan. (B1)
 Last month, Fiat workers protested in Naples against Fiat's new production plan, but 63 percent of the employees approved it. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY ROBERTO SALOMONE FOR THE INTERNATIONAL HERALD TRIBUNE) (B4) MAPS: Fiat's factory in Pomigliano is its lowest-producing plant. (B4) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: EXTERNAL DEBT (87%); ETHICS (86%); ECONOMIC NEWS (78%); PUBLIC DEBT (78%); EURO CRISIS (78%); GROSS DOMESTIC PRODUCT (78%); FACTORY WORKERS (77%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (76%); GREEK DEBT CRISIS (76%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (72%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (72%); EMERGING MARKETS (72%); DEBT CRISIS (72%); EXTERNAL DEBT REDUCTION (67%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (65%); FUTURES (62%); SOCCER (54%)

COMPANY: FIAT SPA (92%)

TICKER: FSOR (PAR) (92%); F (BIT) (92%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS336111 AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING (92%); SIC3711 MOTOR VEHICLES & PASSENGER CAR BODIES (92%); SIC3523 FARM MACHINERY & EQUIPMENT (92%)

PERSON: SERGIO MARCHIONNE (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: ITALY (96%); EUROPE (94%); UNITED STATES (92%); NORTHERN EUROPE (92%); GREECE (91%); GERMANY (79%); FRANCE (79%); SOUTHERN EUROPE (79%)

LOAD-DATE: July 27, 2010



577 of 785 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 24, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1339 words

HEADLINE: Far From Gulf, Due Diligence

BYLINE: By TOM ZELLER Jr.

 BODY:
CANONSBURG, Pa. -- The streams of people came to the public meeting here armed with stories of yellowed and foul-smelling well water, deformed livestock, poisoned fish and itchy skin. One resident invoked the 1968 zombie thriller ''Night of the Living Dead,'' which, as it happens, was filmed just an hour away from this southwestern corner of Pennsylvania.
The culprit, these people argued, was hydraulic fracturing, a method of extracting natural gas that involves blasting underground rock with a cocktail of water, sand and chemicals.
Gas companies countered that the horror stories described in Pennsylvania and at other meetings held recently in Texas and Colorado are either fictions or not the companies' fault. More regulation, the industry warned, would kill jobs and stifle production of gas, which the companies consider a clean-burning fuel the nation desperately needs. 
Just as the Gulf of Mexico is the battleground for the future of offshore oil drilling, Pennsylvania is at the center of the battle over hydraulic fracturing, or fracking, which promises to open up huge swaths of land for natural gas extraction, but whose environmental risks are still uncertain. Natural gas accounts for roughly a quarter of all energy used in the United States, and that fraction is expected to grow as the nation weans itself from dirtier sources like coal and oil.
The Environmental Protection Agency has been on a listening tour, soliciting advice from all sides on how to shape a forthcoming $1.9 million study of hydraulic fracturing's effect on groundwater.
With the steep environmental costs of fossil fuel extraction apparent on beaches from Texas to Florida -- and revelations that industry shortcuts and regulatory negligence may have contributed to the BP catastrophe in the gulf -- gas prospectors are finding a cold reception for their assertions that their drilling practices are safe.
''The industry has argued there are no documented cases of hydraulic fracturing contaminating groundwater,'' said Dencil Backus, a resident of nearby Mt. Pleasant Township, at Thursday night's hearing. ''Our experience in southwestern Pennsylvania suggests that this cannot possibly be true.''
Matt Pitzarella, a spokesman for Range Resources, a Texas-based natural gas producer, acknowledged that the gulf spill had increased public concern about any sort of drilling activity. ''However, when people can review the facts, void of the strong emotions the gulf elicits, they can see the stark contrast between high-risk, deep offshore oil drilling and much safer, much lower risk onshore natural gas development,'' he said by e-mail.
In this part of the country, the potentially enormous natural gas play of the Marcellus Shale has many residents lining up to lease their land to gas prospectors. Estimates vary on the precise size of the Marcellus Shale, which stretches from West Virginia across much of Pennsylvania and eastern Ohio and into the Southern Tier of New York. But by any estimate, the gas deposit is huge -- perhaps as much as 500 trillion cubic feet. (New York State uses a little over 1.1 trillion cubic feet of natural gas each year.)
An industry-financed study published this week suggested that as much as $6 billion in government revenue and up to 280,000 jobs could be at stake in the Marcellus Shale region.
Fracking has been around for decades, and it is an increasingly prominent tool in the effort to unlock previously unreachable gas reserves. The oil and gas industry estimates that 90 percent of the more than 450,000 operating gas wells in the United States rely on hydraulic fracturing.
Roughly 99.5 percent of the fluids typically used in fracking, the industry says, are just water and sand, with trace amounts of chemical thickeners, lubricants and other compounds added to help the process along. The cocktail is injected thousands of feet below the water table and, the industry argues, can't possibly be responsible for growing complaints of spoiled streams and wells. But critics say that the relationship between fracking fluids and groundwater contamination has never been thoroughly studied -- and that proving a link has been made more difficult by oil and gas companies that have jealously guarded as trade secrets the exact chemical ingredients used at each well.
Several other concerns linger over fracking, as well as other aspects of gas drilling -- including the design and integrity of well casings and the transport and potential spilling of chemicals and the millions of gallons of water required for just one fracking job.
The recent string of accidents in the oil and gas industries -- including the gulf spill and a blowout last month at a gas field in Clearfield County, Pa., that spewed gas and wastewater for 16 hours -- has unnerved residents and regulators.
''There is extraordinary economic potential associated with the development of Marcellus Shale resources,'' said Representative Joe Sestak, Democrat of Pennsylvania, in a statement Friday announcing $1 million for a federal study of water use impacts in the Delaware Water Basin. However, ''there is also great risk.'' He said, ''One way to ensure proper development is to understand the potential impacts.''
Amy Mall, a senior policy analyst with the Natural Resources Defense Council, said the scrutiny was long overdue. ''I think it's all helping to shine a spotlight on this entire industry,'' she said. ''Corners are sometimes cut, and regulations simply aren't strong enough.''
Fears of fracking's impact on water supplies prompted regulators overseeing the Delaware Water Basin to curtail gas exploration until the effects could be more closely studied. New York State lawmakers are contemplating a moratorium.
At the national level, in addition to the E.P.A. study, a Congressional investigation of gas drilling and fracturing, led by House Energy and Commerce Committee, intensified last week with demands sent to several companies for details on their operations -- particularly how they handled the slurry of water and chemicals that flowed back from deep within a well.
A renewed, if unlikely, push is also under way to pass federal legislation that would undo an exemption introduced under the Bush administration that critics say freed hydraulic fracturing from regulation under the Safe Drinking Water Act.
Last month, Wyoming introduced some of the nation's toughest rules governing fracturing, including provisions that require companies to disclose the ingredients in their fracturing fluids to state regulators -- though specifically not to the public.
Gas drillers, responding to the increased scrutiny and eyeing the expansive and lucrative new gas plays in Appalachia, are redoubling their efforts to stave off federal oversight, in some cases by softening their rigid positions on fracking-fluid disclosure. Last week, Range Resources went so far as to announce its intent to disclose the contents of its fracking fluids to Pennsylvania regulators and to publish them on the company's Web site.
''We should have done this a long time ago,'' said Mr. Pitzarella, the Range spokesman. ''There are probably no health risks with the concentrations that we're utilizing. But if someone has that concern, then it's real and you have to address it.''
Environmental groups welcomed that, but said that clear and broad federal jurisdiction would still be needed.
''Any one accident might not be on the scale of the Deepwater Horizon disaster,'' said Ms. Mall. ''But accidents are happening all the time, and there's no regime in place that broadly protects the health of communities and the surrounding environment where drilling is being done.''
That was a common theme at the meeting Thursday night.
''I can take you right now to my neighbors who have lost their water supplies,'' Mr. Backus said to the handful of E.P.A. regulators on hand. ''I can take you also to places where spills have killed fish and other aquatic life.''
''Corporations have no conscience,'' he added. ''The E.P.A. must give them that conscience.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: A natural gas rig in southwestern Pennsylvania. Residents say hydraulic fracturing is polluting water. (PHOTOGRAPH BY ANDREW HARRER/BLOOMBERG NEWS)
Terry Greenwood, a farmer in Daisytown, Pa., at a hearing with the Environmental Protection Agency. (B1)
 Employees of the Red Oak Water Transfer Company support further hydraulic fracturing. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY JEFF SWENSEN FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) (B4) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: NATURAL GAS EXTRACTION (91%); OIL EXTRACTION (90%); POISONINGS (90%); NATURAL GAS PRODUCTS (90%); OIL & GAS EXTRACTION (90%); HYDRAULIC FRACTURING (90%); OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (90%); TALKS & MEETINGS (89%); OIL & GAS EXPLORATION (89%); CRUDE OIL & NATURAL GAS EXTRACTION (89%); ENVIRONMENT & NATURAL RESOURCES (87%); WATER POLLUTION (78%); MINING & EXTRACTION SECTOR PERFORMANCE (76%); ENVIRONMENTAL DEPARTMENTS (74%); SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT (71%)

COMPANY: RANGE RESOURCES LTD (52%)

ORGANIZATION: US ENVIRONMENTAL PROTECTION AGENCY (82%)

TICKER: RRS (ASX) (52%); RRL (LSE) (52%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS211111 CRUDE PETROLEUM & NATURAL GAS EXTRACTION (52%); SIC1311 CRUDE PETROLEUM & NATURAL GAS (52%)

GEOGRAPHIC: PENNSYLVANIA, USA (96%); TEXAS, USA (93%); FLORIDA, USA (79%); OHIO, USA (79%); GULF OF MEXICO (79%); ATLANTIC OCEAN (79%) UNITED STATES (96%)

LOAD-DATE: July 24, 2010



578 of 785 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 24, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1213 words

HEADLINE: Doubts Persist as Most Europe Banks Pass Stress Tests

BYLINE: By JACK EWING and MATTHEW SALTMARSH; Jack Ewing reported from Frankfurt, and Matthew Saltmarsh from Paris. Nelson D. Schwartz contributed reporting from New York.

 BODY:
FRANKFURT -- A vast majority of European banks passed a round of stress tests meant to measure the likelihood that they could survive an economic or market calamity, regulators said on Friday.
But questions about the way the tests were conducted left at least some economists and financial analysts wondering whether the results would be enough to calm investors worried about the stability of the continent's banking system.
The tests found that seven of the region's 91 largest banks needed to raise more capital to withstand an unexpected decline in economic growth or a sharp deterioration in the perceived safety of government bonds issued by debtor nations like Greece, Portugal and Spain.
Banks that failed were Hypo Real Estate, a company based in Munich that is already owned by the government after a bailout, ATEBank of Greece and five Spanish savings banks. 
Several other banks passed but so narrowly that they may face market pressure to increase reserves. That group included Postbank, one of Germany's biggest publicly traded banks, which is based in Bonn and is 25 percent owned by Deutsche Bank.
Markets reacted to the test results with muted enthusiasm. European and United States stock indexes generally rose less than 1 percent, though bank shares were down. The euro rose early but finished down less than a hundredth of a percentage point against the dollar.
But, as with similar tests of banks in the United States last year, it may take days or weeks to determine whether the tests will end banks' mistrust of one another's creditworthiness and encourage interbank lending, which is crucial to the normal functioning of the financial system and ultimately the overall economy.
Some economists said the tests excluded certain possibilities, like the effect of a debt default by Greece or another European country, calling into question its credibility.
''The overall result seems out of line with the tensions we have been observing in the financial system in the last few months,'' said Marco Annunziata, chief economist at UniCredit Group, based in Milan. ''The tests are unlikely to reassure the market that transparency has been re-established or that pockets of weakness are being rapidly addressed.''
European policy makers said they refused to consider the potential effect of sovereign defaults because they would never allow them to happen.
In a compromise, banks were scheduled to detail their holdings of Greek, Spanish, Portuguese and other sovereign bonds. But a report released by the European bank supervisors did not contain that information, which would resolve intense speculation about which banks were most exposed.
''Investors cannot reverse-engineer the results and apply their own assumptions,'' said Nicolas Veron, a visiting fellow at the Peterson Institute for International Economics in Washington. He called the level of detail in the stress test report ''disappointing.''
Bank regulators and central bankers insisted that the tests were rigorous and that fears about the stability of European banks were overblown.
''It is a very serious test,'' Franz-Christoph Zeitler, a member of the executive board of the Bundesbank, Germany's central bank, said at a news conference in Frankfurt. He called criticism of the tests ''premature.''
In May, money markets nearly froze as prices for Greek bonds plummeted, prompting the European Union countries and the International Monetary Fund to put up nearly $1 trillion -- more than a quarter of the bloc's gross domestic product -- to prevent troubled institutions from failing.
Regulators pointed to that extraordinary intervention as a reason so many banks passed the stress tests. In the United States, 10 of the 19 banks tested were told they needed to raise a total of $75 billion in new capital.
The European Central Bank is eager to wean institutions off the almost unlimited cheap loans it has been providing since the beginning of the financial crisis, but cannot do so unless banks resume lending to one another.
In a second round due in two weeks, the tests will be expanded to bank subsidiaries, like the East European institutions owned by banks based in Vienna.
Some banks had already moved to raise capital in anticipation of the results. National Bank of Greece, which passed, said Friday that it had sold 450 million euros, or $580 million, of 10-year bonds to bolster its regulatory capital. ''The sale process was completed within just four days, reflecting the investment community's confidence in N.B.G.,'' the lender said.
Banca Civica, a merger of three smaller savings banks in Spain, failed. But it said that before the results were released it signed an agreement with J. C. Flowers, an American buyout firm, to place 450 million euros in convertible bonds.
In addition to Banca Civica, four other unlisted Spanish savings banks failed: Diada, Unnim, Espiga and CajaSur, which was bailed out by the Bank of Spain in May.
Hypo Real Estate said the stress tests had ''limited relevance'' because it was already transferring troubled assets to a so-called bad bank underwritten by the German government.
Germany's nine public sector landesbanks all passed -- a result that could encourage skepticism about whether the criteria were strict enough. Many analysts regard the state-controlled landesbanks, which had billions in losses from subprime assets and other ill-advised investments, as overly susceptible to political influence and lacking a strategy to be consistently profitable.
Norddeutsche Landesbank, based in Hannover, passed narrowly, but said it would not need to raise new capital.
The four main French banks, representing 80 percent of the banking assets in the country, passed easily. ''These result shows that they remain capable of ensuring a strong financing of the economy both under the central scenario and under the highly stressed scenario,'' said Christian Noyer, governor of the Bank of France.
To pass the tests, a bank's Tier 1 capital, a measure of reserves, could not fall below 6 percent of assets in the face of a new recession and a sovereign debt crisis.
For the near term, the European Commission has said that troubled banks should try to recapitalize themselves by tapping private investors before turning to the state.
Publicly traded banks can lift their Tier 1 capital ratio to 6 percent by selling new shares to investors.
They can also agree to be taken over by a stronger institution, or find a new investor like a sovereign wealth fund. That was the case, for example, in 2008 when Qatar bought shares in the British bank Barclays, allowing it to avoid a British government capital infusion and the accompanying restrictions.
In extreme situations, troubled banks could be wound down.
The authorities across Europe were clearly nervous about market reaction to the tests and delayed releasing results until after European stock markets closed.
The tests were the most extensive conducted in Europe, covering 65 percent of the total banking market and 20 countries from Ireland to Poland. Regulators nearly tripled the number of banks participating in part because of prodding from the United States Treasury secretary, Timothy F. Geithner, who had expressed concern that the European authorities did not have the sovereign debt crisis under control.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Customers in March at the headquarters of troubled Hypo Real Estate bank, one of seven European banks that failed stress tests. (PHOTOGRAPH BY JOERG KOCH/DDP, VIA AGENCE FRANCE-PRESSE -- GETTY IMAGES)
Miguel Angel Fernandez Ordonez, governor of the central bank in Spain, where five small savings banks failed the stress tests. (PHOTOGRAPH BY DANIEL OCHOA DE OLZA/ASSOCIATED PRESS) (B4) CHART: Seven of the 91 largest European banks failed stress tests designed to show their ability to withstand a moderate recession and a fall in the value of the government bonds they hold. Banks whose Tier 1 capital ratio fell below 6 percent were seen as failing the test. (Sources: Reuters
Bloomberg
Bank of Spain
 Bundesbank) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BANKING & FINANCE (90%); PUBLIC DEBT (90%); EMERGING MARKETS (89%); BANKING & FINANCE AGENCIES (78%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (78%); BANKING & FINANCE REGULATION (78%); SAVINGS & LOANS (78%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (78%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (78%); GREEK DEBT CRISIS (78%); PUBLIC POLICY (78%); PUBLIC FINANCE (77%); BONDS (76%); BOND ISSUES (76%); DEBTOR NATIONS (74%); CORPORATE DEBT (74%); GOVERNMENT BONDS (74%); CENTRAL BANKS (73%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (73%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (72%); CURRENCIES (72%); INTERBANK LENDING (50%)

COMPANY: DEUTSCHE BANK AG (90%)

TICKER: DEUT (JSE) (90%); DBK (FRA) (90%); DBK (BIT) (90%); DBETN (JSE) (90%); DBA (ASX) (90%); DB (NYSE) (90%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (90%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (90%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (90%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (90%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (90%); SIC6081 BRANCHES & AGENCIES OF FOREIGN BANKS (90%)

GEOGRAPHIC: FRANKFURT AM MAIN, GERMANY (92%) SPAIN (93%); EUROPE (93%); UNITED STATES (93%); GREECE (92%); GERMANY (92%); PORTUGAL (91%)

LOAD-DATE: July 24, 2010



579 of 785 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 24, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 15

LENGTH: 698 words

HEADLINE: New Jersey's Medical Marijuana Law Loses Planned Grower and Dispensers

BYLINE: By RICHARD PEREZ-PENA

 BODY:
Five months before its new medical marijuana law is set to take effect, New Jersey this week moved further away from having answers to basic questions about how the law will work -- specifically, who will grow the marijuana and who will dispense it.
Gov. Chris Christie's administration had been pursuing a plan to make Rutgers University the only approved cultivator of cannabis, and to make teaching hospitals the only places where patients could get it. 
But on Thursday, Rutgers announced that it would not participate for fear of losing grants from the federal government. State officials said the hospitals had the same concern.
State laws legalizing medical marijuana are at odds with federal law. The Obama administration has stopped the practice of raiding marijuana dispensaries in those states, but the Drug Enforcement Administration remains reluctant to grant permission to grow the plants, even for medical research.
''This is genuinely something we were interested in doing,'' said Robert M. Goodman, the executive dean of agriculture and natural resources at Rutgers. ''We have agricultural stations; we have programs in medicinally reactive plants, in chemical biology, in pharmacy. It's a potential new crop for the state, and we're interested in promoting the state's economy.''
But, he added, ''it just puts too much at risk,'' jeopardizing research grants, contracts, student aid or other funds from Washington.
Fourteen states have passed laws allowing medical use of marijuana, but New Jersey's, signed in January, is in some ways the strictest. The law was written to prevent the proliferation of growers and dispensaries seen in states like California and Colorado, at first limiting the state to six dispensaries run by nonprofits, and it prohibits patients from growing the plants themselves.
New Jersey allows doctors to prescribe marijuana only for patients with terminal illness or a fairly limited set of specific, chronic conditions, and limits each person to two ounces per month, compared with as much as 24 ounces in other states.
Governor Christie, a Republican who took office days after the law was enacted, has sought to make it still more restrictive in the way it is carried out. The administration is supposed to put regulations in place for carrying out the law by Oct. 1, and the law is scheduled to go into effect on Jan. 1.
Michael Drewniak, the governor's chief spokesman, said Friday that the administration still expected to have dispensaries ready to open in 2011.
''As we've said all along, we've been considering other options beyond the Rutgers plan,'' Mr. Drewniak said, ''and we will continue working diligently to implement a high-quality and secure program.'' He declined to elaborate.
The governor is angry about the university's decision, according to officials who were granted anonymity to comment on private discussions, and so are some legislators. Assemblyman Reed Gusciora, a Democrat from Mercer County who was one of the primary sponsors of the legalization bill, said ''the university is chickening out'' by not testing federal authorities' willingness to grant a waiver.
State Senator Nicholas P. Scutari, a Democrat from Linden who was the other main sponsor, said that Mr. Christie wanted too much control over the program and that the state would have no choice but to approve private growers.
''We've known this was going to be a concern for Rutgers from the get-go, but the administration indicated no, it's not going to be a problem,'' Mr. Scutari said. And the hospitals, he said, ''have got the same exact issue.''
The New Jersey Council of Teaching Hospitals declined to comment, but several people briefed on the discussions said the hospitals wanted some kind of guarantee that they would not be jeopardizing federal money.
Mr. Christie has said he had concerns about how to carry out the law with enough security. At his request, the Legislature delayed putting the law into effect for 90 days.
The plan to use Rutgers and teaching hospitals would have given the state far more direct control over the program than the Legislature intended, but for the most part, lawmakers said they were amenable to the idea if it would work.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MEDICAL MARIJUANA (93%); CANNABIS (93%); CONTROLLED SUBSTANCE LAWS (91%); HERBAL MEDICINE (90%); DRUG POLICY (90%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (90%); GRANTS & GIFTS (90%); HEALTH CARE LAW (90%); DECRIMINALIZATION (89%); GOVERNORS (89%); MEDICAL RESEARCH (78%); HOSPITALS (78%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (78%); DISEASES & DISORDERS (78%); PRESCRIPTION DRUGS (77%); STUDENT FINANCIAL AID (76%); SCIENCE FUNDING (75%); NONPROFIT ORGANIZATIONS (75%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (73%); DRUG LIBERALIZATION (73%); NARCOTICS ENFORCEMENT (73%); MEDICAL EDUCATION (72%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (71%); SPECIAL INVESTIGATIVE FORCES (70%)

ORGANIZATION: RUTGERS UNIVERSITY (91%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (56%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW JERSEY, USA (95%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); COLORADO, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (95%)

LOAD-DATE: July 24, 2010



580 of 785 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 24, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; TALKING BUSINESS; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1647 words

HEADLINE: Credit Score Is the Tyrant In Lending

BYLINE: By JOE NOCERA

 BODY:
The other day, a mortgage broker named Deb Killian called me, more or less out of the blue. Ms. Killian has been in the business since 1994. She and her husband run Charter Oak Lending Group, a small firm based in Danbury, Conn., that they founded in 1996. She is a member of the board of the National Association of Mortgage Brokers. By her estimate, she has closed more than 3,500 loans during her career.
Ms. Killian was calling because she was upset about one element of the mortgage underwriting process that, in her opinion, had gotten completely out of hand. That element was the borrower's FICO score -- in other words, his or her credit score. 
Essentially, she says, a person's credit score has become the only thing that matters anymore to the banks and other institutions that underwrite mortgages. Yes, the banks all mouth pieties about how credit scores are just one of many factors that go into their underwriting decisions. But every day she receives notices from banks and other lenders showing just the opposite: as they fiddle with the terms for one or another of their loan products (something they do constantly, by the way), invariably, the credit score is the dominant -- and sometimes the only -- criterion mentioned. Most of the time, needless to say, the minimum credit score needed to get the mortgages has been increased.
To make matters worse, she says, clients are having a difficult time just maintaining their current credit scores -- even when they have done nothing to merit a downgrade.
''This is the example that drove me over the edge,'' she said.
A woman seeking a mortgage had a credit card with a $3,000 limit. She had $1,500 worth of debt on the card, which meant, in industry jargon, that she had a 50 percent debt utilization. The client had moved the balance to a different bank, and that bank immediately lowered her credit limit to the amount she had borrowed: $1,500. Without taking on an additional penny of debt, the woman's debt utilization had suddenly jumped to 100 percent.
Which, as Ms. Killian knew only too well, the FICO algorithm frowns on. Once that information made its way to the credit bureaus, the woman's credit score dropped. And because it had, the interest rate on the mortgage she hoped to get increased. Ms. Killian had a hundred stories like that.
Yes, she told me, she knew that underwriting standards had been way too lax during the bubble. But to her mind, the mortgage lenders had swung too far in the other direction, depriving perfectly creditworthy borrowers of the chance to get a mortgage at a reasonable rate. ''If the loan criteria says you need to have a 700 credit score, and you have a 699, you don't get the loan,'' she said. ''It makes me nuts.''
Was I interested, she asked me finally, in writing a column about this problem?
I most certainly was.
''Mortgage brokers,'' said Craig Watts, the head of communications at FICO, with a tone of bemused exasperation. ''Some of them are kind of cranky these days.''
The mortgage brokers, he went on to say, were seeing things only from their own narrow perspective -- the perspective of someone who wouldn't get a commission if their clients couldn't get a mortgage. Thankfully, from his spot high on the mountaintop in FICO-land, Mr. Watts could give me a broader, more sophisticated take on the topic. Thank goodness for that.
A FICO score, he patiently explained, is merely a tool that lenders use to help manage their risk; criticizing it is akin to criticizing ''a saw because the construction job turned out badly.'' With big banks making thousands of credit decisions every day, they couldn't possible do it without some standardized benchmark; a credit score provided that benchmark. Over the years, he added, the algorithm had gotten very good at predicting the odds of a borrower defaulting.
In fact, FICO scores are not the best predictor. The amount of equity a person has in his home, his debt-to-income ratio, his job stability and his cash reserves are all better predictors than credit scores, according to Dave Zitting, the chief executive of Primary Residential Mortgage, a leading mortgage lender. And yet, he said, ''The credit score has become the line in the sand for the banks.''
It is easy enough to understand why, I suppose. During the bubble, Wall Street used credit scores to decide which subprime loans it would buy and securitize. The lower the credit score, the better, because Wall Street needed risky loans to generate yields that would entice investors. They pushed lenders to make loans to people with low credit scores, which became shorthand for risky loans.
In the aftermath of the bubble, credit scores have remained shorthand for a borrower's creditworthiness -- except that now borrowers need to have high credit scores instead of low ones. And yet, credit scores are no more accurate than any other risk model. There are people with low credit scores who are quite creditworthy. There are people with high scores who aren't. Treating credit scores as if they were infallible -- which is what the banking industry is now doing -- is beyond foolish. It is hurting the recovery.
The two most important credit score hard-liners are Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac, which of course are currently wholly owned subsidiaries of the federal government. Because Fannie and Freddie are practically the only entities willing to buy and securitize mortgages, they have enormous clout; most lenders simply won't make a loan if Fannie or Freddie won't buy it. Their bottom line number is 620 -- the company will buy mortgages only if the borrower has a credit score of 620 or above. Which means, given the current state of the mortgage market, that anyone with a score below 620 can't get a mortgage. Even if that score is 619.
But the difference between a 620 score and a 619 is utterly meaningless. The credit scoring industry likes to make it sound as if their results are scientific; they're anything but. It is not FICO that comes up with a borrower's score -- it just sells the algorithms. The companies that do are the big three credit bureaus, TransUnion, Equifax and Experian. They gather input about the prospective borrower's lending history from various lenders like credit card companies and auto dealers, plug them into a formula and derive a credit score.
You would think, given the critical importance of an accurate score, that there would be rules about the information that is submitted to them. There aren't. Lenders can submit information about your credit history to one of the bureaus, all of them or none of them. Some of them turn over information right away; some take months; some don't do it at all. Some are sticklers for accuracy; others are sloppy. The point is that the credit score is derived after an information-gathering process that is anything but rigorous.
Or, rather, I should say, the three different numbers that are derived. Almost always there is a difference -- sometimes a big difference -- in the credit scores generated by the three bureaus. (Which, when you think about it, is another indicator of how haphazard the process is.) What happens then? I found a Web site called lendingart.com, which listed every big mortgage lender's credit score requirements. The lenders all said that if two credit scores differed, they took the lower score; if there were three credit scores, they took the one on the middle. CitiMorgage, in its description, said that if a borrower had one score of 691 and another of zero, zero was the operative score.
Let's go back again to that borrower trying to qualify for a loan that conforms to Fannie Mae's criteria. Suppose one credit bureau has given him a score of 625 -- which means he qualifies -- and another gives him a score of 618, meaning he doesn't. Then he doesn't get the loan. Can someone explain how that constitutes sound underwriting?
And that doesn't even get into the question of whether the prospective borrower is someone who once had credit problems and has now cleaned up his act -- and his score is improving -- or someone whose credit is in decline. The credit bureaus are incapable of tricking out that kind of nuance. Actually, they don't really care. Nor do they take into account examples like the one Ms. Killian mentioned, where people's credit scores are being hurt by credit card companies that are cutting back their credit limits.
And finally, they don't take into account the many, many mistakes that are found in credit reports. My own credit reports, which I looked up for this column, are a case in point. Although my score was O.K. -- the low 700s -- the reports themselves were full of unpleasant surprises. They listed credit card accounts I didn't have, and failed to list at least one big one that I did have. Two of them noted that five years ago, I was late on a car payment. (I was?) My daughter's old Brooklyn address was listed as my former address. According to Experian, I was still writing for Fortune magazine. It said I no longer lived in a house that I just bought two months ago. TransUnion, meanwhile, listed The New York Times as my former employer. Currently, TransUnion said, I am an employee of Rite Aid.
Rite Aid? I know, I know -- it is supposed to be up to me to catch their mistakes (which is also why they don't have to care about the mistakes.) But what I find incredible is that we have imbued credit scores with these magical predictive powers -- and yet the companies coming up with the scores can't even get the borrower's address and employer right. It would be funny if it didn't matter so much.
This was the week, of course, that President Obama signed the financial reform bill into law, which calls for the establishment of a new consumer financial protection agency. The credit scoring business would certainly seem to be a worthy area for the new agency to dive into.
Wouldn't you agree, Professor Warren?

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: During the housing boom, demand for mortgage securities pushed lenders to make loans to borrowers with low credit scores. (PHOTOGRAPH BY DAVID ZALUBOWSKI/ASSOCIATED PRESS) (B7) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (91%); MORTGAGE BROKERS (78%); BANKING & FINANCE ASSOCIATIONS (78%); MORTGAGE RATES (78%); MORTGAGE BANKING (78%); INTEREST RATES (78%); ECONOMIC NEWS (78%); CREDIT BUREAUS (77%); PERSONAL DEBT (74%); MORTGAGE LOANS (73%); CONSUMER CREDIT REPORTING (72%)

COMPANY: FAIR ISAAC CORP (FICO) (91%)

TICKER: FICO (NYSE) (91%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS561450 CREDIT BUREAUS (91%); SIC7389 BUSINESS SERVICES (91%)

GEOGRAPHIC: CONNECTICUT, USA (73%) UNITED STATES (73%)

LOAD-DATE: July 24, 2010



581 of 785 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 24, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Foreign Desk; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 750 words

HEADLINE: In Making a Longer Census Form Voluntary, Canada Sets Off an Intense Debate

BYLINE: By IAN AUSTEN

 BODY:
OTTAWA -- In their fleeting summers, Canadians tend to prefer lakes and beer over political discussions. But a government decision to change Canada's census law has started a heated debate and led to the resignation of the country's chief statistician on Wednesday night.
The resignation of Munir Sheikh, who led Statistics Canada, was preceded by protests across the country's ideological spectrum, including many who usually share the Conservative government's views. If anything, his departure appears to have increased calls for the government to reverse its position on making a longer census form voluntary. 
Next week, a House of Commons committee will hold special hearings on Parliament Hill, a place normally abandoned to tourists during July.
The government's decision was not just unexpected, but it was also made without notice and in the absence of any obvious outcry against the census' being excessively nosy. That has left many wondering why the government brought this on itself.
''I've had a lot of difficulty figuring it out,'' said Roger Gibbins, the president and chief executive of the Canada West Foundation, a policy group with generally right-of-center views. ''I live in a hard-core Conservative constituency in the heart of Calgary. There are probably more people worried about flying saucers' landing in their backyard than there are worried about the long-form census.''
All Canadians are required to fill out a short census form every five years. Since 1971, a mandatory longer form has also been mailed to about 20 percent of households. That form for 2006 ran 40 pages long.
The government decided last month that completing the long form would be voluntary during next year's census. To make up for the anticipated decline in responses, it will mail the long form to about 30 percent of households, a concept that some cabinet ministers later suggested was endorsed by Statistics Canada.
Once the change was finally noticed, economists, statisticians, local governments and many corporations swiftly asked the government to abandon it.
With few exceptions, they argued that a voluntary census response would create a skewed statistical portrait of the country. Evidence, much of it from the United States, shows that members of many groups -- including the very poor and the very wealthy -- do not fill out census forms unless compelled by law. The protesters also rejected the claim that mailing out more copies would overcome statistical deficiencies.
The federal government relies on census data to transfer money to Canada's provinces each year for many programs, including health care. Its results are also used widely by the private sector.
Federal politicians were initially slow to explain the reasons for the change. But over the past week, Tony Clement, the industry minister, said that the government was responding to privacy and coercion complaints.
''We do not believe Canadians should be forced, under threat of fines, jail, or both, to disclose extensive private and personal information,'' Mr. Clement said in a statement.
The Canadian news media have had little success in finding many people with such concerns. In 2006 a small number of people refused to fill out census forms. But they were protesting the use of an American technology contractor.
But Maxime Bernier, a prominent Conservative member of Parliament from Quebec, told The Toronto Star that his office received about 1,000 complaints via e-mail a day about the census in 2006. He subsequently said those e-mail messages were deleted long ago.
Canada's privacy commissioner received two complaints about the 2006 census, a spokeswoman said.
Kenneth Prewitt, the former director of the United States Census Bureau who is now a professor at Columbia University, said that the Canadian government had the power to make its long census form voluntary, even if the idea was not sound. But he was critical of Mr. Clement for suggesting that Statistics Canada finds the idea acceptable from a sampling standpoint.
''I wouldn't call this political interference,'' Professor Prewitt said. ''I would call this government stupidity.''
Mr. Sheikh was more circumspect in a resignation statement, which appeared briefly on the Statistics Canada Web site.
''I want to take this opportunity to comment on a technical statistical issue which has become the subject of media discussion,'' he wrote. ''This relates to the question of whether a voluntary survey can become a substitute for a mandatory census. It cannot.''

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CENSUS (93%); STATISTICAL METHOD (89%); STATISTICS (89%); HOUSEHOLD NUMBERS (78%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (78%); POLITICS (78%); EXECUTIVES (77%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (76%); COMMERCE DEPARTMENTS (61%)

PERSON: TONY CLEMENT (59%)

GEOGRAPHIC: ALBERTA, CANADA (59%) CANADA (97%); UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: July 24, 2010



582 of 785 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 24, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; ON RELIGION; Pg. 11

LENGTH: 1016 words

HEADLINE: Weekdays, Creating Ads. Sunday, Invoking Spirits.

BYLINE: By SAMUEL G. FREEDMAN. 
E-mail: sgf1@columbia.edu

 BODY:
Sometime around 9:30 a.m. on weekdays, Itzhak Beery enters a second-floor office in Greenwich Village to preside over his piece of the material world. It is an advertising agency, the latest he has owned in a 30-year career. Five computers await him, each thrumming with software for graphic design. Shelves hold the awards he has won.
On Sunday mornings, though, Mr. Beery returns to cover all the practical apparatus with sheets. From a cabinet, he withdraws volcanic stones, candles, finger cymbals, bottles of rum and cologne, each with symbolic value. He arranges these on a red cloth, and lays beside them a carton of eggs and bunches of red and white carnations. 
Such are the instruments of the shaman of Sullivan Street. For on Sunday, the adman engages in a second career, conducting healing ceremonies for a rotating cast of clients. On Sunday, the product of a fine-arts education in Israel draws instead on the skills he acquired in the Ecuadorean Andes.
The seekers come -- truck driver, teacher, dentist, publicist, South American immigrants who have heard of an Anglo fluent in their ancestral ways. They ask for help with panic attacks, depression, back pain, sexual identity, romance troubles, even life's entire direction.
It just so happens that this weekend's rituals coincide with the return of the television series ''Mad Men,'' with its portrait of ad executives in the early 1960s. For Don Draper and his colleagues on the show, exemplars of the status quo, what passes for daring is growing a beard, dating a black person, smoking marijuana.
Clearly, as Itzhak Beery shows, the circumference of independent thinking has expanded. And yet, he insists, his dual professions are not mutually exclusive.
''In many ways, we are told to be separated,'' Mr. Beery, 59, said over coffee and a muffin this week. ''You are religious or you are practical. But why can't we be one person? The seen and the unseen -- we manifest both.
''Most indigenous shamans don't give up their day job. They understand they need to be grounded in the material world,'' he said. ''It's not about working with spirits 24 hours a day. These people keep one foot in one world and one in the other.''
Mr. Beery's feet were planted squarely on terra firma for most of his young life. The child of Russian Jews who immigrated to Israel, secular rebels against their own parents' Orthodox belief, he grew up on a kibbutz that followed Zionism's ethos of working and defending the land.
After moving to New York in 1977, he put his art training to pragmatic application in advertising, ultimately building a list of clients including airlines, banks, colleges and snack companies. He and his wife had three children. ''I was a skeptical person, suspicious,'' he said. ''I wasn't someone you'd call gullible.''
Yet as he reached his mid-40s, Mr. Beery slid into a depression that, even with all of his accomplishments, he could not assuage. In some sense, they had provoked the descent.
''Part of it was my incredible guilt that I was in advertising,'' he said, ''that I'm helping consumption, that I'm helping waste, that I'm part of the problem.''
During those unsettled years, Mr. Beery discovered several books about shamanism by John Perkins (who is better known now for ''Confessions of an Economic Hit Man,'' his 2005 best seller). Sufficiently intrigued, Mr. Beery signed up for a trip to Ecuador led by Mr. Perkins in 1997, and in the village of Illuman he met a shaman, Don Jose Joaquin Pineda, who practiced healing rituals from the Quechua tradition.
On a return trip, a year and a half later, Mr. Beery asked Mr. Pineda to try to heal him. In the course of the ceremony, which included drinking a hallucinogenic tea, Mr. Beery said he saw a vision of himself as a woman in 19th-century Vienna, leaping to her death.
That image, the presentiment it carried, startled him out of his own morass, he said. It inspired him to become more selective in taking on advertising clients, leaning more to nonprofit organizations for animal protection, immigrant aid and other causes he believed in.
And, finally, the experience in Ecuador compelled him to undertake studies with Mr. Pineda. Over succeeding years, the adman would hear and resist and ultimately accept what he believed was the call to be a healer. Which, of course, rather surprised the people who know Itzhak Beery in his rationalist mode.
''Coming out of the closet was very difficult,'' Mr. Beery said. ''It was difficult for me to say, 'I'm in advertising but I do shaman work.' Some people were supportive and some were dumbfounded. Even my kids had a hard time at first. 'Is my father a nut?' ''
Mr. Beery's son Ariel recalls his father returning from the Amazon with a water gourd as a present for the children. It cracked open and set loose ants on the kitchen floor.
''It's an adventure,'' Ariel Beery wrote in an e-mail message from Jerusalem, where he is a magazine editor. ''Sometimes, when we speak on the phone, he'll ask me about something he couldn't have known about, so I'll ask how he heard, and he laughs, saying he saw it. You never know what's up and what's down.''
Such perplexity notwithstanding, Itzhak Beery began seeing clients about a decade ago, and gradually moved into teaching courses on shamanism, creating a New York association of shamans and building a Web portal for shamans worldwide. To the outside eye, though, he remains a trim middle-aged man with bristly gray hair, who wears the same kind of khakis and polo shirts for both of his occupations.
Dr. Inanna Weiss found Mr. Beery on the Internet three months ago. A medical resident in reconstructive surgery, she had had so much trouble uncoupling from a former boyfriend that she was willing to seek help outside the kind of Western medicine she had studied. Since May, she has seen Mr. Beery for three healing ceremonies, and counts herself healed.
''It cannot be explained with any of the scientific measures we use as doctors,'' she said in telephone interview. ''But I've always been unorthodox because I believe there's more between earth and sky than we can see.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Itzhak Beery, a Greenwich Village adman, as well as a shaman, says, ''Most indigenous shamans don't give up their day job.'' (PHOTOGRAPH BY RUTH FREMSON/THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MARKETING & ADVERTISING (90%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING AGENCIES (90%); COMPUTER SOFTWARE (77%); GRAPHIC DESIGN SERVICES (77%); CHILDREN (73%); JEWS & JUDAISM (72%); DISTILLED LIQUORS (70%); RELIGION (70%); SNACK FOOD INDUSTRY (68%); CANNABIS (64%); TELEVISION PROGRAMMING (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (90%) NEW YORK, USA (90%); ANDES (79%) ISRAEL (92%); UNITED STATES (90%); ECUADOR (79%); SOUTH AMERICA (55%)

LOAD-DATE: July 24, 2010



583 of 785 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 24, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; OFF THE CHARTS; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 656 words

HEADLINE: In '08 Downturn, Some Managed to Eke Out Millions

BYLINE: By FLOYD NORRIS. 
Floyd Norris comments on finance and economics on his blog at nytimes.com/norris.

 BODY:
EVEN in a bad year, some people can get very lucky.
A newly released report by the Internal Revenue Service shows that, for Americans as a group, total income fell at the fastest pace in decades in 2008, and that the number of tax returns reporting at least $1 million in income plunged by 22 percent as the Great Recession took hold.
But even with all the bad news, there were still 13,480 tax returns that reported income of more than $10 million in the year. 
Among them were 462 returns that reported some income from gambling. Their total income from that source was $2.6 billion, for an average of $5.6 million per return.
The report, based on a survey of tax returns for 2008, states that Americans reported $8.4 trillion in total income, down 4.6 percent from the previous year. After considering inflation, the real decline was 8.4 percent, the sharpest decline in total American income since at least 1990.
That decline was largely caused by falls in investment income and sharp drops in capital gains. Despite the recession, total wage and salary income in the United States rose by 1.9 percent in 2008, the I.R.S. said. But after adjusting for inflation, that became a decline of 1.9 percent. The real decline in wage and salary incomes was also the largest since 1990, which was as far back as the I.R.S. report covered.
For some Americans, that decline was partly offset by the availability of unemployment insurance benefits. The number of tax returns reporting such benefits was 9.5 million, up 25 percent from the year before, and the total of reported unemployment benefits was $43.7 billion, up 48 percent.
Most of those benefits were reported on tax returns showing total income of less than $40,000 a year, and 90 percent of it was reported on returns that showed total income under $100,000.
The number of tax returns that reported at least $1 million in annual income fell by 22 percent, to 321,294, while the subset of that group reporting at least $10 million in income was 36 percent smaller.
On the other end of the spectrum, the number of tax returns on which taxpayers reported negative income -- because their realized losses were greater than their total income -- leaped 31 percent, to 2.5 million.
The report reflects the number of tax returns, not the number of people. Most returns are filed by individuals, but nearly a third are joint returns filed by married couples.
While there were fewer returns reporting $1 million incomes, they collectively still reported income of $1.08 trillion. Those returns accounted for just 0.2 percent of the returns filed, but reported taking in 13 percent of all income.
That proportion was down from 16.1 percent in 2007, however, and was the lowest since 2004, reflecting the impact of the collapse in asset values on those who owned the most assets.
The I.R.S. disclosure of combined tax return information for the wealthiest taxpayers -- those with annual incomes of $10 million or more -- provides glimpses into the lives of the super-rich.
Some of them, it turns out, know what it is like to stand in line at the unemployment office. Seventeen of those returns included income from unemployment benefits, averaging $5,765 each. The service had not broken out that detail in previous years.
Of those tax returns of $10 million or more, 20 reported receiving alimony payments, averaging about $5 million, while 455 reported paying alimony averaging $455,588.
Most people in that rarefied group are there because of their investments, not their work. Of the $400 billion in income reported on those 13,480 returns, only 19 percent of it came from wages and salaries, much less than came from capital gains, even in such a bad year for stocks.
It turns out that there were fewer superlucky people in 2008 as well. In the previous year, 546 returns showing total income of at least $10 million reported gambling income, and those returns showed average gambling income of $6.6 million.

GRAPHIC: CHARTS: HOUSEHOLD INCOMES OVER $1 MILLION
ALL TAXPAYERS: Annual change in total income
 Annual change in wage and salary incomes (Source: Internal Revenue Service) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TAXES & TAXATION (91%); RECESSION (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); WAGES & SALARIES (89%); CAPITAL GAINS TAX (78%); TAX AUTHORITIES (78%); UNEMPLOYMENT INSURANCE (69%); MARRIAGE (50%)

ORGANIZATION: INTERNAL REVENUE SERVICE (91%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (95%)

LOAD-DATE: July 24, 2010



584 of 785 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 24, 2010
Correction Appended 
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; PATIENT MONEY; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 1373 words

HEADLINE: For Chronic Care, Try Turning to Your Employer

BYLINE: By WALECIA KONRAD

 BODY:
IF you are one of the 133 million American grappling with a chronic illness like diabetes, asthma or heart disease, where do you turn for help managing your condition?
Your employer may seem like an unlikely choice. Chronic conditions account for 25 percent of all medical costs, studies show, and an employee with a longstanding illness can mean higher health care expenses and lower productivity to company bean counters.
Yet many firms have come to realize that it makes economic sense to help improve the health of workers who are the greatest users of medical services.
Today, just about every major firm offers some sort of chronic care program. But the offerings can vary widely, said Dr. Harlan Levine, a principal at the benefits consulting firm Towers Watson who specializes in chronic care management. And to many workers already struggling with their medical decisions, the new workplace choices can seem daunting. 
Some firms contract with their insurer or an outside vendor to have a nurse occasionally call employees suffering from chronic illnesses. These programs may do little more than remind a diabetic to get his regular blood test or ask an asthmatic if she is taking her medicine.
In the better programs, however, employees receive assistance coordinating care among specialists and keeping track of prescriptions, and a dedicated care specialist helps address small problems before they turn into full-blown health crises.
Recently Boeing completed a successful test program in which employees with chronic conditions were invited to participate in what's called a medical home program.
Specially trained nurses were made available to the employees by phone and e-mail almost 24 hours a day. They worked one-on-one with patients to monitor their conditions and treatments and to help them make the lifestyle adjustments needed to remain healthy.
The result? Boeing experienced a 20 percent reduction in health care costs per member enrolled in the program, according to Theresa Helle, manager of the test program. Patients fared better and avoided costly emergency room visits, hospitalizations and other major medical episodes.
A Boeing engineer, Doug McClaren, 54, signed up for help managing a longstanding pulmonary condition. He was interviewed extensively by a coordinating nurse, who then helped schedule appointments with specialists and reminded Mr. McClaren when to show up.
Mr. McClaren also liked the fact that his nurse would send an e-mail message every few months asking how he felt and if any health issues had surfaced since they had last talked.
''That prompting allowed me to think a little bit more carefully about a nagging problem I was putting off or that I might not have remembered to mention at an annual check-up,'' he said. ''She can go and talk to any of my doctors, get me an answer or tell me who I should go see.''
At companies like Pitney Bowes and Quad/Graphics, comprehensive chronic disease management is offered at on-site clinics. Both employers say health care costs have decreased significantly as a result.
At Quad/Graphics, a large printing company based in Sussex, Wis., overall health care expenditures are 30 percent lower than those of similar manufacturers in the region.
Despite the success stories, chronic care management programs are not without challenges. Arranging for the kind of one-on-one care that has proven most successful is expensive and must be carefully coordinated with the employees' own doctors, who are already stretched for time.
''If the primary care physician isn't in the loop, there can be duplication of medicines and other problems,'' said Dr. Lori J. Heim, president of the American Academy of Family Physicians.
What's more, employees must buy into the programs for them to work. Often they do not. Entrenched habits that contribute to a chronic illness -- lack of exercise, poor diet, little sleep -- can be hard to break. Many patients stop taking their prescriptions.
''I'd say less than a third, maybe even a fifth, of the people who these programs are targeted for actually comply,'' said Dr. Levine.
The barriers also can be psychosocial. ''People with chronic illnesses can suffer from depression. They're busy, they have kids and elderly parents they are taking care of, making it hard to take care of themselves,'' said Dr. Raymond J. Zastrow, the president of QuadMed, the health care subsidiary of Quad/Graphics.
If you suffer from a long-term illness and your company offers one of these programs, don't hesitate to sign up. You may well find the encouragement, support and financial and medical resources you need to better manage your illness and to save on your own out-of-pocket health care costs.
Here is some advice on how to make the most of your company's chronic care program.
MAKE THE COMMITMENT Getting started in one these programs can be time-consuming. Invest the effort it takes to get enrolled. The more comprehensive the initial visit, the better the advice, support and feedback you'll receive down the road.
This is especially true if you've recently learned of your chronic ailment.
''That can be a really scary time,'' said J. Brent Pawlecki, medical director at Pitney Bowes. ''A diabetic, for instance, may not know how to read sugar levels, let alone figure out what the numbers mean. This is when you can really use the help.''
THE PRIVACY QUESTION Many employees avoid chronic care programs because they're worried that their health information will be disclosed to their bosses and they'll suffer unfair consequences as a result. That's an understandable concern, but it's important to remember that companies spending money on these programs are extremely vested in their success.
For the most part, these firms are careful to hire trusted third-party administrators and to make sure employee health records and other information are never disclosed to company officials.
GET WHAT'S COMING TO YOU To get more employees to participate, employers are offering all types of incentives, from free gym memberships to reduced health care premiums to lower copays. The benefits can really add up.
Let's say you work for Pitney Bowes. If you need regular medication as part of your condition, the company makes an exception to its normal three-tier system -- 10 percent of the drug's cost for generics, 30 percent for preferred drugs and 50 percent for nonpreferred. Those with chronic conditions would pay the lowest co-pay, 10 percent, even if the drug is classified as nonpreferred.
Along with the carrots, there may be sticks. Quad/Graphics offers a zero copay on drugs for people with diabetes enrolled in its chronic care program. (Participants saved an average of $540 last year.) But employees who stop participating in the plan go back to paying regular copays.
INFORM YOUR DOCTOR Communicating with an employee's primary care physician can be one of the biggest challenges in running a successful program.
In some cases you may have to nag your employer-based care nurse to call or write to your doctor with updates. If you find that records from your visits, phone calls or e-mail messages with your company's chronic care program are not being forwarded to your physician, go ahead and send that information to your doctor yourself, advised Dr. Heim.
''Never let a company program take the place of your regular doctor visit,'' she added.
FIND ALL THE RESOURCES Sometimes a chronic care benefit is part of an employer's wellness program. In those cases, it should be no problem to find out about other company offerings that may help you, such as exercise, nutrition or smoking cessation programs.
But the reality is that because large companies usually contract with many separate vendors for these benefits, their offerings are often not well coordinated. Make sure to ask your benefits department about all the resources that may be available for managing your illness, not just those included in the chronic care program.

CORRECTION-DATE: July 23, 2010

 CORRECTION:
This article has been revised to reflect the following correction: An earlier version of this article incorrectly described the three-tier prescription copay system at Pitney Bowes. The three tiers are 10, 30 and 50 percent, not $10, $30 and $50.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Patricia Sweet, left, a manager at the Pitney Bowes Medical Wellness Center in Stamford, Conn., and Kathleen Ryan Mufson, an executive. Offering a chronic care program has helped the company cut health care costs. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CHRONIC DISEASES (92%); DISEASES & DISORDERS (91%); DIABETES (90%); HEALTH CARE COSTS (89%); NURSES & NURSING (89%); HEALTH CARE (89%); HEART DISEASE (89%); EMERGENCY ROOMS (78%); HEALTH INSURANCE (78%); CONSULTING SERVICES (69%)

COMPANY: BOEING CO (54%); PITNEY BOWES INC (50%)

TICKER: BOE (LSE) (54%); BAB (BRU) (54%); BA (NYSE) (54%); PBI (NYSE) (50%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS336414 GUIDED MISSILE & SPACE VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (54%); NAICS336412 AIRCRAFT ENGINE & ENGINE PARTS MANUFACTURING (54%); NAICS336411 AIRCRAFT MANUFACTURING (54%); SIC3761 GUIDED MISSILES & SPACE VEHICLES (54%); NAICS333318 OTHER COMMERCIAL & SERVICE INDUSTRY MACHINERY MANUFACTURING (50%); SIC3579 OTHER OFFICE MACHINES (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: CONNECTICUT, USA (72%) UNITED STATES (72%)

LOAD-DATE: July 24, 2010



585 of 785 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 24, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Foreign Desk; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 652 words

HEADLINE: After Oil Spill, China Calls On Its Ports to Revise Operations

BYLINE: By EDWARD WONG

 BODY:
BEIJING -- Chinese officials are requiring ports around the country to revise their operations to better prevent oil spills in the aftermath of a pipeline explosion last week that resulted in an enormous spill in northeast China. The spill was the largest in this country in recent years, and crews were still struggling on Friday to clean it up.
China Daily, an official English-language newspaper, reported Friday that the Ministry of Transportation had issued a notice urging all local transportation authorities to check operations at ports handling dangerous chemicals by August. Special teams will be sent occasionally to patrol at major oil and chemical ports. Ports that handle oil, liquefied chemicals and gases are now required to carry out checkups every two years, as well as to come up with emergency response plans and to conduct drills. 
The oil spill, at the port city of Dalian, is the result of a pipeline explosion on July 16. The first explosion set off a similar burst at a smaller pipeline near Xingang Harbor. Both pipelines are owned by the China National Petroleum Corporation, one of the large state-run oil enterprises. The spill covers about 140 square miles of ocean, China Daily reported. That area is only a tiny fraction of the slick that has resulted from the recent BP oil spill in the Gulf of Mexico.
The first explosion was a result of improper desulfurizer injections into the pipeline after a tanker had already finished unloading its oil, according to a report on Friday by Xinhua, the state news agency. The workers were employed by a Shanghai company, and the desulfurizer was produced by a company based in Tianjin, about 240 miles to the west. An investigation by the State Administration of Work Safety and the Ministry of Public Security found that the desulfurizer was strongly oxidizing, and that company employees had failed to scientifically verify the safety of the equipment involved. The workers also failed to use standard injection procedures and to identify risks promptly, Xinhua said.
Dalian, in Liaoning Province, is a popular beach getaway during the summer, but many of the beaches were closed after the pipeline explosion.
The growing concern over the potential for further port disasters in China came on the same week as the International Energy Agency's announcement that China had surpassed the United States as the world's top energy consumer. The agency said that China consumed the equivalent of 2.25 billion tons of oil last year, 4 percent more than the United States. The measurement takes into account all forms of energy. The Chinese government's push to maintain rapid economic growth has led to a surge in the country's appetite for energy sources, but China this week rejected the energy agency's calculations.
On Tuesday, a firefighter, Zhang Liang, 25, drowned when a wave knocked him from a boat into the ocean. Rescue workers were still toiling on Thursday to contain the spill. The local government has put into use hundreds of fishing boats, specialized cleaning vessels, so-called oil-eating bacteria and volunteers, China Daily reported. Many volunteers are using just their hands to try to clean up the polluted water and the beaches.
Beijing Youth Daily cited an official as saying that some workers were using chopsticks to clean up the mess.
Environmental advocates have been calling on Chinese officials to give a full and accurate assessment of the ecological damage off Dalian. China's economic growth has pummeled the environment in many parts of the country, and Chinese cities are among the most polluted in the world.
On Thursday, an oil tanker came into port at Dalian, the first tanker to do so since the explosion. Dalian is one of China's major oil production and distribution centers, and the refinery there is one of the nation's largest. The damaged pipeline at Xingang has been repaired and is now transporting oil again.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: A worker scooped oil from a spill near Dalian, China, on Thursday. The spill covers about 140 square miles of ocean, which is a fraction of the BP oil spill's slick.
 Cleanup efforts continued Friday in the spill in northeast China. The spill was the result of a pipeline explosion on July 16. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY REUTERS) MAP: Dalian's beaches were closed after a pipeline explosion. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: OIL SPILLS (92%); PIPELINE TRANSPORTATION (90%); OIL & GAS ACCIDENTS (90%); ENVIRONMENTAL ACCIDENTS & DISASTERS (89%); ENERGY CONSUMPTION (78%); OCCUPATIONAL HEALTH & SAFETY AGENCIES (78%); OIL & GAS MARINE TANKERS (78%); MARINE TANKERS (78%); DISASTER PLANNING (78%); MARINE TRANSPORTATION SUPPORT SERVICES (78%); ENERGY DEPARTMENTS (78%); HARBOR & PORT SECURITY (78%); PETROLEUM PRODUCTS (78%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (78%); OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (78%); 2010 GULF COAST OIL SPILL (78%); INVESTIGATIONS (77%); BEACHES (72%); WORKPLACE HEALTH & SAFETY (69%); STATE OWNED BUSINESSES (67%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (60%); NATURAL GAS & ELECTRIC UTILITIES (60%)

COMPANY: CHINA NATIONAL PETROLEUM CORP (69%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS213112 SUPPORT ACTIVITIES FOR OIL & GAS OPERATIONS (69%); SIC1389 OIL & GAS FIELD SERVICES, NEC (69%)

GEOGRAPHIC: BEIJING, CHINA (92%); SHANGHAI, CHINA (79%) NORTHEAST CHINA (94%); NORTH CENTRAL CHINA (91%); LIAONING, CHINA (90%); GULF OF MEXICO (79%); EAST CHINA (79%); ATLANTIC OCEAN (79%) CHINA (99%); UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: July 24, 2010



586 of 785 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 24, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Obituary; Pg. 18

LENGTH: 1586 words

PERSON: Daniel Schorr 

HEADLINE: Daniel Schorr, Aggressive Broadcast Reporter and Commentator, Is Dead at 93

BYLINE: By ROBERT D. HERSHEY Jr.

 BODY:
Daniel Schorr, whose aggressive reporting over 70 years as a respected broadcast and print journalist brought him into conflict with censors, the Nixon administration and network superiors, died on Friday in Washington. He was 93.
His death was announced by NPR, where he had been a commentator for the last 25 years. A spokeswoman, Anna Christopher, said he died at a Washington hospital after a short illness. He lived in Washington.
Mr. Schorr, a protege of Edward R. Murrow at CBS News, initially made his mark at CBS as a foreign correspondent, notably in the Soviet Union. He opened the network's Moscow bureau in 1955 and persuaded the Soviet leader Nikita S. Khrushchev to sit for his first television interview, with ''Face the Nation.'' At the end of 1957, Mr. Schorr went home for the holidays and was denied readmission to the Soviet Union after repeatedly defying Soviet censors.
At CBS, Mr. Schorr won three Emmy Awards for his coverage of the Watergate scandal and took pride in his often blunt reporting on the administration. In one instance he hurriedly began broadcasting after acquiring a copy of Nixon's notorious ''enemies list'' only to discover in reading the names aloud that his was No. 17. 
Nixon was so angered by Mr. Schorr's reporting that he was said to have ordered the F.B.I. to investigate him.
''I consider my presence on the enemies list,'' he said in a 2009 interview with The Gazette of Montgomery County, Md., ''a greater tribute than the Emmys list.''
But his 23-year career at CBS was cut short in 1976 when he obtained a copy of a suppressed House of Representatives committee report on highly dubious activities by the Central Intelligence Agency.
He showed a draft on television and discussed its contents, but when neither of CBS's book subsidiaries was willing to publish the document, produced by the House Select Committee on Intelligence under Otis G. Pike, a New York Democrat, Mr. Schorr provided it -- anonymously, he vainly hoped -- to The Village Voice.
Many of his colleagues criticized him when he remained silent in the face of false suspicions that another CBS correspondent, Lesley Stahl, had given the report to The Voice.
After Mr. Schorr subsequently admitted that it was he who had leaked the document, there were threats requiring police protection and investigations by the Federal Bureau of Investigation and Congress. When the House ethics committee demanded to know Mr. Schorr's source, he refused to reveal it, risking a contempt citation. When questioned by the committee, he cited First Amendment protections in refusing to ''betray a confidential source.'' The committee voted 6 to 5 against a citation.
By then CBS had relieved Mr. Schorr of his reporting duties, and he ultimately resigned. Editorial and public opinion swung in his favor -- Mr. Schorr was seen as a beleaguered, principled reporter -- and he became popular on the lecture circuit. But what he called his ''love-hate affair'' with CBS News was over.
He ruminated about his departure in a 2001 memoir, ''Staying Tuned: A Life in Journalism'' (Pocket Books): ''Washed away by one controversial leak too many? Undone by a reporting style that proved indigestible to a network worried about affiliates and regulations? Unable to adapt myself to corporate tugs on the reins? Unwilling to exempt my own network from my investigative reporting?''
His conclusion: ''All of that, I guess.''
Interviewed in 2008 for this obituary, Mr. Schorr continued to refuse to identify his source for the Pike committee report.
At 60, Mr. Schorr endured a brief and disappointing stint as a journalism professor at the University of California, Berkeley -- he found the students most interested in his celebrity, he said -- and became a freelance writer. The Des Moines Register and Tribune engaged him to write a column, but after two years the paper's syndicate did not renew his contract.
Then, after he narrated some public television specials and offered twice-a-week commentaries for the Independent Television News Association, an executive of the association introduced him in 1979 to Ted Turner, the swashbuckling Southerner who was in the process of creating CNN, the first cable news network.
The two met in a hotel penthouse in Las Vegas, and, after a brief discussion, Mr. Schorr became the fledgling network's first employee, as a senior news analyst.
After consulting his business agent and lawyer, Mr. Schorr drafted an agreement in the hotel lobby, insisting that ''no demand will be made upon him that would compromise his professional ethics and responsibilities.'' As Mr. Schorr recalled, Mr. Turner scrawled his signature with scarcely a glance.
The cable news venture, initially on a shoestring, took off, and the unlikely pair got along well. Mr. Turner defended Mr. Schorr when Senator Barry Goldwater, the conservative Arizona Republican, wanted him fired. Goldwater had held a grudge since 1964, when Mr. Schorr, while at CBS, reported on the enthusiasm of right-wing Germans for Goldwater as he secured the presidential nomination that year. Mr. Schorr noted that a planned postconvention Goldwater trip mainly involved time at an American military recreation center in Berchtesgaden, site of a favorite Hitler retreat.
Mr. Schorr and Mr. Turner eventually fell out over a CNN plan to team John Connally, the former Texas governor and Nixon Treasury secretary, with Mr. Schorr as commentators at the 1984 Republican National Convention in Dallas.
It was improper, Mr. Schorr said, to mix a politician with a journalist, and he invoked for the first time the 1979 agreement allowing him to veto assignments. The network asked him to drop that right in early 1985, and when he refused, he was told to take leave until his contract expired that May. He soon joined NPR as a commentator, a position he held until his death. He could be heard as recently as July 10, on ''Weekend Edition,'' discussing the news of the week.
Born in the Bronx on Aug. 31, 1916, to parents who had emigrated from what is now Belarus, Daniel Louis Schorr had an unhappy childhood. He said that in writing his memoir he had come to realize that ''being poor, fat, Jewish, fatherless'' had made him feel like an outsider, and that he had ''achieved identity'' through his journalism.
He got his first scoop, which earned him $5, when he was 12. A woman fell or jumped from the roof of the apartment house where he lived, and he called the police, interviewed them about the victim and then called The Bronx Home News, which paid for news tips.
Mr. Schorr attended the City College of New York and contributed articles to New York City news organizations while he was a student there. After graduation he worked for The Jewish Daily Bulletin and then the Jewish Telegraphic Agency.
Growing restive and with Europe at war, Mr. Schorr took a job with Aneta, the news agency of the Netherlands East Indies. He was drafted into the Army in 1943 and, after completing his service, returned to Aneta, in the Netherlands. He became fluent in Dutch.
In 1952 he returned to the United States and won a three-day tryout on the city desk of The New York Times. On the final day, he was assigned to cover the signing at City Hall of the first contracts for federal aid to help private slum-clearing efforts. He was expected to write a few paragraphs.
Instead he interviewed Robert Moses, the New York urban planning czar, who invited him to lunch and showed him some prospective slum-clearing sites, including one near Columbus Circle in Manhattan. The site turned out to be where Lincoln Center would rise. His editors, who had not known of the project, had him write a full-length article.
Impressed, The Times offered him a job but suggested he return to the Netherlands for a few weeks while details were worked out. In early February 1953, that country was devastated by a severe storm, and Mr. Schorr's dispatches so impressed Murrow, one of the most respected broadcast journalists working then, that he cabled him -- Mr. Schorr recalled the exact words more than a half-century later -- asking, ''Would you at all consider joining the staff of CBS News with an initial assignment in Washington?''
Mr. Schorr still preferred The Times, but when he didn't hear further, he inquired and learned that the offer had been withdrawn. As Mr. Schorr told the story, an editor later sheepishly explained that the paper was concerned that too many Jewish bylines might jeopardize its coverage of the Mideast.
Then began his broadcast career, which, in addition to his reporting on intelligence, the Soviet Union and the erection of the Berlin Wall, included coverage of President Lyndon B. Johnson's Great Society programs and Watergate. He appeared frequently on ''Face the Nation'' and made a notable Nixon-era documentary about health care called ''Don't Get Sick in America.''
Mr. Schorr married when he returned to the United States at the age of 50. He and his wife, the former Lisbeth Bamberger, met on his beat when she worked at the Office of Economic Opportunity. She survives him, as do their son, Jonathan; their daughter, Lisa Kaplan; and one grandchild.
Despite decades of experience in the latest broadcast technology, Mr. Schorr shunned computers and word processors for years, sticking with electric typewriters into his 90s. But he had a Twitter account, and last December he posted this message there:
''Big day in my career. First time I composed my commentary for All Things Considered on my computer. Good-bye, typewriter.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Above, Daniel Schorr, flanked by his lawyer, Joseph A. Califano Jr., and his wife, Lisbeth, before the House ethics committee in 1976
below,Mr. Schorr in 2005 at an NPR studio in Washington. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY BOB DAUGHERTY/ASSOCIATED PRESS
 J. SCOTT APPLEWHITE/ASSOCIATED PRESS) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Obituary (Obit); Biography

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: DEATHS & OBITUARIES (93%); JOURNALISM (90%); TELEVISION INDUSTRY (89%); INVESTIGATIONS (89%); CRIMINAL INVESTIGATIONS (89%); INTERVIEWS (89%); WRITERS (89%); CENSORSHIP (89%); SPECIAL INVESTIGATIVE FORCES (86%); FREEDOM OF PRESS (78%); TELEVISION PROGRAMMING (78%); ETHICS (78%); ENTERTAINMENT & ARTS AWARDS (78%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (74%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (72%); INTELLIGENCE SERVICES (70%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (70%); POLITICAL SCANDALS (67%); CONSTITUTIONAL LAW (50%)

ORGANIZATION: FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION (54%)

GEOGRAPHIC: MOSCOW, RUSSIAN FEDERATION (72%) MARYLAND, USA (78%) UNITED STATES (94%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (72%)

CATEGORY: Broadcasting, News and News Media

LOAD-DATE: July 24, 2010



587 of 785 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 24, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1068 words

HEADLINE: Dengue Fever? What About It, Key West Says

BYLINE: By DENISE GRADY and CATHARINE SKIPP; Denise Grady reported from New York and Catharine Skipp from Key West, Fla.

 BODY:
A woman planning a Florida vacation in Key West called the health department there last week to ask if it were true that the city was being evacuated because of an epidemic of dengue fever.
''No!'' Chris Tittel, a spokesman for the Monroe County Health Department, says he told her. ''No, no, no, no, no.''
Dengue (pronounced DENG-gay) is a viral illness, spread by mosquitoes, that can cause fever, headaches, body aches and a rash. Symptoms range from mild to severe, although some people have no symptoms. 
Without a doubt, there is dengue in Key West, though at 27 known cases last year and 18 so far this year, it is hardly what most people would call an epidemic. But those cases are the first outbreak in Florida since 1934, and some medical experts fear that the disease, once rampant on the Eastern Seaboard, could take hold again.
Parts of the Caribbean and Central America are having epidemics now, but none of those infected in Key West had traveled outside the country. That means they caught the virus locally.
News of the disease has apparently unsettled a few potential visitors. But tourism officials and business owners in Key West are even more unsettled, by the way the federal Centers for Disease Control and Prevention has publicized the cases.
On July 13, the centers issued a press release stating that an estimated 5 percent of Key West's population showed evidence of recent exposure to the dengue virus. The estimate was based on tests of 240 residents, of whom 13 were positive. The 5 percent figure was reported by many newspapers, including The New York Times.
That news was the last thing the city needed, with the economy already making the usual summer slump in tourism even worse. The oil spill in the Gulf of Mexico has also scared some visitors away, even though the oil has been nowhere near Key West.
''I don't know if the C.D.C. understands what it potentially has done here,'' said Andy Newman, the director of media relations for the Florida Keys and the Key West tourism council. He said he knew of a ''smattering'' of canceled trips, but suspected more.
Robert Eadie, administrator of the health department, called the disease centers' report ''very alarmist.''
Local officials were irked that the centers had used just 240 people to estimate an exposure rate for the whole city, which has a population of about 25,000.
But scientists involved in the research are sticking to their story. Dr. Harold Margolis, chief of the disease centers' dengue branch in Puerto Rico, said it was statistically valid to extrapolate from the 240 people tested.
''Somehow the virus is getting there,'' Dr. Margolis said.
An infected visitor may have passed the virus to local mosquitoes, or a mosquito carrying dengue may have arrived on an airplane or cruise ship. Key West has plenty of Aedes aegypti, a type of mosquito that can carry dengue.
People are worried about being stigmatized, especially those with businesses. A restaurant owner who was infected a year ago agreed to be interviewed only if his name was not published, because he thought fear of the disease might keep customers away, even though the virus is not spread by food or personal contact. He said he had had a mild flulike illness for about five days.
He had no idea it was dengue until health workers asked him to be tested. Then they urged him to avoid being exposed again, because there are four different strains, and people who have had one strain and later contract another can develop a dangerous form of the disease that can cause hemorrhaging and even death.
Dr. Peter J. Hotez, a tropical medicine expert at George Washington University, said he thought the potential was ''pretty high'' for dengue to spread up the Gulf Coast, where another species of Aedes mosquito that can carry the virus is common. If the disease does get there, it will strike poor people hardest, he predicted, because many of them lack screens and air-conditioning. There is no vaccine.
''I believe the threat is very real,'' he said. ''And we understand that the C.D.C. is about to close its dengue branch. Can you imagine anything so stupid? This is the worst time possible.''
The disease centers confirmed that the 2011 budget does eliminate financing for the ''vector-borne'' disease branch, which tracks dengue, West Nile virus, plague, encephalitis and other illnesses carried by insects.
Dr. Ali S. Khan, deputy director of the National Center for Emerging and Zoonotic Infectious Diseases, said that the disease centers had to make budget cuts, and that the vector-borne disease branch was one. But he said other money could be used to pay for some of the work it used to do.
More than a dozen medical organizations have signed a letter to Congress, asking that the money be reinstated.
Meanwhile, as they are trying to ease public fears, officials in Key West are scrambling to stop the outbreak. The best way to fight the disease is to fight the mosquitoes, by wearing bug repellent, spraying pesticides and dumping anything that holds water. The amount it takes to fill a bottle cap is enough for Aedes aegypti to breed.
Mosquito control inspectors have been dispatched to neighborhoods with suspected cases. Sometimes they have to deal with vacant houses because Key West, like many cities, is dotted with foreclosures. The inspectors have also told landscapers to stock ponds with minnows, which feed on mosquito larvae. The city even launched Mosquito TV, a weekly show, to mobilize residents against the pest.
At the Key West Cemetery, where the gravestone of B. P. Roberts (who died in 1979) reads, ''I told you I was sick,'' dozens of ''ovitraps'' -- black plastic cups laced with poison to kill female mosquitoes and their eggs -- mingled among concrete urns and vases of water rife with squiggling larvae. Plans for next year include providing sterile male mosquitoes to prevent their mates from reproducing.
Key West residents have been taking it all in stride. At a parade last October, a group calling itself Dengue Night Fever included a John Travolta look-alike and followers sporting giant mosquito wings.
Tourists interviewed this week at the nightly sunset celebration on Mallory Square seemed oblivious. Linwood Dean, 31, and his family had been visiting from Pennsylvania for three days. Mr. Linwood had a fresh mosquito bite on his forearm.
''We haven't heard anything about it,'' he said. ''We are having a wonderful time.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Lawrence Smart, from Miami-Dade Mosquito Control in Florida, looked for the larvae of mosquitoes, which carry dengue, in tires where water had collected. Below, a mosquito larva up close. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY JOE RAEDLE/GETTY IMAGES) (A3) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: DENGUE FEVER (94%); HEALTH DEPARTMENTS (91%); EPIDEMICS (90%); EPIDEMIOLOGY (90%); DISEASES & DISORDERS (90%); PUBLIC HEALTH ADMINISTRATION (90%); GOVERNMENT TOURIST OFFICES (89%); VIRUSES (78%); POPULATION SIZE (78%); MOSQUITO BORNE DISEASES (78%); TOURISM DEVELOPMENT (78%); CULTURE DEPARTMENTS (71%); STATISTICAL METHOD (69%); INTERNATIONAL TOURISM (67%); OIL SPILLS (62%)

ORGANIZATION: CENTERS FOR DISEASE CONTROL & PREVENTION (55%)

GEOGRAPHIC: KEY WEST, FL, USA (94%); MIAMI, FL, USA (79%) FLORIDA, USA (96%); SOUTHEAST USA (79%); GULF OF MEXICO (79%); ATLANTIC OCEAN (79%) UNITED STATES (96%); CARIBBEAN ISLANDS (79%); CENTRAL AMERICA (79%); PUERTO RICO (79%)

LOAD-DATE: July 24, 2010



588 of 785 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 24, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; WEALTH MATTERS; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 1188 words

HEADLINE: If It Causes Stress, Is It Really a Vacation Home?

BYLINE: By PAUL SULLIVAN

 BODY:
EVERYONE needs a place to live, but no one needs a second home. So choosing which vacation home to buy and where should be enjoyable. Still, people routinely buy second homes that end up being less than they expected, or worse.
I speak from experience here. My wife and I own a condominium in Naples, Fla. One of our neighbors is as bad as neighbors come. In Florida real estate parlance, he is a ''condo commando'' -- a busybody who questions other residents on what they are doing and then routinely complains to the condo's board about them.
Bad neighbors abound everywhere, but they seem particularly bothersome when they are in places where you go to relax. Shouldn't everyone just be grateful to be sitting in the sun or at fireside near the ski slopes?
The dynamics of second homeownership often conspire against this, said Milton F. Pedraza, chief executive of the Luxury Institute, an organization that does research on wealthy consumers. ''People become slaves to their homes. They buy into the headlines and that makes them pretty miserable with their vacation homes.'' 
Mr. Pedraza said one common cause of second-home misery was that owners failed to factor in how much time and money were needed to maintain a place from hundreds, if not thousands, of miles away.
My colleague Ron Lieber recently wrote about answering the tough financial questions that children ask their parents. That made me think that adults buying second homes should ask equally tough questions -- of themselves. Why, after all, do you want a second home? What are you going to use it for? Do you have any idea how much it is really going to cost?
While many parts of the country are still struggling with falling home prices, a survey from the National Association of Realtors said sales of second homes were up 7.9 percent last year, compared with a 7.1 percent increase for primary residences. And this is the time of year when people begin to look for the winter rentals that often turn into second homes.
Before you jump in, here's a look at what you should know before buying a second home.
IT'S NOT AN INVESTMENT If the recession taught people anything, it is that the value of a home can go down. Vacation properties are certainly not immune.
Beyond the ups and downs of the real estate market, Mr. Pedraza said most buyers underestimated the maintenance costs of a second home.
''Think of the 20 to 25 suppliers who come to your house for air-conditioning, heating, landscaping, the pool man, the plumber -- now you've got to procure those same suppliers for another property,'' he said. ''If you have the money and it doesn't mean anything to you from an investment point of view and you can hire the staff, then fine.''
Deb Howard, a realtor in Lake Tahoe and chairwoman of the National Association of Realtors' resort and second home committee, said many people looked at the properties as a place for the family to gather and as something to leave to the children. But they still need to consider the carrying costs of the property.
Ms. Howard says her first question to buyers is always what kind of lifestyle they expect to have. But her second is whether they need to rent the home to cover the costs. ''Sometimes it's not the right decision,'' Ms. Howard said. ''You're not going to use it enough. Or it's not going to meet your financial goals.''
IT'S LESS RELAXING What persuades people to buy a second home is usually a vacation. A second home, they think, will keep the party going with the added benefit of having a place of their own.
''They only see the benefits -- sitting by the pool, having a pina colada, driving into the driveway and leaving the Rolls Royce there,'' Mr. Pedraza said. ''They never figure the gate is going to be broken and they will need an electrician.'' (You will also be making your own pina coladas and cleaning out the blender.)
Enthusiasm for a place can also lead to a hasty purchase. Barry Peele, of Sotheby's International Realty in Beverly Hills, said a client recently bought a waterfront home in Miami only to find out after the closing that the dock would not accommodate his yacht. Suddenly, the convenience of walking out to his boat -- the original attraction -- was gone.
And then there is the pressure to use the place. ''People have high expectations of their usage,'' said Brian Sharples, chief executive of HomeAway, which runs several vacation rental Web sites. ''The industry average is 30 days of use per year.''
When people realize how infrequently they are using their second homes, they often turn to Web sites to rent them. Mr. Sharples, who has a second home in Aspen, Colo., said the income could defray some of the costs, from taxes to maintenance. But renting out any home can be stressful, and you may not make enough money to justify the hassle.
IT'S TIME-CONSUMING Since people do not use their second homes regularly, they cannot just walk in as if it were their primary residence. At a minimum, they have to open up the house when they arrive, make sure everything still works and close it down when they leave.
Mr. Peele was staying with a friend on Cape Cod when we spoke; he said his friend had not realized how much time it would take to keep his second home looking great.
''It's nothing other than the elements, but being from New York City he had no understanding that there would be additional maintenance required from the water,'' Mr. Peele said. ''If you don't think the salt and the sea and the wind are going to eat away at the house, you're going into it blindly.''
Even if money is no object, you have to find people to do the repairs. A condo may seem a better alternative but you could end up with a neighbor like we have. Mr. Pedraza suggested timeshares or private residence clubs, where everything is maintained for you. But he acknowledged that these lack the cachet of a home.
IT'S CONFOUNDING As for our neighbor, I have decided that he is suffering from what I call the Naples Effect. Someone with this condition was rich in his hometown but has moved to an affluent place like Naples and realized he is just middle class. He may have been a small-business owner, like our ''condo commando,'' but when he decamps to a place where the average home costs seven figures and beachfront property reaches into the eight figures, he is at the bottom of the wealth pyramid.
Some people are fine with this, realizing they are fortunate to be in a beautiful place and happy to reap the benefits made possible by the wealthy people around them. This is a lot like living in New York City: no matter how much money you make, you will never keep up with the Bloombergs, but at least you can enjoy what their philanthropy has given the city.
Still, others can't easily accept this. They become busybodies, like our neighbor. They sue fellow homeowners because of the angle of their outdoor lights, the color of their house or the pets they own.
These are luxury problems, of course. The recession has shown the stress that houses can put on anyone. But before you plunge into a second home, ask why you are doing it. In the end, staying in a hotel could be a lot more relaxing.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Milton Pedraza, chief of the Luxury Institute, a research group, said, ''People become slaves to their homes.'' (PHOTOGRAPH BY TINA FINEBERG FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: REAL ESTATE (91%); HOUSING MARKET (89%); CONDOMINIUMS (89%); REAL ESTATE VALUATIONS (78%); HOME PRICES (77%); REAL ESTATE AGENTS (77%); RESIDENTIAL CO-OWNERSHIP (77%); BUSINESS & PROFESSIONAL ASSOCIATIONS (70%); SKIING (68%); AFFLUENT MARKET (67%); EXECUTIVES (53%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NAPLES, FL, USA (72%) FLORIDA, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: July 24, 2010



589 of 785 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 24, 2010
Correction Appended 
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 1001 words

HEADLINE: Ford's Rebound Rolls On as It Posts $2.6 Billion Profit

BYLINE: By NICK BUNKLEY

 BODY:
DEARBORN, Mich. -- In two years, the Ford Motor Company has gone from losing the most money in its history to earning $26 million a day.
Ford on Friday reported a $2.6 billion second-quarter profit and said it expected to have more cash than debt by the end of 2011.
It was the fifth consecutive quarterly profit and best earnings report since 2004 for Ford, whose turnaround has been picking up steam, with the company increasing sales and market share in the United States even as the market remains sluggish. 
Through the first six months of this year, Ford has earned an profit of $4.7 billion, and executives projected further improvement in 2011 as sales improved and new models hit their stride.
''They have been making all the right moves. It's been impressive,'' Rebecca Lindland, an automotive analyst with the research firm IHS Global Insight, said. ''They just have an unbelievable amount of momentum right now.''
Ford executives cautioned that the second half of 2010 would be less lucrative than the first, but even so the company already is more than two-thirds of the way to matching its 1999 profit of $7.2 billion, the most ever for a Detroit automaker. Yet it has half as many employees and is on pace to sell two million fewer vehicles globally this year than in 1999, a testament to how much more efficient Ford has made itself.
''I'm not sure it's going to be a record year, but it's going to be a great year,'' Ford's chief financial officer, Lewis W.K. Booth, said. ''We've done what we said we were going to do. It's just perhaps a little bit faster than we thought.''
Including special items, Ford's second-quarter profit was equal to 61 cents a share. In the same period a year ago, it lost 21 cents a share.
Revenue was $31.3 billion, up 17 percent from the comparable period a year ago.
Ford earned $2.1 billion from its automotive operations, including $1.9 billion in North America, in contrast to losses of $1.1. billion and $899 million a year ago, respectively. Revenue in North America surged 58 percent, to $16.9 billion as vehicles commanded higher prices. All other regions also were profitable.
''We are ahead of where we thought we'd be after this excellent first half,'' Ford's chief executive, Alan R. Mulally, said in a conference call. ''The driving forces behind our progress include our new products and our leaner global structure.''
Ford reported positive cash flow of $2.6 billion in the second quarter, leaving a total of $21.9 billion in reserves as of June 30. In 2008, when Ford lost a record $14.8 billion, it was burning through nearly $2 billion of its cash every month.
But the company ended the quarter with $27.3 billion in debt, even after paying down $7 billion.
Mr. Booth said Ford would move into a net cash position by the end of next year but declined to reveal specific plans to pay down more debt. He said the company would do so as aggressively as possible while maintaining enough cash to weather any ''unexpected shocks.''
''It's our ambition to continue paying back the debt,'' Mr. Booth said. ''We'll continue to watch our liquidity closely because we've learned over the last couple of years that liquidity is king.''
Ford carries considerably more debt than its cross-town rivals, which were able to wipe out much of their obligations through the bankruptcy process. Most of Ford's debt stems from its mortgage of most of the company's assets in 2006, a prescient move that ultimately allowed it to survive without a government bailout.
''The size of their debt is the biggest negative but they're not ignoring it. They're not putting their head in the sand,'' Ms. Lindland, the IHS analyst, said. ''If they can make these kinds of profits in this very conservative environment, just wait till this place really starts recovering and the global market starts recovering.''
Ford's sales in the United States rose 28 percent in the first half of 2010, nearly double the industry average. Its market share rose to 16.9 percent, from 16.4 percent a year earlier.
Sales across the industry have slowed in recent months, though, raising concerns about the economic recovery.
Ford now expects automakers to sell a combined total of 11.5 million to 12 million vehicles in the United States this year. Previously, Ford had expected industrywide sales to be as high as 12.5 million. In the first half, automakers were on pace for about 11.4 million sales in the United States. (Before the recession, new vehicle sales in the United States topped 17 million a year for most of the last decade.)
But Ford does not believe the economy is stalling.
''It's a slow recovery, but we think it's sustainable,'' Mr. Booth said.
Mr. Booth said Ford expected to spend about $1 billion more on steel and other raw materials this year than in 2009 because of rising prices. Structural costs are also expected to be about $1 billion higher, reflecting increased production and greater spending on vehicle engineering and development, he said.
The automaker's financing arm, Ford Motor Credit Company, earned $888 million in the second quarter. Executives said Ford Credit was not expected to perform as well in the second half but that it would finish the year more profitable than in 2009.
The company recently began selling its new subcompact car, the Ford Fiesta, and has several important model introductions on the horizon, including the Ford Explorer crossover vehicle and a redesigned Ford Focus compact car.
Stock in Ford rose 63 cents, or more than 5 percent, to $12.72 a share.

CORRECTION-DATE:  July 27, 2010, Tuesday

 CORRECTION:
This article has been revised to reflect the following correction: Because of an editing error, an article on Saturday about Ford Motors' fifth consecutive quarter of profit misstated the company's net profit in the second quarter of 2009. Including special items, the company earned $2.3 billion, or 69 cents a share; it did not lose $554 million, or 21 cents a share. (Those figures, which excluded special items, represented its operating loss.)

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: A Ford plant in Wayne, Mich. The automaker reported its fifth consecutive profitable quarter. (PHOTOGRAPH BY CARLOS OSORIO/ASSOCIATED PRESS) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: COMPANY PROFITS (91%); INTERIM FINANCIAL RESULTS (89%); AUTOMOBILE MFG (78%); AUTOMOTIVE SECTOR PERFORMANCE (78%); CASH FLOW (78%); COMPANY EARNINGS (78%); EXECUTIVES (74%); AUTOMOTIVE MFG (73%); MARKET SHARE (73%); AUTOMAKERS (73%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (71%); NEW PRODUCTS (69%); CONFERENCE CALLS (50%)

COMPANY: FORD MOTOR CO (96%)

TICKER: FORDP (PAR) (96%); F (NYSE) (96%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS336112 LIGHT TRUCK & UTILITY VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (96%); NAICS336111 AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING (96%); SIC3711 MOTOR VEHICLES & PASSENGER CAR BODIES (96%)

PERSON: ALAN MULALLY (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: DETROIT, MI, USA (79%) MICHIGAN, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (92%); NORTH AMERICA (92%)

LOAD-DATE: July 27, 2010



590 of 785 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 24, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Foreign Desk; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 976 words

HEADLINE: Offering to Aid Talks, U.S. Challenges China on Disputed Islands

BYLINE: By MARK LANDLER; Choe Sang-hun contributed reporting from Seoul, South Korea, and Edward Wong from Beijing.

 BODY:
HANOI, Vietnam -- Opening a new source of potential friction with China, the Obama administration said Friday that it would step into a tangled dispute between China and its smaller Asian neighbors over a string of strategically significant islands in the South China Sea.
Secretary of State Hillary Rodham Clinton, speaking at an Asian regional security meeting in Vietnam, stressed that the United States remained neutral on which regional countries had stronger territorial claims to the islands. But she said that the United States had an interest in preserving free shipping in the area and that it would be willing to facilitate multilateral talks on the issue. 
Though presented as an offer to help ease tensions, the stance amounts to a sharp rebuke to China. Beijing has insisted for years that all the islands belong to China and that any disputes should be resolved by China. In March, senior Chinese officials pointedly warned their American counterparts that they would brook no interference in the South China Sea, which they called part of the ''core interest'' of sovereignty.
Many of the islands are just rocks or spits of sand, but they are rich in oil and natural gas deposits, and China views them as important outposts that extend its territorial waters far into the busy shipping lanes in the sea.
''The United States has a national interest in freedom of navigation, open access to Asia's maritime commons and respect for international law in the South China Sea,'' Mrs. Clinton said.
The announcement was a significant victory for the Vietnamese, who have had deadly clashes in past decades with China over some of the islands. Vietnam's strategy has been to try to ''internationalize'' the disputes by bringing in other players for multilateral negotiations.
The administration's decision to get involved appeared to catch China flat-footed and angered its foreign minister, Yang Jiechi, at a time when the country is already on edge over naval exercises the United States and South Korea will hold starting this weekend off the Korean Peninsula.
Twelve of the 27 countries at the security meeting spoke out in favor of a new approach to the South China Sea, prompting Mr. Yang to observe that the American effort seemed orchestrated.
International concern has been deepening about China's maritime ambitions, which have expanded with its economic and military muscle. China raised tensions with Vietnam this year with plans to develop tourism in one of the island groups, the Paracels, which the two nations fought over in 1974 before China assumed full control. They had another lethal clash in 1988 over the Spratly island group.
In recent months, administration officials said, China has harassed fishing boats and leaned on energy companies that have tried to make offshore deals with other countries.
Although American relations with China on political and economic matters are regarded as stable, military ties have become strained over United States arms sales to Taiwan and American concerns about China's growing naval ambitions. In June, China withdrew an invitation to host a visit by Defense Secretary Robert M. Gates, and the two have largely suspended regular military-to-military talks.
This week, China was already bristling over the joint American-South Korean naval exercises because some drills are to take place in the Yellow Sea, which China claims as a military operation zone.
At the security meeting, other tensions flared on the familiar front of North Korea, with a North Korean official threatening a ''physical response'' to the naval exercises. The United States made no secret that it intended the drills to be a deterrent to North Korean aggression. It announced them after an investigation led by South Korea found the North responsible for torpedoing a South Korean ship, the Cheonan, in March.
The North Korean official, Ri Tong-il, said, ''This is not defensive training,'' noting that the United States was deploying one of its most formidable nuclear-powered aircraft carriers, the George Washington, in the exercises. ''It is a grave threat to the Korean Peninsula and also to the region of Asia as a whole.''
But North Korea has opened a small window of engagement on the issue. Military officers from North Korea and the United Nations Command met on the inter-Korean border on Friday for the second time this month to discuss the sinking. Meeting at the border village of Panmunjom, colonels from both sides ''exchanged ideas and further details for convening a joint assessment group'' to investigate ''the cause of the armistice violations that led to the sinking,'' the American-led United Nations Command said.
It remained unclear whether North Korea accepted the proposal. North Korea has so far insisted that it conduct its own investigation by sending a team of ''inspectors'' to South Korea.
On Friday, the United Nations Command notified North Korea of plans to hold another joint America and South Korean military exercise: an annual drill from Aug. 16 to Aug. 26. As is normal for the annual drill, no location was announced.
Mrs. Clinton's stop in Hanoi wrapped up a grueling trip that amounted to a tour of American wars, past and present: from Afghanistan to the demilitarized zone in South Korea, and finally to Vietnam, where, in a sunset ceremony, she watched the remains of three American soldiers killed in the war placed on an Air Force transport plane to be returned to the United States.
Mrs. Clinton sought to apply lessons from the American experience in the Korean War to Afghanistan. ''We saw South Korea struggle to become a functioning democracy -- huge amounts of instability, coups, corruption, scandal, you name it,'' she said. ''It's good to remind ourselves: the United States has stood with countries that went through a lot of ups and downs for a lot longer than eight years.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Secretary of State Hillary Rodham Clinton at the Asean Regional Forum in Hanoi on Friday. (POOL PHOTO BY HOANG DINH NAM) MAP: China sees the Paracel and Spratly Islands as its outposts. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TALKS & MEETINGS (89%); INTERGOVERNMENTAL TALKS (89%); MARINE SHIPPING (77%); FOREIGN POLICY (77%); MARINE VESSELS (77%); FOREIGN RELATIONS (77%); FREEDOM OF THE SEAS (77%); STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (76%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (72%); NATURAL GAS PRODUCTS (66%); CRUDE OIL & NATURAL GAS EXTRACTION (66%); MILITARY OPERATIONS (61%); TOURISM (50%)

ORGANIZATION: ASEAN REGIONAL FORUM (59%); ASSOCIATION OF SOUTHEAST ASIAN NATIONS (59%)

PERSON: HILLARY RODHAM CLINTON (89%); BARACK OBAMA (73%)

GEOGRAPHIC: HANOI, VIETNAM (93%); BEIJING, CHINA (73%) PACIFIC OCEAN (94%); SOUTH CHINA SEA (94%); NORTH CENTRAL CHINA (79%) UNITED STATES (97%); VIET NAM (95%); VIETNAM (93%); SPRATLY ISLANDS (92%); NORTHERN ASIA (79%); CHINA (79%); ASIA (79%); KOREA, REPUBLIC OF (79%)

LOAD-DATE: July 24, 2010



591 of 785 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 24, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section D; Column 0; Sports Desk; ANALYSIS; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 1017 words

HEADLINE: Multiple Nicknames; Dwindling Openings

BYLINE: By HOWARD BECK

 BODY:
There was a time, in the not-so-distant past, when Shaquille O'Neal rumbled across the country collecting nicknames and championship rings by the bundle, his career one great, giddy joyride, set to his own thumping soundtrack. He was the Diesel and the Big Aristotle, the Big Cactus and the Big Witness and always the life of the party.
Except the greatest, giddiest free-agent party in N.B.A. history is proceeding without him. Shaq is the Big No-Show, which prompts the question: Is it time for the Big Farewell?
Twenty-three days have passed since the free-agent market opened. Sixty-five players have signed new contracts, including 13 centers. Darko Milicic got $20 million. Johan Petro got $10 million. 
Yet O'Neal -- the Most Dominant Ever, according to the syntactically awkward title he gave himself -- is unemployed. Is this the end? Possibly.
This limbo is largely self-created. O'Neal, according to team executives, is seeking an $8 million salary. He wants a two-year deal. He is 38. He has trouble staying healthy. He can be helpful in spurts, but he is no longer the menacing figure who once ruled the paint.
''I don't know who takes him,'' said an Eastern Conference scout, citing O'Neal's diminished production.
Potential suitors keep drifting away.
The Dallas Mavericks had interest, but balked at O'Neal's salary demands. Instead, they re-signed Brendan Haywood for $55 million over six years, traded for Tyson Chandler and signed Ian Mahinmi.
The Atlanta Hawks were similarly intrigued, and similarly spooked by O'Neal's price tag. They are working to re-sign Jason Collins as their third center. The O'Neal talks are ''dead,'' according to a team official.
The Boston Celtics needed a veteran to fill the void while Kendrick Perkins recovers from knee surgery. They found a younger, cheaper O'Neal -- Jermaine, 31, who signed for two years and $12 million.
The Houston Rockets needed insurance for Yao Ming. They signed Brad Miller.
Miami needed an enforcer behind LeBron James, Dwyane Wade and Chris Bosh, the so-called SuperFriends. Instead of calling Superman, the Heat called Zydrunas Ilgauskas and Jamaal Magloire.
In Cleveland, where he spent last season, O'Neal is superfluous. Without James, there are no title hopes and no need for an aging All-Star center.
''I think he can definitely help a contender,'' the Mavericks' owner, Mark Cuban, said in an e-mail message. ''It just didn't work for us once we signed Brendan.''
There should be a soft landing spot for O'Neal, a future Hall of Famer: a contender who can offer one last shot at a title. The problem is that O'Neal torched the most fertile ground.
He would surely welcome a return to Los Angeles, where he won three championships with Kobe Bryant. But O'Neal alienated everyone from Bryant to staff members to the owner, Jerry Buss, before demanding a trade in 2004.
In theory, O'Neal could be a backup and mentor to Dwight Howard, the Magic's All-Star center. But he has repeatedly insulted Howard and mocked Orlando's coach, Stan Van Gundy. Nor would he be easily forgiven for calling Orlando ''a dried-up pond'' when he bolted for Hollywood in 1996.
The Heat provided O'Neal his last breath of postseason glory, a furious sprint to the title as Wade's co-star in 2006. That bridge was burned, too, after O'Neal's trade to Phoenix in 2008. He derided the Heat's medical staff, ripped the roster and -- as he has done in nearly every city -- complained about his role in the offense.
Even O'Neal's generally amicable departure from Phoenix last year was tinged with controversy -- an allegation that he stole a television-show concept from Steve Nash, the Suns' star point guard. No one in Phoenix is pushing for a reunion.
If O'Neal is determined to retire with a contender, he might be out of options. The San Antonio Spurs are not interested. The Denver Nuggets are inundated with outsize personalities. He is too big for Utah, too demanding for Portland and too risky for Oklahoma City.
This has always been the Shaq package: muscle, mirth and bouts of mayhem. In his prime, he was worth the gamble. In his twilight, teams must hesitate -- especially at a cost of $8 million.
To make that sum, O'Neal needs a sign-and-trade deal with the Cavaliers. That, too, is a complicating factor. And the longer O'Neal holds out for his price, the fewer jobs that remain.
Allen Iverson, another fading superstar, miscalculated the market last summer and had to wait until September to find a job. He signed with the Memphis Grizzlies, a middling franchise in a small market, for $3 million. It is hard to envision O'Neal doing the same.
Yet it still seems unlikely that O'Neal will remain unemployed. Although he averaged just 12 points and 6.7 rebounds last season -- both career lows -- he shot .566 from the field and can be an effective deterrent in the lane.
After losing the last 29 games of the season to a thumb injury, O'Neal returned for the playoffs, looking rusty but fit. He accepted a small, defined role and seemed fine with it.
A rival executive said O'Neal looked ''better than I'd seen in a long time.'' But he no longer commands double teams or scrambles game plans.
If he retires now, after 18 seasons, O'Neal will leave with four championships, three finals most valuable player trophies and 15 All-Star appearances. He is fifth on the career scoring list, with 28,255 points, and second in field-goal percentage, at .581. His ticket to Springfield is ensured.
In his prime, O'Neal boasted of sending All-Star centers into retirement -- Hakeem Olajuwon and Patrick Ewing, Rik Smits and David Robinson, Alonzo Mourning and Vlade Divac. Now he marks the time by watching inferior big men snap up roster spots: Aaron Gray and Timofey Mozgov, Tony Battie and Ben Wallace.
On his Twitter page, O'Neal still lists his location as ''Cleveland/Everywhere.'' In the background is a promotional graphic for his TV show, ''Shaq Vs.'' His last N.B.A.-related tweet came on July 1, the day free agency began: ''Yup, I got 720 days left.''
The Big Optimist is still waiting for that final payday. But the Big Farewell might have already begun.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Shaquille O'Neal, 38, attended the Scripps National Spelling Bee in June. He is reportedly seeking an $8 million salary. (PHOTOGRAPH BY JACQUELYN MARTIN/ASSOCIATED PRESS) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News Analysis

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BASKETBALL (89%); WAGES & SALARIES (73%)

ORGANIZATION: DALLAS MAVERICKS (54%)

PERSON: SHAQUILLE O'NEAL (91%); LEBRON JAMES (54%); MARK CUBAN (51%)

GEOGRAPHIC: BOSTON, MA, USA (71%); ATLANTA, GA, USA (53%) MASSACHUSETTS, USA (71%); GEORGIA, USA (53%) UNITED STATES (71%)

LOAD-DATE: July 24, 2010



592 of 785 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 24, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; OP-ED COLUMNIST; Pg. 17

LENGTH: 771 words

HEADLINE: Thrown To The Wolves

BYLINE: By BOB HERBERT

 BODY:
The Shirley Sherrod story tells us so much about ourselves, and none of it is pretty. The most obvious and shameful fact is that the Obama administration, which runs from race issues the way thoroughbreds bolt from the starting gate, did not offer this woman anything resembling fair or respectful treatment before firing and publicly humiliating her.
Moving with the swiftness of fanatics on a hanging jury, big shots in the administration and Bill O'Reilly of Fox News came to exactly the same conclusion: Shirley Sherrod had to go -- immediately! No time for facts. No time for justice. 
What we have here is power run amok. Ms. Sherrod was not even called into an office to be fired face to face. She got the shocking news in her car. ''They called me twice,'' she told The Associated Press. ''The last time, they asked me to pull over to the side of the road and submit my resignation on my BlackBerry, and that's what I did.''
This woman was thrown to the wolves without even the courtesy of a conversation. Her side of the story? The truth? The administration wasn't interested.
And the blame for that falls squarely on the people at the very top in the White House. Why didn't President Obama or Vice President Joe Biden or Rahm (call me Rahmbo) Emanuel, or somebody somewhere in the upper echelon say, ''Hey, what the heck are you doing? You can't fire a person without hearing her side of the story. This is not the Kremlin. Are you nuts?''
And then, of course, there's the media, and not just the wing nuts at Fox and the crazies in the right-wing blogosphere. A large segment of the mainstream crowd stampeded to condemn this woman solely on the basis of a grainy video clip, just two-and-a-half minutes long, that was trumpeted by a source whose track record should have set alarm bells ringing in the head of any responsible journalist.
This sorry episode shows the extent to which we've lost sight of the most basic elements of fair play, responsible reporting and common decency in this society. And we've turned the race issue entirely on its head. While racial discrimination is overwhelmingly directed against black people in the U.S., much of the nation and the media are poised to go berserk over the most specious allegations of racism against whites. Even the N.A.A.C.P. rushed to condemn Ms. Sherrod, calling her actions ''shameful,'' without bothering to seek out the facts -- which, incredibly, had unfolded at an N.A.A.C.P. event!
Later, after officials at the organization had found and released a tape of Ms. Sherrod's entire 45-minute speech, the group's president, Ben Jealous, apologized and said the N.A.A.C.P. had been ''snookered.''
Black people are in a terrible condition right now -- economically, socially, educationally and otherwise -- and there is no effective champion fighting for their interests. Mr. Jealous and the new edition of the N.A.A.C.P. have shown in this episode that they are not ready for prime time, and President Obama seems reluctant to even utter the word black. Or poor, for that matter.
We hear so much about the middle class, and it's true that the middle class has suffered in this terrible recession. There's a middle-class task force in the White House led by the vice president. But the people suffering most in this long economic tailspin are the poor and the black, and you don't hear much about that.
Which brings us to the most important part of the Shirley Sherrod story. The point that Ms. Sherrod was making as she talked in her speech about the white farmer who had come to her for help was that we are all being sold a tragic bill of goods by the powerful forces that insist on pitting blacks, whites and other ethnic groups against one another.
Ms. Sherrod came to the realization, as she witnessed the plight of poverty-stricken white farmers in the South more than two decades ago, that the essential issue in this country ''is really about those who have versus those who don't.''
She explained how the wealthier classes have benefited from whites and blacks constantly being at each other's throats, and how rampant racism has insidiously kept so many struggling whites from recognizing those many things they and their families have in common with economically struggling blacks, Hispanics and so on.
''It's sad that we don't have a roomful of whites and blacks here tonight,'' she said, ''because we have to overcome the divisions that we have.''
There is no way we'll overcome those divisions if people who should know better keep bowing before and kowtowing to the toxic agenda of those on the right whose overriding goal is to foment hostility and hate.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); US PRESIDENTS (89%); JOURNALISM (78%); RACIAL DISCRIMINATION IN EMPLOYMENT (77%); DISCRIMINATION (77%); NETWORK TELEVISION (76%); TELEVISION PROGRAMMING (76%); CONSERVATIVE MEDIA (76%); WRITERS (73%); NEWS REPORTING (73%); RESIGNATIONS (69%); RACE & RACISM (64%); AFRICAN AMERICANS (60%)

COMPANY: FOX ENTERTAINMENT GROUP INC (83%); RESEARCH IN MOTION LTD (55%)

TICKER: RIM (TSX) (55%); BBRY (NASDAQ) (55%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS515120 TELEVISION BROADCASTING (83%); SIC4833 TELEVISION BROADCASTING STATIONS (83%); NAICS334111 ELECTRONIC COMPUTER MANUFACTURING (55%); SIC3571 ELECTRONIC COMPUTERS (55%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (77%); JOE BIDEN (58%); BILL O'REILLY (55%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (68%)

LOAD-DATE: July 24, 2010



593 of 785 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 24, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; CONGRESSIONAL MEMO; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 1024 words

HEADLINE: Change Comes Quickly to a Place That Doesn't Care for It

BYLINE: By CARL HULSE

 BODY:
WASHINGTON -- When Carte P. Goodwin strode on to the floor to join the Senate this week, the young West Virginia Democrat was more than the 60th vote to break a stubborn impasse over unemployment pay. He was also the symbol of the unsettled nature of an institution that for all its stately decorum is in severe turmoil.
The nasty and prolonged brawl over extended unemployment benefits -- formerly a popular, consensus issue -- and the jettisoning this week of a climate change bill were just the latest manifestations of the near paralysis that has infected the Senate despite the Democrats' control of 59 votes. Democrats have scored notable victories on issues such as health care and new Wall Street regulation, but it has been what lawmakers call a very heavy lift. 
Veteran senators say they have never seen the chamber so bogged down in partisanship. Members are getting whiplash as they watch colleagues come and go, creating an aura of instability in a political body that historically has looked upon turnover as something best left to the House.
''It is topsy-turvy but it is also very partisan,'' said Senator Max Baucus, the six-term Montana Democrat who has been known in the past to cut deals with Republicans. ''Between those two dynamics, it is just nuts.''
Mr. Goodwin, a man previously unknown to most of the Senate, is slated to remain in office only until he is replaced in November, not allowing him much time to get familiar with his new co-workers. He was the eighth new senator to take office since the start of the 111th Congress, a fairly remarkable turn of events.
The departures of Barack Obama and Joseph R. Biden Jr. to the White House and Hillary Rodham Clinton and Ken Salazar to the cabinet after the 2008 election, along with deaths and another resignation, produced a new crop of lawmakers in midstream.
Roland W. Burris, Ted Kaufman, Kirsten E. Gillibrand, Michael Bennet, George LeMieux, Paul G. Kirk (already gone), Scott Brown and now Mr. Goodwin all arrived since January 2009. Only Mr. Brown made it the old-fashioned way -- through an election. It is not a record number of appointees serving at one time but it is the most in one session in almost half a century. The changing lineup has required regular reprinting of the traditional roll call sheets still used to record Senate votes by hand.
And the losses through death were not those of ordinary senators -- the deceased were Edward M. Kennedy and Robert C. Byrd (whom Mr. Goodwin replaced), the two most senior members of the Senate, bona fide Congressional legends and power brokers who seemed almost a permanent part of the Senate itself. Their passing could not help but create a sense of imbalance.
Other twists and turns have added to the tumult -- the switch to the Democratic Party of Arlen Specter, the drawn-out Minnesota recount that ended with Al Franken taking office in the summer of 2009 to give Democrats a 60th vote, crucial health care votes on Christmas Eve, Mr. Brown's special election victory in Massachusetts that deprived Democrats of that all-important 60th.
''It has been an incredible two years when you think of it,'' said Senator Richard J. Durbin of Illinois, the No. 2 Democrat. ''Just one thing after another.''
''Pretty volatile,'' acknowledged Senator Bob Casey, Democrat of Pennsylvania.
Some lawmakers believe the shifting membership of the Senate has contributed to the rising partisanship, since it reduces the number of long-term, across-the-aisle relationships that can lead to consensus and compromise. Mr. Kennedy, of course, was a master deal maker, and both he and Mr. Byrd had the kind of stature that could sometimes untangle Senate knots.
Others think some of the storied Senate civility has disappeared, citing the recently broken impasse over the unemployment pay as an example. With Mr. Byrd's death at the end of June, Democrats found themselves one vote short of the 60 needed to overcome a filibuster. Though they knew defeat was inevitable, Republicans were not about to budge, forcing Democrats to wait until Mr. Goodwin was appointed and sworn in to break the logjam.
''Maybe I am over-romanticizing,'' said Senator Mark Udall, a Colorado Democrat elected in 2008, ''but from what I have heard about the Senate in the past when comity reigned, somebody on the Republican side, after Senator Byrd's death, would have voted the way Senator Byrd would have.''
Senator Ben Nelson, a Nebraska Democrat, said he thought the musical chairs in the Senate were helping fuel a lack of public confidence in Washington, making Americans anxious about what they see going on. ''There is no terra firma in government,'' said Mr. Nelson.
Republicans say Democrats have brought the Senate problems on themselves by overreaching on a broad swath of issues and by trying to ram legislation down the throat of the minority and a skeptical public. They say that approach has fed Senate tensions.
Things are not likely to improve any time soon. The November elections are getting only closer and Republicans, eager to capitalize on a favorable political climate, have little incentive to make things easier for Democrats. And the elections will produce more new faces, some of which belong to candidates running on an explicit pledge to shake things up even more.
''I think we are only seeing the tip of the iceberg now,'' said Senator Richard M. Burr, Republican of North Carolina.
Senator Richard C. Shelby, an Alabama Republican who has served on one side of the Capitol or the other since 1978, agreed.
''It might become more unsettled after November,'' Mr. Shelby said. ''I think the system purges itself of excesses when it is extreme either way. I think the American people right now see a lot of excess 'left' in government.''
The prospect of more Senate upheaval is a disturbing one for Mr. Baucus and other lawmakers who say they worry about the future of the institution and its ability to function in a highly polarized atmosphere driven by a relentless minute-by-minute news cycle and the drive for partisan wins.
''Something has to give,'' Mr. Baucus said. ''I don't know where, how or when, but something has to give.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: MILESTONE DAYS AND NIGHTS Clockwise from top left: Robert C. Byrd being borne out of the Capitol
Al Franken, winner of a drawn-out recount
lights burn before Christmas
Arlen Specter, defeated as a new Democrat
a supporter of Scott Brown
a tribute to Edward M. Kennedy. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY, CLOCKWISE FROM TOP LEFT: CHIP SOMODEVILLA/GETTY IMAGES, VIA BLOOMBERG
BRENDAN SMIALOWSKI FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES
WIN MCNAMEE/ GETTY IMAGES
LUKE SHARRETT/THE NEW YORK TIMES
CHRISTOPHER CAPOZZIELLO FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES
 TODD HEISLER/THE NEW YORK TIMES.) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (92%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (89%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (79%); UNEMPLOYMENT INSURANCE (77%); CHRISTMAS (60%)

PERSON: HILLARY RODHAM CLINTON (79%); TED KENNEDY (78%); TED KAUFMAN (78%); SCOTT BROWN (78%); KEN SALAZAR (58%); ROBERT BYRD (58%); AL FRANKEN (58%); ARLEN SPECTER (58%); BARACK OBAMA (58%); MICHAEL BENNET (58%); JOE BIDEN (58%); KIRSTEN E GILLIBRAND (58%); MAX BAUCUS (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: MONTANA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: July 26, 2010



594 of 785 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 24, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 9

LENGTH: 551 words

HEADLINE: Agency Trims Its Estimate Of the Deficit for This Year

BYLINE: By HELENE COOPER

 BODY:
WASHINGTON -- The Obama administration on Friday trimmed its estimate of the federal budget deficit for this year but said the weak economy had led it to increase its deficit projection for next year. 
The White House's Office of Management and Budget projected that the deficit for the fiscal year ending Sept. 30 would be $1.47 trillion, $84 billion lower than it estimated in February but still a record in dollar terms. Much of the reduction stemmed from lower than anticipated outlays for unemployment insurance.
Measured as a percentage of total economic output -- the gauge that economists say is most meaningful -- the deficit would be 10 percent of gross domestic product. That would be about the same as last year, a level that could not be sustained over the long run without endangering the economy, but well below the records set during World War II.
For next year, the White House projected a deficit of $1.42 trillion, $150 billion more than estimated in February. Next year's projected deficit would be 9.2 percent of the economy.
The new estimates also predict that unemployment will drop only slightly next year, to 9 percent from 9.5 percent now. The jobless rate is expected to drop to 8.1 percent in 2012, the report said.
''The economy is still struggling; too many Americans are still out of work, and the nation's long-term fiscal trajectory is unsustainable, threatening future prosperity,'' the report said.
For President Obama, the faltering economy combined with the huge deficit are a political liability, posing a short-term threat to the Democratic majority in Congress, and a long-term threat to his own prospects for re-election in 2012. Mr. Obama on Friday called on lawmakers to finish work on a small-business jobs proposal that has been held up by partisan fighting.
Republicans were quick to jump on the revised budget numbers to criticize the president's policy, including the stimulus package and other government spending, which many blame for the ballooning deficit.
''Our way of life is being threatened by an economy with too much debt because of a government that spends too much and taxes too much,'' Representative Eric Cantor of Virginia, the House Republican whip, said in a statement. ''Republicans are ready to govern and put a check on the Obama administration's unprecedented spending binge so that Americas can get back to work and our children have more opportunity, not a bigger bill because our generation failed to lead responsibly.''
Mr. Obama is walking a political and economic tightrope; he pushed through the stimulus package, with its attendant government spending, last year in order to jump start the economy. But the additional spending, coupled with the decreased tax revenue, added to the already huge budget deficit.
Besides reducing anticipated revenue from taxpayers, the recession and the largely jobless recovery have increased spending for safety-net programs like jobless benefits and food stamps, though somewhat less than anticipated earlier this year.
Mr. Obama is now awaiting recommendations from his deficit commission later this year. In addition, Mr. Obama and his economic allies have argued that it is better to focus first on growing the economy, and getting Americans working and spending again, before tackling deficit reduction.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: President Obama spoke on Friday at the White House about the efforts made by his administration to improve the economy. (PHOTOGRAPH BY LUKE SHARRETT/THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BUDGET DEFICITS (92%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (91%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); BUDGETS (90%); NATIONAL DEBT (90%); BUDGET FORECASTS (90%); PUBLIC FINANCE (90%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (90%); US PRESIDENTS (89%); POLITICAL PARTIES (89%); US ECONOMIC STIMULUS PLAN 2008-2009 (89%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (89%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (78%); GROSS DOMESTIC PRODUCT (78%); UNEMPLOYMENT INSURANCE (70%); WORLD WAR II (53%)

ORGANIZATION: OFFICE OF MANAGEMENT & BUDGET (58%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (89%); ERIC CANTOR (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: July 24, 2010



595 of 785 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 24, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; STOCKS AND BONDS; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 689 words

HEADLINE: Strong Earnings and Europe's Bank News Lift Stocks

BYLINE: By SUSANNA G. KIM

 BODY:
Stocks climbed Friday as companies continued to report good quarterly earnings and the results of stress tests of European banks did not reveal any negative surprises.
Ford posted its best profit in six years, Verizon reported an increase in wireless subscribers and a better-than-expected profit, and Kimberly-Clark said its cost-cutting efforts helped it post a profit that topped forecasts.
Late in the session General Electric said it was raising its dividend, and reports emerged that Sanofi-Aventis was considering a bid to acquire Genzyme. Genzyme rose $8.35, or 15 percent, to $62.52 a share. 
Results of the widely anticipated European stress tests showed that 84 of the 91 banks tested were found to be able to withstand various economic shocks.
The seven banks that failed, five in Spain and one each in Germany and Greece, were already considered weak by analysts.
While questions about the validity of the tests remained, analysts said the results were about as expected and the market was relieved there were no surprises.
The euro rallied in choppy trading, rising to $1.2922 in New York from $1.2895 on Thursday.
''There was semi-relief that the stress tests weren't any worse than expected,'' said William J. Schultz, chief investment officer with McQueen, Ball & Associates.
The Dow Jones industrial average closed with a gain of 102.32 points, or 1 percent, at 10,424.62. The Standard & Poor's 500-stock index rose 8.99 points, or 0.8 percent, to 1,102.66, while the Nasdaq composite index was up 23.58 points, or 1.1 percent, at 2,269.47.
For the week the Dow industrials rose 3.2 percent, the S.& P. 500 was up 3.5 percent and the Nasdaq gained 4.1 percent.
The increases occurred despite a cautious economic outlook on Wednesday from the Federal Reserve chairman, Ben S. Bernanke.
''Earnings are driving this market higher, though we've had events temporarily not allowing those values to be realized in stock prices,'' said Brett D'Arcy, chief investment officer at the CBIZ Wealth Management Group, referring to Mr. Bernanke's comments and the stress test results. ''But there's a relief that's through and they didn't stop the markets.''
On Friday, Ford posted net income of $2.6 billion, or 61 cents a share, and said it should have more cash than debt by the end of 2011.
The company said sales in the United States rose 28 percent in the first half of 2010, nearly double the industry average, and its market share rose to 16.9 percent, from 16.4 percent a year earlier.
Ford shares rose 63 cents, or 5 percent, to $12.72.
Verizon added 665,000 contract subscribers but posted a loss in the quarter because of a one-time charge related to employee buyouts. Excluding that charge and other one-time items, however, its results topped forecasts and its shares rose $1.02, or 4 percent, to $28.02. Kimberly Clark, maker of Kleenex and Huggies diapers, said it earned $498 million, which was up 23.6 percent from last year and beat analysts' expectations. Its shares rose 1.65 percent, to $64.
Amazon.com, however, fell short of analysts' estimates when it reported results after the close of trading Thursday and on Friday its shares fell $1.20, or 1 percent, to $118.87.
Guy LeBas, chief fixed-income strategist with Janney Montgomery Scott, said 149 of the S.& P. 500 companies had reported quarterly earnings to date and 85 percent had beaten analyst expectations.
''Overall earnings season has been very strong,'' said Mr. LeBas. In the previous quarter, Mr. LeBas said 80 percent of the S.& P. 500 companies had better-than-expected earnings. In the second quarter last year, he said, 65 percent beat expectations.
General Electric, which last week announced positive second-quarter earnings, announced a 20 percent increase in its quarterly dividend and a three-year extension of its share-repurchase plan to 2013. The company raised its quarterly dividend to 12 cents a share, payable in October.
Stock in G.E. rose 50 cents, or 3.3 percent, to $15.71.
As stocks rose, government securities fell. The Treasury's benchmark 10-year note fell 17/32, to 104 8/32 and the yield rose to 2.99 percent from 2.94 percent late Thursday.

GRAPHIC: CHART: The Dow Minute by Minute: Position of the Dow Jones industrial average at 1-minute intervals yesterday. (Source: Bloomberg) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: COMPANY EARNINGS (91%); INTERIM FINANCIAL RESULTS (90%); WIRELESS TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (90%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS SERVICES (90%); STOCK INDEXES (90%); BUSINESS FORECASTS (89%); STOCK EXCHANGES (89%); DIVIDENDS (79%); BANKING & FINANCE (79%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (78%); MANUFACTURING OUTPUT (78%); PRICE INCREASES (77%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (76%); COMPANY LOSSES (73%); MARKET SHARE (73%); PHARMACEUTICALS INDUSTRY (71%); EXECUTIVES (70%); ECONOMIC NEWS (62%); WEALTH MANAGEMENT (50%)

COMPANY: FORD MOTOR CO (85%); VERIZON COMMUNICATIONS INC (84%); SANOFI SA (71%); KIMBERLY-CLARK CORP (58%); GENZYME CORP (57%); GENERAL ELECTRIC CO (57%); CBIZ INC (52%)

TICKER: FORDP (PAR) (85%); F (NYSE) (85%); VZC (LSE) (84%); VZ (NYSE) (84%); SNY (NYSE) (71%); SANF (BIT) (71%); SAN (PAR) (71%); GCVRZ (NASDAQ) (71%); KMB (NYSE) (58%); GNE (PAR) (57%); GEC (LSE) (57%); GE (SWX) (57%); GE (NYSE) (57%); CBZ (NYSE) (52%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS336112 LIGHT TRUCK & UTILITY VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (85%); NAICS336111 AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING (85%); SIC3711 MOTOR VEHICLES & PASSENGER CAR BODIES (85%); NAICS517210 WIRELESS TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (EXCEPT SATELLITE) (84%); NAICS517110 WIRED TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (84%); NAICS325412 PHARMACEUTICAL PREPARATION MANUFACTURING (71%); NAICS325411 MEDICINAL & BOTANICAL MANUFACTURING (71%); NAICS339113 SURGICAL APPLIANCE & SUPPLIES MANUFACTURING (58%); NAICS322291 SANITARY PAPER PRODUCT MANUFACTURING (58%); SIC3842 ORTHOPEDIC, PROSTHETIC, & SURGICAL APPLIANCES & SUPPLIES (58%); SIC2676 SANITARY PAPER PRODUCTS (58%); NAICS325414 BIOLOGICAL PRODUCT (EXCEPT DIAGNOSTIC) MANUFACTURING (57%); NAICS325413 IN-VITRO DIAGNOSTIC SUBSTANCE MANUFACTURING (57%); NAICS336412 AIRCRAFT ENGINE & ENGINE PARTS MANUFACTURING (57%); NAICS335222 HOUSEHOLD REFRIGERATOR & HOME FREEZER MANUFACTURING (57%); NAICS335210 SMALL ELECTRICAL APPLIANCE MANUFACTURING (57%); NAICS541214 PAYROLL SERVICES (52%); NAICS541213 TAX PREPARATION SERVICES (52%); NAICS541211 OFFICES OF CERTIFIED PUBLIC ACCOUNTANTS (52%)

PERSON: BEN BERNANKE (58%); HOWARD SCHULTZ (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (79%) EUROPE (91%); SPAIN (79%); UNITED STATES (79%); GERMANY (78%); CENTRAL EUROPE (73%); GREECE (58%)

LOAD-DATE: July 24, 2010



596 of 785 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 24, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 1318 words

HEADLINE: Inside the Times

 BODY:
International
ISRAEL TRIES TO DEFUSE CRISIS OVER JEWISH CONVERSION LAW
A growing crisis between American Jews and the Israeli government over a proposed law on religious conversion was averted, or at least delayed, this week, with both sides agreeing to a six-month period of negotiation. PAGE A4
CANADA DEBATES CENSUS
The Canadian government's decision to change its census law to make a longer form voluntary has started a heated debate and led to the resignation of the country's chief statistician. His departure appears only to have increased calls for the position to be reversed. PAGE A6 
CHINA REACTS TO OIL SPILL
Chinese officials are requiring ports around the country to revise their operations to better prevent oil spills in the aftermath of a pipeline explosion last week that resulted in an enormous spill in northeast China, the largest in recent memory. PAGE A6
GUINEA ADDS PEACEKEEPERS
Guinea has agreed to send hundreds of troops to Somalia to bolster the African Union's peacekeeping force after Somali insurgents claimed responsibility for attacks in Uganda during the World Cup final that killed 76 people. PAGE A6
VANDALS DAMAGE MEMORIAL
Vandals damaged several pieces of a memorial in Dresden to a pregnant Egyptian woman who was stabbed to death in a city courtroom last year, the police said. The killing of the woman, Marwa al-Sherbini, 31, led to an outcry in the Arab and Muslim worlds. PAGE A6
VENEZUELA WARNS COLOMBIA
Venezuela's defense minister warned Colombia against provoking a conflict after President Hugo Chavez severed ties with Colombia and placed his military on alert. Mr. Chavez accused Colombia of fabricating evidence of Colombian rebel bases inside Venezuela. PAGE A7
Obituaries
VIC ZIEGEL, 72
Writing mostly for The New York Post and The Daily News, he cast a wry eye on the sports world in nearly half a century as a sportswriter, columnist and editor in New York. Mr. Ziegel liked to play a contrarian, while focusing on baseball, boxing and thoroughbred racing. PAGE A16
LARRY KEITH, 79
A longtime television and stage actor, he was in the original cast of the soap opera ''All My Children.'' He was also the first American to play Henry Higgins in ''My Fair Lady'' on Broadway. PAGE A16
National
SCHOOL CHANCELLOR FIRES 241 TEACHERS IN WASHINGTON
The chancellor of the District of Columbia public schools fired 241 teachers, or 5 percent of the district's total. All but a few of the teachers dismissed had received the lowest rating under a new evaluation system that, for the first time, incorporated their students' standardized test scores. PAGE A8
DEFICIT ESTIMATE LOWERED
The Obama administration trimmed its estimate of the federal budget deficit for this year but said the weak economy had led it to increase its deficit projection for next year. The revised projected deficit for the fiscal year ending Sept. 30 is $1.47 trillion, $84 billion lower than was estimated in February. PAGE A9
ALZHEIMER'S RESEARCH
A potentially promising approach to treating Alzheimer's disease has been developed by researchers studying sirtuin, a protein thought capable of extending lifespan in laboratory animals. Using mice, the researchers showed that activating sirtuin suppressed the disease and that destroying sirtuin made it worse. PAGE A9
INCONSISTENCIES IN ILLINOIS
Discrepancies in the biography of Representative Mark S. Kirk of Illinois, a Republican candidate for the Senate, are piling up. His mother this week found herself called on by his campaign to confirm publicly the story of a boating accident when he was 16 years old. PAGE A9
PLUMES LINKED TO OIL SPILL
Scientists from the University of South Florida said that they had for the first time conclusively linked vast plumes of microscopic oil droplets drifting in the gulf to the Deepwater Horizon disaster. However, federal scientists had already said that there was evidence tying the plumes to BP's well. PAGE A10
Tropical Depression Bonnie, which is heading into the Gulf of Mexico and toward Louisiana, is not expected to be a strong storm. But it has already whipped up more tension and mistrust between local officials and the BP and Coast Guard officials in command of the oil spill response. PAGE A10
New York
NEW JERSEY MARIJUANA LAW
Loses Planned Participants
In five months, New Jersey's new medical marijuana law is set to take effect. Rutgers University was expected to be the only approved cultivator of cannabis, and teaching hospitals were supposed to be the only distributors. But both Rutgers and the hospitals fear losing federal funds if they participate. PAGE A13
Business
FORD'S REBOUND ROLLS ON
As It Posts $2.6 Billion Profit
The Ford Motor Company reported a $2.6 billion second-quarter profit and said it expected to have more cash than debt by the end of 2011. It was the fifth consecutive quarterly profit and best earnings report since 2004 for Ford, whose turnaround has been picking up steam. PAGE B2
SHAKE-UP AT CONDe NAST
Conde Nast announced that its consumer marketing chief would become president, assuming a newly created second-in-command role. The goal of the shuffle is to make the company less reliant on advertising revenue. PAGE B1
VERIZON RETAINS ITS LEAD
Despite the iPhone's strong gravitational pull, Verizon is managing to attract more new customers than AT&T, the iPhone's exclusive American carrier. Verizon also beat analysts' profit estimates for the second quarter, excluding one-time charges. PAGE B2
INQUIRY BEGUN INTO S.E.C.
The inspector general of the Securities and Exchange Commission is investigating whether political or other factors influenced the timing of the filing and subsequent settlement of the securities fraud case against Goldman Sachs. PAGE B3
HOPES RAISED IN EUROPE
Britain and Germany reported surprisingly optimistic economic data, offering a respite from the otherwise gloomy global outlook. What is still unclear is whether the results point to a temporary improvement or something more lasting. PAGE B4
STOCKS RALLY ON RELIEF
Stocks climbed as companies continued to report good quarterly earnings and the results of stress tests of European banks did not reveal any negative surprises. The Dow Jones industrial average closed with a gain of 102.32 points. PAGE B7
Sports
TOUR COMES DOWN TO THE FINAL TIME TRIAL
Mark Cavendish won Stage 18 of the Tour de France, but Alberto Contador retained his overall eight-second lead over Andy Schleck. There is one more stage after Saturday's time trial, but the time trial should decide the overall winner. PAGE B9
SOCCER IN U.S. GROWS
The World Cup in South Africa has left its mark on soccer in the United States. Every four years, the impact of the World Cup has been subtle and sometimes slow to emerge, but the growth of the sport in the United States is undeniable. PAGE B11
Arts
OLDER ACTORS UPSTAGE YOUTH
And Jab at 3-D at Comic-Con
Comic-Con International showed its age this week as an unusually seasoned string of stars charmed the pop culture convention. There was also rampant skepticism from panelists and fans about the film industry's obsession with 3-D. PAGE C1
PEKAR'S FINAL DAYS
An illustrated essay partly created by Harvey Pekar, the writer and ''American Splendor'' creator who died recently, will appear in the catalog for an exhibition at the Cartoon Art Museum in San Francisco. It may be the last comic that Mr. Pekar helped write, but it is just one of several works that will be released in the months to come. PAGE C1
SQUID, THE MEAT OF A STORY
China Mieville's novels -- seven so far -- have been showered with prizes. And his growing fan base has come to include reviewers outside the sci-fi establishment. His latest novel, ''Kraken,'' involves a squid-worshiping cult and oppressed magical animals on picket lines. PAGE C1
Op-ed
GAIL COLLINS PAGE A15
Online
VIDEO A tropical weather system could exacerbate the oil spill in the Gulf of Mexico by pushing oil inland on a storm surge.
nytimes.com/national

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Summary

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: JEWS & JUDAISM (91%); PEACEKEEPING (90%); DEATHS & OBITUARIES (90%); LEGISLATION (90%); TEACHING & TEACHERS (85%); BUDGET DEFICITS (85%); BUDGET FORECASTS (83%); EDUCATION SYSTEMS & INSTITUTIONS (79%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (78%); MUSLIMS & ISLAM (78%); RELIGION (78%); OIL SPILLS (74%); TERRORIST ATTACKS (74%); PIPELINE TRANSPORTATION (74%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (74%); BUDGETS (74%); WAR & CONFLICT (73%); REBELLIONS & INSURGENCIES (73%); SPORTS (71%); SPORTS & RECREATION (71%); HOMICIDE (71%); EVIDENCE (70%); WRITERS (68%); VANDALISM (68%); DEFENSE DEPARTMENTS (67%); ARMED FORCES (67%); ACTORS & ACTRESSES (67%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (65%); DEATHS (65%); NATIONAL DEBT (62%); BASEBALL (62%); STANDARDIZED ACADEMIC TESTING (60%); PUBLIC SCHOOLS (60%)

COMPANY: TIME INC (60%)

ORGANIZATION: AFRICAN UNION (55%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS511120 PERIODICAL PUBLISHERS (60%); SIC2721 PERIODICALS: PUBLISHING, OR PUBLISHING & PRINTING (60%)

PERSON: HUGO CHAVEZ (58%); BARACK OBAMA (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA, USA (79%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); NORTHEAST CHINA (77%) ISRAEL (94%); CANADA (94%); UNITED STATES (94%); COLOMBIA (94%); CHINA (93%); VENEZUELA, BOLIVARIAN REPUBLIC OF (93%); GUINEA (92%); SOMALIA (92%); UGANDA (79%); AFRICA (79%)

LOAD-DATE: July 24, 2010



597 of 785 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 24, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 544 words

HEADLINE: Strong Data From Britain And Germany Raise Hopes

BYLINE: By JULIA WERDIGIER

 BODY:
LONDON -- Britain and Germany reported surprisingly optimistic economic data on Friday, offering a welcome respite from the otherwise gloomy outlook around the world.
Britain stunned economists with a 1.1 percent increase in its gross domestic product in the second quarter from the first quarter, according to the Office for National Statistics. That was almost twice the rate that had been expected. 
In Germany, business confidence rose in July to its highest level since reunification. The euro and the pound rose against the dollar on Friday.
What is still unclear is whether the figures illustrate just a temporary improvement in an economic environment that continues to struggle with lack of credit and the prospect of lower government spending, or whether they are a sign that investors and economists alike have been overly pessimistic about the strength of the economy.
''The concern about sovereign debt has put the markets on a pessimistic footing at the beginning of the year,'' said Stuart Green, an economist at HSBC in London. ''Perhaps that diverted attention away from the economic cycle.''
But Mr. Green also warned that the positive data ''does not really alter the fundamental questions'' about the economies of Britain and the Continent. Whether they are strong enough to cope with the double challenge of Europewide austerity programs and a banking system whose stability and reluctance to lend is still cause for some concern.
Economic growth in Britain in the quarter was the result of a 0.9 percent increase of services, which make up the bulk of the gross domestic product. The British pub, hotel and coffee chain operator Whitbread said last month that sales were improving and that it planned to add more coffee shops and hotels.
Manufacturing was up 1.6 percent in the second quarter, from the first quarter, and construction grew by 6.6 percent after much work was postponed from the first quarter because of bad weather. Economists warned, however, that the large increase should be taken with a grain of salt because the data was based on a new type of survey.
Germany's economy had already been experiencing a stronger recovery than many of its European neighbors, helped by strong exports of manufactured goods. But Friday's figures are even more encouraging, economists said.
The German carmaker BMW raised its earnings forecast for this year earlier this month, and Daimler has said it would do the same when it released results next week.
The positive data came after a caution from Ben S. Bernanke, the Federal Reserve chairman, earlier in the week that the outlook for growth in the United States was ''unusually uncertain.''
The recent data also took the Bank of England's monetary policy committee by surprise. The policy makers said earlier this month that the prospect for a stronger economy ''deteriorated a little'' and that ''a softening in the medium-term outlook for G.D.P. growth over recent months'' would put pressure on inflation, which had remained relatively high this year.
Howard Archer, a senior economist at IHS Global Insight, called Friday's economic data from Britain a ''major, pleasant surprise'' but added that ''activity will be relatively muted and bumpy in the second half'' because ''serious headwinds persist.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: A site in London. Construction in Britain was up by 6.6 percent in the second quarter. (PHOTOGRAPH BY STEFAN WERMUTH/REUTERS) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); ECONOMIC INDICATORS (90%); PUBLIC POLICY (89%); BANKING & FINANCE (89%); GROSS DOMESTIC PRODUCT (89%); ECONOMIC POLICY (78%); BUSINESS FORECASTS (78%); STATISTICS (78%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (78%); MANUFACTURING OUTPUT (78%); PUBLIC DEBT (77%); COFFEE & TEA (76%); CURRENCIES (76%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (76%); EARNINGS PREANNOUNCEMENTS (73%); BUSINESS CONFIDENCE (73%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (73%); COMPANY EARNINGS (73%); EXTERNAL DEBT (72%); PUBLIC FINANCE (72%); BRITISH POUND (70%); CENTRAL BANKS (70%); AUTOMOBILE MFG (68%); HOTEL CHAINS (68%); AUTOMOTIVE MFG (68%); HOTELS & MOTELS (64%); AUTOMAKERS (64%); MONETARY POLICY (60%); EXPORT TRADE (50%)

COMPANY: BAYERISCHE MOTOREN WERKE AG (BMW) (62%); BANK OF ENGLAND (50%)

TICKER: BMW (FRA) (62%); BMW (BIT) (62%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS336991 MOTORCYCLE, BICYCLE & PARTS MANUFACTURING (62%); NAICS336111 AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING (62%); SIC3751 MOTORCYCLES, BICYCLES, & PARTS (62%); SIC3711 MOTOR VEHICLES & PASSENGER CAR BODIES (62%); NAICS521110 MONETARY AUTHORITIES - CENTRAL BANK (50%); SIC6011 FEDERAL RESERVE BANKS (50%)

PERSON: BEN BERNANKE (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: LONDON, ENGLAND (90%) GERMANY (95%); UNITED KINGDOM (94%); CENTRAL EUROPE (88%); UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: July 24, 2010



598 of 785 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 24, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; LETTERS; Pg. 16

LENGTH: 413 words

HEADLINE: The American Role in the Fight Against AIDS

 BODY:
To the Editor:
Re ''Obama's Overdue AIDS Bill,'' by Desmond Tutu (Op-Ed, July 21):
The United States has been and continues to be the global leader on H.I.V./AIDS. The best metric of our success is lives saved. 
In 2009 alone the number of people the United States directly supported on treatment increased from approximately 1.7 million to nearly 2.5 million. And, as part of the Global Health Initiative, we have committed to support treatment for more than 4 million and care for more than 12 million, in addition to effective prevention programs that will reach millions more.
We have made great progress -- and much more needs to be done. The global AIDS epidemic is a shared global responsibility. Data just released at the International AIDS Conference reveals that the United States alone finances more than half of the global response to H.I.V./AIDS -- roughly 58 percent.
And while other donors are decreasing their commitments to H.I.V./AIDS in this challenging budgetary environment, the United States is increasing its commitment. President Obama's 2011 budget requests increased resources not only for H.I.V./AIDS but for other global health programs as well.
The United States' commitment to those living with H.I.V./AIDS is unequivocal. We will continue to partner with others to bring hope to those in need.
Eric Goosby Global AIDS Coordinator Washington, July 22, 2010
To the Editor:
Re ''Fighting AIDS on Limited Budgets'' (editorial, July 16):
In the United States, as in sub-Saharan Africa, girls and women account for a growing share of AIDS cases: 43 percent of reported cases in American teenagers between the ages of 13 and 19 occur among young women, and black women of all ages are particularly vulnerable. Globally, the number of women living with H.I.V. increased by 1.6 million from 2001 to 2007.
Women and girls everywhere are most often at risk because of violence, sexual coercion and discrimination that makes them powerless to negotiate safe sex, to reject early and forced marriage or partnership with older men, or to achieve economic independence.
While vaccine research must continue, more resources are needed for programs to empower girls and women, here and in other countries, by building their skills and self-esteem, educating all young people that violence and sexual coercion are unacceptable, and ensuring access to health services, including female condoms.
Adrienne Germain President, International Women's Health Coalition New York, July 19, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: AIDS & HIV (90%); LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); SEXUALLY TRANSMITTED DISEASE (89%); WOMEN (89%); WOMEN'S HEALTH (89%); BUDGETS (89%); US PRESIDENTS (78%); MEDICAL RESEARCH (77%); HEALTH CARE POLICY (75%); PREVENTION & WELLNESS (75%); ADOLESCENTS (75%); COMMUNITY HEALTH PROGRAMS (74%); DISCRIMINATION (73%); EPIDEMICS (73%); INTERNATIONAL ASSISTANCE (73%); HEALTH CARE ACCESS (71%); SENIOR CITIZENS (62%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (59%); VACCINES (50%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (88%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (98%); SUB SAHARAN AFRICA (79%); AFRICA (79%)

LOAD-DATE: July 24, 2010



599 of 785 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 25, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 17

LENGTH: 852 words

HEADLINE: Aging Transit Systems Face Budget Crunch

BYLINE: By YEGANEH JUNE TORBATI

 BODY:
More riders, aging mass transit systems and inadequate money for maintenance and upgrades -- a familiar story line for commuters and those faced with the task of keeping the trains running. What is new this summer is that the problems are making headlines again, in part because of an extended heat wave that has smothered so much of the country.
It would take $77.7 billion just to get the country's public transit systems into shape, according to a report released last week by the Federal Transit Administration. By comparison, the report stated, the entire amount spent on rehabilitating and reinvesting in public transit nationwide in 2008 was $12 billion to $13 billion. 
With luck, riders would not have to contemplate these numbers on a train ride like the June trip endured by about 900 people going from jobs in Washington to homes in Maryland. Just minutes after pulling out of Union Station, the train got stuck -- and stayed stuck for more than two hours.
Temperatures inside the railcars rose, almost as fast as the strain on the nerves of passengers who complained that transit workers provided no information about their plight. Riders debated whether to remove windows to let in air and whether they would be arrested for doing so.
''When the temperature in the train reached 110 degrees the consensus was that the Prince George's jail systems were air-conditioned and thus a better option than staying on the train,'' one commenter wrote in response to an article on The Washington Post's Web site about the episode on the Maryland Area Regional Commuter system, known as MARC for short.
For transit advocates and regular riders, the highly publicized incident -- and a similar one this month on a New Jersey Transit train -- are not rare. Nor are they limited to summer days when high temperatures warp tracks and overtax overhead electrical lines, although that is what has catapulted the infrastructure issues into the news recently. Instead, they are a result of two seemingly paradoxical trends: greater ridership but limits on the money available to improve the transit system.
''There's a lot of older equipment out there that is being taxed highly because ridership is up in so many places,'' said Steven Kulm, an Amtrak spokesman.
The Massachusetts Bay Transportation Authority completed a contract this month to buy 20 diesel locomotives to replace equipment that had been scheduled to be retired in 2005. The agency estimates it will be 32 to 38 months until the locomotives are in service.
Commuters in the New York City metropolitan area have largely escaped drastic summer problems with the exception of a couple of days in early July, when the heat played havoc with the schedules of Amtrak and New Jersey Transit as trains were forced to travel more slowly over hot rails.
Jeffrey M. Zupan, the senior fellow for transportation at the Regional Plan Association, said the New York region had invested heavily in its public transportation system in the last two decades, and as a result, ''these components are in a pretty good state of good repair.''
He added, however, that the financial situation of the Metropolitan Transportation Authority, which also oversees the New York City subway system and some regional train service, is ''very desperate,'' after one of two taxes proposed by a state commission to finance the agency was rejected by the Legislature last year.
Every year, the cost of buying new equipment and repairing rail lines goes up, said Tony Dorsey, a spokesman for the American Association of State Highway and Transportation Officials.
Combined with stagnating or falling revenues, he said, ''we've got the perfect storm out there that is causing people in the transportation industry to feel very concerned.''
Rafi Guroian, who heads the MARC Riders Advisory Council, which monitors the status of the commuter-rail system, said, ''This year, it kind of reached a breaking point.''
When railcars or engines do break down, ''you're basically scraping the bottom of the barrel to replace them,'' he said.
Jack Cahalan, a spokesman for the Maryland Department of Transportation, noted that the state spent $100 million to replace many of the MARC system's diesel locomotives, some of which were pushing four decades of service; most of the new engines went into service this year. He said the agency spent $22 million for 13 new railcars, which were introduced last year.
The federal government is unlikely to step in to help strapped city, state and local transit agencies.
The 2009 economic stimulus devoted about $8 billion to the development of high-speed rail but was widely criticized for devoting very little money for rebuilding and repairing existing transit systems.
Senator Christopher J. Dodd, Democrat of Connecticut, introduced a bill in May that would provide $2 billion in emergency money to close gaps in operating costs for public transit systems around the country. But for the most part it would not apply to capital investment, and its prospects for passage are dim with lawmakers who are already skittish about the budget deficit facing the voters in November.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: A passenger waiting for a train last week in the late evening sun on the platform at Pennsylvania Station in Baltimore. (PHOTOGRAPH BY LUKE SHARRETT/THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: URBAN TRANSIT SYSTEMS (92%); TRAINS (91%); LONG DISTANCE PASSENGER RAIL (89%); RAIL TRANSPORTATION (89%); RAILROAD ROLLING STOCK (89%); PUBLIC TRANSPORTATION (89%); TRANSPORTATION INFRASTRUCTURE (78%); CITY LIFE (78%); WEATHER (77%); TRENDS (76%); PRISONS (70%); CITIES (60%); ARRESTS (51%)

COMPANY: WASHINGTON POST CO (54%); NATIONAL RAILROAD PASSENGER CORP (AMTRAK) (51%)

ORGANIZATION: FEDERAL TRANSIT ADMINISTRATION (57%)

TICKER: WPO (NYSE) (54%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS517110 WIRED TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (54%); NAICS515120 TELEVISION BROADCASTING (54%); NAICS511120 PERIODICAL PUBLISHERS (54%); NAICS511110 NEWSPAPER PUBLISHERS (54%); NAICS482111 LINE-HAUL RAILROADS (51%); SIC4011 RAILROADS, LINE-HAUL OPERATING (51%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); BALTIMORE, MD, USA (79%) NEW JERSEY, USA (92%); MARYLAND, USA (90%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: July 25, 2010



600 of 785 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 25, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section MM; Column 0; Magazine Desk; Pg. 38

LENGTH: 4742 words

HEADLINE: The Yoga Mogul

BYLINE: By MIMI SWARTZ. 
Mimi Swartz is an executive editor at Texas Monthly.

 BODY:
There is so much going on in John Friend's life right now that an assistant once teased him about waking just before dawn and calling to ask for coffee, only to be reminded that he, Friend, was in Quito, Munich or Seoul, while the assistant was back at home base in the Woodlands, a cushy suburb north of Houston. That Friend, the founder of Anusara, one of the world's fastest-growing styles of yoga, has an assistant is itself significant; many people still picture yogis as serene guys who live in respectable deprivation in places like Mysore or Pune, India, and wait for disciples to find them. Not Friend. 
Consider one afternoon in early June when he had just left a meeting with potential investors in Seattle, having flown to the West Coast after several months of giving Anusara workshops in Tokyo, Taipei, Bali and Morrisville, N.C., and was making a brief stopover in the Woodlands on his way to teach more workshops in Copenhagen, Munich, Paris and Park City, Utah -- stops on his ''Melt Your Heart, Blow Your Mind Tour.'' Friend's modest, two-story faux Tudor home (filled with statues of Hindu gods, prayer flags and other souvenirs of his myriad travels) was a semimaelstrom of recently washed clothes, piled-up mail and stacks of unread publications with headlines like ''Nine Life-Altering Lessons'' -- a reflection of the semimaelstrom that is his life.
When Friend wasn't off leading workshops, he was helping plan the yoga-and-music Wanderlust festival to be held this week in Squaw Valley and the Anusara Grand Gathering in Estes Park, Colo., in September, the lead-in to Yoga Journal's annual weeklong conference featuring major American yoga teachers. ''John brings in huge numbers,'' says Elana Maggal, conference director for Yoga Journal, the bible for practitioners. ''In 2008, his was the largest yoga class ever held at our conference. We had 800 people all in one room. We had a waiting list of 200. Needless to say, we want to replicate that.''
On the road and at home, Friend also keeps tabs on all the ancillary businesses he has created in the last 13 years, since Anusara was born: his global Anusara expansion (Studio Yoggy, one of the biggest yoga-school chains in Japan, will be offering Anusara yoga classes); his Anusara publishing ventures (he has commissioned a history of yoga and continues to work on his own book, albeit sporadically); and his Anusara yoga-wear business (Friend has his own line, but also works with Adidas, which is using Anusara yoga trainers in its worldwide yoga push). He is also financing historical yoga research in Nepal and Kashmir.
Simultaneously, Friend is trying to raise money for his most ambitious project to date, the Center, which he is planning to locate in meta-crunchy Encinitas, Calif. Friend expects the Center, with art, music and theater, in addition to yoga, to expand the Anusara ''community'' -- his word -- which currently includes 200,000 students in 70 countries and about 1,200 licensed-by-John-Friend teachers. In his downtime, Friend regularly sends Twitter messages to his 5,000 followers and to his 8,000 Facebook fans. But there is always more to do: during the 36 hours he spent at home, he taped his portion of a DVD titled ''Titans of Yoga,'' in which he will appear with other American yogis like Shiva Rea and David Swenson. (''Namaste,'' he said, relaxed before the camera in a white linen shirt and khakis. ''I'm John Friend, the founder of Anusara yoga. I've been practicing for 40 years. . . . Yoga is my life. It's not just something I practice on a sticky mat.'')
Friend, buoyantly serene, settled himself into an overstuffed leather chair in his living room, while his assistant du jour, a willowy woman named Margaret, padded in and out, dispensing water and taking notes. ''We were up till 3 a.m. last night,'' he said, capping a recitation of all his on-the-fly planning. Friend rubbed his eyes and abandoned attempts to stifle yawns. It's tiring being one of the most famous -- and one of the most entrepreneurial -- yogis on the planet. Friend, who is 51, has close-cropped curls that are snowy white; there is a significant crease between his slate blue eyes; and he is just a little doughy. Though he is frequently described as charismatic, he is a bit distracted in repose. But once he starts talking about Anusara, his boyish energy returns. You almost expect him to levitate.
Friend is not so much a conversationalist as a monologuist, an occupational hazard of someone who urges hundreds of people at a time to bend, stretch and connect with ''the extremely intelligent spirit within that is mind-blowingly revealing.'' As he tried to sum up his creation, his eyes slipped out of focus as he zigged into tantric philosophy and zagged into Anusara's metaphysical underpinnings -- but that didn't really get him where he wanted to go. He cited the ''top scholars'' who have helped him refine Anusara's message. Then he talked about the freedom of Anusara; it's nothing like the more rigid schools that demand students repeat the same poses in the same way at every single class, nor is it the kind of practice in which teachers withhold praise, lest students become too egocentric. ''Anusara is positive,'' Friend said, resting his head on the back of his chair and absently caressing one of many highly polished orbs on an adjacent table. ''It's accessible. Easily applicable. And yet it has depth and sophistication.''
Consider those religions that focus on sin and damnation, on discipline instead of joy. ''Fundamentally they say no,'' he told me. ''While Anusara is a yes.''
Friend's world was coming back into focus. His eyes became brighter, and his jet lag fell away, dissolved by this insight.
''We are,'' Friend said, beaming, ''the Yoga of Yes.''
The first time I encountered John Friend was at a workshop at a Woodlands community college nearly 10 years ago. At the time I was practicing a stricter form of yoga, and Friend's joke-cracking and mind-boggling acrobatics -- he is famous for his handstands -- were something of a revelation. Yoga could be . . . fun? Friend's assistants then were mostly middle-aged suburban women who had once been his students, and if the yoga was no easier than what I had been practicing, their touch and encouragement was both comforting and inspiring. Failing to execute a pose meant nothing more than that you might succeed next time. As Friend led us through the poses, he spoke in a soft voice, insisting that we contain divinity within ourselves and must discover and express our inner goodness to fulfill our obligation to better our world. How to do so was never expressly stated -- except for practicing yoga, of course -- but I left the workshop feeling better physically, mentally and emotionally.
I didn't know at the time that this was my introduction to what others call ''the cult of John.'' If Friend could be compared with anyone outside the yoga world -- and I am not sure he would like this comparison -- it would be Joel Osteen, the magnetic evangelical megachurch minister with the feel-good message and a book-and-television empire. Osteen's God is loving and forgiving. Osteen doesn't get hung up on dogma, and thus everybody is welcome.
Similarly, Friend's yoga is based on classic hatha-yoga postures -- he has refined them using what he calls ''universal principles of alignment'' -- but it can be as challenging as a student wants it to be. His classes are less about toned abs than about self-expression and enjoyment. (Adjustments don't make the poses ''right,'' for instance, they make them ''more beautiful.'') You don't have to be a vegan to become an Anusaran, and unless you want to be an Anusara teacher, you don't have to master complex texts. He uses just enough Sanskrit to be exotic without being incomprehensible. Friend's ''dharma talks'' -- short sermons -- are based largely on simplified tantric principles (not, he stresses, the ones relating to tantric sex): students learn that they are divine beings, that goodness always lies within, that by opening to God's will -- opening to grace, Friend calls it -- ''you actually become vastly more powerful than the limited person that you usually identify with.'' Instead of joining a megachurch, you join the Anusara kula, Sanskrit for family. Like Osteen, Friend has found a way to attract large numbers of people by softening the hard edges of a rigid ideal and by applying the full force of his personality to achieving that goal.
''He has created his own community very self-consciously,'' says Stefanie Syman, the author of ''The Subtle Body,'' a new history of American yoga. ''Most charismatic teachers do that. What happens is if you are successful deliberately or inadvertently, a lot of students evangelize on your behalf and spread the word.'' Friend's success also speaks to the dissolution of traditional communities. ''People used to find community at their church or synagogue or club or league,'' Syman notes. For some, yoga now serves that function. ''Especially if you have an intense physical practice and are interested in transformation, you feel like you've lived through something with someone. You have an intimacy with them that you don't have with anyone else.''
Certainly the fan letters I asked to see bore that idea out: ''My experience at your conference altered my being,'' wrote one student. ''I drove through the mountains and stopped every few minutes to write about the dancing rivers and the aspen paving my way with liquid gold.'' Another wrote, ''This was the first time in a room of 200 people that I did not feel overwhelmed, out of place or somehow in the wrong room.''
Friend's timing could not be better. Some 16 million Americans now practice yoga, a 5,000-year-old mental, physical and spiritual discipline brought to us by Indian gurus. Nowadays there aren't just hourly classes in major American cities but also in places like Deephaven, Minn., and Hattiesburg, Miss. ''Namaste,'' the traditional end-of-class blessing, has become a punch line. A school in Houston even offers ''jello shots'' after class. If yoga began as a meditation technique for people all too familiar with physical as well as mental suffering -- with poses, or asanas, devised to assist in reaching a transcendentally blissful state -- it has taken on a distinctly American cast. It has become much more about doing than being. More about happiness than meaning. It's a weight-loss technique and a stress-management tool, a gateway to an exploding market for workout clothes and equipment. Spending on yoga classes, books, clothes, Om amulets, mats and more has increased 87 percent since 2004, to $5.7 billion a year. As yoga has developed a vigorous capitalistic side, traditionalists have expressed their dismay. ''We need introspection, and this yoga'' -- commercialized yoga -- ''is not about introspection,'' says Judith Hanson Lasater, an author of eight yoga books and a founder of Yoga Journal. ''We have a whole country full of restive people who are not contemplative. The idea of the asana is to calm you to prepare you to move at a human pace, not the pace of electrons on the computer.''
Like many other small-stakes subcultures -- the world of poetry, or academia, say -- yoga has become embroiled in head-of-a-pin type arguments. In yoga's case it centers on authenticity. The fight over whether it is a spiritual or a physical practice has raged virtually since its inception, but now in the United States this question has been tinted with issues of competition, status and sweat. People who favor the demanding flow of Ashtanga yoga, for instance, might scoff at those who practice Iyengar yoga, which is slow-moving but stresses proper placement of the body in the poses. (Think of boot camp versus a classical ballet lesson.) Then again, serious meditators -- those who revel in stillness and make pilgrimages to ashrams in India in search of yoga masters -- disdain the spandex-clad 20-somethings who dash to hot-yoga class to burn off yesterday's cheeseburgers. For a yoga teacher, these debates spell opportunity: anyone whose technique takes off -- or promises some sort of transformation, spiritual, physical or both -- can become a star, supplementing the average yoga teacher's meager $35,000 annual income with cash generated from workshops, lectures, books, clothing, DVDs.
Friend set out to build his brand by straddling yoga's two poles: he is trying to enhance yoga's spiritual aspects by training teachers to speak inspirationally as they teach their students to master the postures. In his teacher-training manual, Friend spends a great deal of time on philosophy and writes that the spiritual effects of yoga are more important than the physical ones. He expresses this aim in language that draws as much from Dale Carnegie and the American idiom of self-improvement as from Hindu philosophy. Teachers, he writes, should ''lead the students to that magical place where everyone's heart opens naturally and where everyone feels empowered and filled with self love.''
Friend, who has a degree in finance and accounting, has also corporatized the practice. Like all yoga stars, he's a road warrior, giving workshops as a way to drum up business. But Friend's niche is to be less exotic than some yogis while being more spiritual than the most commercial ones. He calls himself Anusara's general manager, as opposed to its guru. He doesn't wear a turban like some Kundalini yoga teachers, or his hair exceedingly long, like David Life, a founder of Jivamukti yoga. Nor does he define the spiritual aspects of yoga the way some schools do -- he doesn't press students to embrace animal rights or to chant for extended periods. And he doesn't stick to the same sequence each time in class. On the other hand, Friend brings in enough spirituality and gentleness to differentiate himself from the hot and heavy yoga types, like the bandanna-wearing power-yoga creator, Baron Baptiste. Friend also would not be confused with the Indian master Bikram Choudhury, who created and franchised a kind of hot yoga, which stresses transformation through a rigid workout in a 100-plus-degree room, not through happy sermonettes. Friend's persona is that of an easygoing guy with an easygoing yoga -- except when it comes to business. Friend is not above a little intrayoga competitive trash talk to make his point: People know about physically oriented yoga, he said, ''but as we grow they are going to learn about Anusara. Then people can choose -- either they are going to go to a fast-food joint or a fine restaurant.''
Not surprisingly, Friend's detractors -- and there are at least as many as admirers -- claim that he has watered down and commercialized a hallowed tradition for his own gain. Anusara Inc. currently has about $2 million a year in revenue, though Friend says, ''We spend as much as we bring in, so we have little profit.'' An Anusara prospectus from the spring predicted that revenue could double by 2012. Friend is the sole stockholder in the company and pays himself a salary that is just under $100,000 -- a fortune in the yoga world. Friend, of course, is not ashamed to sell this new American cocktail of spirituality and exercise. How can people get the word unless he spreads it? ''There's no differentiation between yoga philosophy and business philosophy,'' he said of Anusara. ''We honor spirit, based on our vision that life is good.''
He was in fine form last spring at a Melt Your Heart, Blow Your Mind workshop in Hollywood, where about 500 people, mostly young, mostly women and most of them spectacularly fit, paid around $150 for three days of nonstop Anusara. The event was held in the ballroom of an Armenian cultural center on Vine Street, complete with a 5,000-square-foot stained-glass ceiling, which the hyperbolic Friend could not resist calling ''the biggest, most beautiful stained-glass window in the world.'' The stage featured pots of multicolored zinnias, along with statues of the Hindu gods Americans tend to favor: the elephant-trunked Ganesh, remover of obstacles; and Lakshmi, goddess of wealth and beauty. In an adjacent hallway, yoga books, Anusara T-shirts and DVDS, Hindu statuettes and Om refrigerator magnets were on sale.
Friend entered the room almost imperceptibly but was soon surrounded by his students, who giggled at his responses and were eager for his touch. (One sign that Friend, who is divorced, has reached rock-star yogi status: men and women press hotel-room keys into his hands at workshops.) Unlike many, more severe yoga masters, Friend worked the crowd like a contestant on ''Last Comic Standing'': ''Cool color!'' he said, inspecting a student's polished toenails, or ''Pray for him,'' when he guided a student into a difficult pose. And for hours on end, he never stopped talking, seemingly without drawing breath, about the light that always follows the darkness, about being a better person than you were a year ago and about always, always, giving your all, on the mat and elsewhere. ''Whatever you've got, you've got to rock it out fully,'' he said in Los Angeles. ''You've got to work the edge. The edge is so cool.''
No one could ever accuse Friend of holding back. The final event of the Hollywood workshop was a laser light show. Everyone locked eyes on a far wall, oohing and ahhing to undulating beams of bright green, yellow, red, orange and blue that supposedly reflected the flow of energy, or chakras, in our bodies. ''Hey, John,'' someone finally cracked. ''Are you gonna put some Pink Floyd on?''
As much as Friend preaches the gospel of openness, he's relatively guarded about the story of his own life. Like a lot of celebrities, he tells a version of his history from which he never deviates: his father, a former sportscaster and marketing executive, had economic troubles and so moved the family from the Rust Belt to Texas; his mother was an intellectually gifted Southern belle and a Juilliard graduate with a theatrical flair. Colleagues told me, and Friend concurred, that when his mother was ill -- she died of cancer in 2002 -- Friend, the older of two boys, strived to cheer her up with his wisecracks. It was she who introduced Friend to yoga. He wore braces as a child to correct his pigeon toes; after the braces came off, his mother started him on the practice, and he never stopped. His mother gave him books about yogis too, and soon Superman and Batman had little allure. ''I wanted to be a yogi because they knew the mysteries of life,'' he told me. ''They could dematerialize.'' He was obsessed with magic (the word is on the vanity plate of his silver BMW, which he inherited from his mother) -- and followed raptly the tales of miraculous transformations he heard in the different churches his mother insisted they visit every Sunday. As he grew older, Friend played drums in a rock band, a portal to another kind of transformation to be sure, but one that still spoke to a desire for a very public life.
Friend may not have known it at the time, but he connected with yoga at a critical point in its history in America. As Syman notes in ''The Subtle Body,'' yoga in the United States dates to the late 19th century, when it was first propagated by Indian yogis like Swami Vivekananda and Paramahansa Yogananda, who wrote ''Autobiography of a Yogi.'' But the yoga that ultimately prevailed here was not the stringent, meditative practice supposedly leading to spiritual bliss that was more common in India; its health and beauty benefits were always a better sell. (A nice yoga-fan through line runs from Gloria Swanson to Ali MacGraw to Christy Turlington.) By 1976, five million Americans had signed on.
Friend was never content to be just another yoga enthusiast. Horatio Alger could have been one of his swamis. He bought himself a car when he turned 16 with money he made working after school. In 1983, he graduated from Texas A&M University -- no bastion of any counterculture -- and paid his dues as a financial analyst until he took the leap and began teaching yoga full time. By 1987 he was teaching Houston housewives and, he likes to joke, the occasional farmer in overalls. He also began traveling to workshops all over the country, including one with Judith Hanson Lasater, who introduced him to Iyengar yoga. Within a few years, Friend had taken workshop with B.K.S. Iyengar himself and with Pattabhi Jois, the creator of Ashtanga.
In other words, Friend was aligning himself with the greats of contemporary yoga, Indians whose teachings were then shaping the yoga world. (Lineage is as important in yoga as it is to Boston bluebloods.) By 1989 he was in Pune, for a month of study with Iyengar. That year, at age 30, he gave a confounding performance on a rickety wooden platform at the Siddha Yoga Ashram in Ganeshpuri, India (the same one Elizabeth Gilbert described in ''Eat, Pray, Love''). In videos taken that day, Friend looks barely beyond his teens: his brown hair and beard were scraggly, and he was so slight from a bad intestinal virus that he seemed incapable of moving, much less contorting into a lotus position while balancing in handstand. But that is what he did. Friend's skill was impressive -- he was then practicing for a minimum of three hours every day -- but what really set him apart was his style, which conveyed both bravado and vulnerability. The hundreds of Indians and Americans present that day gave him a standing ovation, and from then on, the story goes, John Friend was not just the Iyengar teacher for the ashram but a bona fide yoga star, with invitations to teach around the world. ''There was a lot of grace involved,'' he told me.
As Friend rose to higher positions in the Iyengar organization -- he spent four years on the board in the 1990s -- he also observed and absorbed Iyengar's exacting standards of teacher certification, which require the study of anatomy, physiology, philosophy and ethics, as well as teaching a demonstration class and passing a written exam. From the leader of the Ganeshpuri ashram, Gurumayi Chidvilasananda -- no stranger herself to American celebrity -- Friend learned how to give intimate, inspirational talks to crowds of thousands. He also befriended American scholars of Eastern spirituality studying in India. In each of these encounters, Friend was the yogic equivalent of a sponge, or as one associate recalled, ''He was a man with a mission.'' The mission then was to reclaim yoga from the many U.S .teachers who were so consumed with the physical practice -- it was all about the workout -- that they sweated out any trace of spirituality.
Equally important, Friend wanted to create a new yoga school that wasn't just accessible but commercially sustainable. In the ensuing years, Friend, restless, eager and supremely confident, broke with Iyengar and distanced himself from Chidvilasananda as he began to refine what he saw as his own yoga technique. As he wrote in 1995, ''Finally I realized that I was not fully aligned with Mr. Iyengar's philosophy and method, so it was not dharmic of me to continue to use his name to describe my teaching style.'' Their philosophical differences -- the kind of intrayogic argument best left to the professionals -- were compounded by mentor-disciple issues. In essence, Friend wanted a kinder, gentler yoga school -- though his critics say he simply wanted to build his own empire, and grafted a touchy-feely teaching method onto what remains, essentially, Iyengar yoga. (Whether you believe Friend felt constricted or Iyengar felt betrayed, a residue of bad feeling remains.) By 1997 Friend had come up with a name, Anusara, and a mission statement. ''Anusara yoga is a hatha-yoga system that unites universal principles of alignment with a philosophy that is epitomized by what I call 'celebration of the heart,' '' he wrote.
He merged his entrepreneurial nature with his yogic one. Friend wrote his own teacher-training manual, which is about as detailed as an oil-refinery operations handbook. Like Iyengar, he created a teacher-certification program; his students must complete a minimum of 200 hours of training at workshops -- an expense that can require extensive travel -- buy his training manual ($30) and pass his 30-hour take-home test. A $195 training DVD is also recommended. There are licensing fees of around $100 that must be renewed annually. In this way, Friend maintains quality control and an income stream, but this standardization has cost him the loyalty of older teachers who find the new rules somewhat unyogic. Friend also discourages Anusara studio owners from including other forms of yoga at their schools, lest they dilute his brand. As one former associate, Douglas Keller, put it, ''If a particular McDonald's store chooses to start serving spaghetti, McDonald's can decide to revoke its franchise.''
On a brilliant day last April, Friend was in a celebratory mood. He took his small, young staff to an especially nice Woodlands restaurant, where they sat in a private room with fresh flowers, white tablecloths and Champagne. The occasion was Anusara's 13th birthday and a promising meeting with some investors about the Center, the latest plan to extend Anusaraworld. ''Our little company is expanding,'' Friend told the group, in between checking texts and e-mail. Friend was, then as always, between tours -- he'd been in Detroit and was heading for Japan but already seemed in three places at once.
''What is the company? Anusara!'' he declared. ''We do yoga lifestyle, helping people to be happy. How do you like that?'' The staff looked happy but slightly wary, like kids taken to a nice restaurant by a demanding parent.
Before anyone ordered food, Friend started in on another dharma talk/monologue about the Center, or as he put it, ''the home of the kula.'' There would be a soundstage and theater for yoga events, along with editing facilities for live streaming video, the better to teach in India as well as Peoria. There would be a 1,000-square-foot retail boutique too. In his prospectus, Friend described the Center as the main artistic training venue for Anusara yoga globally, which would also serve as a place to ''make living art, to turn every day into an art project. Shri is the lustrous beauty which turns your mind to the Divine.'' Along with Anusara students, there would be filmmakers, musicians, poets, acrobats, dancers and rock climbers.
It sounded like an awful lot, and it was a little hard to tell how Friend was going to make so many activities yogic, life-expanding and restorative all at once. I had a similar feeling when Friend invited me to a private ''happening'' one night after the Hollywood workshop. The party was held at a loft in a warehouse district near downtown Los Angeles. The music was loud, and the lights were bright and pulsating, and some of the people were in costume. There may have been a smoke machine.
At a certain point, Friend, in black jeans and a spangled black shirt, called for quiet and introduced the entertainment. A young woman danced with flaming torches, and another danced with flaming hula hoops. A pair did a Cirque du Soleil tribute by performing acrobatics while hanging from the 30-foot ceiling on muslin swags. Friend's contribution was an ode to creativity he recited, while a young woman with flowing curls and a face painted to match her tiger costume danced and writhed on the floor.
We ride the tiger. . . .
I taste her hunger
In the burning of my desire
There is no hotter fire.
The event resembled Ringling Brothers crossed with an Allen Ginsberg reading, what the yogi Judith Hanson Lasater might call ''yoga and . . .'' -- yoga and Pilates, yoga and shopping. Eventually you wind up a long way from sitting in a quiet room, focused on the breath as it flows in and out.
Friend, of course, wouldn't see it that way. ''For me, any artistic expression that is performed and expressed with an intention of awakening to the essential nature of one's Being (Spirit) and with the intention of glorifying the intrinsic Goodness and Shri (Divine Beauty) of that spirit is considered Yoga,'' he wrote me in an e-mail message from South Korea. ''Therefore, yoga can be expanded to include dance, music and other forms of Art.''
In other words, it's all good. Back at the Woodlands restaurant, Friend called for a toast. ''To the next level,'' he said, raising his glass. ''Keep dreaming, keep dreaming. Never stop dreaming.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Friend (center) leads a mass warrior pose in Detroit in March. (MM38-39)
 BOSS POSE: Friend and his staff during a yoga workshop. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY DAVID LA SPINA FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) (MM43) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: YOGA (90%); CONFERENCES & CONVENTIONS (89%); TALKS & MEETINGS (74%); TEACHING & TEACHERS (73%); FUNDRAISING (73%); SCULPTURE (71%); FESTIVALS (71%); RELIGION (71%); HINDUS & HINDUISM (66%)

GEOGRAPHIC: HOUSTON, TX, USA (88%); SEATTLE, WA, USA (79%); TOKYO, JAPAN (56%) TEXAS, USA (88%); WASHINGTON, USA (79%); WEST USA (79%); UTAH, USA (79%); KASHMIR (77%); KARNATAKA, INDIA (57%) UNITED STATES (88%); ASIA (77%); NEPAL (77%); INDIA (72%); JAPAN (71%)

LOAD-DATE: July 27, 2010

 
