

401 of 937 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 14, 2013
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section BU; Column 0; Money and Business/Financial Desk; FUNDAMENTALLY; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 1084 words

HEADLINE: Japanese Stocks, Trying To Return to High Gear

BYLINE: By PAUL J. LIM. 
Paul J. Lim is a senior editor at Money magazine.

 BODY:
DURING a blistering run from last November through May -- in which Japan's stock prices nearly doubled on signs that its economy was finally reflating -- the blueprint for success in that market seemed simple.
As the administration of Prime Minister Shinzo Abe pushed to devalue the yen, investors gravitated toward long-forgotten Japanese exporters, which directly benefit from this policy. That's because a weakening yen makes the price of Japanese-made products more competitive in the global marketplace.
Indeed, some of the best-performing Japanese stocks in this stretch were traditional, multinational industrial giants. Shares of Toyota Motor, for instance, returned nearly 115 percent from mid-November of last year to May 22. 
Then in a flash, this strategy seemed to fall apart -- or did it?
Concerns over the Bank of Japan's commitment to so-called quantitative easing -- coupled with fears that the Federal Reserve in the United States would soon end its own bond-buying program -- helped push the country's stocks into yet another correction. From its May 22 peak, the Nikkei 225 index of Japanese shares fell more than 20 percent by June 13. But then it came roaring back by more than 16 percent on more recent signs that the country's economy was indeed nearing a turnaround.
The currency was also whipsawed. After exchange rates had sunk to a low of 103 yen to the dollar, the yen strengthened back to around 94 to the dollar before sliding again. At the end of the week, it stood at more than 99.
As the dust settles, Japanese equity funds are up more than 27 percent for the year. And, year to date, the yen has weakened more than 14 percent against the dollar.
This roller-coaster ride, though, has complicated matters for investors.
Should they go back to favoring shares of exporters, since the yen has been losing value again? Or should they ignore those companies and instead tilt toward businesses that can thrive under a strong yen, should the trend reverse once more? Or should they avoid Japanese stocks altogether?
Many market watchers say investors can sidestep these questions, at least for the moment. Instead, they can do what Japanese stock fund managers have done for years: find ways to invest in Japanese companies without necessarily betting on Japan's economic growth.
For example, one of the top Japanese holdings in the Causeway International Value fund is the JGC Corporation, an engineering company.
''It's one of our largest Japanese holdings but it has little do with Japan,'' said Sarah H. Ketterer, co-manager of the fund, which beat more than 85 percent of its peers in the past year. Among other things, she said, the company builds liquefied natural-gas plants to help meet the growing demand for the fuel in Southeast Asia.
Over all, less than one-fifth of the company's revenue comes from Japan.
Another alternative is to invest in companies that don't necessarily require a strong economy, but that stand to benefit from demographic trends playing out in Japan.
Among the biggest holdings in the Matthews Japan fund, for instance, is JP-Holdings, which operates child-care centers.
In addition to advocating a weak yen to reinvigorate economic growth, Mr. Abe been calling for more women to enter the work force, including leadership posts in Japanese corporations. The country has long been plagued by an aging labor pool, in part because of a declining birthrate. Getting more women into the work force could help address the aging issue and bolster gross domestic product. To do that, though, the government acknowledges a need for more day care options nationwide.
''Companies have to boost investments in child care to facilitate moving young mothers into the work force,'' said Taizo Ishida, lead manager of Matthews Japan. And JP-Holdings, one of the largest operators of child care centers in Japan, would surely stand to benefit, he said. Since the start of the year, the shares have more than tripled in value.
Strategists say investors should also look for those few Japanese companies that have shown a willingness to go against the grain.
For instance, during the years when the yen was strengthening, few exporters could gain global market share in the face of a strong currency.
One exception, though, was Unicharm, a maker of diapers. Yoko Sakai, an analyst at Harding Loevner who specializes in Japanese equities, said Unicharm could achieve this partly because it recognized early on that to sell in a cost-effective way to the developing world, it couldn't rely on the same high-quality, high-priced diapers that Japanese customers demanded. It produced cheaper diapers, which proved quite popular in countries like Indonesia and Thailand, Ms. Sakai said.
Harding Loevner looked for the other kinds of nontraditional thinking from Japanese companies that are domestically oriented. ''Whether the yen works for them or against them in a year or two,'' she said, ''we want companies that can find ways to improve.''
One such company, she said, is ABC-Mart, a shoe retailer in which Harding Loevner invests. ABC-Mart began as a wholesaler but decided to integrate vertically by owning its own retail stores. Then it began buying some shoe brands. ''This company isn't just taking share, it is disrupting the market and getting rid of the middleman,'' she said.
WHEN will it be safe to start betting more directly on a Japanese rebound?
It's hard to say, according to money managers. Skepticism about the future of the stock market is deeply rooted. ''In Japan, people are conditioned to sell after a 20 percent rise in asset prices,'' said M. Campbell Gunn, manager of the T. Rowe Price Japan fund.
And Ms. Sakai said, ''If anybody tells you that they know what's going to happen in Japan, they're lying.''
At the very least, money managers say the recent correction is a reminder of just how far the Japanese stock market has to go before it really recovers.
Charles de Lardemelle, co-manager for the IVA International fund, points out that Japan, which has had a shrinking population and work force, hasn't even begun to tackle the issue of immigration reform, which may also be required to turn around the population trend toward fewer workers. And at the corporate level, he said, there needs to be greater consolidation of companies with a greater focus on delivering more to shareholders.
''To have a real, sustainable long-term rally in Japan,'' he said, ''you have to see a lot of political changes that so far have not happened.''
E-mail: fund@nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: An international cargo terminal at the Port of Tokyo, above, and new cars ready for shipment from Kawasaki, Japan, below. The recent roller-coaster ride of the Japanese stock market has left many investors in a quandary. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY KIMIMASA MAYAMA/EUROPEAN PRESSPHOTO AGENCY
 TORU HANAI/REUTERS) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: STOCK INDEXES (90%); JAPANESE YEN (89%); CURRENCIES (89%); MUTUAL FUNDS (89%); INVESTMENT MANAGEMENT (78%); NATURAL GAS (78%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (78%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (77%); DEVALUATION (77%); EXPORT TRADE (76%); NATURAL GAS PRODUCTS (76%); LIQUEFIED NATURAL GAS (76%); CENTRAL BANKS (73%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (73%); EXCHANGE RATES (72%); ENGINEERING (70%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (61%); PRIME MINISTERS (57%)

COMPANY: JGC CORP (61%); TOYOTA MOTOR CORP (57%); BANK OF JAPAN (56%)

TICKER: 1963 (TSE) (61%); TYT (LSE) (57%); TM (NYSE) (57%); 7203 (TSE) (57%); 8301 (JASDAQ) (56%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS541330 ENGINEERING SERVICES (61%); NAICS237120 OIL & GAS PIPELINE & RELATED STRUCTURES CONSTRUCTION (61%); NAICS236210 INDUSTRIAL BUILDING CONSTRUCTION (61%); SIC8711 ENGINEERING SERVICES (61%); SIC1629 HEAVY CONSTRUCTION NEC (61%); NAICS336112 LIGHT TRUCK & UTILITY VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (57%); NAICS336111 AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING (57%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (56%); SIC6029 COMMERCIAL BANKS, NEC (56%)

PERSON: SHINZO ABE (79%)

GEOGRAPHIC: TOKYO, JAPAN (73%) JAPAN (96%); UNITED STATES (79%); SOUTH-EASTERN ASIA (78%)

LOAD-DATE: July 15, 2013



402 of 937 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 14, 2013
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section RE; Column 0; Real Estate Desk; BIG DEAL; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 1161 words

HEADLINE: How the Rich Get a Nice Big Tax Break

BYLINE: By JULIE SATOW

 BODY:
The rarefied few who can afford to shell out tens of millions of dollars for an apartment in one of the gleaming new condominiums being built across New York City may be searching for luxury, but in some cases they will find an unexpected perk: a break on real estate taxes that can mean tax bills as low as $96 a month.
At 56 Leonard Street, where a penthouse just went into contract for $47 million, the buyers are poised to receive a 76 percent break on their real estate taxes.
At 150 Charles Street, an ultraluxury development in the West Village, the tax break is 70 percent. 
And at One57, the 90-story skyscraper in Midtown where asking prices top $10,500 a square foot, the tax break is an eye-popping 94 percent.
A recent review of the offering plans for some of the city's most expensive new apartment buildings offers an interesting peak into the perquisites and disadvantages of a lavish lifestyle. There are the windfalls, like the generous tax breaks, but there are also oft-overlooked expenses, like mandatory health club and dining-room fees, that can add to a buyer's bottom line.
At 56 Leonard Street, for example, the buyer who is in contract for the record-breaking penthouse would typically pay $140,000 a year in real estate taxes, according to estimates from the offering plan. But because the project laid its foundation in 2008 -- it stalled during the downturn and was resurrected only recently -- it was eligible to apply for a 10-year tax abatement. The city has given its preliminary approval, which means that when the building is completed, the penthouse buyer will pay just $33,000 annually for the first two years, with taxes progressively increasing through the remaining eight.
The tax abatement, known as the 421A program, was established in the 1970s, during the depths of the city's financial crisis, to spur residential construction. In the 1980s, as the economy improved, the program was modified, and affordable-housing requirements were added. In 2008 it was substantially scaled back, although some buildings, like 56 Leonard, made it just under the wire to get the abatements by starting construction before the stricter rules went into effect.
The case for One57 is slightly more complex. Its location on West 57th Street would prohibit the developer from applying for the abatement, but in January the state legislature passed a broad housing bill that included an exemption for the building. The legislation gave a similar pass to several others, including 99 Church Street, otherwise known as 30 Park Place, an ultraluxury condominium that the developer Larry Silverstein is building in Lower Manhattan, and to a site owned by the developer Joseph Sitt at 516 Fifth Avenue in Midtown.
The city has not yet signed off on the abatement, but if it does, a result will be an annual real estate tax bill of under $18,000 for the buyer of the penthouse at One57, assuming it sells for its $115 million list price. That tax bill would more typically apply to a $3 million apartment; for this penthouse, the typical bill would be nearly $300,0000, according to the offering plan. Similarly, the least expensive unit in the building, a 1,000-square-foot one-bedroom, has monthly taxes of just $96, which works out to $1,157 a year -- versus $19,234 without the tax break.
''Yes, we allowed an exemption,'' said Senator Martin J. Golden, who sponsored the bill with Assemblyman Keith L. T. Wright, ''but I am a proponent of the 421A program, and I believe it was the right thing to do.'' An Extell spokeswoman said in a statement that the legislation merely ''remedied an oversight'' in the 421A program.
The exemptions have given some market observers pause, particularly in the case of One57, which was already under way when the legislation was passed and presumably would have been built even without the tax break. ''The idea of the program was that tax subsidies can be an important tool to create residential housing and affordable housing that otherwise wouldn't be built,'' said Vicki Been, the faculty director of the Furman Center for Real Estate and Urban Policy. ''I don't see how giving a tax break to a building like One57 helps either of those goals.''
While some may question whether buyers of multimillion-dollar homes deserve breaks on city taxes, there is no doubt that the benefits are lucrative. But within the fine print of offering plans, which run hundreds of pages and are thick with dense legalese, hidden costs can also crop up. For example, at 432 Park Avenue, which will be the tallest condo in the Northern Hemisphere when it opens in 2015, full-floor penthouses are priced between $72.5 million and $95 million and will be saddled with common charges of more than $17,000 a month. The common charges are several times what the average New Yorker typically pays in rent, and they are most likely being underestimated, experts said.
''Developers have been known to low-ball their estimated figures,'' said Aaron Shmulewitz, a partner at the law firm Belkin Burden Wenig & Goldman. ''I've seen common charges increase 25 percent between the first year and the second year.''
On top of those costly common charges come fees like the mandatory membership in the building's gym, known as The Club at 432 Park Avenue, which bases its charges on the size of the apartment, with larger units owing more. Then there is the $2,000 that owners are required to pay annually toward the building's dining room, and the additional $1,200 in private dining services that owners are required to buy annually, whether or not they use the restaurant.
The budgets included in offering plans can also be overly rosy, said lawyers. They typically cover just the first year of the condominium's operations, allowing developers to fudge important expenses.
''Sponsors are motivated to have their budget seem as affordable as possible -- they shoot low, not high, in many instances,'' said Jeffrey S. Reich, a partner at Wolf Haldenstein Adler Freeman & Herz.
For instance, developers often do not include the cost of maintenance contracts for elevators and other mechanicals, because most of the equipment is still under warranty. They also rarely allocate money to hire an engineer or a lawyer should there be construction defects, which are seldom discovered until a development is inhabited, Mr. Reich said.
There is even the risk that buyers could lose the views for which they have paid so dearly. Both 150 Charles Street and One57, for example, have apartments with ''lot line'' windows -- windows adjacent to neighboring buildings -- which may eventually have to be boarded up and removed if the neighboring buildings are expanded. In the case of One57, the developer estimates the cost of removing the windows at $5,000 per window, to be borne by the owner.
Still, while there are both risks and rewards in buying these exclusive properties, ''none of it should come as a shock to anyone who reads the offering plans,'' Mr. Reich said.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: EXEMPTIONS? New condos that may qualify for abatements include (clockwise from far left) 56 Leonard Street, One57 and 150 Charles Street. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY HERZOG & DE MEURON
MARILYNN K. YEE/THE NEW YORK TIMES
 HAYES DAVIDSON) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TAXES & TAXATION (93%); REAL ESTATE (92%); PROPERTY TAX (90%); RESIDENTIAL CO-OWNERSHIP (90%); CONDOMINIUMS (90%); TAX INCENTIVES (89%); TAX RELIEF (89%); TAX LAW (89%); MULTIFAMILY REAL ESTATE (78%); RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (78%); REAL PROPERTY LAW (78%); CONSTRUCTION (78%); HOUSING ASSISTANCE (78%); RESIDENTIAL CONSTRUCTION (78%); HOME PRICES (78%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (77%); LEGISLATION (76%); LOW COST HOUSING SCHEMES (75%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (69%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%) NEW YORK, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: July 15, 2013



403 of 937 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 14, 2013
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section MM; Column 0; Magazine Desk; Pg. 28

LENGTH: 6014 words

HEADLINE: Different Strokes

BYLINE: By BROOK LARMER

 BODY:
Xie Chengfeng had a fever. Otherwise, the Chinese golfer would have been driving his orange coupe to the practice range on this June morning rather than languishing in bed, cold towel on his forehead, in his four-story mansion. Five years ago, Xie (pronounced ''shee-eh'') and his family uprooted themselves and moved to Mission Hills, a sprawling golf resort in the southern Chinese city of Shenzhen for just one purpose: so he could become the next Tiger Woods. 
Nearly every day of the year, when he's not competing in a tournament, Xie works out in the morning, using the punching bag, medicine balls and bull whip (to strengthen his wrists) in the second-floor living room overlooking a quiet lagoon. Then he's off to the members-only driving range for two hours of training, hitting balls with every club in his bag. After lunch, Xie works on chipping and putting before playing a round on one of Mission Hills' 22 courses (it bills itself as the world's largest golf club). Nearly every other activity is designed to benefit Xie's golf game: piano lessons to strengthen his fingers; math tutorials to help him calculate distances, wind speeds and green breaks; and a daily English class to prepare him for his eventual arrival on the PGA Tour.
Xie is 8 years old.
When I visited his family home last month, the boy's father, Xie Xiaochun, handed me a plate of papayas grown on their back patio and an album of baby photos of his only child. One set of pictures showed the chubby toddler in a navy blue sweater vest, swinging a golf club. ''He started hitting balls when he was 2½ years old -- younger than Tiger was when he began!'' Xie's father told me in Mandarin. Barely six months after his son began playing golf, Xie Xiaochun -- a 43-year-old migrant from northeastern China who made a fortune in the trucking-logistics business -- bought this house, and the golf membership that came with it, so his son would have ready access to world-class courses and instruction.
You can't call Xie a school dropout. He has never attended school. ''He really didn't want to go, and I thought it was a waste of time he could use for golf training,'' his father said. As his peers went off to first grade, the outgoing boy enrolled in a succession of golf academies -- first at Mission Hills at the Cindy Reid Golf Academy, named after an American teaching pro, then at one on Hainan Island run by Tiger Woods's former coach, Hank Haney, and finally at a summer golf camp in Japan. Father and son are now back home, working on their own regimen. Xie's parents still call him Xiao Bao, or Little Baby: at nearly 5-foot-3 (two inches shorter than his father) and 120 pounds, he dwarfs his 8-year-old competition. (Though his parents are small, their homeland in northeastern China is known for producing giants.) When asked to name his favorite club, Xie replied. ''The driver, of course!'' He can hit it nearly 220 yards, about as far as the average adult amateur -- and about 50 yards past his peers.
Xie said his feverish symptoms began during a tournament the day before. I hadn't noticed, because his sunburned face always looked flushed, especially above his all-pink golf ensemble. He ended up with a third-place trophy, but his mother whispered to me: ''He often feels sick when he doesn't play too well.'' Despite the fever, when I asked about the car in the driveway, Xie shuffled downstairs to show me the full-size, Chinese-made electric car -- a gift from his father for his 6th birthday. Plastered on the car's back window was a ''test driver'' sticker; the logo on the side, because of an intentionally displaced ''S,'' read ''Peedway.'' ''He's big enough to drive,'' his father said. ''He's just not allowed to leave Mission Hills.''
The People's Republic might seem an unlikely incubator for golf prodigies. Chairman Mao, after all, banned the game in 1949 as so much bourgeois frippery and had the handful of golf courses that predated the Communist revolution plowed under. The taboo lasted 35 years. China's first golf course built since then is not yet three decades old -- younger than Tiger Woods. Even today, the state ostensibly outlaws the construction of new courses in mainland China, lest they gobble up too much scarce land and water -- an edict that, though flouted in places, still limits the growth of the game. Then there's the paucity of role models: though the country churns out Olympic champions in sports from diving to table tennis, China has just four professional golfers -- two men, two women -- ranked in the world's top 300.
And yet Chinese wunderkinds are now beginning to infiltrate some of the highest levels of golf. First came 14-year-old Andy Zhang, who played in last year's U.S. Open. Then, in April, Guan Tianlang, also 14, dazzled at the Masters. The boy in popsicle-colored pants -- the youngest ever to tee off at the tournament -- made the cut despite a rare slow-play penalty that angered his new fans (the rapper Lil Wayne tweeted: ''Shame on the Masters''). With disarming maturity, the eighth-grader never scored worse than a bogey in four rounds and became the toast of the tournament. Gary Player said: ''Mark my words: we are witnessing the most historic moment golf has experienced in my lifetime.''
And the prodigies keep getting younger. In May, Ye Wocheng -- at 12 years old, not even a teenager -- became the youngest golfer ever to compete in a European Tour event when he played in the China Open. (The record he broke was set the year before by none other than his Chinese rival, Guan.) Ye has been playing since he was 4 -- two-thirds of his life -- so he wasn't kidding when he said, through his braces, ''I've dreamed of this since I was a boy.''
These three boys may be just the beginning. Beyond them, training with ferocious intensity, is a small but growing band of younger Chinese golfers -- some, like Xie, just 7 or 8 -- who are starting to win international tournaments. We've come to expect such precociousness from China's assembly line of Olympic gymnasts and female weight lifters -- athletes plucked from relatively poor families at an early age and molded into champions by the Soviet-style state sports machine. But the case of the golf prodigies is more curious and complex, offering an unusual window into modern China.
The wealthy children of China's economic boom -- the fu er dai, or ''second-generation rich'' -- are often derided as ''little emperors,'' so spoiled by privilege that they need never strive nor suffer. The reputation is, in many cases, richly deserved, and you would never confuse hitting golf balls off the Bermuda grass at Mission Hills with laboring in a steel mill or a garment factory. Even so, these boys and girls, whether driven by desire or family pressure, often train nonstop, with very few days off, under a parental discipline that can rival the toughest coaches in the Chinese sports system.
Obsessive parenting exists everywhere, of course. But in China, the sudden explosion of wealth and the preponderance of only children (because of the restrictive one-child policy still prevalent in many parts of the country) intensifies the anxiety of parents willing to go to almost any extreme to turn their child into the next Tiger Woods. Many foreign pros worry that children who are pushed to train so hard will burn out long before they reach their prime. Yet the tantalizing sight of a Chinese boy at the Masters has compelled some parents to push even harder. ''Guan has inspired a lot of people,'' says a foreign pro in Beijing. ''But I now have parents of 13-year-olds asking me, 'Does my son have the ability to play in the Masters?' With that kind of attitude, you either quit or double down.''
In the effort to create a Chinese star, families are not the only ones doubling down. Corporations, too, are eager to find a figure -- golf's version of the basketball star Yao Ming -- who can help build a sport that appeals to China's status-conscious elites. And now, an even bigger player has invested in the quest: the Chinese state. With golf's reinstatement into the Olympic Games, starting in 2016, the medal-hungry government is taking a keen interest in the game it once disdained.
The head of the state-run China Golf Association, Zhang Xiaoning, says that golf's emphasis on technique and mental strength, rather than sheer athleticism, makes it ''ideally suited'' for Chinese. (China even claims that a stick-and-ball game played by the elites during the Song dynasty nearly a millennium ago is the actual precursor to golf.) The challenge now is to expand the pool of athletes in a game that is almost the exclusive preserve of the very rich. So far, the C.G.A. has teamed with corporations to host tournaments, teach golf in primary schools and build a sophisticated national golf training center. In March, China even signed up Greg Norman, a former world No. 1, to help develop a national team that could win Olympic medals. There's little chance of that in 2016, but with Guan, Ye and the pack of prodigies on the horizon, the future of golf already seems to be tilting toward China.
Early one recent Saturday morning, a stream of luxury cars pulled into the parking lot at Bayhood No. 9, a golf club and the most popular training ground in Beijing. BMWs and Range Rovers, Porsches and a single silvery blue Rolls-Royce -- each disgorged a child dressed in colorful golf attire. A lesson with the head pro in one of the club's state-of-the-art plexiglass bays costs $250 an hour. The row of V.I.P. suites on the second floor -- carpeted rooms with flat-screen televisions and two hitting mats -- rent for $75,000 a year. When I inquired at the front desk, the attendant smiled. ''The V.I.P. suites are fully booked until next year,'' she said. ''May I put your name on the waiting list?''
By 9 a.m., close to a dozen junior golfers were chipping and putting around the practice greens, a parent or pro hovering over each of them. A mother in sunglasses laid out 20 balls for a pudgy boy in electric blue pants, scolding him under her breath when he flubbed a chip, then squeezing his face with delight when he rolled one into the hole. Steps away, a chain-smoking man in an orange shirt that matched his orange-tinted hair stood over a bunker where his 11-year-old son blasted out one sand shot after another. ''Wrists firm!'' the father barked. ''More loft!'' he cried after another shot. How long did father and son plan to train that day? The man smiled: ''We'll be here until it's too dark to see!''
China is producing some of the world's best young golfers because wealthy families who have profited from the nation's market reforms are replicating, in miniature, the formula of the socialist state sports system: pushing kids to specialize early and then having them chi ku, or ''eat bitterness,'' with relentless training. ''Families are different in China,'' says Chen Li, a golf father who accompanies his 10-year-old son through eight hours of training each weekend day. ''In America, you offer kids a big plate with lots of choices, right? We give them a small plate -- make them choose early -- and stack it as high as possible.'' He raised his hand higher and higher and then wobbled it. ''The pressure can get pretty heavy.''
That same pressure exists across Chinese society as families coax their children to excel in piano, ballet, English or mathematics. Golf has landed on the menu of options only recently, as parents -- many of whom do not play -- are attracted to an outdoor family activity imbued with status, prestige and bright clothing. Thirty years ago, there were no golfers or golf courses in mainland China. Today there are around 400,000 regular golfers, a number that could easily double by 2020 as the middle class expands. The central government's 2004 ban on course construction, meanwhile, has been subverted in some localities by a collusion of economic and political interests. As a result, the number of courses in China has grown to some 600 today from 170 in 2004, with 1,000 projected by 2020. (The U.S. has 15,000 courses, Japan 2,500.)
It is not simply a shortage of courses, competitions and coaching but the high prices for all of them that make junior golf a zone of exclusivity. Golf skews rich in other parts of the world too, but in the United States, juniors can gain cheap access to municipal courses and ranges. A network of local and national junior tournaments flows into high-school programs and university scholarships. None of this golf infrastructure, and the golf culture that accompanies it, exists in China. In the absence of a simple path forward, golf families are undertaking their own elaborate regimens for their promising sons or daughters.
Inside the Bayhood clubhouse, I watched Daniel Tang, a 10-year-old boy in canary yellow pants, take a lesson with C. K. Tan, a popular Malaysian teaching pro. Tang has played golf for six years, the past four with professional instruction. He now ranks near the top of his age group nationally. His swing is nearly flawless, but his father wants him to add distance to his 190-yard drives. Tan videotaped the boy hitting a sand-filled impact bag to analyze his body rotation, club angle and club-head speed at impact.
After the lesson, the boy took off his hat and shook my hand as politely as if we had just concluded a match on the 18th green. But he was hardly finished: he still had a few more hours of chipping and putting before an hour session with a golf-fitness trainer. (All the hard work would pay off. At a June tournament on the same mountain course near the Great Wall where he finished fifth a month earlier, Tang won his age division by three shots, shooting three over par for 27 holes.)
Watching Daniel Tang putt in the fading sunlight, I asked his father, Tang Hui, how his son had become so devoted to golf. ''When he was 5 years old,'' Tang Hui said, ''I told him, 'Listen, if you focus on golf, I will invest whatever it takes.' '' His son, he said, ''did not object.''
Since then, their family life has bent to the gravitational pull of their only child's golf career. Moving into a house closer to a golf course, Tang Hui installed a 400-square-foot putting green on the third floor so his son could practice at night and through Beijing's long winters. Every winter over school holiday, Tang and his mother travel south, to China's golf mecca, for up to a month of full-time training with another elite golfer, a bubbly 10-year-old girl named Ni Jiaman. Even the decision last year to transfer Tang out of a rigorous public school and into Ni's international school in Beijing hinged on golf: a lighter homework load and more flexible schedule give him more time to train. The daily English classes, meanwhile, are priming him for his first U.S. tournaments -- and perhaps a scholarship to an American university.
The cost for this kind of pro training is steep. Even starting out, many golf families spend around $30,000 a year on lessons, greens fees and travel for tournaments and training. Expenses increase sharply when families start traveling to the United States for junior tournaments, enroll their children in full-time U.S. golf academies or hire a full-time foreign coach in China. At Bayhood No. 9, I asked the father of another junior if his investment in golf had been worth it. ''Oh, I don't look at this as an investment,'' said the man, who often caddies for his son. ''I see this as a chance to spend a lot of time with my son.'' He raised an eyebrow. ''If I weren't doing this, I'd be spending all my time and money on my mistress.''
Just north of the crimson walls of Beijing's Forbidden City, off a busy eight-lane boulevard, is the government-run Shichahai sports school, which is known as the cradle of champions. More than 600 athletes live there year-round. Since its founding in 1958, Beijing's athletic training base has molded dozens of Olympic gold medalists in every sport from taekwondo to table tennis, gymnastics to badminton. The Chinese film star Jet Li even learned martial arts there.
One afternoon in June, in a basement at Shichahai, I watched a group of young golfers grimacing in pain as their coach led them through a series of calisthenics under a large red Chinese flag. This first cohort of golfers ever to live at Shichahai is evidence of China's intent to develop golf as an Olympic sport. One of the most promising and youngest prospects is Luo Junyi, an 8-year-old girl with a button nose. Luo sometimes sees her parents on weekends, but she lives at Shichahai full time, abiding by the sports system's rules of the ''three togethers'': eating, sleeping and training with her fellow athletes.
The Shichahai coaches selected Luo because of her excellent tournament results -- a boon because her family couldn't keep up with the arms race of junior golf. When I first met Luo and her father in May, at a tournament where she finished second, she was playing a practice round with a 7-year-old boy, Eric Zhou, whose parents told me they spend $50,000 a year on his golf career. (Zhou, who won an international 6-and-under championship in Las Vegas last summer, went on to win this tournament, too, on the final hole; Luo finished second in her age group.) ''We don't have the same economic conditions as the others,'' Luo's father told me. ''So when Shichahai offered my daughter a spot, we took it.'' The Beijing school charges $350 a month for room, board, classes and golf training -- a fraction of what other parents spend. If she makes the Beijing team, the tuition will be waived.
Spurred by the 2009 decision to bring golf back into the Olympics, the Chinese sports system is trying to make up for lost time. So far, the C.G.A. has built a three-tier system of pro, amateur and junior national teams, and -- by making golf a medal sport in the National Games -- compelling Chinese provinces to form their own teams. To expand the base of young golfers, the C.G.A. has worked with HSBC to host junior tournaments and to teach golf in primary schools, reaching tens of thousands of children. That is a tiny number in a country of more than 1.3 billion, and even the C.G.A.'s head of training, Li Dazheng, frets that the ''assembly line'' China has created for other sports does not yet exist for golf. Still, according to Michael Dickie, the Scotland-born head coach of China's women's Olympic team, ''no other country in the world is putting as many resources into golf as China. It's unparalleled.''
Luo is the only female golfer at Shichahai -- and far more boys than girls show up at junior tournaments -- but China's sports system prides itself on developing male and female athletes with equal vigor. ''We are focusing on women,'' C.G.A.'s chief, Zhang Xiaoning, says, ''because Chinese women have a greater chance of achieving breakthroughs on the international stage.'' They already have: Feng Shanshan, 23, won last year's L.P.G.A. Championship, a major, and is ranked No. 6 in the world. Two top teenage girls received golf scholarships to Duke and Georgetown. And while Feng is the lone Chinese woman in the top 100, many golf families look to South Korea for greater inspiration: Korean women now account for an astonishing 35 of the L.P.G.A.'s top 100.
The C.G.A.'s biggest gambit is an $80 million national golf training center inaugurated last year in Nanshan in Shandong Province, on China's eastern coast. The facility, built to C.G.A. specifications by the Nanshan Group, a Chinese conglomerate, is meant to surpass the most advanced training centers in the West. Beyond the gimmicks -- bunkers with four kinds of sand, colorful bushes shaped into the five Olympic rings -- the center has several hundreds of thousands of dollars' worth of the latest digital swing technology. So far, however, the machines are rarely used. A junior golf academy trains at the range, but the technology is reserved largely for the national teams, which convene there sporadically. ''The equipment is like an X-ray machine,'' says one coach. ''You only need it once or twice per year.''
The city-level training facility at Shichahai, a converted boxing gym with seven artificial-turf golf mats and nets, has none of that sophistication. Five days a week, after taking morning classes, Luo and her teammates smash golf balls into nets; on weekends, they play on local courses. Their two Chinese coaches have little expertise: one is a young college graduate with a degree in golf-management studies, while the other is a former national taekwondo champion who, though fanatical about conditioning, confessed to me that he had never hit a golf ball before being assigned to the team last year. A foreign teaching pro comes once a month to give lessons, but it's a different person each time. ''We would like to have more consistent lessons with a foreign pro,'' Luo's father said. ''But what option do we have?''
China's junior-golf trailblazers, Guan Tianlang and Ye Wocheng, live two hours from each other in southern Guangdong Province. In some ways, Ye has been chasing his older rival from the moment he picked up his first golf club, by accident, at age 4. Left alone for a minute at a driving range, Ye tried to swing his father's giant Callaway driver -- and shattered it against a partition. ''I was furious,'' recalls his father, a construction-company boss. ''That club cost me more than a thousand dollars.'' The next day, he bought his son a set of small clubs and showed him a hitting net in a local golf shop. ''Let him hit balls as long as he can,'' he told the shop owner, ''and give him a Coke only if he sweats.'' Even at 4, Ye hit balls all afternoon until his face dripped with sweat.
The prizes for both boys would get only sweeter and more addictive. At 6, Guan was already winning trophies at local tournaments and preparing for his first competitions in the United States. His father and mother did not take him out of school, but they pulled back from their own businesses and invested all of their time -- and part of their considerable wealth -- into his career. Guan's father was, and remains, his primary coach, but as the boy prepared for his first U.S. tournaments, he took lessons from Dan Webb, a Canadian teaching pro then based in Guangzhou. Guan had already been golfing for two years, Webb says, ''and he could imitate the swings of four pros: Tiger, Furyk, Els, DiMarco.'' The boy not only dressed like a pro, with primary-color pants hand-sewn by his mother, but he also had the preternatural calm of a tour veteran. ''His real talent,'' Webb says, ''was his self-belief.''
Not all of China's top juniors have perfect technique -- indeed, Guan's swing is considered flawed -- but their mental strength and self-confidence set them apart. At the Masters, the 14-year-old Guan startled reporters when, in his soft voice, he pronounced: ''I wish, one day, I can win all four majors in one year.'' Nobody has won golf's Grand Slam in a calendar year in the modern era, not even Woods. Guan's statement was too innocent to be considered arrogant, but it did reflect the sky-is-the-limit ambitions of modern China.
Ye hasn't lagged far behind Guan in achievements or self-confidence. He broke par when he was 8. By 9, he was winning most tournaments in his age group in China. But filling his family's three-story house with junior trophies -- more than 100 now line the bookshelves -- was never the ultimate goal. Early on, watching a P.G.A. tournament on TV, Ye fixated on Woods -- not because of his swing or personality but because he pulled off brilliant shots under pressure. ''Even when I was 9,'' Ye told me, ''I was dreaming about being No. 1 in the world.''
Chinese families may be able to create perfect petri-dish conditions for incubating golf prodigies: discipline, focus, hard work, unwavering support. But creating a world-class golfer requires a deeper level of expertise than Ye's local Chinese pro could offer. At a junior event in 2010, Ye and his father were introduced to David Watson, a veteran British touring pro who had become a sort of Pied Piper for top Chinese juniors. Standing 6-foot-5 and ramrod-straight, Watson fixed the 9-year-old with a hard look: ''Are you willing to make a huge sacrifice to be the best?'' Ye nodded. What started as a once-a-week lesson eventually became a full-time partnership (with Ye and another boy). And the results followed. Ye won the San Diego Junior Masters in 2010 and then repeated the feat in 2011. ''You could see already,'' Watson says, ''that he was bred to play this game.''
The outside world noticed, too. When I followed Ye during the first round at the China Open in May, the 12-year-old -- dressed in an orange and lavender Nike ensemble -- had an extra member in his entourage. Besides Watson, who was carrying his bag, the gallery included his mother and father -- and a young Nike representative. According to Ye's father, Nike has been sending Ye a steady supply of free golf clothes and clubs since he was 9. (This is a common practice; signed endorsement deals would disqualify players from many junior and amateur events -- not to mention American college teams.) Nike has also signed up Watson as part of its worldwide advisory staff, bringing him to the United States for workshops on fitness and training. If Ye ever does become a star, he will most likely be swathed in the swoosh.
And draped in China's national flag. Ye has not only been selected for the national junior team, a squad that will prepare for the 2020 Olympics, but the state also pays part of Watson's annual salary. So here, in a way, is a new Chinese model for creating a golf star: a convergence of political, commercial and family interests, all with different motives, serving a single goal -- to turn a 12-year-old boy into the best golfer in the world.
In every industry that China has built from scratch over the past three decades -- from cars to computers -- the country has relied initially on a heavy injection of foreign expertise. In the auto industry, the transfer of technology came from engineers and designers; for golf, it comes from the foreign teaching pros (not to mention course designers) who have flocked to China.
Fifteen years ago there were few full-time foreign pros living in China. Today there are a few hundred, both Western and Asian, and they can command fees higher than they could get in the United States -- between $100 and $250 an hour. One pro in Shenzhen charges $500 an hour and still has no shortage of students. Before a tournament in June, the parents of a 12-year-old girl flew her to Shenzhen for a series of 10 lessons with this pro -- $5,000, plus travel costs -- before flying to the tournament venue. (She still lost.)
Foreign pros in China often find themselves in the odd position of pleading with parents to slow down. ''They get upset when I say one lesson every two weeks is enough,'' says C. K. Tan, the pro at Bayhood No. 9. One of his colleagues puts it more bluntly: ''Since Guan, everybody is chasing him down this path. And nobody really knows yet whether it will lead to glory -- or the abyss.''
A few years ago, American golf academies seemed poised to flood the China market. But several famous ones that opened branches in China -- run by golf luminaries like David Leadbetter and Cindy Reid -- have closed, often after disagreements with local partners. It's a pattern any foreigner doing business in China would recognize: Chinese firms tend to nudge out their foreign partners once the technology has been transferred and the local company has built up its own strength and know-how.
The Chinese academies still rely on foreign pros, though, because clients demand them. Dan Webb, for example, now runs a multistory driving range -- ''a golf factory,'' he calls it -- at the Sand River Golf Club in Shenzhen. Besides hiring 10 foreign pros, Webb is bringing in two Dutch psychologists to start a program focused on the mental aspects of the game, analyzing frontal-lobe activity as students hit. His idea, he says, is to ''create a Shaolin temple for golf'' where students train with the discipline of warrior monks. His Chinese boss has bigger ambitions: He wants Webb to open 50 golf academies in China over the next three years.
Being Guan's childhood coach gives Webb extra cachet in China. Since Guan's success at the Masters, other golf parents have been trying to follow his formula -- lessons with a foreign pro, early exposure to international competition and extended stays in America to train and compete. One ripple effect: in the past few months, at least a dozen top Chinese juniors have enrolled in full-time residential golf academies in the United States, some with annual costs above $60,000. And the aspirants keep getting more precocious. In Beijing, I met a 4-year-old boy, Zhu He, whose parents took him to Florida and California in June to check out three prospective golf academies. ''Once he's 5,'' his father said, ''he'll be ready to go.''
Plenty of children seem to be thriving in this competitive atmosphere. On a practice green in Shenzhen, I met Kuang Yang, an 8-year-old who was dressed like a miniature pro in bright orange pants and saddle shoes. He was goading a friend: ''Bet you can't make that.'' Kuang won a tournament by 11 strokes the week before -- shooting an astonishing five-under-par 67 in one round -- and he likes challenging everyone he meets, even adults. After his friend missed, Kuang curled a long putt into the hole. His parents cheered, and their son looked over, smiling fiendishly. ''He loves to win,'' his father said, ''because it brings him a lot of praise.''
But then there is the case of Liu Yanwei, a top Chinese amateur I visited in Shenzhen. His father pulled him out of school in Beijing two years ago, at age 13, and sent him 1,300 miles south to live in a hotel suite in Mission Hills -- not to enroll him in a golf academy but essentially to build one around him. Along with an Australian teaching pro who flies in 10 days every month, his father -- a wealthy industrialist -- hired a young American pro to practice with his son; a full-time fitness trainer to give him two-a-day workouts; and two employees to serve as the boy's ever-present minders, because his parents still live in Beijing. On the practice green before a round, I asked Liu if his father ever gave him a day off. ''Nope,'' he said, flashing a grin. ''Only work.'' Over the one holiday even factory workers take off -- Chinese New Year -- Liu's father visits for two weeks, evaluating his son's progress. Instead of vacation time, Liu said, ''that is my jail time.''
Golf has had its share of prodigies who have failed to realize their early promise, like the young American Michelle Wie. Burnout and injury are dangers for any athlete who trains unrelentingly from an early age, especially if they are trying to live their parents' dream. ''It's not easy when kids are extrinsically motivated by a parent,'' says Tom Jackson, president of the Core Golf Academy in Orlando, Fla., which has 51 students from all over the world, including China. ''They'll reach a point where they say: 'I don't want this. This was always your dream, not mine.' ''
Xie Chengfeng couldn't stop laughing. It was the first evening of a junior tournament in the southern Chinese enclave of Nansha -- Xie's sixth competition in barely a month -- and the boy was racing down the clubhouse stairs with a raucous posse of 8-year-olds. The tournament sponsors, the Florida-based Core Golf Academy, had just held a buffet dinner for all 85 contestants. Parents were expressly not invited. In the joyous mayhem, I realized one reason Xie loved tournaments so much: They offered rare moments like these in which he could truly play with other kids. At home, following his solitary regimen, away from school, Xie led an isolated existence. This was a welcome release.
The next morning, it was back to business. At 6:45, dressed in his all-pink ensemble, Xie was hitting balls on the driving range with his father close behind him. Long rows of juniors and their parents flanked them on either side. None of the kids were talking or laughing anymore. At the far end of the range, in checkered pants and an orange Nike shirt, the tournament's marquee player, Ye Wocheng, rifled drives into the morning air. Ye's coach, David Watson, softly repeated swing pointers, while his parents watched silently. This tournament, which the Core Academy put together as a way of recruiting Chinese students, would serve as a tuneup for Ye before a series of international junior tournaments in the U.S. But his father, like Xie's, was also curious about Core, which boasts one of Tiger Woods's coaches, Sean Foley.
It has been a heady time for Ye. Since his debut in the China Open, he has received queries from two PGA Tour caddies looking to be hired, one sports agent and two European tour events. (He has declined their approaches.) In late May, I sat with the 12-year-old in a clubhouse bar watching the Golf Channel, when suddenly his own face appeared on the television in a special broadcast about his experiences. Ye kept staring at the monitor, his mouth half-open in a disbelieving smile. ''It's a weird feeling,'' he said.
In the past couple of months Ye has won three junior tournaments in a row by coming from behind with late charges, building a reputation as a closer. Watson now has another goal for him: to win every junior tournament by at least 10 strokes. At the two-day Core event, Ye was tied for the lead after the first day with a 15-year-old boy, Xue Han, who trains full time at a small academy in Florida, where 11 of the 15 students are Chinese. On the final day, Ye pulled away, posting birdies on the final three holes to finish with a four-under-par 68. He won by eight strokes. ''Still two shots off,'' Watson told him, only half-joking.
Ye's father understands the need to pace his son for the long haul. ''The road from juniors to pros is a marathon, not a sprint,'' he told me. Even so, don't expect Ye to take any days off soon. His goal now, it seems, is to break every record Guan has set. Becoming the youngest golfer ever to play in a tour event was one milestone. Winning more international junior championships is another. His next big target: Augusta. To qualify for the Masters, Ye would need to win this fall's Asia-Pacific Amateur, as Guan did last year. It will be a rare opportunity to go head to head against Guan, even if his older rival, coming off five PGA Tour events in the United States, would still be considered the heavy favorite.
Out on the golf course, I spotted Xie on the sixth fairway. He was hard to miss: a large boy in pink, a full head taller than his playing partners, moaning loudly after an approach shot had gone astray. Coming off the green, Xie screwed up his face and shook his head: ''Oh, I'm playing very badly.'' He finished in third place, and his father gently consoled him afterward.
When I spoke to Xie's father, he seemed in a reflective mood. ''My thinking has changed a lot since we started,'' he said, as his son played a game on his iPad. ''Kids who start early have an advantage in golf, but it's a long road to the top,'' he said. ''I don't want to push him too hard. I want to make sure he keeps doing this because it's fun and he's interested, not just because I'd like him to be the next Tiger Woods.'' Xie looked up from his iPad. ''I don't know about Tiger anymore, Dad,'' he said. ''He's so up and down these days: great one week, terrible the next.''
The family's ultimate ambition hasn't changed. Xie will not suddenly be enrolling in primary school. He will continue his training regimen, his daily drive to the clubhouse in his electric car. Xie's father took a Core Academy brochure -- just in case -- and loaded his son's clubs in the trunk of the Lexus for the drive back to Mission Hills. They needed to get home early and rest for tomorrow. It was a school day for most kids, but for Xie, it would be another day of toil in the hothouse of junior golf in China.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Cheng Hanyu, 7, during a lesson with C. K. Tan, with his mother, Yao Yu, close by. (MM280-MM29)
Course Work: Kuang Yang, 8, at the Mission Hills Golf Club in Shenzhen, China (PHOTOGRAPHS BY TONY LAW/REDUX, FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) (MM31)
Little Baby: For 8-year-old Xie Chengfeng, there is one goal in life: to be the next Tiger Woods. He has never been to school, and virtually every aspect of his daily life is geared to training. ''He started hitting balls when he was 2½ years old,'' Xie's father says, ''younger than Tiger was when he began!'' (PHOTOGRAPHS BY SIM CHI YIN/VII MENTOR PROGRAM, FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) (MM32
MM33)
 Rising Star: Daniel Tang, 10, at Bayhood No. 9 in Beijing, who is among the top-ranked players in his age group nationally. At home, he has a 400-square-foot putting green, so he can practice at night and during the long winters. (PHOTOGRAPH BY TONY LAW/REDUX, FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) (MM35) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: GOLF (92%); ATHLETES (90%); GOLF & COUNTRY CLUBS (90%); SPORTS CAMPS & SCHOOLS (89%); GOLF TOURNAMENTS (78%); SPORTS & RECREATION EVENTS (76%); TOURNAMENTS (75%); RESORTS (72%); SCHOOL DROP OUTS (60%)

PERSON: TIGER WOODS (89%)

GEOGRAPHIC: BEIJING, CHINA (58%) SOUTH CHINA (93%); GUANGDONG, CHINA (88%); NORTH CENTRAL CHINA (79%); NORTHEAST CHINA (79%); HAINAN, CHINA (58%) CHINA (93%); UNITED STATES (79%); JAPAN (73%)

LOAD-DATE: July 15, 2013



404 of 937 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 14, 2013
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Foreign Desk; Pg. 16

LENGTH: 1199 words

HEADLINE: A Russian City Named for Asbestos Can't Give Up Its Carcinogenic Livelihood

BYLINE: By ANDREW E. KRAMER

 BODY:
ASBEST, Russia -- This city of about 70,000 people on the eastern slopes of the Ural Mountains is a pleasant enough place to live except for one big drawback: when the wind picks up, clouds of carcinogenic dust blow through.
Asbest means asbestos in Russian, and it is everywhere here. Residents describe layers of it collecting on living room floors. Before they take in the laundry from backyard lines, they first shake out the asbestos. ''When I work in the garden, I notice asbestos dust on my raspberries,'' said Tamara A. Biserova, a retiree. So much dust blows against her windows, she said, that ''before I leave in the morning, I have to sweep it out.''
The town is one center of Russia's asbestos industry, which is stubbornly resistant to shutting asbestos companies and phasing in substitutes for the cancer-causing fireproofing product. 
In the United States and most developed economies, asbestos is handled with extraordinary care. Until the 1970s, the fibrous, silicate mineral was used extensively in fireproofing and insulating buildings in America, among other uses, but growing evidence of respiratory ailments due to asbestos exposure led to limits. Laws proscribe its use and its disposal and workers who get near it wear ventilators and protective clothes. The European Union and Japan have also banned asbestos. (A town called Asbestos in Quebec, Canada, has stopped mining asbestos, though it hasn't changed its name.)
But not here, where every weekday afternoon miners set explosions in a strip mine owned by the Russian mining company Uralasbest. The blasts send huge plumes of asbestos fiber and dust into the air. Asbest is one of the more extreme examples of the environmental costs of modern Russia's deep reliance on mining.
''Every normal person is trying to get out of here,'' Boris Balobanov, a former factory employee, now a taxi driver, explained. ''People who value their lives leave. But I was born here and have no place else to go.''
Of the half-dozen people interviewed who worked at the factory or mine, all had a persistent cough, a symptom of exposure to what residents call ''the white needles.'' Residents also describe strange skin ailments. Doctors interviewed at a dermatology ward say the welts arise from inflammation caused by asbestos.
The International Agency for Research on Cancer, which is a branch of the World Health Organization, is in the midst of a multiyear study of asbestos workers in Asbest. Because of the large number of people exposed in the city, the researchers are using the location to determine whether the asbestos causes ailments other than lung cancer, including ovarian cancer. ''All forms of asbestos are carcinogenic to humans,'' the group said.
Standing on the rim of the world's largest open pit asbestos mine provides a panoramic scene. Opened in the late 1800s, it is about half the size of the island of Manhattan and the source of untold tons of asbestos. The pit descends about 1,000 feet down slopes created by terraced access roads. Big mining trucks haul out fibrous, gray, raw asbestos.
The Uralasbest mine is so close by that a few years ago the mayor's office and the company relocated residents from one outlying area to expand its gaping pit.
So entwined is the life of the town with this pit that many newlyweds pose on a viewing platform on the rim to have their pictures taken. The city has a municipal anthem called ''Asbestos, my city and my fate.'' In 2002, the City Council adopted a new flag: white lines, symbolizing asbestos fibers, passing through a ring of flame. A billboard put up by Uralasbest in Asbest proclaims ''Asbestos is our Future.''
The class-action lawsuits that demolished asbestos companies in the United States are not possible in Russia's weak judicial system, which favors powerful producers. Russia, which has the world's largest geological reserves of asbestos, mines about a million tons of asbestos a year and exports about 60 percent of it. Demand is still strong for asbestos in China and India, where it is used in insulation and building materials. The Russian Chrysotile Association, an asbestos industry trade group, reports that annual sales total about 18 billion rubles, or $540 million. And the business is growing, mostly because other countries are getting out of the business.
The mine and the factory Uralasbest owns are the principal employers. The town depends on the jobs that mining asbestos and making asbestos products bring. Nationwide, the industry employs 38,500 Russians directly while about 400,000 people depend on the factories and mines for their livelihood, if supporting businesses in the mining towns are counted. About 17 percent of Asbest residents work in the industry.
Asbest is a legacy of the philosophy known as gigantism in Soviet industrial planning. Many cities wound up with only one, huge factory like this town's sprawling asbestos plant. The cities, known as monotowns, were an important engine of the economy. A Russian government study counted 467 cities and 332 smaller towns that depend on a single factory or mine. A total of 25 million people out of Russia's population of 142 million people live in towns with only one main industry that cannot close, even if it is polluting.
In a sign of just how scarce other employment options are in Asbest, a guard requires cars leaving the factory to open their trunks, lest anyone try to steal scrap metal for resale. That is about the only other way to make a meager living in Russia's old industrial towns.
The trade association says that the type of asbestos mined in Russia, called chrysotile, is less harmful than other types. The United States, though, has tightly restricted its use. The country imports about 1,000 tons of asbestos, mainly from Brazil, for use in aerospace and automotive industries for items like clutch pads. ''They consider it dangerous but we consider it safe,'' said the association's spokesman, Vladimir A. Galitsyn. Russia has three research institutes dedicated to studying uses for asbestos.
''As a representative of the industry, I don't see any problem,'' he said. Properly handled, asbestos is safe, he said, and it saves lives in fires. ''We are not the enemy of our workers. If they died, then people would be afraid to work for us.''
Valentin K. Zemskov, 82, worked at the mine for 40 years and developed asbestosis, a respiratory illness caused by breathing in asbestos fibers, which scar lung tissue. ''There was so much dust you couldn't see a man standing next to you,'' he said of his working years. For the disability, the factory adds 4,500 rubles, or about $135, to his monthly retirement check, which would be enough to cover only a few restaurant meals.
Still, he said the city had no other choice. ''If we didn't have the factory, how would we live?'' he said, gasping for air as he talked in the yard of a retirement home. ''We need to keep it open so we have jobs.''
A monument to residents who died was made, grimly, of a block of asbestos ore, with the inscription ''Live and Remember.''
''Of course asbestos dust covers our city,'' said Nina A. Zubkova, another resident of the retirement home. ''Why do you think the city is named Asbest?''

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Every weekday afternoon in Asbest, a city in Russia's Ural Mountains, miners set explosions in an asbestos strip mine, sending out clouds of carcinogenic dust. (PHOTOGRAPH BY OLGA KRAVETS FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CARCINOGENS (91%); ASBESTOS (91%); MISC NONMETALLIC MINERAL MINING (89%); CANCER (89%); DISEASES & DISORDERS (88%); SURFACE MINING (87%); LUNG CANCER (77%); HAZARDOUS AIR POLLUTANTS (77%); MEDICAL RESEARCH (74%); MOUNTAINS (73%); ONCOLOGY (73%); OCCUPATIONAL ILLNESS & INJURY (71%); MINES & MINING (69%); WOMEN'S HEALTH (69%); UROGENITAL DISORDERS & INJURIES (68%); OVARIAN CANCER (68%); HEALTH DEPARTMENTS (64%); DERMATOLOGY (64%); PUBLIC HEALTH ADMINISTRATION (61%); UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (50%); EUROPEAN UNION (50%)

ORGANIZATION: EUROPEAN UNION (54%)

GEOGRAPHIC: QUEBEC, CANADA (54%) RUSSIAN FEDERATION (94%); UNITED STATES (92%); EUROPE (79%); CANADA (54%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (54%)

LOAD-DATE: July 18, 2013



405 of 937 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 14, 2013
Correction Appended 
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section SR; Column 0; Sunday Review Desk; GRAY MATTER; Pg. 12

LENGTH: 813 words

HEADLINE: Crunching Literary Numbers

BYLINE: By MARC EGNAL. 
Marc Egnal, a professor of history at York University in Toronto, is the author of ''Clash of Extremes: The Economic Origins of the Civil War.''

 BODY:
CAN the technologies of Big Data, which are transforming so many areas of life, change our understanding of American novels? After conducting research with Google's Ngram database, which tabulates the frequency of words used in more than five million books, I believe the answer is yes.
Consider the question of which themes and books characterize a literary era. The time-honored approach to this problem has been for an august critic or group of distinguished scholars to select and analyze key novels. That methodology, however, has its flaws. No one person or team of readers can do more than dip their toes into the vast sea of literary works. By the 1840s Americans wrote more than 100 novels annually; by the 1880s, more than 1,000; by the early 21st century, more than 10,000. In addition, there is the threat of subjective bias. Not long ago, for example, critics focused their attention almost exclusively on white male authors. 
The Ngram database offers an alternative approach. As I demonstrate in the latest issue of the journal Social Science History, by examining the changing frequencies of key words in books published in the United States, researchers can gain new perspectives on America and its novels.
There are important caveats in using this source. The ''American English'' subset of the Ngram database includes a broad selection of books published in the United States -- not just fiction or writings by American authors. It excludes the dime novels favored by the lower class, and so has a middle-class bias. But as a guide to the works that middle-class Americans read, it is a fruitful source of hypotheses and a healthy check on subjective opinion. In a number of instances, Ngram data suggest challenges to common assumptions about American literature.
Take the role of women in mid-19th-century American novels. Scholars have long argued that domesticity shaped the world of middle-class women and that novels relegated them to the home and restricted their activities. Women had influence only when they persuaded men to act, as in Harriet Beecher Stowe's 1852 novel, ''Uncle Tom's Cabin.'' Women were supposed to be submissive, pious, domestic and pure. But Ngram data indicate that the use of those words peaked, respectively, in 1807, 1814, 1835 and 1847. All fell off before midcentury. By contrast, striking gains were recorded during these years in the usage of woman's rights. Virtually unknown before the 1840s, the term soared in frequency after the Seneca Falls Convention in 1848 and did not peak until 1884. Perhaps we need to invert the conventional wisdom and declare as ''representative'' those midcentury novels criticizing domesticity and celebrating independent women -- books like Fanny Fern's ''Ruth Hall,'' published in 1854, and E.D.E.N. Southworth's ''Hidden Hand,'' which first appeared in serial form in 1859.
Ngram data also provide a new perspective on the novels of the 1930s. These years are traditionally viewed as the heyday of the proletarian novel, a time of gloom and a period when business leaders were despised. John Steinbeck's 1939 novel, ''The Grapes of Wrath,'' is considered a quintessential novel of the decade. But according to Ngram data, the use of businessman, a term virtually unknown before 1930, surged during the decade. Of course, you might guess that those citations were negative, but trends in other terms point to a more positive reading. References to optimism rose throughout the decade, while pessimism declined. Mentions of the American dream, a term rarely seen before 1930, also climbed precipitously. So instead of Steinbeck's novel, works highlighting scrappy, successful entrepreneurs may best mark this decade. In Zora Neale Hurston's ''Their Eyes Were Watching God,'' published in 1937, for example, the heroine's first two husbands were successful businessmen who overcame tough times and racial prejudice. Similarly, Margaret Mitchell's ''Gone With the Wind'' (1936) details Scarlett O'Hara's campaign to regain the affluence she once enjoyed.
Our view of postmodern fiction might also need adjusting. Chaos, conspiracy and nihilism are thought to reign in this literary world, as in the unsettling early works of Thomas Pynchon and Bret Easton Ellis. Word usage, however, indicates a more positive dynamic: the growing attention paid to children. Among the terms whose frequency escalates after 1960 are caring, nurturing, infant, toddler and childhood. It could be that the truly representative works of this era are novels like Toni Morrison's ''Beloved,'' Philip Roth's ''American Pastoral'' and Cormac McCarthy's ''The Road,'' all of which feature deep parent-child bonds.
Such hypotheses are merely suggestive, but as tools like the Ngram database continue to improve, the insights they make possible should encourage scholars to revisit longstanding assumptions with a critical eye.

CORRECTION-DATE: July 21, 2013

 CORRECTION:
The Gray Matter column last Sunday gave the incorrect publication date for Zora Neale Hurston's novel ''Their Eyes Were Watching God.'' It was published in 1937, not 1939.

GRAPHIC: DRAWING (DRAWING BY OLIMPIA ZAGNOLI) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LITERATURE (90%); WRITERS (90%); NOVELS & SHORT STORIES (90%); HUMANITIES & SOCIAL SCIENCE (78%); BIG DATA (78%); WOMEN (76%); LANGUAGE & LANGUAGES (72%); MEN (72%); MIDDLE INCOME PERSONS (69%)

COMPANY: GOOGLE INC (91%)

TICKER: GOOG (NASDAQ) (91%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS519130 INTERNET PUBLISHING & BROADCASTING & WEB SEARCH PORTALS (91%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (95%)

LOAD-DATE: July 21, 2013



406 of 937 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 14, 2013
Correction Appended 
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section BU; Column 0; Money and Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1876 words

HEADLINE: Six-Figure Salary? They'd Rather Make a Difference

BYLINE: By HANNAH SELIGSON

 BODY:
SOME people might look at what Brentt Baltimore did and shake their heads in disbelief. Last year, Mr. Baltimore, a graduate of Claremont McKenna College in California who majored in economics and finance, turned down a six-figure job at a Los Angeles area hedge fund. Instead he took a $33,000-a-year position at a venture capital firm in Detroit. This, even though he has about $38,000 in student loan debt.
Mr. Baltimore, 24, is part of a small group of recent graduates who are forgoing large salaries to work for start-up businesses in Detroit, Las Vegas, Cincinnati, Cleveland, New Orleans, Baltimore and Philadelphia and Providence, R.I. He chose his job with the help of Venture for America, a nonprofit organization that selects fellows to work in cities that aren't the usual magnets for young college graduates. By August, 108 fellows will be working at 70 companies as part of the two-year program.
Detroit, which is in danger of declaring bankruptcy, could use some job-creating entrepreneurship, and that is a big reason that Mr. Baltimore chose the venture capital job over the hedge fund. 
''I wanted to be in a position where I could have a huge impact on the community,'' Mr. Baltimore said.
Part of his job at Detroit Venture Partners is to scout potential investments and lure companies to Detroit. He has also started the nonprofit Startup Effect, which teaches local eighth-graders entrepreneurship principles.
''Smart people should be building things,'' said Andrew Yang, 38, who started Venture for America in 2011. (Although it has ground operations in all eight cities, the program's headquarters are in a different one: New York.) ''Instead, they become bankers and consultants. We need to do something about talent allocation that pulls our top minds toward these fields.''
Mr. Yang said that this generation of graduates was starting to look at alternative career paths, having witnessed many traditional industries, like finance and law, contracting over the last few years.
''These are young people who have come of age in an era of institutional failure,'' he said. ''The sense I get from talking to them is that there is some disillusionment.''
He is trying to turn that disillusionment into an entrepreneurial advantage. His vision was on display last month as the program's second class, of 68 fellows, sat around small tables at Venture for America boot camp at Brown University -- Mr. Yang's alma mater. At this particular session, employees from IDEO, a design consulting firm, were presenting a course on product design. The five-week boot camp also includes classes on topics like entrepreneurship, Web design and public speaking.
After the boot camp, the fellows take jobs at start-up companies in industries like e-commerce, biotechnology, finance, media and clean technology. Generally, the companies must be less than 10 years old and employ less than 100 people. Starting salaries are $33,000 to $38,000; pay increases and stock options are at the companies' discretion.
The fellows are receiving invaluable experience, but ''they are definitely making a sacrifice,'' said Jeanne Markel, director of brand experience at Zappos, based in Las Vegas. She works with the Zappos founder, Tony Hsieh, on his for-profit Downtown Project to revitalize the city. Mr. Hsieh pledged $1 million to Venture for America last year, and as of August the Downtown Project will employ 14 fellows.
''The salaries are commensurate with what we would pay an entry-level employee,'' Ms. Markel said, but the fellows ''are the best and the brightest and could easily be making six-figures right out of college.'' They are given more responsibilities and opportunities than in a typical entry-level position, she said.
In recent years, ''students have become more interested in exploring the intersection of entrepreneurship and social enterprise,'' said William Wright-Swadel, executive director of the career center at Duke University. ''The consulting firms, the investment banks, medicine and law -- those are the four dominant career paths at Ivy or Ivy-like institutions, but it's my job to diversify the fields we are offering to students,'' he said. In the last two years, six Duke students have joined the Venture for America program.
This year, applications to the program nearly doubled, to 550, with only 16 percent accepted. (Not all went on to join the program.) The average grade-point average of the fellows is 3.6. Next year the program plans to expand to St. Louis, Pittsburgh and New Haven.
LARGE corporations have ample resources to spend chasing top talent, and small start-ups in cities like Detroit or Cleveland often can't compete with them on campuses. That's where Venture for America comes in. It connects graduates to the local start-up scene through relationships with foundations and local government, much as Teach for America connects graduates to jobs in schools in underserved areas.
''Finance and consulting were so strong on campus'' when it came to recruiting, said Kathy Cheng, who graduated from M.I.T. last year with a degree in urban planning and economics. Ms. Cheng turned down a consulting offer in New York to join Venture for America. She now works in Detroit for Doodle Home, an online platform for designers, for half the salary she would have received in New York.
''I had interned at the consulting firm and knew that I could learn a lot of statistics, but there probably wouldn't be a lot of impact,'' she said. At Doodle, she said, the work is more aligned with her interests. (She wrote her senior thesis on the topic of entrepreneurial ecosystems.)
''My job has given me the opportunity not just to analyze, but to really learn how to build a business,'' she said. ''I was brought on to do Web analytics, but I dip my toes into sales and marketing.''
Fernando Prieto, the president of Doodle Home and Ms. Cheng's boss, said: ''Kathy went to M.I.T. and she is from New Jersey originally. She would have never thought of Detroit if she hadn't come through Venture for America.''
Dan Gilbert, founder of Quicken Loans, which has operations in Detroit and Cleveland, pledged $1.5 million to Venture for America. (Mr. Gilbert has also invested more than $1 billion in buildings, renovations and other improvements to help revitalize Detroit.) ''Getting people who were at the top of their class is not an opportunity we might have gotten if we just woke up one day and said we have job openings,'' he said.
In August, 14 fellows will join eight others at companies that operate under the Quicken umbrella, including Doodle Home and Detroit Venture Partners.
GIVEN the lower salaries, the program is an easier choice for those who have little or no student debt. ''It would be really hard for me to have to put myself in that position if I had loans,'' said Shilpi Kumar, a 2013 Duke graduate who will begin working this summer for the Downtown Project in Las Vegas. Ms. Kumar turned down a consulting position at Deloitte.
''The topic of debt and money comes up,'' said Benjamin Goldstein, who graduated from Princeton this year without student loan debt. ''If you come out of school with $50,000 in debt, you need to take a high-paying job. What I would like to see in the future is for Venture for America to allow more people to join it.'' Mr. Goldstein will begin work this summer at a business incubator in Providence.
Still, about 40 percent of the 2012 fellows had loans, though none had more than $60,000 in debt, according to a survey administered by one of the program's fellows. ''It's possible they have to make a lifestyle sacrifice to join the program,'' Mr. Yang said.
Some participants are drawn to Venture for America because it provides a built-in social system and structure. Many live close to one another, sometimes in the same apartment complex.
In Las Vegas, the seven current fellows all live in housing owned by Mr. Hsieh. In Providence, five fellows live together in a house. In Detroit, Mr. Baltimore lives with a roommate and pays $700 a month, which is on the high end of what fellows pay, according to the program. (The average housing costs are much lower in the participating cities than in places like New York and San Francisco.)
Some say the experience of earning less is a good life skill. ''I didn't think it would be so bad to learn how to live simply'' and pick up some good financial habits, Ms. Cheng said.
And some fellows see their salary as providing a decent living for a single person in a place where the cost of living is reasonable.
''I've never had this much money,'' said Stella Safari, a 2013 graduate of Dartmouth, who is moving to Cincinnati in August to work at myActions, a social networking site. She will live with two other program fellows and pay $550 a month in rent. ''My family never made a lot,'' said Ms. Safari, who emigrated from Congo in 2000.
Mr. Yang said he hoped that the fellows would put down roots in the cities where they initially worked, perhaps starting their own businesses or working for other local companies. That, he said, would create a ripple effect of entrepreneurship, economic revitalization and job creation.
But whether fellows will become local and successful entrepreneurs themselves -- or even stay beyond their 25th birthdays -- is hard to say. They are all in the postcollege peripatetic stage of life, where a few years can seem like a long time.
''I'm still 23, so I'm not ready to commit to a place,'' said Ms. Cheng, although she could see herself starting a business in Detroit.
''I could stay a third or fourth year in Providence, but when you start on the scale of 5 to 10 years, I am interested in doing a variety of things,'' said Ethan Carlson, who graduated from Yale last year with a degree in mechanical engineering. Mr. Carlson turned down an offer at the PA Consulting Group to join Venture for America and work at VCharge, an energy software company in Providence, for half the salary.
THE program does offer some incentives. For example, there is a $100,000 prize, determined by Venture for America, for one to five fellows who have the strongest performance throughout their fellowship and want to start their own companies. (While the business doesn't have to be in a Venture for America city, ''it will be a factor in the committee's decision,'' Mr. Yang said.)
Venture for America certainly isn't the only career path where young people can make a difference while working for a company. Deloitte, for example, has offices in many of the Venture for America cities and runs a $20-million-a-year pro bono project aimed at nonprofits.
''We go out and source 150 of the most compelling local and national projects and staff it just like we would a paid project, so the pro bono project becomes their full-time job,'' said Evan Hochberg, national director of community engagement at Deloitte. ''Giving back is not just a nights-and-weekend activity.''
But Venture for America is tapping into a generational ethos that views the 20s as an age to experiment and to pick a passion over a big paycheck. Ms. Kumar said her calculus in taking the position at the Downtown Project in Las Vegas was ''What can I be most fulfilled by?''
''There's a different framework,'' she said, ''for what a good job is these days.''

CORRECTION-DATE: July 21, 2013

 CORRECTION:
An article last Sunday about Venture for America, which helps college graduates find jobs in cities like Providence, R.I., and Detroit, misstated the school year when Brentt Baltimore, a program fellow, was a senior at Claremont McKenna College in California. It was 2009-10, not 2011-12. (He graduated in 2010.)

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Venture for America offers jobs at start-up companies in cities that aren't the usual magnets for recent college graduates. Participants huddled for a kickball game after a day of training in Providence, R.I. (BU1)
Smart graduates ''should be building things,'' says Andrew Yang of Venture for America. Providence, R.I., is one of the cities where it operates.
 At their boot camp, Venture for America fellows, left and center, had 48 hours to design a Web site for presentation to peers and judges. At right, a fellow's notebook offers one of the program's creeds. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY GRETCHEN ERTL FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) (BU7) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: WAGES & SALARIES (90%); VENTURE CAPITAL (90%); ENTREPRENEURSHIP (89%); STARTUPS (89%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (77%); NONPROFIT ORGANIZATIONS (77%); STUDENT LOANS (73%); STUDENT FINANCIAL AID (73%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (72%); JOB CREATION (72%); HEDGE FUNDS (72%); CONSULTING SERVICES (62%); ELECTRONIC COMMERCE (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: PROVIDENCE, RI, USA (93%); LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (92%); CLEVELAND, OH, USA (79%) RHODE ISLAND, USA (93%); CALIFORNIA, USA (92%); OHIO, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: July 21, 2013



407 of 937 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(ArtsBeat)

PUB-DATE: July 14, 2013

SECTION: ARTS

LENGTH: 285 words

HEADLINE: 'Pacific Rim' Has a Slow Start at Theaters

BYLINE: BROOKS BARNES


HIGHLIGHT: The film, which cost Legendary Entertainment and Warner Brothers at least $180 million to make, took in $38.3 million between Friday and Sunday, according to studio estimates. 

 BODY:
For the third weekend in a row, a big-budget nonsequel sputtered in North America: "Pacific Rim," which cost Legendary Entertainment and Warner Brothers at least $180 million to make, took in $38.3 million between Friday and Sunday, according to studio estimates. That result is a humiliation for Legendary, a young company that has been eager to prove that it can produce blockbusters on its own; Warner was a minority partner. 
"Pacific Rim," a robots-versus-monsters fantasy directed by Guillermo del Toro and intended to spawn a franchise, probably suffered from a crowded movie marketplace and a flawed advertising campaign, among other things. Hollywood has smelled a flop for weeks, and both Legendary and Warner have scrambled to avoid having "Pacific Rim" branded as such. A Legendary spokesman noted on Sunday that audiences gave the movie an A-minus score in exit polls - most critics also liked it - and pointed to sturdier international ticket sales of about $53 million.
For the weekend in the United States and Canada, the animated "Despicable Me 2" (Universal) repeated as No. 1, taking in an estimated $44.8 million, for a stellar two-week domestic total of $229.2 million. The Adam Sandler ensemble comedy "Grown Ups 2" (Sony) was second, selling about $42.5 million in tickets, a little less than "Grown Ups" in 2010 when accounting for inflation, but a solid result nonetheless. "Pacific Rim" was third.

        
This Week's Movies: 'Pacific Rim,' 'Fruitvale Station' and 'Crystal Fairy'
        
Tenacious D Unveils Its Festival Supreme, With Sarah Silverman, Adam Sandler and More
        
Date Set for Unleashing of 'Godzilla'
        
Box Office Busts for Sandler and Cruise Movies
        
Oaths of Oddness: The Surprising Pledges of Comic-Con

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: FILM (90%); FILM DIRECTORS (77%); MOVIES & SOUND RECORDING TRADE (75%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (74%); TICKET SALES (73%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING (55%) Del Toro, Guillermo; Legendary Pictures; Pacific Rim (Movie); Sandler, Adam; Warner Brothers Pictures; Movies

ORGANIZATION: Legendary Pictures; Warner Brothers Pictures

PERSON: ADAM SANDLER (89%) Del Toro, Guillermo; Sandler, Adam

GEOGRAPHIC: NORTH AMERICA (93%); UNITED STATES (79%); CANADA (58%)

LOAD-DATE: July 14, 2013



408 of 937 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(DealBook)

PUB-DATE: July 14, 2013

SECTION: BUSINESS

LENGTH: 1372 words

HEADLINE: After Goldman and Before Trial, a Global Education for Fabrice Tourre

BYLINE: SUSANNE CRAIG and BEN PROTESS


HIGHLIGHT: After taking a leave from Goldman Sachs, Fabrice Tourre worked as a volunteer creating business plans for farmers in Rwanda, where he was known as &#8220;Breezy.&#8221; 

 BODY:
Fabrice P. Tourre is best known as "Fabulous Fab," the former Goldman Sachs trader whose e-mails about the mortgage crisis became a symbol of Wall Street hubris and will now highlight the government's case against him. As the economy was on the brink of collapse, e-mails show Mr. Tourre joked to a girlfriend that he sold toxic real estate bonds to "widows and orphans."
But an inner circle of friends knows Mr. Tourre from very different dispatches - e-mail updates he sent from Africa during a stint as a volunteer. It was there that "Fabulous Fab," a nickname he earned from a friend in New York, became known simply as "Breezy."
 "Rwandan coffee yields have significant room for improvements," he wrote in a March 2011 message to friends, describing his adventure a world away from Wall Street. "Plenty of ideas and projects to focus on, with the ultimate goal to improve coffee farmers' income and living conditions!" 
The e-mail, reviewed by The New York Times, provides a rare glimpse into Mr. Tourre's life after Goldman, and after the Securities and Exchange Commission accused him of misleading investors about a mortgage security that ultimately failed. After his trip to Africa, Mr. Tourre enrolled in an economics doctoral program at the University of Chicago, where professors described him as a "standout" whom they selected as a teaching assistant for more junior students.
Mr. Tourre's character will come into focus when his trial opens Monday in a federal courtroom in Lower Manhattan. The human elements of the case, which could be spotlighted when Mr. Tourre takes the witness stand, might sway a jury otherwise bogged down in the minutiae of high finance.
While Mr. Tourre's time in Rwanda is unlikely to play a role in the trial, he may nonetheless come across as a dynamic professional. Working in his favor, he has already calmly faced a Senate committee. He speaks slowly, the hearing showed, careful to enunciate. Still, jurors may view him as another ambitious Wall Streeter, one with a distinctly foreign accent.
In what is considered the most prominent case stemming from the financial crisis, the S.E.C. is expected to paint Mr. Tourre as a brash up-and-comer at Goldman, willing to sell investors products that were sure to fail. Mr. Tourre's lawyers, in contrast, could try to portray their client as a bit player in the crisis - a midlevel 28-year-old trader at the time of his actions - who has dedicated his time since Goldman to worthy causes and a life of the mind.
"Fabrice Tourre has done nothing wrong," his lawyers, Pamela Chepiga and Sean Coffey, said in a statement. "He is confident that when all the evidence is considered, the jury will soundly reject the S.E.C.'s charge."
Goldman was charged alongside Mr. Tourre, but chose to settle, paying what was at the time a record $550 million penalty, without admitting or denying guilt. That left Mr. Tourre to tackle the S.E.C. alone, though with Goldman's resources financing his fight. Mr. Tourre no longer works for Goldman.
On the eve of trial, people close to Mr. Tourre say he remains calm. Douglas C. Weaver, a former Goldman executive who once supervised Mr. Tourre and had dinner with his former colleague a few months ago, said Mr. Tourre appeared upbeat.
"He is dealing with it fairly well," he said. "He doesn't feel he did anything wrong." Mr. Weaver added, however, that the charges had upended Mr. Tourre's life.
Mr. Tourre, now 34, was raised in a suburb of Paris, and went on to earn a degree in mathematics from the École Centrale Paris.
He first came to the United States in 1999, at age 20, taking a summer internship in Hamilton, Ohio, as a production worker on an assembly line producing heater cores and air-conditioning units for the French car-part manufacturer Valeo. He then attended Stanford, where he received a master's degree in management science and engineering.
After college, he landed a summer intern spot at Goldman, a hypercompetitive program that leads to a full-time job for a select few. Mr. Tourre, among the survivors, began in Goldman's corporate credit department, where he started out securitizing, or packaging and reselling, auto loans. He later moved into a troubleshooting role for financial institutions with soured loan portfolios.
Within the firm, Mr. Tourre was known as a statistical wizard. One former co-worker, who spoke on the condition of anonymity because of a Goldman policy against speaking to the media, described Mr. Tourre as an "analytical nerd."
In 2004, Mr. Tourre landed a job in Goldman's mortgage department, then a thriving unit of the bank, and a year later was making enough money to afford a $3,250-a-month apartment in Manhattan's West Village. In the mortgage unit, Mr. Tourre was tasked with creating synthetic collateralized debt obligations, or C.D.O.'s.
It was a big business on Wall Street. From 2005 through 2007, at least $1.03 trillion in C.D.O.'s were issued, according to Dealogic, a financial data firm. Goldman, during this period, was the sixth-largest issuer in the world.
A C.D.O., in essence, compiles a package of mortgage-backed bonds into one deal for investors to buy. A synthetic version of a C.D.O. is one that, rather than selling securities with the actual bonds, is arranged through an insurance contract that is linked to the bonds' performance. One investor bets the bonds will fail; another bets they will succeed.
It was one of these deals that landed Mr. Tourre on the S.E.C.'s radar.
The agency's case centers on the contention that in 2007 Mr. Tourre and Goldman sold investors a synthetic C.D.O. known as Abacus, while omitting a crucial fact: a hedge fund run by the billionaire John A. Paulson helped construct Abacus and then bet against it. When the mortgage market soured, a handful of sophisticated investors lost more than $1 billion on the deal.
Mr. Tourre's defense team will counter that synthetic C.D.O.'s required someone to bet on a decline in value, a fact well known to the marketplace. The lawyers will argue that investors on both sides of the deal - those betting for and against it - knew what it contained.
In early 2011, after the S.E.C. announced its case, Mr. Tourre arrived in Kigali, Rwanda's capital, with the task of creating business plans for local farmers. He would walk a dirt road to work, one roommate recalled, and was often the last to leave the office.
On weekends, the roommate said, Mr. Tourre would play in a local soccer game. Other times, he would watch European soccer at a bar, kicking back with a Mützig beer, a favorite, and meat brochettes.
Not unlike his tenure at Goldman, in Africa Mr. Tourre appeared to have a knack for innovation, except there it was in farming. The March 2011 e-mail to friends describes technology developments for Rwandan farmers, like using "spy-like chips" hidden in coffee beans to track whether crops are being stolen.
His e-mail to friends is also laden with exclamation points, a hallmark of his infamous Goldman missives. In describing a trip to Rwanda's stock exchange, he recalled arriving on "the trading floor of the exchange on a Friday morning, in the middle of the trading day, to see ... nobody!" The scarcity of people, he said, stemmed from the lack of local companies listing their shares. "The visit was a great experience over all, as it is rather unique to witness the birth of local capital markets."
When he left Rwanda that July, Mr. Tourre returned to the United States to enter the Ph.D. program at the University of Chicago. He also joined an intramural soccer team there, the Bootstrappers, until an Achilles' tendon injury that required surgery sidelined him for a period of time.
As with many of the people who met him in Chicago, Nancy L. Stokey, an economics professor, initially had no idea of Mr. Tourre's legal woes. She found out only after he had served as a teaching assistant in one of her undergraduate classes. "He was one of my best students," she said.
Robert Shimer, another of Mr. Tourre's economics professors, agreed. "He's someone who, if he continues on the same track, is going to be one of our top job market candidates."

        
Jury Is Seated at Trader's Trial, Then Is Showered With Jargon
        
Arsenal of Legal Firepower Masses Around Tourre Trial

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: BANKING & FINANCE AGENCIES (90%); ELECTRONIC MAIL (90%); SECURITIES LAW (90%); CREDIT CRISIS (90%); JURY TRIALS (89%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (89%); BANKING & FINANCE REGULATION (78%); BANKING & FINANCE (78%); INVESTMENT BANKING (78%); REAL ESTATE (78%); MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (78%); BONDS (78%); LAWYERS (77%); WITNESSES (77%); AGRICULTURAL INCOME (77%); COFFEE FARMING (74%); SUBPRIME LENDING (73%); SUBPRIME MORTGAGES (73%); TESTIMONY (71%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (70%); COFFEE (69%); FARMERS & RANCHERS (69%); GRADUATE & PROFESSIONAL SCHOOLS (65%) Banking and Financial Institutions; Goldman Sachs Group Inc; Securities and Exchange Commission; Subprime Mortgage Crisis; Tourre, Fabrice P; Financial Services; Investment Banking; Legal/Regulatory; Video

COMPANY: GOLDMAN SACHS GROUP INC (58%)

ORGANIZATION: Goldman Sachs Group Inc; Securities and Exchange Commission

TICKER: GS (NYSE) (58%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (58%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (58%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (58%); SIC6289 SERVICES ALLIED WITH THE EXCHANGE OF SECURITIES OR COMMODITIES, NEC (58%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (58%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (58%)

PERSON: FABRICE P TOURRE (94%) Tourre, Fabrice P

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); CHICAGO, IL, USA (54%) NEW YORK, USA (79%); ILLINOIS, USA (54%) RWANDA (94%); AFRICA (90%); UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: July 17, 2013



409 of 937 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(Opinionator)

PUB-DATE: July 14, 2013

SECTION: OPINION

LENGTH: 2224 words

HEADLINE: How Intellectual Property Reinforces Inequality

BYLINE: JOSEPH E. STIGLITZ


HIGHLIGHT: In its recent, unanimous decision that human genes cannot be patented, the Supreme Court gave a rare victory to the cause of economic fairness. 

 BODY:
In the war against inequality, we've become so used to bad news that we're almost taken aback when something positive happens. And with the Supreme Court having affirmed that wealthy people and corporations have a constitutional right to buy American elections, who would have expected it to bring good news? But a decision in the term that just ended gave ordinary Americans something that is more precious than money alone - the right to live.
At first glance, the case, Association for Molecular Pathology v. Myriad Genetics, might seem like scientific arcana: the court ruled, unanimously, that human genes cannot be patented, though synthetic DNA, created in the laboratory, can be. But the real stakes were much higher, and the issues much more fundamental, than is commonly understood. The case was a battle between those who would privatize good health, making it a privilege to be enjoyed in proportion to wealth, and those who see it as a right for all - and a central component of a fair society and well-functioning economy. Even more deeply, it was about the way inequality is shaping our politics, legal institutions and the health of our population. 
Unlike the bitter battles between Samsung and Apple, in which the referees (American courts), while making a pretense at balance, seem to consistently favor the home team, this was a case that was more than just a battle between corporate giants. It is a lens through which we can see the pernicious and far-reaching effects of inequality, what a victory over self-serving corporate behavior looks like and - just as important - how much we still risk losing in such fights.

Of course, the court and the parties didn't frame the issues that way in their arguments and decision. A Utah firm, Myriad Genetics, had isolated two human genes, BRCA1 and BRCA2, that can contain mutations that predispose women who carry them to breast cancer - crucial knowledge for early detection and prevention. The company had successfully obtained patents for the genes. "Owning" the genes gave it the right to prevent others from testing for them. The core question of the case was seemingly technical: Are isolated, naturally occurring genes something that can be patented?
But the patents had devastating real-world implications, because they kept the prices for the diagnostics artificially high. Gene tests can actually be administered at low cost - a person can in fact have all 20,000 of her genes sequenced for about $1,000, to say nothing of much cheaper tests for a variety of specific pathologies. Myriad, however, charged about $4,000 for comprehensive testing on just two genes. Scientists have argued that there was nothing inherently special or superior about Myriad's methods - it simply tested for genes that the company claimed to own, and did so by relying on data that was not available to others because of the patents.
Hours after the Supreme Court's ruling in favor of the plaintiffs - a group of universities, researchers and patient advocates, represented by the American Civil Liberties Union and the Public Patent Foundation - other laboratories quickly announced that they would also begin offering tests for the breast cancer genes, underlining the fact that Myriad's "innovation" was identifying existing genes, not developing the test for them. (Myriad is not done fighting, though, having filed two new lawsuits this month that seek to block the companies Ambry Genetics and Gene by Gene from administering their own BRCA tests, on the grounds that they violate other patents that Myriad holds.)
It should not be very surprising that Myriad has done everything it can to prevent its tests' revenue stream from facing competition - indeed, after recovering somewhat from a 30 percent drop in the wake of the court ruling, its share price is still nearly 20 percent below what it was beforehand. It owned the genes, and didn't want anybody trespassing on its property. In obtaining the patent, Myriad, like most corporations, seemed motivated more by maximizing profits than by saving lives - if it really cared about the latter, it could and would have done better at providing tests at lower costs and encourage others to develop better, more accurate and cheaper tests. Not surprisingly, it made labored arguments that its patents, which allowed monopolistic prices and exclusionary practices, were essential to incentivize future research. But when the devastating effects of its patents became apparent, and it remained adamant in exerting its full monopoly rights, these pretensions of interest in the greater good were woefully unconvincing.
The drug industry, as always, claimed that without patent protection, there would be no incentives for research and all would suffer. I filed an expert declaration with the court (pro bono), explaining why the industry's arguments were wrong, and why this and similar patents actually impeded rather than fostered innovation. Other groups that filed amicus briefs supporting the plaintiffs, like AARP, pointed out that Myriad's patents prevented patients from obtaining second opinions and confirmatory tests. Recently, Myriad pledged it would not block such tests - a pledge it made even as it filed the lawsuits against Ambry Genetics, and Gene by Gene.
Myriad denied the test to two women in the case by rejecting their Medicaid insurance - according to the plaintiffs, because the reimbursement was too low. Other women, after one round of Myriad's testing, had to make agonizing decisions about whether to have a single or double mastectomy, or whether to have their ovaries removed, with severely incomplete information - either Myriad's testing for additional BRCA mutations was unaffordable (Myriad charges $700 extra for information that national guidelines say should be provided to patients), or second opinions were unattainable because of Myriad's patents.
The drug industry, as always, claimed that without patent protection, there would be no incentives for research and all would suffer. I filed an amicus brief with the court, explaining why the industry's arguments were wrong, and why this and similar patents actually impeded, rather than fostered, innovation. Through my participation in the case, I heard heart-rending stories of women who didn't take the actions they should have, because they believed the false-negative results of Myriad's inferior tests. The better tests would have told them they did in fact have a gene associated with cancer.The good news coming from the Supreme Court was that in the United States, genes could not be patented. In a sense, the court gave back to women something they thought they already owned. This had two enormous practical implications: one is it meant that there could now be competition to develop better, more accurate, less expensive tests for the gene. We could once again have competitive markets driving innovation. And the second is that poor women would have a more equal chance to live - in this case, to conquer breast cancer.
But as important a victory as this is, it is ultimately only one corner of a global intellectual property landscape that is heavily shaped by corporate interests - usually American. And America has attempted to foist its intellectual property regime on others, through the World Trade Organization and bilateral and other multilateral trade regimes. It is doing so now in negotiations as part of the so-called trans-Pacific Partnership. Trade agreements are supposed to be an important instrument of diplomacy: closer trade integration brings closer ties in other dimensions. But attempts by the office of the United States Trade Representative to persuade others that, in effect, corporate profits are more important than human lives undermines America's international standing: if anything, it reinforces the stereotype of the crass American.
Economic power often speaks louder, though, than moral values; and in the many instances in which American corporate interests prevail in intellectual property rights, our policies help increase inequality abroad. In most countries, it's much the same as in the United States: the lives of the poor are sacrificed at the altar of corporate profits. But even in those where, say, the government would provide a test like Myriad's at affordable prices for all, there is a cost: when a government pays monopoly prices for a medical test, it takes money away that could be spent for other lifesaving health expenditures.
The Myriad case was an embodiment of three key messages in my book "The Price of Inequality." First, I argued that societal inequality was a result not just of the laws of economics, but also of how we shape the economy - through politics, including through almost every aspect of our legal system. Here, it's our intellectual property regime that contributes needlessly to the gravest form of inequality. The right to life should not be contingent on the ability to pay.
The second is that some of the most iniquitous aspects of inequality creation within our economic system are a result of "rent-seeking": profits, and inequality, generated by manipulating social or political conditions to get a larger share of the economic pie, rather than increasing the size of that pie. And the most iniquitous aspect of this wealth appropriation arises when the wealth that goes to the top comes at the expense of the bottom. Myriad's efforts satisfied both these conditions: the profits the company gained from charging for its test added nothing to the size and dynamism of the economy, and simultaneously decreased the welfare of those who could not afford it.
While all of the insured contributed to Myriad's profits - premiums had to go up to offset its fees, and millions of uninsured middle-income Americans who had to pay Myriad's monopoly prices were on the hook for even more if they chose to get the test - it was the uninsured at the bottom who paid the highest price. With the test unaffordable, they faced a higher risk of early death.
Advocates of tough intellectual property rights say that this is simply the price we have to pay to get the innovation that, in the long run, will save lives. It's a trade-off: the lives of a relatively few poor women today, versus the lives of many more women sometime in the future. But this claim is wrong in many ways. In this particular case, it is especially wrong, because the two genes would likely have been isolated ("discovered," in Myriad's terminology) soon anyway, as part of the global Human Genome Project. But it is wrong on other counts, as well. Genetic researchers have argued that the patent actually prevented the development of better tests, and so interfered with the advancement of science. All knowledge is based on prior knowledge, and by making prior knowledge less available, innovation is impeded. Myriad's own discovery - like any in science - used technologies and ideas that were developed by others. Had that prior knowledge not been publicly available, Myriad could not have done what it did.
And that's the third major theme. I titled my book to emphasize that inequality is not just morally repugnant but also has material costs. When the legal regime governing intellectual property rights is designed poorly, it facilitates rent-seeking - and ours is poorly designed, though this and other recent Supreme Court decisions have led to one that is better than it otherwise would have been. And the result is that there is actually less innovation and more inequality.
Indeed, one of the important insights of Robert W. Fogel, a Nobel Prize-winning economic historian who died last month, was that a synergy between improved health and technology accounts for a good part of the explosive economic growth since the 19th century. So it stands to reason that intellectual property regimes that create monopoly rents that impede access to health both create inequality and hamper growth more generally.
There are alternatives. Advocates of intellectual property rights have overemphasized their role in promoting innovation. Most of the key innovations - from the basic ideas underlying the computer, to transistors, to lasers, to the discovery of DNA - were not motivated by pecuniary gain. They were motivated by the quest for knowledge. Of course, resources have to be made available. But the patent system is only one way, and often not the best way, of providing these resources. Government-financed research, foundations, and the prize system (which offers a prize to whoever makes a discovery, and then makes the knowledge widely available, using the power of the market to reap the benefits) are alternatives, with major advantages, and without the inequality-increasing disadvantages of the current intellectual property rights system.
Myriad's effort to patent human DNA was one of the worst manifestations of the inequality in access to health, which in turn is one of the worst manifestations of the country's economic inequality. That the court decision has upheld our cherished rights and values is a cause for a sigh of relief. But it is only one victory in the bigger struggle for a more egalitarian society and economy.

        
Prizes With an Eye Toward the Future
        
Genes on the March
        
Corporations, People and Truth
        
Sharing Patents to Wipe Out AIDS
        
Ethical Businesses With a Better Bottom Line

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: INTELLECTUAL PROPERTY LAW (91%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (90%); SUPREME COURTS (90%); UPPER INCOME PERSONS (90%); BIOTECHNOLOGY & GENETIC SCIENCE (90%); BIOTECHNOLOGY INDUSTRY (90%); GENES & CHROMOSOMES (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); PATENTS (89%); DECISIONS & RULINGS (78%); SETTLEMENTS & DECISIONS (78%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (77%); LITIGATION (77%); POLITICS (77%); GENETIC SCREENING (75%); SCIENCE NEWS (75%); SCIENCE & TECHNOLOGY (75%); PATHOLOGY (75%); DNA (75%); CANCER (75%); WOMEN'S HEALTH (75%); INTELLECTUAL PROPERTY (74%); GENETIC & MOLECULAR MEDICINE (70%); GENOMICS (70%); BREAST CANCER (70%); CANCER SCREENING & DETECTION (66%) Corporations; Genetics and Heredity; Intellectual Property; Inventions and Patents; Myriad Genetics Inc; Suits and Litigation (Civil); Myriad Genetics Inc|MYGN|NASDAQ; The Great Divide

COMPANY: MYRIAD GENETICS INC (57%)

ORGANIZATION: Myriad Genetics Inc

TICKER: MYGN (NASDAQ) (57%) Myriad Genetics Inc; MYGN; NASDAQ

INDUSTRY: NAICS325414 BIOLOGICAL PRODUCT (EXCEPT DIAGNOSTIC) MANUFACTURING (57%); SIC8731 COMMERCIAL PHYSICAL & BIOLOGICAL RESEARCH (57%); SIC2836 BIOLOGICAL PRODUCTS, EXCEPT DIAGNOSTIC SUBSTANCES (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: July 15, 2013



410 of 937 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 15, 2013
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; ADVERTISING; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 771 words

HEADLINE: Eye on Emerging Markets, Firm Invests in Start-Up

BYLINE: By TANZINA VEGA

 BODY:
AS the world awaited the next pope in March, Peter Bale, the vice president and general manager for digital at CNN International in London, wanted to know how Africans would react if the pope were from their continent.
Instead of commissioning telephone pollsters or gleaning insights from social media, Mr. Bale used a mobile platform called Jana, which rewards users with free airtime if they take a survey. Within days, Mr. Bale said, he surveyed 20,000 Africans in 11 countries on questions like whether an African pope would increase support for Catholicism on the continent (86 percent said yes) and whether the world was ready for an African pope (61 percent said yes).
''The spread of the mobile economy in Africa is so far and so huge you can reach not only the high end of African people, but you can reach many, many people there,'' Mr. Bale said. Because CNN International receives a ''very significant amount'' of its digital traffic from its African consumers through their mobile devices, using a mobile survey platform made sense, he said. 
CNN, however, is not the only organization that wants to connect with a growing mobile-savvy market. On Monday, the Publicis Groupe, one of the world's largest advertising holding companies, will announce a $15 million investment in Jana.
The investment is the first by the company in a mobile technology start-up. As part of the investment, Maurice Lévy, the chief executive of Publicis, which is based in Paris, will join the board of directors at Jana. (In 2012, Publicis united with France Télécom-Orange and Iris Capital Management to create venture capital funds to invest in European companies.)
''Everyone is fighting very hard and trying to find solutions to get these next billion consumers, and we all know the next billion consumers will come from emerging markets,'' Mr. Lévy said in an interview by phone. With brands including Microsoft, Johnson & Johnson, Unilever, Procter & Gamble and Google having used Jana, gaining access to consumers in Africa and other emerging markets like India and Brazil is ''not something which is just wishful thinking,'' he said.
Nathan Eagle, the chief executive and a co-founder of Jana, said the majority of its clients were large global brands seeking to reach consumers in developing countries. Brands can reward consumers who register for Jana, which is based in Boston, with free mobile airtime after they view an ad or buy a product.
''We're building up this massive profile of people who are eager to engage with different brands,'' Mr. Eagle said. ''Now we are presenting our clients with an alternative to billboards.''
Brands can also gain access to consumer data like age, sex and location, Mr. Eagle said. ''We're enabling them to be able to provide discounts off products in a nationwide campaign and for the first time get real insights into who is buying the products,'' he said.
Mr. Eagle views the service as ''economic empowerment'' for consumers. Brands, Mr. Eagle said, ''can either put more money into the pockets of people who own billboards or they can put that money into the pockets of people they are trying to reach.''
Mr. Lévy said he expected to focus his efforts on personal hygiene products, beverages and food, and detergent. Data from Jana will help marketers determine ''how much toothpaste they are using, how much detergent they are using, the potential is the sky, there is no limit,'' he said.
Todd Dagres, a partner and founder of Spark Capital, a venture capital firm that was an early investor in Jana and social media companies like Tumblr, Twitter and Foursquare, said the potential for growth in emerging markets piqued interest in the possibility of a Publicis investment.
''It became clear to us that it would be helpful to have a partner that had relationships to the advertisers and understood on a global basis advertising and research,'' Mr. Dagres said.
Mobile phone penetration and advertising are expected to grow significantly in developing countries in the next few years. According to the research company eMarketer, 671 million people in the Middle East and Africa will use mobile phones by 2017, up from 526 million in 2013. Spending on digital advertising in the region is expected to reach $3.8 billion by 2017, up from $1.3 billion in 2013.
''It's not surprising that companies are sensing tremendous opportunity in the Middle East and Africa,'' said Clark Fredricksen, vice president for communications at eMarketer. ''To get a foothold now in an early stage in a small market could mean a dramatic high growth for the next decade or more as that market becomes more mature.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Jana rewards users with free mobile airtime if they take a survey or perform other tasks. (PHOTOGRAPH BY JANA MOBILE)
 Maurice Lévy, the chief of Publicis, will join the Jana board. He plans to use data from Jana to help marketers reach buyers. (PHOTOGRAPH BY MAL LANGSDON/REUTERS) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: EMERGING MARKETS (90%); WIRELESS INDUSTRY (90%); CATHOLICS & CATHOLICISM (90%); EXECUTIVES (89%); DEVELOPING COUNTRIES (89%); CONSUMER ELECTRONICS (78%); INTERVIEWS (78%); SOCIAL MEDIA (77%); POLLS & SURVEYS (77%); MOBILE COMMERCE (76%); ECONOMIC NEWS (74%); CHRISTIANS & CHRISTIANITY (73%); RELIGION (73%); BRANDING (70%); VENTURE CAPITAL (70%); HOLDING COMPANIES (70%); OUTDOOR ADVERTISING (68%); BOARDS OF DIRECTORS (65%)

COMPANY: ORANGE SA (84%); PUBLICIS GROUPE SA (84%); ORANGE SA (OLD) (84%); JOHNSON & JOHNSON (64%); GOOGLE INC (55%); MICROSOFT CORP (52%); UNILEVER PLC/NV (52%); PROCTER & GAMBLE CO (52%)

TICKER: ORAN (NYSE) (84%); ORA (PAR) (84%); PUB (PAR) (84%); JNJ (NYSE) (64%); GOOG (NASDAQ) (55%); MSFT (NASDAQ) (52%); UNIA (AMS) (52%); UNA (BIT) (52%); UNA (AMS) (52%); UN (NYSE) (52%); ULVR (LSE) (52%); UL (NYSE) (52%); PGP (PAR) (52%); PG (NYSE) (52%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS517210 WIRELESS TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (EXCEPT SATELLITE) (84%); NAICS517110 WIRED TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (84%); NAICS541810 ADVERTISING AGENCIES (84%); NAICS541613 MARKETING CONSULTING SERVICES (84%); SIC8742 MANAGEMENT CONSULTING SERVICES (84%); SIC7311 ADVERTISING AGENCIES (84%); SIC4812 RADIOTELEPHONE COMMUNICATIONS (84%); NAICS325620 TOILET PREPARATION MANUFACTURING (64%); NAICS339115 OPHTHALMIC GOODS MANUFACTURING (64%); NAICS334510 ELECTROMEDICAL & ELECTROTHERAPEUTIC APPARATUS MANUFACTURING (64%); NAICS325413 IN-VITRO DIAGNOSTIC SUBSTANCE MANUFACTURING (64%); NAICS325412 PHARMACEUTICAL PREPARATION MANUFACTURING (64%); SIC2836 BIOLOGICAL PRODUCTS, EXCEPT DIAGNOSTIC SUBSTANCES (64%); NAICS519130 INTERNET PUBLISHING & BROADCASTING & WEB SEARCH PORTALS (55%); NAICS511210 SOFTWARE PUBLISHERS (52%); SIC7372 PREPACKAGED SOFTWARE (52%); NAICS325611 SOAP & OTHER DETERGENT MANUFACTURING (52%); NAICS311412 FROZEN SPECIALTY FOOD MANUFACTURING (52%); NAICS311411 FROZEN FRUIT, JUICE & VEGETABLE MANUFACTURING (52%); NAICS311225 FATS & OILS REFINING & BLENDING (52%); NAICS322291 SANITARY PAPER PRODUCT MANUFACTURING (52%); SIC2844 PERFUMES, COSMETICS, & OTHER TOILET PREPARATIONS (52%); SIC2841 SOAPS & OTHER DETERGENTS, EXCEPT SPECIALTY CLEANERS (52%); SIC2676 SANITARY PAPER PRODUCTS (52%)

PERSON: MAURICE LEVY (76%)

GEOGRAPHIC: BOSTON, MA, USA (79%); LONDON, ENGLAND (73%); PARIS, FRANCE (54%) MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%) AFRICA (94%); FRANCE (87%); UNITED STATES (79%); BRAZIL (79%); INDIA (79%)

LOAD-DATE: July 15, 2013



411 of 937 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 15, 2013
The New York Times on the Web

SECTION: Section ; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 

LENGTH: 950 words

HEADLINE: News From the Advertising Industry

BYLINE: By STUART ELLIOTT

 BODY:
Accounts
â- USA Swimming, Colorado Springs, Colo., the national governing body for the sport of swimming in the United States, named Colle & McVoy, Minneapolis, part of MDC Partners, as its first agency of record.
â- Lake Louie Brewing, Arena, Wis., chose Shine United, Madison, Wis., as its first agency of record. Billings were not disclosed.
People 
â- Thomas Gensemer joined Burson-Marsteller, New York, part of the Young & Rubicam Group division of WPP, as United States chief strategy officer, a new post, reporting to Dave DenHerder, United States chief executive. Mr. Gensemer will be focused on tasks that include developing integrated campaigns for clients and new product offerings. Mr. Gensemer had been managing partner and chief executive at another WPP agency, Blue State Digital, known for its political and public-affairs work.
â- Colin Kinsella joined Mindshare, New York, part of the GroupM division of WPP, as chief executive for North America, succeeding Antony Young, who will remain with Mindshare, the agency said, and take a job that is focused on global business development and projects. Mr. Kinsella had most recently been chief executive for North America at Digitas, part of the Publicis Groupe.
â- Pat Patregnani, president at Zimmerman Advertising, Fort Lauderdale, Fla., part of the Omnicom Group, was promoted to chief executive, a long-vacant post; Jordan Zimmerman continues as chairman. Succeeding Mr. Patregnani as president is Andrew Varga, who had most recently been chief marketing officer at Papa John's International, a client of Zimmerman's since 1998.
â- Steven Millerman joined Prime Access, New York, part of the 9.8 Group of Companies, as chief executive, assuming duties from Givi Topchishvili, who had served as interim chief executive and will now return to his duties that include president at the 9.8 Group. Mr. Millerman had been director and head of cross-cultural marketing at the Novartis Pharmaceuticals Corporation, part of Novartis International.
â- Paul Gunning, chief digital officer at DDB Worldwide, New York, who has also served as chief executive of the agency's Tribal Worldwide division, was named chief executive of DDB Chicago, succeeding Peter McGuinness, who is becoming chief marketing and brand officer at Chobani.
â- David Norton joined the New York office of MDC Partners in a new post, executive vice president for analytics and consumer insight. He has been a consultant and also worked for companies that included Urban Outfitters and Harrah's Entertainment.
â- Nick Barham joined TBWA/Chiat/Day, part of the TBWA Worldwide unit of the Omnicom Group, as chief strategy officer for TBWA/Chiat/Day Los Angeles, a new post. He had most recently been global director of the W&K Tomorrow unit of Wieden & Kennedy, Portland, Ore.
â- Jeremy Villano joined Space150, Minneapolis, as managing director to lead its New York office, a new post. He had most recently been digital strategy director at the Interbrand New York unit of Interbrand, part of the Omnicom Group.
â- Walt Connelly joined Havas Worldwide New York as global executive creative director on the Merck Consumer Care account, a new post. He had been chief marketing officer for a new brand of jeans called I Am Not a Virgin, and before that he worked for agencies that included McCann Erickson San Francisco, Ogilvy & Mather Worldwide and a previous iteration of Havas Worldwide New York, Euro RSCG New York. Havas Worldwide New York is part of the Havas Worldwide division of Havas Creative, which is owned by Havas.
â- Debra L. Lee, chairwoman and chief executive at BET Networks, part of Viacom, was elected chairwoman of the Advertising Council, New York. She assumes duties from Marc Pritchard, chairman, who is global brand building officer at Procter & Gamble.
Miscellany
â- WNET, Channel 13, New York, is expanding a humorous campaign introduced in May that promotes its programming by taking pokes at reality television. The campaign, by the New York office of CHI & Partners, part of WPP, began with posters in subway stations that advertised make-believe reality series like ''Bad Boy Bagboys'' and ''Knitting Wars''; the payoff came with these words: ''The fact you thought this was a real show says a lot about the state of TV.'' The next phase, called ''TV Gone Wrong,'' involves commercials styled like teasers for reality shows, all again fake: ''Clam Kings,'' ''Long Island Landscapers'' and ''Meet the Tanners.'' The same sentiment about the state of TV turns up at the end of each spot when the jest is revealed. The commercials will run on stations that include WNET, WLIW and New York 1.
â- Widmeyer Communications, Washington and New York, was acquired by Finn Partners, New York, which also has an office in Washington. Financial terms were not disclosed. Scott Widmeyer will continue to lead Widmeyer Communications, which will be known as Widmeyer Communications, a Finn Partners company, and he also takes the post of managing partner at Finn Partners.
â- Magazine advertising pages in the second quarter fell 4.5 percent from the period a year earlier, according to a report from the Publishers Information Bureau, New York. For the first half, ad pages were down 4.9 percent from the first half of 2012.
â- Vertic, Copenhagen and New York, opened offices in Seattle and Singapore. The Seattle office will serve as the agency's West Coast headquarters in the United States.
â- Two sibling agencies, the Racepoint Group, which specializes in public relations, and the Digital Influence Group, Boston, which specializes in digital marketing, are combining under the Racepoint Group name with the Digital Influence Group as a subsidiary brand.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: EXECUTIVES (93%); ADVERTISING ACCOUNTS IN REVIEW (90%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING AGENCIES (90%); SPORTS GOVERNING BODIES (90%); COMPANY STRATEGY (89%); EXECUTIVE MOVES (89%); PHARMACEUTICALS INDUSTRY (87%); EMPLOYEE PROMOTIONS (78%); APPOINTMENTS (78%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING (71%); NEW PRODUCTS (71%); BUSINESS DEVELOPMENT (66%); PHARMACEUTICAL PREPARATION MFG (66%); MULTICULTURAL MARKETING (65%)

COMPANY: WPP PLC (93%); OMNICOM GROUP INC (85%); PUBLICIS GROUPE SA (84%); PAPA JOHN'S INTERNATIONAL INC (66%); NOVARTIS PHARMACEUTICALS CORP (64%); TBWA/CHIAT/DAY INC (61%); MDC PARTNERS INC (58%); YOUNG & RUBICAM GROUP LTD (57%); BURSON-MARSTELLER (57%); ZIMMERMAN ADVERTISING LLC (54%); NOVARTIS AG (52%); CAESARS ENTERTAINMENT CORP (51%); URBAN OUTFITTERS INC (51%)

ORGANIZATION: UNITED STATES SWIMMING INC (84%)

TICKER: WPPGY (NASDAQ) (93%); WPP (LSE) (93%); OMC (NYSE) (85%); PUB (PAR) (84%); PZZA (NASDAQ) (66%); MDZ.A (TSX) (58%); MDCA (NASDAQ) (58%); NVS (NYSE) (52%); NOVN (SWX) (52%); CZR (NASDAQ) (51%); URBN (NASDAQ) (51%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS541810 ADVERTISING AGENCIES (93%); SIC7311 ADVERTISING AGENCIES (93%); NAICS541613 MARKETING CONSULTING SERVICES (93%); SIC8742 MANAGEMENT CONSULTING SERVICES (93%); NAICS541820 PUBLIC RELATIONS AGENCIES (93%); NAICS541830 MEDIA BUYING AGENCIES (93%); SIC8743 PUBLIC RELATIONS AGENCIES (93%); SIC7319 ADVERTISING, NEC (93%); NAICS722513 LIMITED-SERVICE RESTAURANTS (66%); NAICS325412 PHARMACEUTICAL PREPARATION MANUFACTURING (64%); SIC2834 PHARMACEUTICAL PREPARATIONS (64%); NAICS541910 MARKETING RESEARCH & PUBLIC OPINION POLLING (58%); SIC8732 COMMERCIAL ECONOMIC, SOCIOLOGICAL, & EDUCATIONAL RESEARCH (58%); NAICS339115 OPHTHALMIC GOODS MANUFACTURING (52%); SIC3851 OPHTHALMIC GOODS (52%); NAICS721120 CASINO HOTELS (51%); NAICS713210 CASINOS (EXCEPT CASINO HOTELS) (51%); SIC7999 AMUSEMENT & RECREATION SERVICES, NEC (51%); SIC7011 HOTELS & MOTELS (51%); NAICS448140 FAMILY CLOTHING STORES (51%)

GEOGRAPHIC: COLORADO SPRINGS, CO, USA (92%); MADISON, WI, USA (91%); FORT LAUDERDALE, FL, USA (54%) WISCONSIN, USA (92%); COLORADO, USA (92%); FLORIDA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (95%); NORTH AMERICA (92%)

LOAD-DATE: July 15, 2013



412 of 937 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 15, 2013
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; LOOKING AHEAD; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 441 words

HEADLINE: Economic Reports for the Week of July 15

 BODY:
ECONOMIC DATA Data to be released this week includes retail sales for June and business inventories for May (Monday); the Consumer Price Index and industrial production for June (Tuesday); building permits for June and the Federal Reserve's Beige Book (Wednesday); and weekly initial jobless claims and leading economic indicators for June (Thursday). 
CORPORATE EARNINGS Companies scheduled to report results include Citigroup (Monday); Goldman Sachs, Coca-Cola, Johnson & Johnson and Yahoo (Tuesday); Bank of America, American Express, I.B.M., Intel and eBay (Wednesday); Google, Morgan Stanley, BlackRock, Microsoft, Verizon, Nokia and SAP (Thursday); and General Electric and Vodafone (Friday).
IN THE UNITED STATES On Monday, the Securities and Exchange Commission begins its civil fraud case against Fabrice Tourre, a former Goldman Sachs trader. Also on Monday, Calpers, the large public pension fund in California, will report its results for the fiscal year ending June 30.
On Wednesday and Thursday, the Federal Reserve chairman, Ben S. Bernanke, will deliver his semiannual monetary policy report before Congress.
On Thursday, shareholders of Dell will vote on the $24.4 billion buyout offer by the company's founder, Michael S. Dell.
OVERSEAS On Monday, China will announce its gross domestic product numbers for the second quarter; it reported growth of 7.7 percent in the first quarter. China will also release data on industrial output, retail sales and fixed asset investment. Also on Monday, Christine Lagarde, managing director of the International Monetary Fund, begins a two-day trip to Romania, which has requested a third financing deal with the fund.
On Tuesday, Carlos Ghosn, chief executive of Nissan, will attend a discussion on emerging markets in Chennai, India, as the company reintroduces Datsun as a global brand. Also on Tuesday, Stephen Poloz, the new Bank of Canada governor, will make his first interest rate announcement; he is expected to keep rates unchanged.
On Wednesday, Britain will release its unemployment figures for June.
On Thursday, the German finance minister, Wolfgang Schäuble, will meet the Greek finance minister, Yannis Stournaras, in Athens, where they are scheduled to hold a news conference in the afternoon.
On Friday, central bankers and finance ministers of the Group of 20 nations will meet for two days in Moscow, where they are expected to discuss topics that include Japan's economy, global stimulus efforts and tax evasion. Also on Friday, a federal judge in the United States will hold a hearing on final approval of Toyota's $1.1. billion in claims over unintended acceleration in its vehicles.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Schedule

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); MANUFACTURING OUTPUT (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); RETAIL SECTOR PERFORMANCE (90%); PUBLIC FINANCE (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (90%); FINANCIAL RESULTS (90%); INVENTORIES (90%); ECONOMIC INDICATORS (90%); CONSUMER PRICE INDEX (90%); ECONOMIC POLICY (89%); CENTRAL BANKS (89%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (89%); RETAIL SALES (89%); BANKING & FINANCE AGENCIES (89%); ECONOMIC SURVEYS (79%); PUBLIC POLICY (79%); JOBLESS CLAIMS (79%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (79%); GROSS DOMESTIC PRODUCT (79%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (79%); PENSION FUNDS (78%); MONETARY POLICY (77%); TAX FRAUD (77%); EXECUTIVES (76%); SHAREHOLDERS (76%); COMPANY EARNINGS (76%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (75%); ANNUAL FINANCIAL RESULTS (73%); BUILDING PERMITS (72%); EMERGING MARKETS (70%); APPROVALS (69%); PUBLIC EMPLOYEE RETIREMENT SYSTEMS (68%); BUYINS & BUYOUTS (68%); TAX LAW (66%); PRESS CONFERENCES (65%); TAXES & TAXATION (64%); INTEREST RATES (62%); JUDGES (60%)

COMPANY: GOLDMAN SACHS GROUP INC (91%); CITIGROUP INC (90%); JOHNSON & JOHNSON (71%); BANK OF AMERICA CORP (58%); COCA-COLA CO (57%); MORGAN STANLEY (57%); AMERICAN EXPRESS CO (57%); GOOGLE INC (57%); INTEL CORP (57%); MICROSOFT CORP (56%); VERIZON COMMUNICATIONS INC (56%); GENERAL ELECTRIC CO (56%)

ORGANIZATION: SECURITIES & EXCHANGE COMMISSION (56%); INTERNATIONAL MONETARY FUND (53%)

TICKER: GS (NYSE) (91%); C (NYSE) (90%); C (BMV) (90%); 8710 (TSE) (90%); JNJ (NYSE) (71%); BAC (NYSE) (58%); BAC (LSE) (58%); 8648 (TSE) (58%); KO (NYSE) (57%); MS (NYSE) (57%); AXP (NYSE) (57%); GOOG (NASDAQ) (57%); INTC (NASDAQ) (57%); MSFT (NASDAQ) (56%); VZC (LSE) (56%); VZ (NYSE) (56%); GNE (PAR) (56%); GEC (LSE) (56%); GE (SWX) (56%); GE (NYSE) (56%)

INDUSTRY: SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (91%); NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (91%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (91%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (91%); SIC6289 SERVICES ALLIED WITH THE EXCHANGE OF SECURITIES OR COMMODITIES, NEC (91%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (91%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (90%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (90%); NAICS522210 CREDIT CARD ISSUING (90%); NAICS339115 OPHTHALMIC GOODS MANUFACTURING (71%); NAICS334510 ELECTROMEDICAL & ELECTROTHERAPEUTIC APPARATUS MANUFACTURING (71%); NAICS325620 TOILET PREPARATION MANUFACTURING (71%); NAICS325413 IN-VITRO DIAGNOSTIC SUBSTANCE MANUFACTURING (71%); NAICS325412 PHARMACEUTICAL PREPARATION MANUFACTURING (71%); SIC2836 BIOLOGICAL PRODUCTS, EXCEPT DIAGNOSTIC SUBSTANCES (71%); NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (58%); SIC6712 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (58%); NAICS312111 SOFT DRINK MANUFACTURING (57%); SIC2086 BOTTLED & CANNED SOFT DRINKS & CARBONATED WATER (57%); SIC6141 PERSONAL CREDIT INSTITUTIONS (57%); NAICS519130 INTERNET PUBLISHING & BROADCASTING & WEB SEARCH PORTALS (57%); NAICS334413 SEMICONDUCTOR & RELATED DEVICE MANUFACTURING (57%); NAICS511210 SOFTWARE PUBLISHERS (56%); SIC7372 PREPACKAGED SOFTWARE (56%); NAICS517210 WIRELESS TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (EXCEPT SATELLITE) (56%); NAICS517110 WIRED TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (56%); NAICS336412 AIRCRAFT ENGINE & ENGINE PARTS MANUFACTURING (56%); NAICS335222 HOUSEHOLD REFRIGERATOR & HOME FREEZER MANUFACTURING (56%); NAICS335210 SMALL ELECTRICAL APPLIANCE MANUFACTURING (56%)

PERSON: BEN BERNANKE (59%); FABRICE P TOURRE (55%); MICHAEL DELL (51%); CHRISTINE LAGARDE (50%); CARLOS GHOSN (50%); WOLFGANG SCHAEUBLE (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); TAMIL NADU, INDIA (79%) UNITED STATES (93%); INDIA (92%); JAPAN (79%); GERMANY (79%); ROMANIA (79%); GREECE (71%)

LOAD-DATE: July 15, 2013



413 of 937 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 15, 2013
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; The Arts/Cultural Desk; ARTSBEAT; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 252 words

HEADLINE: A Slow Start in Tickets For 'Pacific Rim'

BYLINE: By BROOKS BARNES

 BODY:
For the third weekend in a row, a big-budget nonsequel sputtered in North America: ''Pacific Rim,'' which cost Legendary Entertainment and Warner Brothers at least $180 million to make, took in $38.3 million between Friday and Sunday, according to studio estimates. That result is a humiliation for Legendary, a young company that has been eager to prove that it can produce blockbusters on its own; Warner was a minority partner. 
''Pacific Rim,'' a robots-versus-monsters fantasy directed by Guillermo del Toro and intended to spawn a franchise, probably suffered from a crowded movie marketplace and a flawed advertising campaign, among other things. Hollywood has smelled a flop for weeks, and both Legendary and Warner have scrambled to avoid having ''Pacific Rim'' branded as such. A Legendary spokesman noted on Sunday that audiences gave the movie an A-minus score in exit polls -- most critics also liked it -- and pointed to sturdier international ticket sales of about $53 million.
For the weekend in the United States and Canada, the animated ''Despicable Me 2'' (Universal) repeated as No. 1, taking in an estimated $44.8 million, for a stellar two-week domestic total of $229.2 million. The Adam Sandler ensemble comedy ''Grown Ups 2'' (Sony) was second, selling about $42.5 million in tickets, a little less than ''Grown Ups'' in 2010 when accounting for inflation, but a solid result nonetheless. ''Pacific Rim'' was third.
This is a more complete version of the story than the one that appeared in print.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO (PHOTOGRAPH BY KERRY HAYES/WARNER BROTHERS PICTURES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Brief

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: FILM DIRECTORS (77%); MOVIES & SOUND RECORDING TRADE (74%); TICKET SALES (73%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING (55%)

PERSON: ADAM SANDLER (54%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NORTH AMERICA (93%); UNITED STATES (79%); CANADA (58%)

LOAD-DATE: July 15, 2013



414 of 937 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 15, 2013
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Foreign Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1418 words

HEADLINE: Bangladesh Pollution, Told in Colors and Smells

BYLINE: By JIM YARDLEY; Julfikar Ali Manik contributed reporting.

 BODY:
SAVAR, Bangladesh -- On the worst days, the toxic stench wafting through the Genda Government Primary School is almost suffocating. Teachers struggle to concentrate, as if they were choking on air. Students often become lightheaded and dizzy. A few boys fainted in late April. Another retched in class.
The odor rises off the polluted canal -- behind the schoolhouse -- where nearby factories dump their wastewater. Most of the factories are garment operations, textile mills and dyeing plants in the supply chain that exports clothing to Europe and the United States. Students can see what colors are in fashion by looking at the canal.
''Sometimes it is red,'' said Tamanna Afrous, the school's English teacher. ''Or gray. Sometimes it is blue. It depends on the colors they are using in the factories.''
Nearly three months ago, the Rana Plaza factory building collapsed, killing more than 1,100 people, in a disaster that exposed the risks in the low-cost formula that has made Bangladesh the world's second-leading clothing exporter, after China, and a favorite of companies like Walmart, J. C. Penney and H & M. That formula depends on paying the lowest wages in the world and, at some factories, spending a minimum on work conditions and safety. 
But it also often means ignoring costly environmental regulations. Bangladesh's garment and textile industries have contributed heavily to what experts describe as a water pollution disaster, especially in the large industrial areas of Dhaka, the capital. Many rice paddies are now inundated with toxic wastewater. Fish stocks are dying. And many smaller waterways are being filled with sand and garbage, as developers sell off plots for factories or housing.
Environmental damage usually trails rapid industrialization in developing countries. But Bangladesh is already one of the world's most environmentally fragile places, densely populated yet braided by river systems, with a labyrinth of low-lying wetlands leading to the Bay of Bengal. Even as pollution threatens agriculture and public health, Bangladesh is acutely vulnerable to climate change, as rising sea levels and changing weather patterns could displace millions of people and sharply reduce crop yields.
Here in Savar, an industrial suburb of Dhaka and the site of the collapsed Rana Plaza building, some factories treat their wastewater, but many do not have treatment plants or chose not to operate them to save on utility costs. Many of Savar's canals or wetlands are now effectively retention ponds of untreated industrial waste.
''Look, it's not only in Savar,'' said Mohammed Abdul Kader, who has been Savar's mayor since his predecessor was suspended in the wake of the Rana Plaza disaster. ''The whole country is suffering from pollution. In Savar, we have lots of coconut trees, but they don't produce coconuts anymore. Industrial pollution is damaging our fish stocks, our fruit produce, our vegetables.''
Bangladesh has laws to protect the environment, a national environment ministry and new special courts for environmental cases. Yet pollution is rising, not falling, experts say, largely because of the political and economic power of industry.
Tanneries and pharmaceutical plants are part of the problem, but textile and garment factories, a mainstay of the economy and a crucial source of employment, have the most clout. When the environment ministry appointed a tough-minded official who levied fines against textile and dyeing factories, complaining owners eventually forced his transfer.
''Nobody in the country, at least at the government level, is thinking about sustainable development,'' said Rizwana Hasan, a prominent environmental lawyer. ''All of the natural resources have been severely degraded and depleted.''
Less than two miles from the site of Rana Plaza, the Genda primary school has a student body made up mostly of the children of garment workers. Golam Rabbi, 11, who is the top-ranked student in the third grade there, lives with his mother and two younger brothers in a single room. The boys use price tags collected from factory floors as makeshift playing cards.
''The school always smells,'' Golam said. ''Sometimes we can't even eat there. It is making some kids sick. Sometimes my head spins. It is hard to concentrate.''
His family is still struggling to recover from the Rana Plaza collapse. His father, a security guard, was killed in the disaster, and his mother is trying to support her sons and keep the two oldest in school. The father had left school for work -- as had the mother -- and both parents believed education could provide their sons a better life.
''His main goal was to get his children educated,'' Golam's mother, Hasina Begum, said of her husband.
But the pollution has made it hard. Golam has fainted from the smell. ''He has told me several times that he doesn't want to study at the school,'' his mother said. ''When it is very hot, and the breeze brings in the bad smell, he can't breathe properly. I tried to reassure him, saying that people are holding rallies. I don't know why the pollution is still continuing, why they can't stop it.''
Factories surround the school: within 300 yards are two garment factories, two dyeing operations, a textile mill, a brick factory and a pharmaceutical plant. At least 10 dyeing plants can be found in a slightly larger radius. An underground drainage channel dumps wastewater through a pipe into the canal behind the school.
Mohammed Abdul Ali, the school's headmaster, said he had approached local factory owners, as well as Savar officials, trying to get the drainage pipe moved. Mothers of children at the school, including Golam's mother, have held awareness workshops and rallies. Local environmentalists have also campaigned.
''We've never seen the owners take our appeals seriously,'' Mr. Ali said. ''Everything is going on as usual. They have a good relationship with the politicians. That is why they don't care.''
On a recent rainy afternoon, the smell was overpowering as the school's fifth graders gathered in a classroom. Asked how many had parents working in garment factories, 23 of the 34 students in the room raised their hands.
''Sometimes my head is spinning,'' one student said of the smell. ''Sometimes we feel like we need to vomit,'' another said.
Barely 100 yards away, behind a battered metal gate, the Surma Garments factory was dyeing fabric in a shade of dark purple. Mahadi Hasan, a manager, offered a tour of the Effluent Treatment Plant, where wastewater is treated with chemicals in a series of concrete tubs. He called for a worker to bring beakers with ''before'' and ''after'' samples -- only to be handed an ''after'' sample in which the water was light purple.
Asked about pollution at the nearby school, Mr. Hasan said his wastewater flowed in the opposite direction, though that would mean it flowed uphill. ''There are some other factories around here,'' he said. ''The water might be from them.''
In February, environmental regulators fined Surma Garments and four other factories for illegally dumping pollution. Two years earlier, another factory near the school, Anlima Yarn Dyeing, was fined for dumping untreated waste, even though it had a functioning effluent treatment plant. Local news accounts said that Anlima Yarn had been operating without an environmental clearance certificate for 23 years.
The inspections were part of a highly publicized antipollution enforcement campaign led by Munir Chowdhury, a senior official in the environment ministry. Mr. Chowdhury raided factories, often at night, finding that many were saving money by dumping waste without treating it. He imposed repeated fines until he was transferred this year to run the state dairy operation.
Mr. Kader, the acting mayor of Savar, said there was only so much a single official could do. ''You should understand the reality in Bangladesh,'' he said. ''These people who are setting up industries and factories here are much more powerful than me. When a government minister calls me and tells me to give permission to someone to set up a factory in Savar, I can't refuse.''
For global brands that buy clothing from Bangladeshi factories, pollution rarely gets the same attention as workplace conditions or fire safety. H &M has sponsored some environmental programs, but Bangladeshi environmentalists say global buyers have done far too little.
''The buyers totally understand the conditions of Bangladesh and they take advantage of it,'' said Ms. Hasan, the environmental lawyer.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: In Savar, Bangladesh, site of April's factory disaster, untreated factory wastewater is common. (A1)
A class at the Genda Government Primary School in Savar, which is close to a canal that some days smells so foul the pupils cannot concentrate and become ill.
 Dye visible in wastewater runoff. Experts call the situation here a water pollution disaster. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY KHALED HASAN FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) (A6) MAP (A6) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (90%); TEXTILE MFG (90%); TEACHING & TEACHERS (90%); EDUCATIONAL INSTITUTION EMPLOYEES (90%); PRIMARY SCHOOLS (90%); PRIMARY & SECONDARY SCHOOL TEACHERS (90%); WATER POLLUTION (89%); CANALS & WATERWAYS (89%); CLIMATE CHANGE (89%); SEWERAGE SYSTEMS (89%); WETLANDS (86%); ENVIRONMENTAL ACCIDENTS & DISASTERS (78%); INDUSTRIAL POLLUTION (78%); ENVIRONMENT & NATURAL RESOURCES (76%); TEXTILES (76%); FABRIC MILLS (76%); INDUSTRIAL PROPERTY (76%); TEXTILE MILLS (76%); WATER QUALITY (76%); FRUITS & VEGETABLES (75%); DISCOUNT & CLUB STORES (75%); FISHES (69%); DISPLACED PERSONS (67%); WEATHER (67%); COCONUT & COIR PRODUCTION (66%); DEVELOPING COUNTRIES (66%); OCEANS (61%); PLANT CONSTRUCTION (56%)

GEOGRAPHIC: DHAKA, BANGLADESH (73%) INDIAN OCEAN (79%) BANGLADESH (95%); EUROPE (79%); UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: July 15, 2013



415 of 937 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 15, 2013
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; OP-ED CONTRIBUTOR; Pg. 17

LENGTH: 1348 words

HEADLINE: The Slowing of Two Economic Giants

BYLINE: By PRANAB BARDHAN. 
Pranab Bardhan, a professor of economics at the University of California, Berkeley, is the author of ''Awakening Giants, Feet of Clay: Assessing the Economic Rise of China and India.''

 BODY:
KOLKATA, India -- THE world's two most populous countries are slowing down. To be sure, China's output is expected to grow by 7.8 percent this year, and India's by 5.6 percent -- far superior to 2 percent for Japan, 1.7 percent for the United States, 0.9 percent for Britain and a shrinkage (negative 0.6 percent) in the troubled euro zone, the International Monetary Fund projected last week.
But there is no sequel in sight for the 10-percent-plus growth China and India posted in 2010. The West can no longer count on their continued expansion to lift its sagging economies. For 2.5 billion people, the consequences are more dire: in India, less money to strengthen the threadbare social safety net, and in China, possible political instability. What does the slowdown mean for these two giants, and which will come out ahead? 
Let's start with China, the bigger of the two economies. Talk of a global ''Beijing consensus'' -- state-controlled capitalism as an alternative to the ''Washington consensus'' about how poor countries should develop -- has largely disappeared. China's new leaders are focused on problems at home: battling corruption, reining in the overheated housing market, scaling back the government's outsize role in the economy, and cracking down on financial speculation.
China may be close to exhausting the possibilities of technological catch-up with the West, particularly in manufacturing. For China to move up the value chain, and become an advanced-manufacturing powerhouse like Germany, it must move beyond off-the-shelf technology and copying rival designs and reap gains from genuine innovation, which can come about only through research and development.
China has amassed huge foreign exchange reserves, partly by keeping the value of its currency low. It now has to rebalance its economy away from the construction boom and financial speculation and toward private consumption and improvements in pensions, health care and other forms of social protection. Crony capitalism has been allowed to misallocate capital toward too-big-to-fail, low-productivity state-owned firms operated by loyal apparatchiks and away from dynamic private small firms.
Concentrated wealth poses problems for both countries. The Hurun Report, a Shanghai-based wealth monitor, estimated last year that the 83 richest delegates to the National People's Congress and an advisory group, the Chinese People's Political Consultative Conference, had a net worth of over $250 billion. By comparison, the declared assets of all of the roughly 545 members of the Lok Sabha, the lower house of India's Parliament, amount to only about $2 billion.
In India, the collusion between Indian billionaires and politicians, while rampant, is somewhat less direct and more subject to political and media scrutiny. In China, collusion between party officials and commercial interests, especially at the local level, has caused widespread popular anger against arbitrary land acquisition and toxic pollution.
The economist and philosopher Amartya Sen recently argued on this page that India has lagged behind China because it had not invested enough in education and health care, which raise living standards and labor productivity.
He rightly emphasizes that deficient social services and the inequality that results are not just a matter of social justice, but of economic growth as well, as the history of much of East Asia shows. But one should not get the impression that progress in social services is by itself sufficient for growth. Exemplary welfare programs in the state of Kerala in India, and in Sri Lanka, have not been matched by spectacular economic performance. The latter also requires improvements in infrastructure, less cumbersome regulations and a culture that fosters entrepreneurial investment.
Mr. Sen raises but does not examine a puzzle: why voters in the world's largest democracy cannot get politicians to effectively deliver social services. Infant and maternal mortality and poor sanitation are not salient electoral issues. This is partly because India's fractious society (more heterogenous than China's) has often emphasized uplifting the dignity of former oppressed social groups over basic good governance.
What of the Chinese model? The history of developing countries shows that authoritarianism is neither necessary nor sufficient for development. The Communist Party will find it increasingly tough to manage a complicated economy (without independent regulators) and political system (without an independent judiciary or effective rule of law).
Without innovation, China cannot sustain high growth, as the artificially low prices of land and capital for politically favored firms become difficult to maintain and the supply of cheap labor dwindles. Unlike in India, a significant slowdown could be regime-threatening for China -- today's young people, with higher expectations than their forebears, will have less tolerance for a shortage of good jobs and affordable housing. China's leaders may be riding a tiger that will be hard to dismount.
On the other hand, India's experience, like America's, shows how partisan fragmentation in a rambunctious democracy can undermine effective governance. In the last few years the headline economic stories in India have been about pervasive corruption: politicized allocation of high-value public resources (land, mineral rights, oil and gas, telecommunications), shady public-private partnerships and the galloping cost of elections financed by the illicit incomes of politicians. India's administrative system, where promotion has little connection to performance, encourages even more malfeasance than China's. But India has independent judges, government auditors and a free press -- checks on corruption that are absent in China.
As inequalities rise and resentment of official corruption, corporate oligarchy and economic and environmental depredations heats up in India, pressure for short-term populist palliative measures -- subsidies, handouts, loan waivers and underpricing of energy and water -- will also rise, at the expense of long-term investments in infrastructure, education and public health. China has deflected some of the same frustrations through high-profile construction projects, spectacles like the 2008 Olympic Summer Games and the 2010 Shanghai World Expo, and carefully orchestrated campaigns of nationalist fervor.
IN both giant countries there are glimmers of hope. China is making substantial advances in energy-efficient technology and improving health care and pensions. In India, voters are starting to demand good governance, and vigorous social movements against injustice -- caste oppression, sexual violence and environmental degradation -- are making a dent.
But China's rigid political system makes it heavily dependent on enlightened consensus among its nonelected rulers, while India's ramshackle, pluralistic democracy has been surprisingly supple, even if its citizens haven't reaped the material benefits yet. They share a fundamental problem -- a lack of accountability, especially at the local level -- that, if not addressed, will make it impossible to sustain strong economic growth and provide a social safety net. In India, democracy is weakest at the village level: electoral participation is vigorous, but local elites often capture the local government, leaving bureaucrats little autonomy (or money) to carry out substantial improvements. In China, the failure of accountability is national, and inherent in the authoritarian system.
In the short term I expect China to do better than India in improving the material condition of its people, primarily because China has more money to spend on redistribution projects and because its infrastructure and administrative capacity are somewhat better. In the medium term, I anticipate that the two countries' rates of economic growth will converge in the not-too-distant future, as India reaps the benefits of having a younger population. But in the long run, which country does better will depend on political reform, or its absence.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); HOUSING MARKET (78%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (76%); EURO ZONE (76%); REAL ESTATE (76%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (76%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (74%); POLITICS (73%); CONSTRUCTION SECTOR PERFORMANCE (73%); CONSUMPTION (72%); STATE OWNED BUSINESSES (71%); MONETARY UNIONS (71%); GOLD & FOREIGN EXCHANGE RESERVES (71%); RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (70%); CONSTRUCTION (70%); CONFERENCES & CONVENTIONS (67%); RESEARCH & DEVELOPMENT (64%); PRIVATELY HELD COMPANIES (50%)

ORGANIZATION: INTERNATIONAL MONETARY FUND (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: KOLKATA, INDIA (89%); SHANGHAI, CHINA (78%); BEIJING, CHINA (58%) NORTH CENTRAL CHINA (79%); EAST CHINA (79%); WEST BENGAL, INDIA (74%) CHINA (99%); INDIA (96%); UNITED STATES (93%); EUROPE (92%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (88%); GERMANY (79%)

LOAD-DATE: July 15, 2013



416 of 937 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 15, 2013
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 567 words

HEADLINE: Treasury Auctions Set for This Week

 BODY:
The Treasury's schedule of financing this week includes Monday's regular weekly auction of new three- and six-month bills and an auction of four-week bills on Tuesday. 
At the close of the New York cash market on Friday, the rate on the outstanding three-month bill was 0.04 percent. The rate on the six-month issue was 0.07 percent, and the rate on the four-week issue was 0.03 percent.
The following tax-exempt fixed-income issues are scheduled for pricing this week:
MONDAY
Florida, Board of Governors, Florida International University, $51.5 million of revenue bonds. Competitive.
Florida, Board of Governors, University of Florida, $50 million of revenue bonds. Competitive.
Florida Department of Transportation, $206.7 million of revenue bonds. Competitive.
TUESDAY
East Bay Regional Park District, Calif., $80 million of general obligation bonds. Competitive.
New York Dormitory Authority, $627.7 million of revenue bonds. Competitive.
WEDNESDAY
Alexandria, Va., $63.8 million of general obligation bonds. Competitive.
Virginia Public School Authority, $62.4 million of revenue bonds. Competitive.
THURSDAY
University of Alabama, Board of Trustees, $79.1 million of revenue bonds. Competitive.
ONE DAY DURING THE WEEK
Bexar County, Tex., $350 million of combination tax and revenue certificates of obligation. Loop Capital Markets.
California State University System, $243.8 million of revenue bonds. Bank of America.
Colorado Health Facilities Authority, $62.8 million of revenue bonds. Ziegler.
Columbus-Franklin County Finance Authority, Ohio, $104.4 million of taxable research and development revenue bonds. Ross Sinclaire.
Geisinger Health System, Pa., $284.4 million of taxable bonds. J.P. Morgan Securities.
Grand Parkway Transportation Corporation, Tex., $2.9 billion of toll revenue bonds. Goldman Sachs.
Hope, Calif., $250 million of direction obligation notes. J.P. Morgan Securities.
Illinois Toll Highway Authority, $425 million of toll highway revenue bonds. Goldman Sachs.
Lee County, Fla., $93 million of water and sewer revenue and refinancing bonds. Citigroup Global Markets.
Metropolitan Sewer District of Greater Cincinnati, $300 million of sewer improvement revenue refinancing bonds. Citigroup Global Markets.
Miami-Dade County, Fla., $487.5 million of water and sewer revenue refinancing bonds. Morgan Stanley.
Pennsylvania Turnpike Commission, $265.4 million of variable rate turnpike revenue bonds. Bank of America.
San Antonio, $203.9 million of general improvement bonds and certificates of obligation. Wells Fargo Securities.
San Diego Community College District, $387.7 million of general obligation bonds. RBC Capital Markets.
San Diego Unified School District, $220 million of tax and revenue anticipation notes. Citigroup Global Markets.
San Francisco Airport Commission, $450 million of debt securities. Citigroup Global Markets.
South Carolina Jobs-Economic Development Authority, $274 million of hospital refinancing and improvement revenue bonds. Bank of America.
Sweetwater County, Wyo., $51.9 million of lease revenue bonds. George K. Baum.
Texas Water Development Board, $90.9 million of water finance assistance bonds. Bank of America.
University of Connecticut, $189 million of general obligation bonds. Piper Jaffray.
University of Massachusetts, $80 million of taxable building authority revenue bonds. Wells Fargo Securities.
Wichita, Kan., $83.9 million of taxable revenue bonds. Ziegler.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Schedule

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BONDS (93%); TREASURY SECURITIES (91%); MUNICIPAL BONDS (90%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (90%); AUCTIONS (90%); PUBLIC DEBT (90%); TAXES & TAXATION (90%); WATER SUPPLY UTILITIES (89%); BANKING & FINANCE (89%); TOLL ROADS & TURNPIKES (89%); TAX AUTHORITIES (89%); DEBT FINANCING (78%); SANITATION DISTRICTS (78%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (78%); ENERGY & UTILITY LAW (75%); TAX EXEMPTIONS (75%); UNIVERSITY ADMINISTRATION (75%); COLLEGES & UNIVERSITIES (74%); COMMUNITY COLLEGES (74%); SEWERAGE SYSTEMS (74%); EDUCATION SYSTEMS & INSTITUTIONS (74%); ECONOMIC NEWS (73%); BANKING & FINANCE AGENCIES (73%); SCHOOL DISTRICTS (73%); TAX LAW (70%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (70%); RESEARCH & DEVELOPMENT (69%); PARKS & PLAYGROUNDS (68%); WATER & SEWER SYSTEM CONSTRUCTION (62%)

COMPANY: GOLDMAN SACHS GROUP INC (91%); BANK OF AMERICA CORP (82%); JPMORGAN CHASE & CO (58%); GEISINGER HEALTH SYSTEM (54%); RBC DOMINION SECURITIES INC (51%); RBC WEALTH MANAGEMENT (51%); PIPER JAFFRAY COS (50%)

ORGANIZATION: FLORIDA INTERNATIONAL UNIVERSITY (57%); UNIVERSITY OF FLORIDA (56%); UNIVERSITY OF ALABAMA (55%)

TICKER: GS (NYSE) (91%); BAC (NYSE) (82%); BAC (LSE) (82%); 8648 (TSE) (82%); JPM (NYSE) (58%); JPM (LSE) (58%); 8634 (TSE) (58%); PJC (NYSE) (50%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (91%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (91%); NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (91%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (91%); SIC6289 SERVICES ALLIED WITH THE EXCHANGE OF SECURITIES OR COMMODITIES, NEC (91%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (91%); NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (82%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (82%); SIC6712 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (82%); NAICS523999 MISCELLANEOUS FINANCIAL INVESTMENT ACTIVITIES (58%); SIC6022 STATE COMMERCIAL BANKS (58%); NAICS541611 ADMINISTRATIVE MANAGEMENT & GENERAL MANAGEMENT CONSULTING SERVICES (51%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (51%)

GEOGRAPHIC: SAN ANTONIO, TX, USA (92%); SAN DIEGO, CA, USA (92%); CINCINNATI, OH, USA (79%); MIAMI, FL, USA (79%); COLUMBUS, OH, USA (79%); SAN FRANCISCO BAY AREA, CA, USA (79%); SAN FRANCISCO, CA, USA (79%) FLORIDA, USA (97%); CALIFORNIA, USA (93%); VIRGINIA, USA (92%); TEXAS, USA (92%); OHIO, USA (79%); CONNECTICUT, USA (79%); WYOMING, USA (79%); PENNSYLVANIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (97%)

LOAD-DATE: July 15, 2013



417 of 937 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 15, 2013
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1068 words

HEADLINE: In Battle Over Dell, a Founder Hopes to Reclaim His Legacy

BYLINE: By QUENTIN HARDY

 BODY:
Michael S. Dell is fighting a battle over a company that many say is doomed.
Though his namesake company revolutionized the PC business, it missed the consumer shift to smartphones and tablets, and also missed the move of corporate computing to data centers and cloud-based networks. By trying to take the business private, Mr. Dell, in a sense, is trying to turn back the clock.
''Information technology moves faster than anything -- even the worlds of fashion and retail don't change as much,'' said Jeffrey Sonnenfeld, a professor of management at Yale University who said he had a Dell investment. ''How do you keep the revolution forever young?''
Mr. Dell, 48, declined to be interviewed for this article, saying his lawyers had advised him not to talk to the press before Thursday, when Dell shareholders are to vote on whether to accept Mr. Dell's offer of $13.65 a share, or $24.4 billion, for the company. 
But his friends and advisers say he is trying to protect his legacy.
''This guy has no desire to see his name on a company people think is irrelevant,'' said Marius A. Haas, who runs Dell's sales to big business.
Four years ago, Mr. Haas was working at Hewlett-Packard when Mr. Dell invited him to a recruiting dinner. During the meal, Mr. Haas mentioned a poll of businesses that showed Dell had gone from being ranked second among essential partners to 13th. Mr. Dell, he said, was visibly pained by the news.
''He is so very proud of what he's done,'' Mr. Haas said. ''I asked him what he was going to do about it. He said: 'The name on the building is mine. I am going to see this through.' ''
In this quest, he is opposed by Carl C. Icahn, the onetime corporate raider who has profited in battles over TWA, RJR Nabisco and Motorola, among many others. Mr. Icahn has argued that Mr. Dell is trying to buy the company for less than it is worth, and says Dell should buy back over a billion of its own shares for $14 a share and remake its board.
On Friday, Mr. Icahn sweetened his bid, offering what he said was a package worth $15.50 to $18 a share. ''Dell is a valuable company,'' he said in an interview. ''PCs are changing, but they aren't going away.''
But earlier in the week, a big proxy advisory firm sided with Mr. Dell, saying ''the risk may be less that he's taking all the upside for himself than that he is trying to catch a falling knife.''
Mr. Dell's plan for the company is an echo of how he built it originally, a middle-aged man's return to an idea he had as a 19-year-old.
His insight then was that he could make a healthy profit margin by assembling customized computers for both the business and consumer markets -- allowing the buyer to choose things like how much memory, how big a hard drive and how big a screen. He wants to apply the same principle to modern corporate computing needs, but this time selling the key components of cloud computing -- networking, servers and storage, plus the software to make them work harmoniously.
Dell PCs themselves would most likely have less of a presence in the new company. His plan for mobile devices is unclear.
Mr. Dell says this plan will hurt revenue in the short term, and consequently drive down the stock. This is why, he says, he needs to take Dell private, to overhaul the business without the pressure of meeting quarterly earnings.
Reinventing Dell for the mobile age won't be easy.
''You will see a brutal consolidation in our industry,'' said John T. Chambers, the chief executive of Cisco Systems and another longtime tech executive. ''If Michael doesn't take his company through a transformation, he's like a losing sports team that keeps running the same play. The odds on success are tough.''
He added, ''He is a friend of mine, but I will try to beat him in the market.''
Mr. Dell grew up in Houston, the child of an orthodontist. From an early age, data equaled power: he sold newspaper subscriptions in high school, targeting the newly married or newly moved, and in his first year made $18,000, more money than his economics teacher.
In its early days, and for a while, thanks in part to an enthusiastic embrace of sales made over the Internet, Dell was the biggest PC maker in the world. It now has a market share of less than 12 percent, foiled by Asian competitors like Lenovo and feeling pressure from Asus and Acer.
Mr. Dell gave up the day-to-day running of the company in 2004, but remained its chairman, confident his legacy was secure with his handpicked chief executive. He returned to the company in 2007, after Dell was caught up in an accounting scandal, for which both the company and Mr. Dell personally paid millions in fines.
A year earlier, Dell's reputation for quality, once a hallmark, suffered from Internet videos of Dell laptops spontaneously combusting from bad batteries. The company's sterling reputation for customer service took a blow when those duties were shifted overseas.
Since his return, Mr. Dell has had little to show for the more than $13 billion he has spent on acquisitions to remake Dell, like Quest Software, used for managing data centers, or Force 10, a networking company. The company's stock is worth a quarter of its value in 2000, despite billions more it has spent buying its own shares.
Along the way, Dell executives profited handsomely. Mr. Dell's stock options alone have produced profits of more than $650 million for him.
Now Mr. Dell is worth $15 billion thanks to the company he founded in his college dorm. He has made investments in everything from the nation's largest lawn care company to Applebee's, the family restaurant chain. He runs a charitable foundation, and this year gave $50 million to create the Dell Medical School at the University of Texas at Austin, which he dropped out of to create Dell Computer.
Still, for him, the question is: Will he be remembered as another Bill Hewlett or Dave Packard, who helped build an industry giant that lasted for generations? Or will he and the company he founded be just another reminder that in his fast-moving industry few things last forever?
''We are all prisoners of the worlds we create, and it is incredibly hard to change a company,'' said Marc Benioff, the chief executive of the software provider Salesforce.com and a longtime friend of Mr. Dell. ''Having your name on the computer, seeing it every time you go to the movies, being seen as a world leader at Davos for it, he is incredibly aware of all that.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Michael Dell in 1989 at a Dell plant in Austin, Tex. He was 24. (PHOTOGRAPH BY REBECCA MCENTEE/ASSOCIATED PRESS) (B1)
 Shareholders vote Thursday on Michael Dell's $24.4 billion bid for the company he started. (PHOTOGRAPH BY B MATHUR/REUTERS) (B4) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PERSONAL COMPUTERS (90%); COMPUTING & INFORMATION TECHNOLOGY (78%); TABLET COMPUTERS (78%); BUSINESS EDUCATION (78%); MOBILE & CELLULAR TELEPHONES (77%); SMARTPHONES (77%); INTERVIEWS (74%); SHAREHOLDERS (73%); GOING PRIVATE (71%); LAWYERS (67%); FOOD INDUSTRY (65%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (55%)

COMPANY: HEWLETT-PACKARD CO (90%); MOTOROLA SOLUTIONS INC (52%); KRAFT NABISCO (52%)

ORGANIZATION: YALE UNIVERSITY (57%)

TICKER: HPQ (NYSE) (90%); MSI (NYSE) (52%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS334118 COMPUTER TERMINAL & OTHER COMPUTER PERIPHERAL EQUIPMENT MANUFACTURING (90%); NAICS334220 RADIO & TELEVISION BROADCASTING & WIRELESS COMMUNICATIONS EQUIPMENT MANUFACTURING (52%); SIC3663 RADIO & TELEVISION BROADCASTING & COMMUNICATIONS EQUIPMENT (52%); NAICS311812 COMMERCIAL BAKERIES (52%); SIC2052 COOKIES & CRACKERS (52%)

PERSON: MICHAEL DELL (90%); CARL ICAHN (79%)

GEOGRAPHIC: AUSTIN, TX, USA (59%) TEXAS, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: July 15, 2013



418 of 937 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 15, 2013
The International Herald Tribune

SECTION: Section ; Column 0; Foreign Desk; LETTER FROM WASHINGTON; Pg. 

LENGTH: 1048 words

HEADLINE: Virginia Campaign Could Lift Strategist to Stardom

BYLINE: By ALBERT R. HUNT | BLOOMBERG VIEW

 BODY:
WASHINGTON -- In 1991, Zell Miller, then governor of Georgia and a Democrat, advised his colleague Bill Clinton of Arkansas that there were two guys he needed to run his likely presidential campaign: James Carville and Paul Begala.
''Who are they?'' asked Mr. Clinton, a man well versed in Democratic politics. Even though they had had successes, including Mr. Miller's election, Mr. Carville and Mr. Begala did not become a big deal until they ran Harris Wofford's campaign in a special Pennsylvania Senate election in 1991. It was the signature contest of that off-year election cycle. A month later, Mr. Clinton hired the two young politicos for his successful presidential run. 
This year, the signature race is the Virginia gubernatorial contest. The campaign manager of the Democratic candidate, Terry McAuliffe, is Robby Mook, a 33-year-old political wunderkind. For those who believe history repeats itself, there is chatter that another Clinton -- Hillary -- might turn to him, as the architect of the year's most visible Democratic campaign, to direct her next presidential quest. Mr. Mook worked for her in 2008 but is the sort of fresh, new age, technology-savvy strategist that she lacked at the top of her 2008 campaign.
First he has to win in Virginia, a race that pits Mr. McAuliffe, a prolific Democratic fund-raiser, successful former national party chairman and intimate of the Clintons, against the state's attorney general, Ken Cuccinelli, one the most prominent Republican social conservatives and a Tea Party favorite.
The competing strategies in this close contest are clear. They are trading ethical charges, which is probably a wash with voters. Mr. Cuccinelli is counting on his passionate base among social conservatives. The Virginia electorate that will turn out in November will be older, more white and more evangelical than the voters who helped President Barack Obama carry the once reliable Republican stronghold by four points last year. If the voter profile had replicated that of the last governor's race, in 2009, Mr. Obama would have lost.
''There are a lot more committed voters who will turn out for Ken than there are committed voters who'll turn out for Terry,'' said Chris LaCivita, a leading Cuccinelli adviser.
The Republicans are trying to tie Mr. Obama's record around the Democratic candidate's neck, especially the Affordable Care Act. ''Obamacare is the biggest impediment to job growth in the state,'' Mr. Cuccinelli said in an impromptu interview last week. He was the first to bring a lawsuit against the health care measure (without success).
The attorney general, comfortable his base will turn out, is focusing on jobs and the economy and de-emphasizing his social positions. He has declared that abortion is as bad as slavery and that same-sex relationships violate the laws of nature and could be prosecuted. He is really moving away from E.W. Jackson, the minister chosen by the conservative-dominated Republican state convention to be the party's lieutenant governor nominee. Mr. Jackson has accused Mr. Obama of being a Muslim and an atheist -- a tough trick -- and suggested that yoga could lead to Satanism and that Planned Parenthood had been more harmful to blacks than the Ku Klux Klan.
The Democrats are quick to remind voters of Mr. Cuccinelli's social views. At the same time, Mr. McAuliffe is warming to the debate over jobs and the economy. He is more comfortable than his opponent in talking to business types; he's been shaking them down for campaign funds for decades. He has won the endorsements of leading Republican business figures and prominent former office holders.
In Virginia, ''there is a centrist electorate, including the business community, which does turn out,'' Mr. Mook said. He links Mr. McAuliffe to two popular former Democratic governors and the state's current senators, Mark Warner and Tim Kaine, as well as to the current Republican governor, Bob McDonnell.
''We are capturing the more moderate brand of Warner, Kaine and McDonnell,'' Mr. Mook said.
(The Democratic candidate supported, and the attorney general opposed, Mr. McDonnell's key domestic initiative last year, a huge transportation measure with tax increases. The governor's popularity is dropping, however, amid serious ethical allegations.)
Mr. McAuliffe, strongly associated with the Clintons, is not running away from Mr. Obama. Michelle Obama campaigned for him last month.
And Mr. Mook is making extensive use of the vaunted Obama campaign machine: drawing on personnel, data, software and social media.
''Robby understands modern campaigns, the value of data and technology,'' said David Plouffe, who directed the Obama campaign and is now a Bloomberg Television contributor.
Although they met in person for the first time only last year, Mr. Plouffe has vivid recollections of Mr. Mook. ''He beat us three times; his footprint was on our back,'' he said.
When he was only 28, Mr. Mook ran Mrs. Clinton's 2008 campaigns in Nevada, Ohio and Indiana, all of which, Mr. Plouffe painfully remembers, were victories. ''Our sense was he did the best job of anyone over there,'' Mr. Plouffe said. ''This is a guy with limitless potential.''
After the failed Clinton quest, he ran Jeanne Shaheen's successful campaign to unseat John E. Sununu, the incumbent Republican senator in New Hampshire.
''He's a very smart guy, and I don't think he has any enemies, which is hard in this state,'' said Mike Vlacich, a longtime Shaheen adviser.
Last year, Mr. Mook directed the House Democrats' campaign, gaining eight seats but not control of the chamber.
The young operative is a workaholic who hires top talent, empowers them, understands cutting-edge changes in politics and revels in his craft.
''I love being thrown into a situation, putting together a team, getting a strategy and achieving something,'' Mr. Mook said.
He also works unusually well with candidates. The garrulous and free-wheeling Mr. McAuliffe has been more disciplined this time, staying on message. Invariably, he brings any discussion back to jobs.
If it seems incongruous that a young guy named Robby Mook from Vermont might be the hottest U.S. political strategist, remember that a little over two decades ago even Mr. Clinton was not familiar with a ''Ragin' Cajun'' named Carville.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (92%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); POLITICS (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (90%); GOVERNORS (90%); CONSERVATISM (89%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2012 (89%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (89%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (89%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (89%); ELECTIONS (78%); MIDTERM ELECTIONS (78%); INTERVIEWS (78%); US PRESIDENTS (78%); TEA PARTY MOVEMENT (78%); POLITICAL PARTIES (78%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); CAMPAIGN FINANCE (73%); POLITICAL DONATIONS & FUNDRAISING (73%); FUNDRAISING (72%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (69%); ATTORNEYS GENERAL (69%); OBAMA HEALTH CARE REFORM (67%); US PATIENT PROTECTION & AFFORDABLE CARE ACT (67%); SUITS & CLAIMS (65%); LITIGATION (64%); GAYS & LESBIANS (50%); RELIGION (50%)

PERSON: BILL CLINTON (92%); BARACK OBAMA (78%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: July 15, 2013



419 of 937 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 15, 2013
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; OP-ED COLUMNIST; Pg. 17

LENGTH: 1349 words

HEADLINE: The Bloomberg Legacy

BYLINE: By BILL KELLER

 BODY:
A DOZEN years ago I wrote a column not exactly endorsing Michael Bloomberg for mayor (columnists don't endorse) but endorsing the idea of Michael Bloomberg. If a guy who built a wildly successful business wants to offer his services to the city, I argued, we shouldn't let our prejudice against the rich stand in his way. Since then the idea, the C.E.O. as aspiring public steward, has suffered some setbacks (Mitt Romney, for one), but I feel pretty well vindicated by the mayor. As he would be the first to tell you, he will be a very hard act to follow.
In coming weeks I intend to write occasionally about the race to replace Bloomberg -- a field of a dozen candidates so uninspiring that a former congressman caught tweeting photos of himself with an erection to women he'd never met is near the lead in opinion polls. But let's start by taking stock of the incumbent. 
For better and occasionally for worse, the rarefied experience Bloomberg brought to the job defined his tenure. Most obviously that began with his billions, which allowed him to self-finance his campaigns and remain largely unbeholden to the city's clamoring interest groups. Freed from the obligations of retail politics, he could staff his government with top talent rather than people holding political chits. With a few conspicuous exceptions, he hired people of passion and competence. He invited them to experiment, a rare thing in the risk-averse culture of government, but he held them accountable with obsessive attention to metrics. His City Hall, like his eponymous company, was built on the power of information. The great urban contraption that is New York City government has probably never been so well run.
He was not a model of inclusiveness. Whites are only a third of New York's population, but nonwhites are scarce in Bloomberg's bullpen. He has lived much of his life in a bubble of privilege, and he has an above-it-all demeanor that contributes to a sense, especially in minority and working-class precincts, that he lacks empathy. He can tell you, with a PowerPoint slide to back him up, that the aggressive police practice of stopping and frisking young men of color in tense neighborhoods has saved lives by keeping guns off the streets. He seems not to appreciate that systematic humiliation corrodes the trust between police and entire communities, and that there might be ways to take the edge off. Bloomberg can be stubborn and tone-deaf. He is easier to admire than to love.
At least as important as his wealth and managerial acumen, Bloomberg brought to City Hall a largeness of ambition that makes the candidates for his job (and, frankly, many of his predecessors) loom small by comparison. It's not just a matter of ego; Ed Koch and Rudy Giuliani had plenty of that. It's a mind-set. Before he became associated with Wall Street, Bloomberg studied to be an engineer. Engineering is not just a set of skills. It is an approach to the world, a strategic sensibility different from a politician's. It favors innovative solutions over incremental fixes, calculation over consensus.
Bloomberg's initiatives were not always well sold, but they were never small ball. No one since Robert Moses has so dramatically changed the face of the city. Recognizing that traditional manufacturing was not coming back, Bloomberg poured money into rejuvenating the decrepit waterfront. He restored and expanded parks and other public spaces -- not just landmarks like Central Park and upscale novelties like the High Line. He persuaded the state to cede the city full control of Brooklyn Bridge Park and Governors Island, and played midwife to their rebirth. He rezoned not just plots but neighborhoods -- a quarter of the city! -- promoting growth in transit-rich areas, sustaining local character elsewhere, occasionally putting too much faith in developers but generally imposing order on chaos.
Critics complain that Bloomberg gilded Manhattan to the point where nobody but the affluent can afford it, that the service class was pushed to remote neighborhoods with laborious commutes. There is some truth in that. But as Mitchell Moss, a professor of urban policy at New York University who has been an informal adviser to the mayor, points out, ''New York City needs wealthy people, because we tax them.'' In turn, the people priced out of Manhattan (including young creative types) have brought new life -- and new amenities -- to parts of Brooklyn and Queens. Of eight million New Yorkers, Moss said, ''1.6 million people live on Manhattan. The rest live elsewhere. And we've made elsewhere more attractive.''
Bloomberg recognized early that cities have overtaken national governments as engines of growth and innovation, and that New York competes for talent and investment not just with other American metropolises but with London and Singapore. He has made the city a world leader in sustainability with his devotion to green development and a campaign to get New Yorkers (and as Matt Flegenheimer reported in Sunday's Times, the rest of the world, too) out of their cars. His boldest assault on our asphyxiation by auto -- a congestion pricing plan -- failed in Albany. Instead, he raised the cost of parking, commandeered roadways for high-speed buses, expanded ferry service and made the city more bike-friendly. After last year's superstorm, he commissioned an impressive blueprint for a more resilient city and has begun by rezoning vulnerable areas. ''His response to Sandy at the human level was appalling,'' said Joan Byron, an urban planner who is director of policy at the Pratt Center for Community Development. ''But the infrastructure stuff is brilliant.''
To bolster New York's claim on the future, he has invested in our intellectual infrastructure, too. The planned Cornell applied sciences and engineering campus on Roosevelt Island should strengthen New York's appeal to the tech industry. Shrewdly, he used that project to goad competing universities -- Columbia and N.Y.U. -- to raise their game.
Bloomberg's father-knows-best approach has paid off with saved lives in the realm of public health. We take for granted now that our restaurants and bars and parks are smoke-free, but at one time Bloomberg was demonized as the Smoke Nazi who was going to put every saloon out of business.
The city made it through a brutal recession thanks in large part to federal aid after 9/11 and Sandy, the bailout of the financial industries and a surging stock market. But any fair judge would say that Bloomberg played a significant part in the rebound. A believer in the wisdom of balancing revenue sources, he raised property taxes early on; when the recession shrank income-tax revenues, property taxes kept us afloat. He has bequeathed his successor a potential fiscal crisis in the surging cost of public-sector benefits, but he has also left a city better positioned to cope than, say, Los Angeles or Chicago.
''He was a very prudent custodian of the city's finances,'' said John Mollenkopf, director of the CUNY Center for Urban Research. ''He didn't just luck out.''
Bloomberg's most consequential and controversial unfinished business is the public school system. He set the schools on a hopeful course: stabilizing the system under mayoral control, raising and enforcing standards, giving parents more options, among them charter schools that actually work. There is much more to do. Schools are the work of a generation, not an administration. Bloomberg's great achievement was taking on the prevailing defeatist view that urban schools were unfixable.
The mayor's third term, which began with a broken term-limits promise that many New Yorkers have not forgiven, was less successful than his first two, and it felt less successful than it actually was because the city has developed a bit of Bloomberg fatigue. By now, many New Yorkers are ready for a little more consensus, a little less lecturing, a little more attention to those at the bottom. But Bloomberg leaves behind a great 21st-century city, a dauntingly high bar for his successor and a pretty good argument for noblesse oblige.

GRAPHIC: DRAWING (DRAWING BY NICHOLAS BLECHMAN) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); CITIES (89%); MAYORS (89%); CITY GOVERNMENT (89%); WRITERS (78%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (78%); MEN (77%); POLITICS (74%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (73%); POLLS & SURVEYS (54%)

PERSON: MICHAEL BLOOMBERG (91%); MITT ROMNEY (79%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%) NEW YORK, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: July 15, 2013



420 of 937 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 15, 2013
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; OP-ED COLUMNIST; Pg. 17

LENGTH: 802 words

HEADLINE: Hunger Games, U.S.A.

BYLINE: By PAUL KRUGMAN

 BODY:
Something terrible has happened to the soul of the Republican Party. We've gone beyond bad economic doctrine. We've even gone beyond selfishness and special interests. At this point we're talking about a state of mind that takes positive glee in inflicting further suffering on the already miserable.
The occasion for these observations is, as you may have guessed, the monstrous farm bill the House passed last week. 
For decades, farm bills have had two major pieces. One piece offers subsidies to farmers; the other offers nutritional aid to Americans in distress, mainly in the form of food stamps (these days officially known as the Supplemental Nutrition Assistance Program, or SNAP).
Long ago, when subsidies helped many poor farmers, you could defend the whole package as a form of support for those in need. Over the years, however, the two pieces diverged. Farm subsidies became a fraud-ridden program that mainly benefits corporations and wealthy individuals. Meanwhile food stamps became a crucial part of the social safety net.
So House Republicans voted to maintain farm subsidies -- at a higher level than either the Senate or the White House proposed -- while completely eliminating food stamps from the bill.
To fully appreciate what just went down, listen to the rhetoric conservatives often use to justify eliminating safety-net programs. It goes something like this: ''You're personally free to help the poor. But the government has no right to take people's money'' -- frequently, at this point, they add the words ''at the point of a gun'' -- ''and force them to give it to the poor.''
It is, however, apparently perfectly O.K. to take people's money at the point of a gun and force them to give it to agribusinesses and the wealthy.
Now, some enemies of food stamps don't quote libertarian philosophy; they quote the Bible instead. Representative Stephen Fincher of Tennessee, for example, cited the New Testament: ''The one who is unwilling to work shall not eat.'' Sure enough, it turns out that Mr. Fincher has personally received millions in farm subsidies.
Given this awesome double standard -- I don't think the word ''hypocrisy'' does it justice -- it seems almost anti-climactic to talk about facts and figures. But I guess we must.
So: Food stamp usage has indeed soared in recent years, with the percentage of the population receiving stamps rising from 8.7 in 2007 to 15.2 in the most recent data. There is, however, no mystery here. SNAP is supposed to help families in distress, and lately a lot of families have been in distress.
In fact, SNAP usage tends to track broad measures of unemployment, like U6, which includes the underemployed and workers who have temporarily given up active job search. And U6 more than doubled in the crisis, from about 8 percent before the Great Recession to 17 percent in early 2010. It's true that broad unemployment has since declined slightly, while food stamp numbers have continued to rise -- but there's normally some lag in the relationship, and it's probably also true that some families have been forced to take food stamps by sharp cuts in unemployment benefits.
What about the theory, common on the right, that it's the other way around -- that we have so much unemployment thanks to government programs that, in effect, pay people not to work? (Soup kitchens caused the Great Depression!) The basic answer is, you have to be kidding. Do you really believe that Americans are living lives of leisure on $134 a month, the average SNAP benefit?
Still, let's pretend to take this seriously. If employment is down because government aid is inducing people to stay home, reducing the labor force, then the law of supply and demand should apply: withdrawing all those workers should be causing labor shortages and rising wages, especially among the low-paid workers most likely to receive aid. In reality, of course, wages are stagnant or declining -- and that's especially true for the groups that benefit most from food stamps.
So what's going on here? Is it just racism? No doubt the old racist canards -- like Ronald Reagan's image of the ''strapping young buck'' using food stamps to buy a T-bone steak -- still have some traction. But these days almost half of food stamp recipients are non-Hispanic whites; in Tennessee, home of the Bible-quoting Mr. Fincher, the number is 63 percent. So it's not all about race.
What is it about, then? Somehow, one of our nation's two great parties has become infected by an almost pathological meanspiritedness, a contempt for what CNBC's Rick Santelli, in the famous rant that launched the Tea Party, called ''losers.'' If you're an American, and you're down on your luck, these people don't want to help; they want to give you an extra kick. I don't fully understand it, but it's a terrible thing to behold.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: AGRICULTURAL SUBSIDIES (92%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); CONSERVATISM (78%); POLITICS (78%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (77%); FARMERS & RANCHERS (76%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (72%); UPPER INCOME PERSONS (72%); AGRICULTURE (70%); AFFLUENT MARKET (67%); BIBLE & CHRISTIAN TEXTS (61%); RELIGION (61%)

PERSON: STEPHEN FINCHER (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: July 15, 2013



421 of 937 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 15, 2013
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; DEALBOOK; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1373 words

HEADLINE: For Trader, A Global Education Before a Trial

BYLINE: By SUSANNE CRAIG and BEN PROTESS

 BODY:
Fabrice P. Tourre is best known as ''Fabulous Fab,'' the former Goldman Sachs trader whose e-mails about the mortgage crisis became a symbol of Wall Street hubris and will now highlight the government's case against him. As the economy was on the brink of collapse, e-mails show Mr. Tourre joked to a girlfriend that he sold toxic real estate bonds to ''widows and orphans.''
But an inner circle of friends knows Mr. Tourre from very different dispatches -- e-mail updates he sent from Africa during a stint as a volunteer. It was there that ''Fabulous Fab,'' a nickname he earned from a friend in New York, became known simply as ''Breezy.''
''Rwandan coffee yields have significant room for improvements,'' he wrote in a March 2011 message to friends, describing his adventure a world away from Wall Street. ''Plenty of ideas and projects to focus on, with the ultimate goal to improve coffee farmers' income and living conditions!'' 
The e-mail, reviewed by The New York Times, provides a rare glimpse into Mr. Tourre's life after Goldman, and after the Securities and Exchange Commission accused him of misleading investors about a mortgage security that ultimately failed. After his trip to Africa, Mr. Tourre enrolled in an economics doctoral program at the University of Chicago, where professors described him as a ''standout'' whom they selected as a teaching assistant for more junior students.
Mr. Tourre's character will come into focus when his trial opens Monday in a federal courtroom in Lower Manhattan. The human elements of the case, which could be spotlighted when Mr. Tourre takes the witness stand, might sway a jury otherwise bogged down in the minutiae of high finance.
While Mr. Tourre's time in Rwanda is unlikely to play a role in the trial, he may nonetheless come across as a dynamic professional. Working in his favor, he has already calmly faced a Senate committee. He speaks slowly, the hearing showed, careful to enunciate. Still, jurors may view him as another ambitious Wall Streeter, one with a distinctly foreign accent.
In what is considered the most prominent case stemming from the financial crisis, the S.E.C. is expected to paint Mr. Tourre as a brash up-and-comer at Goldman, willing to sell investors products that were sure to fail. Mr. Tourre's lawyers, in contrast, could try to portray their client as a bit player in the crisis -- a midlevel 28-year-old trader at the time of his actions -- who has dedicated his time since Goldman to worthy causes and a life of the mind.
''Fabrice Tourre has done nothing wrong,'' his lawyers, Pamela Chepiga and Sean Coffey, said in a statement. ''He is confident that when all the evidence is considered, the jury will soundly reject the S.E.C.'s charge.''
Goldman was charged alongside Mr. Tourre, but chose to settle, paying what was at the time a record $550 million penalty, without admitting or denying guilt. That left Mr. Tourre to tackle the S.E.C. alone, though with Goldman's resources financing his fight. Mr. Tourre no longer works for Goldman.
On the eve of trial, people close to Mr. Tourre say he remains calm. Douglas C. Weaver, a former Goldman executive who once supervised Mr. Tourre and had dinner with his former colleague a few months ago, said Mr. Tourre appeared upbeat.
''He is dealing with it fairly well,'' he said. ''He doesn't feel he did anything wrong.'' Mr. Weaver added, however, that the charges had upended Mr. Tourre's life.
Mr. Tourre, now 34, was raised in a suburb of Paris, and went on to earn a degree in mathematics from the École Centrale Paris.
He first came to the United States in 1999, at age 20, taking a summer internship in Hamilton, Ohio, as a production worker on an assembly line producing heater cores and air-conditioning units for the French car-part manufacturer Valeo. He then attended Stanford, where he received a master's degree in management science and engineering.
After college, he landed a summer intern spot at Goldman, a hypercompetitive program that leads to a full-time job for a select few. Mr. Tourre, among the survivors, began in Goldman's corporate credit department, where he started out securitizing, or packaging and reselling, auto loans. He later moved into a troubleshooting role for financial institutions with soured loan portfolios.
Within the firm, Mr. Tourre was known as a statistical wizard. One former co-worker, who spoke on the condition of anonymity because of a Goldman policy against speaking to the media, described Mr. Tourre as an ''analytical nerd.''
In 2004, Mr. Tourre landed a job in Goldman's mortgage department, then a thriving unit of the bank, and a year later was making enough money to afford a $3,250-a-month apartment in Manhattan's West Village. In the mortgage unit, Mr. Tourre was tasked with creating synthetic collateralized debt obligations, or C.D.O.'s.
It was a big business on Wall Street. From 2005 through 2007, at least $1.03 trillion in C.D.O.'s were issued, according to Dealogic, a financial data firm. Goldman, during this period, was the sixth-largest issuer in the world.
A C.D.O., in essence, compiles a package of mortgage-backed bonds into one deal for investors to buy. A synthetic version of a C.D.O. is one that, rather than selling securities with the actual bonds, is arranged through an insurance contract that is linked to the bonds' performance. One investor bets the bonds will fail; another bets they will succeed.
It was one of these deals that landed Mr. Tourre on the S.E.C.'s radar.
The agency's case centers on the contention that in 2007 Mr. Tourre and Goldman sold investors a synthetic C.D.O. known as Abacus, while omitting a crucial fact: a hedge fund run by the billionaire John A. Paulson helped construct Abacus and then bet against it. When the mortgage market soured, a handful of sophisticated investors lost more than $1 billion on the deal.
Mr. Tourre's defense team will counter that synthetic C.D.O.'s required someone to bet on a decline in value, a fact well known to the marketplace. The lawyers will argue that investors on both sides of the deal -- those betting for and against it -- knew what it contained.
In early 2011, after the S.E.C. announced its case, Mr. Tourre arrived in Kigali, Rwanda's capital, with the task of creating business plans for local farmers. He would walk a dirt road to work, one roommate recalled, and was often the last to leave the office.
On weekends, the roommate said, Mr. Tourre would play in a local soccer game. Other times, he would watch European soccer at a bar, kicking back with a Mützig beer, a favorite, and meat brochettes.
Not unlike his tenure at Goldman, in Africa Mr. Tourre appeared to have a knack for innovation, except there it was in farming. The March 2011 e-mail to friends describes technology developments for Rwandan farmers, like using ''spy-like chips'' hidden in coffee beans to track whether crops are being stolen.
His e-mail to friends is also laden with exclamation points, a hallmark of his infamous Goldman missives. In describing a trip to Rwanda's stock exchange, he recalled arriving on ''the trading floor of the exchange on a Friday morning, in the middle of the trading day, to see ... nobody!'' The scarcity of people, he said, stemmed from the lack of local companies listing their shares. ''The visit was a great experience over all, as it is rather unique to witness the birth of local capital markets.''
When he left Rwanda that July, Mr. Tourre returned to the United States to enter the Ph.D. program at the University of Chicago. He also joined an intramural soccer team there, the Bootstrappers, until an Achilles' tendon injury that required surgery sidelined him for a period of time.
As with many of the people who met him in Chicago, Nancy L. Stokey, an economics professor, initially had no idea of Mr. Tourre's legal woes. She found out only after he had served as a teaching assistant in one of her undergraduate classes. ''He was one of my best students,'' she said.
Robert Shimer, another of Mr. Tourre's economics professors, agreed. ''He's someone who, if he continues on the same track, is going to be one of our top job market candidates.''
This is a more complete version of the story than the one that appeared in print.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Snapshots from Fabrice Tourre's orbit, from top: Goldman Sachs's Fleet Street office, where he worked
a Senate hearing in Washington
he grew up near Paris
the University of Chicago, where he is in a doctoral program
and Rwanda, where he advised coffee farmers. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY PETER MacDIARMID/ GETTY IMAGES
BRENDAN SMIALOWSKI FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES
MIGUEL MEDINA/ A.F.P. -- GETTY IMAGES
SALLY RYAN FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES
GIANLUIGI GUERCIA FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) (B1)
 Fabrice Tourre was a midlevel 28-year-old Goldman Sachs executive at the time of his actions. Goldman settled its case. (PHOTOGRAPH BY MIKE SEGAR/REUTERS) (B6) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ELECTRONIC MAIL (90%); CREDIT CRISIS (90%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (89%); JURY TRIALS (86%); BANKING & FINANCE (78%); REAL ESTATE (78%); BONDS (78%); LAWYERS (77%); WITNESSES (77%); AGRICULTURAL INCOME (72%); TESTIMONY (70%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (69%); GRADUATE & PROFESSIONAL SCHOOLS (69%); COFFEE (68%); COFFEE FARMING (68%)

COMPANY: GOLDMAN SACHS GROUP INC (58%)

ORGANIZATION: UNIVERSITY OF CHICAGO (82%); SECURITIES & EXCHANGE COMMISSION (55%)

TICKER: GS (NYSE) (58%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (58%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (58%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (58%); SIC6289 SERVICES ALLIED WITH THE EXCHANGE OF SECURITIES OR COMMODITIES, NEC (58%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (58%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (58%)

PERSON: FABRICE P TOURRE (92%)

GEOGRAPHIC: CHICAGO, IL, USA (86%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%) ILLINOIS, USA (86%); NEW YORK, USA (79%) RWANDA (93%); AFRICA (90%); UNITED STATES (86%)

LOAD-DATE: July 15, 2013



422 of 937 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 15, 2013
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section D; Column 0; Sports Desk; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 876 words

HEADLINE: European Tour, Expanding but Short on Cash, Is at Crossroads

BYLINE: By KAREN CROUSE

 BODY:
GULLANE, Scotland -- Muirfield is where the first official rules of golf were composed, predating the 2013 decision to ban the anchored stroke by 269 years. Britain is fertile soil for golf, its tilled territories producing seven members of Europe's victorious 2012 Ryder Cup team and six players in the world top 20, including two of the top three.
The European Tour, which served as the launching pad for the likes of second-ranked Rory McIlroy, No. 3 Justin Rose, No. 4 Adam Scott and No. 6 Graeme McDowell, should be basking in the rays of a glorious sun no matter how the mercurial Scottish summer treats the golfers at this week's 142nd British Open. 
And yet, as the best players on the planet converge on Muirfield Golf Club, a cold economic wind has sent chills through the European Tour. Its 2013 schedule features one event in England, down from five (the British Open included) in 2006.
There is one event in Spain, six fewer than two years ago. The Irish Open was held last month with no title sponsor, and the field for the Scottish Open, won Sunday by Phil Mickelson, contained only 2 of the world's top 25 players.
The circuit is at a crossroads. Its pool of skilled players is deeper than would-be sponsors' pockets, leading to a drain of talent to the PGA Tour, where the purses are bigger, the travel demands are lighter, and every course is ready for its close-up.
The exporting of the European Tour's higher-profile players is making room for the importing of promising young Americans like Peter Uihlein and Brooks Koepka, who have turned to Europe to expand their horizons and their games after failing to earn their PGA Tour playing privileges.
The trickle from America could become a stream now that the top finishers at the PGA Tour's qualifying school are fast-tracked to the Web.com tour, a level below the PGA Tour.
''Hopefully we can capitalize and hopefully start to pinch a few top young American players,'' said McDowell, a winner this year on both the European and PGA Tours. ''That would be fantastic if they came over here and support us and we get players like Peter.''
The infusion of new blood is not limited to American post-collegians. An era ended when the septuagenarian Neil Coles, a former standout player who was instrumental in the growth of the European Tour during his 35-year tenure as the chairman of its board, stepped down in May, paving the way to remake the board and to reimagine the possibilities.
''You have huge opportunities,'' said the Englishman Paul Casey, who plays on both the European and PGA Tours. He added, ''I would be filling the board with leaders of industry, political figures, marketing geniuses from all elements, people who are global, because this tournament is not European anymore.''
McDowell, from Northern Ireland, said the European Tour, which has spread to the Middle East, South Africa and Asia, should emulate the California and Florida swings on the PGA Tour and bundle big-purse competitions at high-end courses around its cornerstone events, the BMW PGA Championship and the British Open.
McDowell said he was part of a group of roughly a dozen players who gathered in May on the Tuesday of the BMW Championship at Wentworth, England, to brainstorm strategies for strengthening the European Tour.
''I'm not going to sit here and be a hypocrite,'' McDowell said. ''I'm playing my minimum on the European Tour this year for the first time in my career. Not something I'm particularly proud of.'' But he added: ''It's tough to compete against $7, $8 million purses week in, week out. The European Tour is struggling, we know that, and as players we are trying to come up with a strategy to help combat that and really start getting some big, big events back on the schedule.''
The week after the Masters, McDowell won the Heritage at Harbour Town Golf Links in South Carolina in a playoff against Webb Simpson. He took home $1,044,000. Luke Donald and Kevin Streelman, who tied for third, earned roughly $10,000 more than Raphael Jacquelin, who collected 250,000 euros (about $326,500) for his playoff victory in the concurrent European Tour event in Spain.
McDowell pointed to the Scottish Open, which he counts among his 12 career worldwide wins, to explain the forces compounding the tour's financial shortfall. He suggested the tournament lost its identity -- and prestige -- when it relocated two years ago from Loch Lomond to Castle Stuart in Inverness.
''I just think there's an opportunity to have a big-money event the week before the Open Championship on a quality links golf course, whether that be in Ireland or Scotland,'' McDowell said during last month's Irish Open. ''I think it's a no-brainer.''
Paul Lawrie, a Scot who was a teammate of McDowell's on last year's Ryder Cup squad, begged to differ, telling The Herald of Scotland, ''Everyone is entitled to their opinions but they were poor comments.''
Lawrie, the 1999 British Open champion, added, ''My answer to what he said would simply be that the Scottish Open has a title sponsor, it's got more money than Graeme's national Open and it's played on a links course.''
McDowell moved to thaw the chill by issuing an apology, but the frost in Lawrie's words glazed over the picture of a European Tour unified in its vision.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Graeme McDowell, left, criticized the relocation of the Scottish Open. Paul Lawrie of Scotland then criticized McDowell. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY BRENDAN SMIALOWSKI/AGENCE FRANCE-PRESSE -- GETTY IMAGES
 ANDREW REDINGTON/GETTY IMAGES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: GOLF (92%); GOLF TOURNAMENTS (90%); SPORTS AWARDS (90%); SPORTS SPONSORSHIP (78%); SPONSORSHIP (77%); RANKINGS (76%); IMPORT TRADE (76%)

COMPANY: WEB.COM INC (52%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS518210 DATA PROCESSING, HOSTING & RELATED SERVICES (52%); SIC7374 COMPUTER PROCESSING & DATA PREPARATION & PROCESSING SERVICES (52%)

PERSON: PHIL MICKELSON (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: SCOTLAND (95%); EUROPE (94%); UNITED STATES (90%); ENGLAND (79%); SPAIN (79%); UNITED KINGDOM (79%)

LOAD-DATE: July 16, 2013



423 of 937 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 15, 2013
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section D; Column 0; Sports Desk; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 876 words

HEADLINE: European Tour, Expanding but Short on Cash, Is at Crossroads

BYLINE: By KAREN CROUSE

 BODY:
GULLANE, Scotland -- Muirfield is where the first official rules of golf were composed, predating the 2013 decision to ban the anchored stroke by 269 years. Britain is fertile soil for golf, its tilled territories producing seven members of Europe's victorious 2012 Ryder Cup team and six players in the world top 20, including two of the top three.
The European Tour, which served as the launching pad for the likes of second-ranked Rory McIlroy, No. 3 Justin Rose, No. 4 Adam Scott and No. 6 Graeme McDowell, should be basking in the rays of a glorious sun no matter how the mercurial Scottish summer treats the golfers at this week's 142nd British Open. 
And yet, as the best players on the planet converge on Muirfield Golf Club, a cold economic wind has sent chills through the European Tour. Its 2013 schedule features one event in England, down from five (the British Open included) in 2006.
There is one event in Spain, six fewer than two years ago. The Irish Open was held last month with no title sponsor, and the field for the Scottish Open, won Sunday by Phil Mickelson, contained only 2 of the world's top 25 players.
The circuit is at a crossroads. Its pool of skilled players is deeper than would-be sponsors' pockets, leading to a drain of talent to the PGA Tour, where the purses are bigger, the travel demands are lighter, and every course is ready for its close-up.
The exporting of the European Tour's higher-profile players is making room for the importing of promising young Americans like Peter Uihlein and Brooks Koepka, who have turned to Europe to expand their horizons and their games after failing to earn their PGA Tour playing privileges.
The trickle from America could become a stream now that the top finishers at the PGA Tour's qualifying school are fast-tracked to the Web.com tour, a level below the PGA Tour.
''Hopefully we can capitalize and hopefully start to pinch a few top young American players,'' said McDowell, a winner this year on both the European and PGA Tours. ''That would be fantastic if they came over here and support us and we get players like Peter.''
The infusion of new blood is not limited to American post-collegians. An era ended when the septuagenarian Neil Coles, a former standout player who was instrumental in the growth of the European Tour during his 35-year tenure as the chairman of its board, stepped down in May, paving the way to remake the board and to reimagine the possibilities.
''You have huge opportunities,'' said the Englishman Paul Casey, who plays on both the European and PGA Tours. He added, ''I would be filling the board with leaders of industry, political figures, marketing geniuses from all elements, people who are global, because this tournament is not European anymore.''
McDowell, from Northern Ireland, said the European Tour, which has spread to the Middle East, South Africa and Asia, should emulate the California and Florida swings on the PGA Tour and bundle big-purse competitions at high-end courses around its cornerstone events, the BMW PGA Championship and the British Open.
McDowell said he was part of a group of roughly a dozen players who gathered in May on the Tuesday of the BMW Championship at Wentworth, England, to brainstorm strategies for strengthening the European Tour.
''I'm not going to sit here and be a hypocrite,'' McDowell said. ''I'm playing my minimum on the European Tour this year for the first time in my career. Not something I'm particularly proud of.'' But he added: ''It's tough to compete against $7, $8 million purses week in, week out. The European Tour is struggling, we know that, and as players we are trying to come up with a strategy to help combat that and really start getting some big, big events back on the schedule.''
The week after the Masters, McDowell won the Heritage at Harbour Town Golf Links in South Carolina in a playoff against Webb Simpson. He took home $1,044,000. Luke Donald and Kevin Streelman, who tied for third, earned roughly $10,000 more than Raphael Jacquelin, who collected 250,000 euros (about $326,500) for his playoff victory in the concurrent European Tour event in Spain.
McDowell pointed to the Scottish Open, which he counts among his 12 career worldwide wins, to explain the forces compounding the tour's financial shortfall. He suggested the tournament lost its identity -- and prestige -- when it relocated two years ago from Loch Lomond to Castle Stuart in Inverness.
''I just think there's an opportunity to have a big-money event the week before the Open Championship on a quality links golf course, whether that be in Ireland or Scotland,'' McDowell said during last month's Irish Open. ''I think it's a no-brainer.''
Paul Lawrie, a Scot who was a teammate of McDowell's on last year's Ryder Cup squad, begged to differ, telling The Herald of Scotland, ''Everyone is entitled to their opinions but they were poor comments.''
Lawrie, the 1999 British Open champion, added, ''My answer to what he said would simply be that the Scottish Open has a title sponsor, it's got more money than Graeme's national Open and it's played on a links course.''
McDowell moved to thaw the chill by issuing an apology, but the frost in Lawrie's words glazed over the picture of a European Tour unified in its vision.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Graeme McDowell, left, criticized the relocation of the Scottish Open. Paul Lawrie of Scotland then criticized McDowell. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY BRENDAN SMIALOWSKI/AGENCE FRANCE-PRESSE -- GETTY IMAGES
 ANDREW REDINGTON/GETTY IMAGES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Correction

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: GOLF (92%); GOLF TOURNAMENTS (90%); SPORTS AWARDS (90%); SPORTS SPONSORSHIP (78%); SPONSORSHIP (77%); RANKINGS (76%); IMPORT TRADE (76%)

COMPANY: WEB.COM INC (52%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS518210 DATA PROCESSING, HOSTING & RELATED SERVICES (52%); SIC7374 COMPUTER PROCESSING & DATA PREPARATION & PROCESSING SERVICES (52%)

PERSON: PHIL MICKELSON (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: SCOTLAND (95%); EUROPE (94%); UNITED STATES (90%); ENGLAND (79%); SPAIN (79%); UNITED KINGDOM (79%)

LOAD-DATE: July 16, 2013



424 of 937 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(Economix)

PUB-DATE: July 15, 2013

SECTION: BUSINESS; economy

LENGTH: 967 words

HEADLINE: Let Your Rich Uncle Pay for College

BYLINE: NANCY FOLBRE


HIGHLIGHT: New approaches to college lending may increase opportunity and reduce inequality, but are still not as egalitarian as a publicly financed educational system, an economist writes. 

 BODY:
Nancy Folbre is an economics professor at the University of Massachusetts, Amherst. 
If you borrow money to go to college, you should be able to pay it back from your higher post-graduation income. Rather than a loan, you could offer an equity investment - a share of your future earnings. 
Most education in modern economies is financed either through debt or equity. The big issue is who's making the investment and on what terms. 
The Oregon state legislature dramatized this issue with its decision to develop a pilot program to eliminate tuition and fees for students in the state university system who agree to pay about 3 percent of their income for the next 20 years to help finance the education of future students. 
The "pay it forward" scheme, proposed by students at Portland State University and building on a model developed by the Economic Opportunity Institute, has re-energized debate over ways of alleviating the burden of student debt. As it happens, the Oregon legislature voted to pursue it on the same day that federal student loan interest rates doubled to 6.8 percent from 3.4 percent.

Would you be better off paying 3 percent of your income for 20 years, or 6.8 percent on a specific loan amount? The answer depends both on your projected income and the amount you need to borrow. In general, students from low- and middle-income families would fare better than students from rich families under the Oregon plan, because they are more dependent on loans to pay for college. 
The Oregon plan would improve educational opportunity and reduce income inequality, raising more payback money from high earners than low earners. Yet it is less egalitarian than the largely free public university system that once existed in the United States and currently survives in countries including Denmark, Sweden and Norway. 
Subsidized public higher education is also based on a "pay it forward" principle. College graduates are expected to earn more and, as a result, pay more in income and other taxes over their lifetime. The reciprocity is just less direct. Instead of helping pay only for future college students, graduates help reimburse all past taxpayers - including the older generation - for the taxes they invested in previous years. 
At the other end of the spectrum, "human-capital contracts" can be fully privatized, with students offering investors a share of their prospective earnings in return for an upfront investment. This model, originally suggested by Milton Friedman, developed in some detail by Miguel Palacios of the Cato Institute and advocated by Luigi Zingales in a commentary in The New York Times, was put into practice by a student-loan company called My Rich Uncle about 10 years ago.
Both socialized and individualized human-capital contracts help solve an important problem, increasing productive investments and contributing to economic growth. Yet neither type of contract is foolproof. 
Critics of public investment in higher education often contend that it is inefficient, because it subsidizes students who goof off along with those who indulge in the development of skills with little market payoff - such as theater arts. Public subsidies can also have the effect of reducing pressure on providers of higher education to cut costs or to encourage students to develop job-specific skills. 
Advocates of public investment in higher education assert that there are compensating benefits. They often couch their arguments in terms of political rights to educational access and enhanced equality of opportunity. These political rights have economic consequences. Students develop general skills in college that don't necessarily pay off in higher wages but may nonetheless generate tangible benefits for themselves and others. College graduates may become better informed citizens, more successful parents and more creative members of society. 
Some students who may not seem like a good bet either for private investors or public taxpayers at age 18 can be transformed by their college experience. 
It's pretty hard to assign a specific value to their human capital, however you define it. 
The lifetime payoff to a college degree depends on many factors other than individual effort or choice of major, including global supply and demand for educated workers, and a business cycle that economists don't fully understand.
On the Marginal Revolution Web site, Tyler Cowen registers his skepticism with the Oregon model, suggesting it would suffer from adverse selection: "At the margin I would expect this to attract people who don't have a vivid image of the distant future." 
But if everyone's vision of the distant future is blurred, public investment in human capital becomes especially important. The large number of students taking part in the payback scheme pools risk and provides more effective insurance against unanticipated declines in earnings. 
This insurance helps encourage human capital investment. As the Economic Opportunity Institute report points out, "pay it forward" systems in Australia and Britain have contributed to increased college enrollments there. 
Do you doubt the significance of risks to private investments in human capital? Consider that the lending enterprise known as My Rich Uncle declared bankruptcy in 2009, exercising a legal privilege of getting out from under its obligations that most student debtors are denied. 
Students who don't have a family member or other angel investor willing to finance their college education might consider moving to Oregon. Or, they could start organizing to win more generous support from their Uncle Sam. 

        
Who Frets Most About Student Debt
        
The Perils of Significant Misunderstandings in Evaluating Medicaid
        
Getting More Bang for the Buck in Higher Education
        
Mortgaged Diplomas
        
Keynes and Keynesianism

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (91%); COLLEGES & UNIVERSITIES (90%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (90%); BUSINESS EDUCATION (90%); STUDENT LOANS (90%); STUDENT EXPENSES (90%); EDUCATION SYSTEMS & INSTITUTIONS (90%); COLLEGE STUDENTS (89%); LOW INCOME PERSONS (89%); STUDENT FINANCIAL AID (89%); COMPANY EARNINGS (89%); DAMAGES (78%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (78%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (78%); TUITION FEES (78%); INCOME DISTRIBUTION (78%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (78%); FAMILY (78%); EDUCATION FUNDING (78%); UPPER INCOME PERSONS (77%); MIDDLE INCOME PERSONS (77%); INCOME TAX (77%); PRIVATIZATION (77%); PERSONAL DEBT (76%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (75%); RESEARCH INSTITUTES (73%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (73%); INTEREST RATES (52%); ECONOMIC NEWS (52%) Friedman, Milton; Oregon; Portland State University; Student Loans; Today's Economist

ORGANIZATION: Portland State University

PERSON: Friedman, Milton

GEOGRAPHIC: PORTLAND, OR, USA (90%) OREGON, USA (95%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (95%); NORWAY (79%); DENMARK (53%); NORDIC COUNTRIES (53%) Oregon

LOAD-DATE: July 15, 2013



425 of 937 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(DealBook)

PUB-DATE: July 15, 2013

SECTION: BUSINESS

LENGTH: 2062 words

HEADLINE: Morning Agenda: Where Tourre Is Known as 'Breezy'

BYLINE: WILLIAM ALDEN


HIGHLIGHT: A different side of Fabrice P. Tourre emerged in a stint in Africa as a volunteer. | There was one number JPMorgan Chase&#8217;s chief financial officer seemed to not want to reveal. | AT&#038;T gets back into the merger hunt. | Michael S. Dell&#8217;s fight to take Dell private is an effort to turn back the clock. 

 BODY:
Fabrice P. Tourre is best known as Fabulous Fab, the former Goldman Sachs trader whose e-mails about the mortgage crisis became a symbol of Wall Street hubris and will now highlight the government's case against him, Susanne Craig and Ben Protess write in DealBook. Mr. Tourre's trial opens on Monday in a federal courtroom in Lower Manhattan.
But an inner circle of friends knows Mr. Tourre from a different set of dispatches - e-mail updates he sent from Africa during a stint as a volunteer. It was in Rwanda that Mr. Tourre became known simply by the nickname Breezy. "Rwandan coffee yields have significant room for improvements," he wrote in a March 2011 message to friends, describing his adventure a world away from Wall Street. "Plenty of ideas and projects to focus on, with the ultimate goal to improve coffee farmers' income and living conditions!" 
The e-mail provides a rare glimpse into Mr. Tourre's life after Goldman, and after the Securities and Exchange Commission accused him of misleading investors about a mortgage security that ultimately failed, Ms. Craig and Mr. Protess write. After going to Africa, Mr. Tourre enrolled in an economics doctoral program at the University of Chicago, where professors described him as a "standout." Mr. Tourre's character will come into focus in the trial; the human elements of the case might sway a jury bogged down in the minutiae of high finance.
QUESTIONS ON JPMORGAN'S CAPITAL | On a conference call on Friday, there was one number that JPMorgan Chase's chief financial officer, Marianne Lake, seemed to not want to reveal, DealBook's Peter Eavis writes. The call came after regulators proposed a new leverage ratio rule, in an effort to get large banks to hold capital that meets a certain percentage of assets, plus other risks embedded in their balance sheets. At the JPMorgan parent company, the leverage ratio would effectively have to be 5 percent, while regulators want the ratio to be 6 percent at the banking subsidiaries that are covered by federal deposit insurance, Mr. Eavis writes.
JPMorgan Chase estimated on Friday that it was already close to meeting the 5 percent requirement at its holding company, saying it had enough capital to get to a 4.7 percent leverage ratio there. "Naturally, analysts also wanted to know whether JPMorgan Chase's deposit-gathering subsidiaries, which are far larger than the holding company, were close to meeting the 6 percent requirement," Mr. Eavis writes. But Ms. Lake said she would not disclose the bank leverage ratio, adding that it was lower than at the holding company.
AT&T'S DEAL FOR LEAP WIRELESS | AT&T, thwarted by regulators nearly two years ago on a planned $39 billion acquisition of T-Mobile USA, is back in the merger hunt, albeit with a much smaller target. The company said on Friday that it had agreed to acquire a smaller rival, Leap Wireless International, for nearly $1.2 billion, the latest sign of consolidation in the telecommunications industry. AT&T is paying $15 a share in cash for Leap, a prepaid cellphone service provider, about 88 percent above Leap's closing price on Friday. Under the terms of the deal, AT&T would gain five million new customers and acquire Leap's network, licenses and retail stores. Leap had $2.8 billion of net debt on April 15.
The deal comes after months of speculation about the future of AT&T and other wireless companies. But it is unlikely to solve AT&T's challenges, said Craig Moffett, a telecommunications analyst who recently started his own firm. "It does not really change the trajectory of AT&T or its deal-making," Mr. Moffett said. "There's not much that AT&T can do anymore in the United States. The rest of the wireless business is probably off limits for regulatory reasons."
ON THE AGENDA | Citigroup reports earnings before the market opens. Data on June retail sales is out at 8:30 a.m. C. Dean Metropoulos, chief of Hostess Brands, is expected to appear on CNBC.
MICHAEL DELL'S FIGHT TO RECLAIM HIS LEGACY | Dell shareholders are set to vote on Thursday on whether to accept Michael S. Dell's offer of $13.65 a share, or $24.4 billion, for the company. For Mr. Dell, the founder, the fight to take the business private is, in a sense, an effort to turn back the clock, Quentin Hardy writes in The New York Times. Dell is a company that many say is doomed, having missed the consumer shift to smartphones and tablets, and also missed the move of corporate computing to data centers and cloud-based networks.
Still, Mr. Dell's friends and advisers say he is trying to protect his legacy. "This guy has no desire to see his name on a company people think is irrelevant," said Marius A. Haas, who runs Dell's sales to big business.
 | Contact: @williamalden | E-mail
Sign up for the DealBook Newsletter, delivered every morning and afternoon.
Mergers & Acquisitions »
Loblaw to Buy Shoppers Drug Mart in Canada | The Loblaw Companies, Canada's largest food retailer, announced on Monday that it would acquire Shoppers Drug Mart, the country's biggest pharmacy chain, for $11.9 billion in cash and stock. DealBook »
Investor Hires Advisers in Push for Smithfield Breakup | Starboard Value contends that the pork producer Smithfield Foods is worth more broken up than the $34-a-share offer from Shuanghui International of China. DealBook »
Proxy Advisory Firm Recommends Against 4 Directors of McKesson | Institutional Shareholder Services recommended that shareholders vote against four directors of the McKesson Corporation, the health care services and information technology company, citing concerns with executive pay, The Wall Street Journal reports. WALL STREET JOURNAL
For Yahoo's Chief, Fortunate Timing | Yahoo's stock has climbed since Marissa Mayer took over as chief executive last year, but "the entirety of the value appreciation is due to the rapid growth of Alibaba and Yahoo Japan," Brian Wieser, an analyst at Pivotal Research, told The Financial Times. FINANCIAL TIMES
Google Executives Discuss YouTube, the Phone Business and Taxes | Unlike the usual practice of staying mum at the annual Allen & Company media and technology conference in Idaho, Google executives used a news conference to promote their business. DealBook »
Bid for Invensys Gives Investors Appetite for More | Schneider Electric's $5 billion offer for Invensys prompted a jump in the stock price that indicated investors were hoping for a higher offer or even a counterbid from a rival bidder. DealBook »
As Promised, Icahn Adds to His Bid for Dell | In a letter to Dell shareholders, Carl C. Icahn and his partner, Southeastern Asset Management, proposed giving shareholders a sweetener in his pitch to buy the computer company. DealBook »
INVESTMENT BANKING »
Trouble in European Commercial Mortgage Securities | The Financial Times reports: "Defaults among financial instruments backed by European commercial mortgage payments have more than doubled, highlighting the widespread problems facing the region's moribund commercial property market." FINANCIAL TIMES
Finance Industry Is Expected to Surpass Tech as Most Profitable | If large technology companies report second-quarter results in line with analysts' expectations, "finance will be well on its way to overtaking tech this year to once again become the U.S. industry that earns the most annual profit," a columnist writes in USA Today. USA TODAY
Wells Fargo Profit Jumps 19 Percent | Wells Fargo, the nation's largest home lender, overcame a slowdown in the mortgage market to report record net income of $5.5 billion. DealBook »
A Lifetime at Goldman Sachs | Having worked at Goldman for 80 years, Alfred Feld was honored as the firm's longest-serving employee. WALL STREET JOURNAL
What It Takes to Fully Engage Your Employees | Questions that chief executives - and others - ought to regularly ask themselves, not just to be good citizens, but as a powerful way to build competitive advantage. DealBook »
When Owning a Home Isn't a Virtue | "This is a good time to ask a basic question," Robert J. Shiller, a professor of economics at Yale, writes in The New York Times. "In today's world, is it wise for the government to subsidize homeownership?" NEW YORK TIMES
PRIVATE EQUITY »
Restoration Hardware May Be a Boon to Private Equity | The private equity firms that bought Restoration Hardware Holdings in 2008 "are on track to make about eight times their initial investment, when including their remaining stock holdings in the company, according to a Wall Street Journal analysis of securities filings," the newspaper reports. WALL STREET JOURNAL
Max Azria May Lose Control of Fashion House | The designer Max Azria is in discussions that are "likely to leave investment firm Guggenheim Partners L.L.C. - which holds about $475 million of BCBG Max Azria Group Inc.'s roughly $685 million in debt - with a controlling interest in the company, people familiar with the discussions said," The Wall Street Journal reports. WALL STREET JOURNAL
HEDGE FUNDS »
Funds Betting on Corporate Announcements Find Success | "The recent burst of activist pressure, coupled with a proliferation of hostile deals, has allowed event-driven funds to outperform," The Financial Times writes. FINANCIAL TIMES
Hedge Funds Increase Bets on Gold | The moves came as comments from Ben S. Bernanke, the Federal Reserve chairman, eased fears that the central bank would wind down its stimulus program sooner than hoped, Bloomberg News reports. BLOOMBERG NEWS
I.P.O./OFFERINGS »
Tnuva, Backed by Apax, Said to Consider I.P.O. | Tnuva Food Industries, an Israeli company that is controlled by private equity fund Apax Partners, is "considering an initial public offering that would value the company at 8 billion shekels ($2.2 billion), according to a person familiar with the plans," Bloomberg News reports. BLOOMBERG NEWS
A Word of Caution on I.P.O.'s | "There are lots of I.P.O.'s to pick from. But that doesn't mean you should," The Wall Street Journal writes. WALL STREET JOURNAL
VENTURE CAPITAL »
With Investment, Advertising Firm Has Eye on Emerging Markets | On Monday, the Publicis Groupe, one of the world's largest advertising holding companies, is to announce a $15 million investment in Jana, a mobile technology start-up that rewards users with free airtime if they take a survey, The New York Times reports. NEW YORK TIMES
A Venture Capitalist on Nepotism | "What could be better than working with your children?" Ken Lerer, an investor and the chairman of BuzzFeed, told The New York Times Magazine. NEW YORK TIMES
LEGAL/REGULATORY »
U.S. Regulators Approve Stricter Trading Rules Overseas | The Commodity Futures Trading Commission voted 3 to 1 to rein in lucrative trading by American banks doing business overseas, inviting an onslaught of lobbying from financial institutions. DealBook »
Foreign Banks Win New Delay in Tax Evasion Rule | The latest rollback of the deadline, a six-month extension to July 1, 2014, underscores a struggle by the Treasury Department to enforce the new law, which was approved in 2010 amid heightened scrutiny of offshore private banking services sold to wealthy Americans. It was originally supposed to go into effect last January. DealBook »
A Patent Warrior Puts Corporate America on Edge | "Once you go thug, though, you can't unthug," Erich Spangenberg, the owner of IPNav, told The New York Times. "Actually, you can unthug, but if you do that, you can't rethug. Then you just seem crazy." NEW YORK TIMES
The Fairness of a Split-Second Advantage for Traders | Regulators are taking a second look at media companies that try to generate revenue by charging fees for early access to financial information, says James B. Stewart, the Common Sense columnist for The New York Times. NEW YORK TIMES
A Proposed Rule on Capital Makes Banks Uneasy | "Last week, when federal financial overseers unveiled a potent new weapon against too-big-to-fail banks, it seemed as if - just maybe - the winds in Washington were shifting," Gretchen Morgenson writes in The New York Times. NEW YORK TIMES
Bringing Bank Regulation to the Masses | "The Bankers' New Clothes" tries to make topics like risk-weighted assets, leverage ratio and return on equity appealing to ordinary people. It has been unpopular with many bankers. DealBook »
Sign up for the DealBook Newsletter, delivered every morning and afternoon.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: ELECTRONIC MAIL (90%); HOLDING COMPANIES (89%); BANKING & FINANCE (89%); MERGERS (87%); BANKING & FINANCE AGENCIES (78%); CREDIT CRISIS (78%); SECURITIES LAW (72%); COFFEE (69%); PARENT COMPANIES (69%); CONFERENCE CALLS (69%); COFFEE FARMING (69%); EXECUTIVES (69%); AGRICULTURAL INCOME (68%); BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (67%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (66%); GRADUATE & PROFESSIONAL SCHOOLS (66%); BANK DEPOSIT INSURANCE (62%) Morning Agenda

COMPANY: JPMORGAN CHASE & CO (85%); GOLDMAN SACHS GROUP INC (58%); T-MOBILE INTERNATIONAL AG (50%)

TICKER: JPM (NYSE) (85%); JPM (LSE) (85%); 8634 (TSE) (85%); GS (NYSE) (58%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (85%); NAICS523999 MISCELLANEOUS FINANCIAL INVESTMENT ACTIVITIES (85%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (85%); SIC6022 STATE COMMERCIAL BANKS (85%); NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (58%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (58%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (58%); SIC6289 SERVICES ALLIED WITH THE EXCHANGE OF SECURITIES OR COMMODITIES, NEC (58%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (58%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (58%); NAICS443142 ELECTRONICS STORES (50%); SIC4812 RADIOTELEPHONE COMMUNICATIONS (50%)

PERSON: FABRICE P TOURRE (93%); MICHAEL DELL (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (91%); CHICAGO, IL, USA (55%) NEW YORK, USA (91%); ILLINOIS, USA (55%) UNITED STATES (91%); RWANDA (90%); AFRICA (90%)

LOAD-DATE: July 15, 2013



426 of 937 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(You're the Boss)

PUB-DATE: July 15, 2013

SECTION: BUSINESS; smallbusiness

LENGTH: 762 words

HEADLINE: This Week in Small Business: Hire an English Major

BYLINE: YOU'RE THE BOSS EDITORS


HIGHLIGHT: Gas prices are spiking. An owner talks about growing without debt. How to compete with Google. Have you ever hired an English major? 

 BODY:
 With Gene Marks on vacation, we present a truncated version of his usual roundup of articles that small-business owners should be reading. Gene will return next week. 
 Start-Ups 
According to Wired, it just became a lot easier to finance a start-up: "The long-term impact will be even deeper, bringing the process of funding of start-ups onto the Internet, where it can be demystified, atomized and mechanized in the sort of digital transformation so many start-ups have themselves brought to other industries. "
Richard Florida writes about the relationship between venture capital and the density of start-up communities: "Venture capital investment reflects America's red/blue divide. It is positively associated with the share of Obama votes (.40, .28) and negatively correlated with Romney's share (-.40, -.29). This result likely reflects that fact that more liberal political orientations are also associated with more educated, diverse metros." 
 Social Media 
A study finds that customers who find you through social media are not as valuable as those who find you through search: "For all the fuss made over social media, customers visiting from these sites can actually represent relatively low lifetime customer value for e-commerce." 
 Expenses 
You can expect to start paying more for gas: "The national average for a gallon of regular gasoline, which has been hovering around $3.50, is expected to spike by 25¢ to 30¢ over the next few weeks."
 Health Insurance 
It turns out that small businesses may be able to offer their employees a choice of health insurance plans in 2014 after all: "As new marketplaces prepare to open for enrollment Oct. 1, it appears that most of the states creating their own online marketplaces are going ahead with 'employee choice' for small-business workers."
 Immigration 
David Brooks makes the conservative case for the Senate's immigration bill, asserting that it will increase economic growth, reduce deficits and reduce illegal immigration: "These are all gigantic benefits."
 Women 
A study finds that the United States has the most welcoming environment for female entrepreneurs of 17 countries measured: "Social norms are a frequently hidden barrier: lifting the cultural veil that can restrict a woman's entrepreneurial vision is critical to unleashing female entrepreneurial potential."
 Hiring 
Here is why the new trend is for businesses to hire English majors: "A major part of what business owners do to gain clients has to do with writing, whether it's writing an advertisement or a marketing brochure, a good sales letter or an e-mail sales campaign. Businesses also need people who can create powerful content for the company blog, develop a strong social media presence and craft a compelling description of products and services for the company Web site."
 Management 
Does your business need someone who knows more about, well, business? Julian Lange, a professor at Babson College, says that the person who develops a product or service is not necessarily in the best position to move it forward: "While cost may be a barrier for entrepreneurs with limited start-up capital, Mr. Lange says one way to get around this is to seek out people who've already achieved great success in starting or leading a business and are more attracted to an exciting career opportunity than pay - at least in the beginning."
 Finance 
Laura Zander writes about how she built an $8 million yarn business without taking on debt: "Growing the business organically means that it will grow more slowly than a business that can afford to hire 100 people on Day 1. That can be good, especially if you're like me and have absolutely no idea what you've gotten yourself into."
 Growth 
Mike McCue, chief executive of Flipboard, says that if you are going to start a company, you might as well think big instead of going for a niche: "It's going to take the same amount of life force. You're going to get up in the morning, work 12 to 15 hours every day. You'll make huge, hard decisions, hire and fire people and build teams. It literally takes the same amount of energy."
 Competition 
The founder of DuckDuckGo talks about why so many other search engines have failed and how he competes with Google: "We focused on doing things the other guys couldn't do."
 This Week's Question: Have you hired any English majors? How did it work out?

        
This Week in Small Business: Does Yelp Help?
        
This Week In Small Business: The Employer Mandate
        
Mark Cuban Thinks I'm a Moron
        
This Week in Small Business: Firing the Founder
        
Is $75 Million in Venture Capital an Advantage?

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: SMALL BUSINESS (91%); SOCIAL MEDIA (90%); OIL & GAS PRICES (90%); VENTURE CAPITAL (90%); ENTREPRENEURSHIP (89%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (78%); TRENDS (77%); WOMEN (77%); INTERNET & WWW (76%); ELECTRONIC COMMERCE (76%); SALES & SELLING (75%); CAPITAL EXPENDITURES (74%); CONSERVATISM (72%); LIBERALISM (72%); BLOGS & MESSAGE BOARDS (71%); MANAGED CARE ORGANIZATIONS (69%); GASOLINE PRICES (69%); PRICE INCREASES (66%); IMMIGRATION (66%); HEALTH INSURANCE (64%); ILLEGAL IMMIGRANTS (61%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (61%) Entrepreneurship; Health Insurance and Managed Care; Small Business; Start-ups; Dashboard

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (53%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: July 15, 2013



427 of 937 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(DealBook)

PUB-DATE: July 15, 2013

SECTION: BUSINESS

LENGTH: 2062 words

HEADLINE: Where Tourre Is Known as 'Breezy'

BYLINE: WILLIAM ALDEN


HIGHLIGHT: A different side of Fabrice P. Tourre emerged in a stint in Africa as a volunteer. | There was one number JPMorgan Chase&#8217;s chief financial officer seemed to not want to reveal. | AT&#038;T gets back into the merger hunt. | Michael S. Dell&#8217;s fight to take Dell private is an effort to turn back the clock. 

 BODY:
Fabrice P. Tourre is best known as Fabulous Fab, the former Goldman Sachs trader whose e-mails about the mortgage crisis became a symbol of Wall Street hubris and will now highlight the government's case against him, Susanne Craig and Ben Protess write in DealBook. Mr. Tourre's trial opens on Monday in a federal courtroom in Lower Manhattan.
But an inner circle of friends knows Mr. Tourre from a different set of dispatches - e-mail updates he sent from Africa during a stint as a volunteer. It was in Rwanda that Mr. Tourre became known simply by the nickname Breezy. "Rwandan coffee yields have significant room for improvements," he wrote in a March 2011 message to friends, describing his adventure a world away from Wall Street. "Plenty of ideas and projects to focus on, with the ultimate goal to improve coffee farmers' income and living conditions!" 
The e-mail provides a rare glimpse into Mr. Tourre's life after Goldman, and after the Securities and Exchange Commission accused him of misleading investors about a mortgage security that ultimately failed, Ms. Craig and Mr. Protess write. After going to Africa, Mr. Tourre enrolled in an economics doctoral program at the University of Chicago, where professors described him as a "standout." Mr. Tourre's character will come into focus in the trial; the human elements of the case might sway a jury bogged down in the minutiae of high finance.
QUESTIONS ON JPMORGAN'S CAPITAL | On a conference call on Friday, there was one number that JPMorgan Chase's chief financial officer, Marianne Lake, seemed to not want to reveal, DealBook's Peter Eavis writes. The call came after regulators proposed a new leverage ratio rule, in an effort to get large banks to hold capital that meets a certain percentage of assets, plus other risks embedded in their balance sheets. At the JPMorgan parent company, the leverage ratio would effectively have to be 5 percent, while regulators want the ratio to be 6 percent at the banking subsidiaries that are covered by federal deposit insurance, Mr. Eavis writes.
JPMorgan Chase estimated on Friday that it was already close to meeting the 5 percent requirement at its holding company, saying it had enough capital to get to a 4.7 percent leverage ratio there. "Naturally, analysts also wanted to know whether JPMorgan Chase's deposit-gathering subsidiaries, which are far larger than the holding company, were close to meeting the 6 percent requirement," Mr. Eavis writes. But Ms. Lake said she would not disclose the bank leverage ratio, adding that it was lower than at the holding company.
AT&T'S DEAL FOR LEAP WIRELESS | AT&T, thwarted by regulators nearly two years ago on a planned $39 billion acquisition of T-Mobile USA, is back in the merger hunt, albeit with a much smaller target. The company said on Friday that it had agreed to acquire a smaller rival, Leap Wireless International, for nearly $1.2 billion, the latest sign of consolidation in the telecommunications industry. AT&T is paying $15 a share in cash for Leap, a prepaid cellphone service provider, about 88 percent above Leap's closing price on Friday. Under the terms of the deal, AT&T would gain five million new customers and acquire Leap's network, licenses and retail stores. Leap had $2.8 billion of net debt on April 15.
The deal comes after months of speculation about the future of AT&T and other wireless companies. But it is unlikely to solve AT&T's challenges, said Craig Moffett, a telecommunications analyst who recently started his own firm. "It does not really change the trajectory of AT&T or its deal-making," Mr. Moffett said. "There's not much that AT&T can do anymore in the United States. The rest of the wireless business is probably off limits for regulatory reasons."
ON THE AGENDA | Citigroup reports earnings before the market opens. Data on June retail sales is out at 8:30 a.m. C. Dean Metropoulos, chief of Hostess Brands, is expected to appear on CNBC.
MICHAEL DELL'S FIGHT TO RECLAIM HIS LEGACY | Dell shareholders are set to vote on Thursday on whether to accept Michael S. Dell's offer of $13.65 a share, or $24.4 billion, for the company. For Mr. Dell, the founder, the fight to take the business private is, in a sense, an effort to turn back the clock, Quentin Hardy writes in The New York Times. Dell is a company that many say is doomed, having missed the consumer shift to smartphones and tablets, and also missed the move of corporate computing to data centers and cloud-based networks.
Still, Mr. Dell's friends and advisers say he is trying to protect his legacy. "This guy has no desire to see his name on a company people think is irrelevant," said Marius A. Haas, who runs Dell's sales to big business.
 | Contact: @williamalden | E-mail
Sign up for the DealBook Newsletter, delivered every morning and afternoon.
Mergers & Acquisitions »
Loblaw to Buy Shoppers Drug Mart in Canada | The Loblaw Companies, Canada's largest food retailer, announced on Monday that it would acquire Shoppers Drug Mart, the country's biggest pharmacy chain, for $11.9 billion in cash and stock. DealBook »
Investor Hires Advisers in Push for Smithfield Breakup | Starboard Value contends that the pork producer Smithfield Foods is worth more broken up than the $34-a-share offer from Shuanghui International of China. DealBook »
Proxy Advisory Firm Recommends Against 4 Directors of McKesson | Institutional Shareholder Services recommended that shareholders vote against four directors of the McKesson Corporation, the health care services and information technology company, citing concerns with executive pay, The Wall Street Journal reports. WALL STREET JOURNAL
For Yahoo's Chief, Fortunate Timing | Yahoo's stock has climbed since Marissa Mayer took over as chief executive last year, but "the entirety of the value appreciation is due to the rapid growth of Alibaba and Yahoo Japan," Brian Wieser, an analyst at Pivotal Research, told The Financial Times. FINANCIAL TIMES
Google Executives Discuss YouTube, the Phone Business and Taxes | Unlike the usual practice of staying mum at the annual Allen & Company media and technology conference in Idaho, Google executives used a news conference to promote their business. DealBook »
Bid for Invensys Gives Investors Appetite for More | Schneider Electric's $5 billion offer for Invensys prompted a jump in the stock price that indicated investors were hoping for a higher offer or even a counterbid from a rival bidder. DealBook »
As Promised, Icahn Adds to His Bid for Dell | In a letter to Dell shareholders, Carl C. Icahn and his partner, Southeastern Asset Management, proposed giving shareholders a sweetener in his pitch to buy the computer company. DealBook »
INVESTMENT BANKING »
Trouble in European Commercial Mortgage Securities | The Financial Times reports: "Defaults among financial instruments backed by European commercial mortgage payments have more than doubled, highlighting the widespread problems facing the region's moribund commercial property market." FINANCIAL TIMES
Finance Industry Is Expected to Surpass Tech as Most Profitable | If large technology companies report second-quarter results in line with analysts' expectations, "finance will be well on its way to overtaking tech this year to once again become the U.S. industry that earns the most annual profit," a columnist writes in USA Today. USA TODAY
Wells Fargo Profit Jumps 19 Percent | Wells Fargo, the nation's largest home lender, overcame a slowdown in the mortgage market to report record net income of $5.5 billion. DealBook »
A Lifetime at Goldman Sachs | Having worked at Goldman for 80 years, Alfred Feld was honored as the firm's longest-serving employee. WALL STREET JOURNAL
What It Takes to Fully Engage Your Employees | Questions that chief executives - and others - ought to regularly ask themselves, not just to be good citizens, but as a powerful way to build competitive advantage. DealBook »
When Owning a Home Isn't a Virtue | "This is a good time to ask a basic question," Robert J. Shiller, a professor of economics at Yale, writes in The New York Times. "In today's world, is it wise for the government to subsidize homeownership?" NEW YORK TIMES
PRIVATE EQUITY »
Restoration Hardware May Be a Boon to Private Equity | The private equity firms that bought Restoration Hardware Holdings in 2008 "are on track to make about eight times their initial investment, when including their remaining stock holdings in the company, according to a Wall Street Journal analysis of securities filings," the newspaper reports. WALL STREET JOURNAL
Max Azria May Lose Control of Fashion House | The designer Max Azria is in discussions that are "likely to leave investment firm Guggenheim Partners L.L.C. - which holds about $475 million of BCBG Max Azria Group Inc.'s roughly $685 million in debt - with a controlling interest in the company, people familiar with the discussions said," The Wall Street Journal reports. WALL STREET JOURNAL
HEDGE FUNDS »
Funds Betting on Corporate Announcements Find Success | "The recent burst of activist pressure, coupled with a proliferation of hostile deals, has allowed event-driven funds to outperform," The Financial Times writes. FINANCIAL TIMES
Hedge Funds Increase Bets on Gold | The moves came as comments from Ben S. Bernanke, the Federal Reserve chairman, eased fears that the central bank would wind down its stimulus program sooner than hoped, Bloomberg News reports. BLOOMBERG NEWS
I.P.O./OFFERINGS »
Tnuva, Backed by Apax, Said to Consider I.P.O. | Tnuva Food Industries, an Israeli company that is controlled by private equity fund Apax Partners, is "considering an initial public offering that would value the company at 8 billion shekels ($2.2 billion), according to a person familiar with the plans," Bloomberg News reports. BLOOMBERG NEWS
A Word of Caution on I.P.O.'s | "There are lots of I.P.O.'s to pick from. But that doesn't mean you should," The Wall Street Journal writes. WALL STREET JOURNAL
VENTURE CAPITAL »
With Investment, Advertising Firm Has Eye on Emerging Markets | On Monday, the Publicis Groupe, one of the world's largest advertising holding companies, is to announce a $15 million investment in Jana, a mobile technology start-up that rewards users with free airtime if they take a survey, The New York Times reports. NEW YORK TIMES
A Venture Capitalist on Nepotism | "What could be better than working with your children?" Ken Lerer, an investor and the chairman of BuzzFeed, told The New York Times Magazine. NEW YORK TIMES
LEGAL/REGULATORY »
U.S. Regulators Approve Stricter Trading Rules Overseas | The Commodity Futures Trading Commission voted 3 to 1 to rein in lucrative trading by American banks doing business overseas, inviting an onslaught of lobbying from financial institutions. DealBook »
Foreign Banks Win New Delay in Tax Evasion Rule | The latest rollback of the deadline, a six-month extension to July 1, 2014, underscores a struggle by the Treasury Department to enforce the new law, which was approved in 2010 amid heightened scrutiny of offshore private banking services sold to wealthy Americans. It was originally supposed to go into effect last January. DealBook »
A Patent Warrior Puts Corporate America on Edge | "Once you go thug, though, you can't unthug," Erich Spangenberg, the owner of IPNav, told The New York Times. "Actually, you can unthug, but if you do that, you can't rethug. Then you just seem crazy." NEW YORK TIMES
The Fairness of a Split-Second Advantage for Traders | Regulators are taking a second look at media companies that try to generate revenue by charging fees for early access to financial information, says James B. Stewart, the Common Sense columnist for The New York Times. NEW YORK TIMES
A Proposed Rule on Capital Makes Banks Uneasy | "Last week, when federal financial overseers unveiled a potent new weapon against too-big-to-fail banks, it seemed as if - just maybe - the winds in Washington were shifting," Gretchen Morgenson writes in The New York Times. NEW YORK TIMES
Bringing Bank Regulation to the Masses | "The Bankers' New Clothes" tries to make topics like risk-weighted assets, leverage ratio and return on equity appealing to ordinary people. It has been unpopular with many bankers. DealBook »
Sign up for the DealBook Newsletter, delivered every morning and afternoon.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: ELECTRONIC MAIL (90%); HOLDING COMPANIES (89%); BANKING & FINANCE (89%); MERGERS (87%); BANKING & FINANCE AGENCIES (78%); CREDIT CRISIS (78%); SECURITIES LAW (72%); COFFEE (69%); PARENT COMPANIES (69%); CONFERENCE CALLS (69%); COFFEE FARMING (69%); EXECUTIVES (69%); AGRICULTURAL INCOME (68%); BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (67%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (66%); GRADUATE & PROFESSIONAL SCHOOLS (66%); BANK DEPOSIT INSURANCE (62%) Morning Agenda

COMPANY: JPMORGAN CHASE & CO (85%); GOLDMAN SACHS GROUP INC (58%); T-MOBILE INTERNATIONAL AG (50%)

TICKER: JPM (NYSE) (85%); JPM (LSE) (85%); 8634 (TSE) (85%); GS (NYSE) (58%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (85%); NAICS523999 MISCELLANEOUS FINANCIAL INVESTMENT ACTIVITIES (85%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (85%); SIC6022 STATE COMMERCIAL BANKS (85%); NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (58%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (58%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (58%); SIC6289 SERVICES ALLIED WITH THE EXCHANGE OF SECURITIES OR COMMODITIES, NEC (58%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (58%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (58%); NAICS443142 ELECTRONICS STORES (50%); SIC4812 RADIOTELEPHONE COMMUNICATIONS (50%)

PERSON: FABRICE P TOURRE (93%); MICHAEL DELL (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (91%); CHICAGO, IL, USA (55%) NEW YORK, USA (91%); ILLINOIS, USA (55%) UNITED STATES (91%); RWANDA (90%); AFRICA (90%)

LOAD-DATE: July 15, 2013



428 of 937 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(Dot Earth)

PUB-DATE: July 15, 2013

SECTION: OPINION

LENGTH: 275 words

HEADLINE: Iridescent Rivers, Then (Hudson Valley) and Now (Bangladesh)

BYLINE: ANDREW C. REVKIN


HIGHLIGHT: Bangladesh&#8217;s streams made iridescent by factory pollution hark back to those of the Hudson River Valley in the 1950s. 

 BODY:
Bangladesh Pollution Told in Colors & Smells http://t.co/w9zbnSJ1sR as with NY waters in '50s. http://t.co/xCDmCjHx8y http://t.co/uUIFS9g7Bx 
- Andy Revkin (@Revkin)15 Jul 13
The parallels between development and pollution tracks in industrializing poor countries now and the United States half a century ago are remarkable. 
Jim Yardley's story on the iridescent, malodorous effluent from Bangladesh's factories and mills provides the latest echoes, harking back to Fishkill Creek and the Hudson River, as described to me for a 1996 feature by longtime residents of the Hudson Valley. My Twitter item above leads you to the relevant articles.
I'm going to reach out to historians and others focused on the factors driving environmental cleanups in the past to see if there's any evidence that today's polluting nations can somehow accelerate their journey along what some economists call the "Environmental Kuznets Curve," a pattern described well in 2003 by David I. Stern, an economist at Rensselaer Polytechnic Institute: 
The environmental Kuznets curve is a hypothesized relationship between various indicators of environmental degradation and income per capita. In the early stages of economic growth degradation and pollution increase, but beyond some level of income per capita (which will vary for different indicators) the trend reverses, so that at high-income levels economic growth leads to environmental improvement. 

        
'No River Should Be Doing That'
        
On Strawberries and Riverfront Revivals
        
A Billion Years of Time and Toil Are Etched in These Old Hills
        
On 'Frankenstorms,' Climate Science and 'Reverse Tribalism'
        
Sax and Cicadas - An Interspecies Jam

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: ENVIRONMENT & NATURAL RESOURCES (90%); RIVERS (90%); WATER POLLUTION (90%); INDUSTRIAL POLLUTION (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (89%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (87%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (87%); INTERNATIONAL ASSISTANCE (77%); DEVELOPING COUNTRIES (76%); MANUFACTURING FACILITIES (75%); ENVIRONMENTAL CLEANUP (73%); HUMANITIES & SOCIAL SCIENCE (73%); TRENDS (72%); HISTORY (71%); EARTH & ATMOSPHERIC SCIENCE (67%) Bangladesh; Environment; Factories and Manufacturing; Fishkill (NY); Hudson River; Hudson River Valley (NY); Rensselaer Polytechnic Institute; Water Pollution; Yardley, Jim; Asia; Economics; environmental policy; History; pollution

ORGANIZATION: Rensselaer Polytechnic Institute

PERSON: Yardley, Jim

GEOGRAPHIC: BANGLADESH (95%); UNITED STATES (92%); ASIA (79%) Bangladesh; Fishkill (NY); Hudson River; Hudson River Valley (NY)

LOAD-DATE: July 15, 2013



429 of 937 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(FiveThirtyEight)

PUB-DATE: July 15, 2013

SECTION: US; politics

LENGTH: 2561 words

HEADLINE: Senate Control in 2014 Increasingly Looks Like a Tossup

BYLINE: NATE SILVER


HIGHLIGHT: A race-by-race analysis of the Senate suggests that Republicans might now be close to even-money to win control of the chamber after next year&#8217;s elections. 

 BODY:
This weekend's announcement by the former governor of Montana, Brian Schweitzer, that he would not seek that state's Democratic nomination for Senate represents the latest in a series of favorable developments for Republicans as they seek control of the chamber.
The G.O.P.'s task will not be easy: the party holds 46 seats in the Senate, and the number will very probably be cut to 45 after a special election in New Jersey later this year. That means that they would need to win a net of six contests from Democrats in order to control 51 seats and overcome Vice President Joseph R. Biden Jr.'s tiebreaking vote. Two years ago at this time, Republicans faced what seemed to be a promising environment and could have won the Senate by gaining a net of three seats from Democrats and winning the presidency. Instead, Mitt Romney lost to President Obama, and the G.O.P. lost a net of two Senate seats. 
But Montana along with West Virginia and South Dakota - two other red states where an incumbent Democrat has retired and where the Democrats have not identified a strong candidate to replace them - gives Republicans a running start. Republicans could then win three more seats from among red states like Louisiana and Arkansas, where vulnerable Democratic incumbents are on the ballot, or they could take aim at two purple states, Iowa and Michigan, where Democrats have retired. More opportunities could also come into play if the national environment becomes more favorable to Republicans (such as because of a further slide in Mr. Obama's approval ratings). Meanwhile, while Kentucky and Georgia are possibly vulnerable, Republicans have few seats of their own to defend; unlike in 2012, they can focus almost entirely on playing offense.
A race-by-race analysis of the Senate, in fact, suggests that Republicans might now be close to even-money to win control of the chamber after next year's elections. Our best guess, after assigning probabilities of the likelihood of a G.O.P. pickup in each state, is that Republicans will end up with somewhere between 50 and 51 Senate seats after 2014, putting them right on the threshold of a majority.
The chart below reflects our current overview of the Senate landscape, including the probability estimates. (The estimates are not based strictly on a formula but instead are best guesses, accounting for the partisan lean of each state, the quality of the prospective candidates, and approval-rating or polling data to the extent that it might be informative.) When we last conducted this exercise in February, our projection was for Republicans to win between 49 and 50 Senate seats, meaning that their standing has improved by about one seat since then.
What follows is a series of comments on the most critical races, or those where there has been significant news since February. The races are listed in order of the contests that look strongest for Democrats to those where Republican chances are strongest.
 Massachusetts. Although the Democrats' position has become more vulnerable over all, one state where they have less reason to worry is Massachusetts, where Representative Edward J. Markey defeated the Republican Gabriel Gomez by 10 percentage points in a special election in June. The special election reflected reasonably favorable circumstances for Republicans relative to the usual (very difficult) ones in Massachusetts - an extremely low turnout, and a Democratic candidate who had survived a tough primary. But Republicans did not come particularly close to winning, and November's environment will be no easier for the G.O.P. as Mr. Markey will have gained experience as the incumbent and turnout will probably be high because of a governor's election.
 New Jersey. This seat is currently held by a Republican - Jeffrey Chiesa, the former state attorney general who was appointed to the seat by Gov. Chris Christie after the death of the Democratic incumbent Frank R. Lautenberg. However, it is likely to revert to Democratic control later this year, as the timing of the October special election (and current polling) suggests that Republicans will not nominate a viable opponent against the likely Democratic nominee, Mayor Cory Booker of Newark. Although Republicans could regroup to nominate a stronger candidate in 2014, when the special election winner will stand for re-election, a candidate like Mr. Booker will have gained more experience by that time, as well as the financial advantage that comes with being an incumbent.
 Colorado, Minnesota, New Hampshire and Oregon. These states fall into the "likely Democratic" category, where Democratic odds of holding the seats vary between about 75 percent and 85 percent, in our view. They consist of two purple states, Colorado and New Hampshire, where a reasonably popular Democratic incumbent is running, and two others, Minnesota and Oregon, where the Democratic incumbent's numbers are more mixed but which are somewhat blue-leaning. In each state, Republicans have had trouble recruiting top-tier challengers. To make the races competitive, Republicans would probably need at least two things to go well: first, a stronger G.O.P. challenger; and second, either a shift in the national political environment toward Republicans or some other circumstance (such as a controversial vote or an ethics problem) that made the incumbents more vulnerable. At this early stage of the election cycle, either is possible in each state, and if it were to occur in one or more of these states the Republican path to a Senate majority would be more robust. But these races will gradually drift toward Democrats absent such changes in the landscape.
 Michigan and Iowa. These are states where Democratic incumbents have retired, but where Democrats retain an edge in candidate strength. The G.O.P. avoided their worst-case scenario in Iowa after Representative Steve King declined to run for the seat there, as Mr. King would likely have been far too conservative to win a statewide race. But Republicans have nevertheless had trouble identifying strong candidates to run in Iowa, whereas Democratic Representative Bruce Braley could win his primary easily and conserve money for the general election. In Michigan, the G.O.P.'s list of potential candidates is slightly better, but their strongest potential candidate, Representative Mike Rogers, has decided not to run - and Michigan has become somewhat blue-leaning in races for federal office.
 Alaska. Alaska is more idiosyncratic than its reliably Republican results in presidential elections might imply, and the Democratic incumbent, Mark Begich, is faring reasonably well in head-to-head polls. A good Republican nominee could nevertheless turn the race into a true tossup - but the G.O.P. could also nominate Joe Miller or former Gov. Sarah Palin, both of whom are now quite unpopular among voters statewide. The Republican primary outcomes in Alaska, Iowa and Michigan will thus go a long way toward determining whether the G.O.P.'s path to a Senate majority is a narrow or wider one.
 North Carolina. North Carolina is the closest thing to the tipping point state in the Senate battle. If Republicans avoid losing any of their own seats (other than New Jersey), and win the races that favor them in Montana, West Virginia and South Dakota and the tossup races in Louisiana and Arkansas, then North Carolina would represent their best option to go from a 50-50 tie to a 51-49 Senate majority. Republicans have also not yet identified a top-tier challenger in North Carolina. But the approval ratings of the Democratic incumbent, Kay Hagan, are no better than break-even, which means that a merely decent Republican nominee could make the race very competitive. Although North Carolina is increasingly purple in presidential election years, the coalition of African-Americans and college-aged voters that Democrats depend upon to win races in the state is less likely to turn out for midterm elections.
 Arkansas. We had this race rated as "lean Democratic" in February on the basis of reasonably strong approval ratings for Mark Pryor, the Democratic incumbent, despite an otherwise difficult environment in the state. However, a poll that came out since then shows middling numbers for Mr. Pryor, with 41.5 percent of voters approving of his job performance against 35 percent disapproving. Mr. Pryor is a savvier politician than the former Democratic senator, Blanche Lincoln, and he is unlikely to face a serious primary challenge, as Ms. Lincoln did in 2010. But Ms. Lincoln lost her race for re-election by more than 20 percentage points, so Mr. Pryor will have to avoid several of her mistakes to hold on to his seat.
 Louisiana. This race also rates as a true tossup, as it did in February. The most likely Republican nominee, Representative Bill Cassidy, has an extremely conservative voting record, while the Democratic incumbent, Mary Landrieu, has a moderate one that could partially offset the state's strong Republican lean. But Ms. Landrieu will need to maintain her distance from President Obama while at the same time getting a strong turnout in New Orleans, where her bother Mitch Landrieu is mayor - a difficult balance.
 Montana. The decision of Mr. Schweitzer not to enter the race leaves wide-open primary fields in both parties. However, we have Republicans as roughly three-to-one favorites based on the state's overall partisan lean. Although Democrats have had somewhat more success in statewide races in Montana than in contests for the presidency - their incumbent senator, Jon Tester, survived a tough re-election race last year - Republicans now have the best-qualified potential candidate in Marc Racicot, the former governor.
 Kentucky. Senator Mitch McConnell, the Republican majority leader, has only break-even approval ratings, and Democrats got one of their better potential recruits in Alison Lundergan Grimes, the Kentucky secretary of state. Although some early polls show a relatively close race, the fundamentals favor Mr. McConnell as Kentucky has become very red-leaning and as he is likely to have a strong fund-raising edge. One factor helping Ms. Grimes is the lack of other credible pickup opportunities for Democrats, which could mean that more Democratic money will be directed toward her race. Still, she will have to run a pitch-perfect campaign to win in such a conservative state in a midterm year.
 Georgia. This is something of an overlooked pickup opportunity for Democrats. While Democrats have yet to identify a strong candidate, a number of the Republican ones are extremely conservative, Tea Party-backed candidates who could be vulnerable in the suburban counties around Atlanta and Augusta that make up the swing regions of Georgia. Nor is Georgia as conservative as Kentucky - although as in North Carolina, Democrats depend on African-Americans and young voters to make the state more purple, groups that may not turn out for the midterms.
 Maine. Senator Susan Collins, the popular and moderate Republican incumbent, has clarified her plans to run for re-election, which reduces the risk to Republicans of losing a seat. We give Democrats a small, residual chance of a pickup here - about 10 percent - because if Ms. Collins loses in a primary, or has a change of plans, the race would instantly go to favoring Democrats. But she will be an overwhelming favorite if she stands on next November's ballot.
 South Dakota and West Virginia. These are red states where Democratic incumbents are retiring - and where some of the more viable Democratic alternatives, like former Representative Stephanie Herseth Sandlin of South Dakota - have declined to run. Meanwhile, Republicans have very strong recruits in both states in the form of Representative Shelley Moore Capito of West Virginia; and Mike Rounds, the former South Dakota governor. Democrats have had more success in Congressional races in both of these states than in presidential contests, and they might stand a decent chance to retain these seats with a candidate-quality edge. But the combination of a conservative electorate, a very strong G.O.P. nominee and an underqualified Democratic one will make their chances very slim. In addition, our research does not find much evidence for a carry-over effect or afterglow from incumbency once the incumbent retires; now that Senators John D. Rockefeller IV of West Virginia and Tim Johnson of South Dakota are leaving politics, they won't provide much in the way of electoral benefit to Democrats. Add all these factors up, and we don't see much justification for describing these races as tossups or as merely "leaning" toward Republicans, as some other forecasters have them: they are pretty safe bets to be Republican pickups.
 Nebraska. Republicans suffered a recruiting blow in Nebraska when the popular Gov. Dave Heineman said he would not run in the Senate race. But Mr. Heineman's decision improves Democrats' chances only to slim from none. In 2012, Democrats nominated an extremely qualified candidate in Bob Kerrey, the former senator and governor, while Republicans had a middling one in Deb Fischer, the state senator - but Ms. Fischer won overwhelmingly.
***
Let me close with our usual reminder: the fact that the battle for Senate control appears to be very close right now does not guarantee that it will end up that way. Although Senate races behave more idiosyncratically than some other types of contests - local factors and candidate quality play an important role - one party has won the vast majority of tossup races in each of the past four election cycles.
In a strong Republican year, the G.O.P. could win all of the tossup and "lean Democratic" seats and pick up one of the "likely Democratic" seats like New Hampshire, which would give them a net gain of nine seats and leave them with a 55-45 majority in the chamber. In a strong Democratic year, the party could lose only West Virginia and South Dakota - and pick up New Jersey and one of Kentucky and Georgia - and hold their current 54-46 edge. It is therefore important to watch macro-level indicators - especially Mr. Obama's approval ratings, the generic Congressional ballot and major economic measures - in addition to following the recruitment and polling in individual states.
It is equally important to look for early indications of whether G.O.P. primary voters will be more tolerant of moderate and "main street" Republicans than they were in 2010 and 2012. A strong set of Republican nominees could give the party as many as a dozen credible opportunities to pick up the seats they need - whereas a weaker series of candidates could require them to win almost all of the races that remained competitive after the primaries.
A previous version of this post wrongly identified the "tipping point state," the 2014 race most likely to decide who controls the Senate. According to FiveThirtyEight estimates, North Carolina, not Alaska, currently represents the Republican Party's sixth best opportunity for picking up a seat (the G.O.P. needs six seats to gain the majority).

        
In Massachusetts Senate Race, Odds for G.O.P. Upset Are Slim
        
High-Risk Primaries Could Cost Republicans in 2014
        
Advantage Romney in February, but Risks Abound
        
How Christie Can Maximize the G.O.P.'s Chances in New Jersey
        
Special Election Timing in New Jersey Points to a Weak G.O.P. Field

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: POLITICAL PARTIES (93%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (92%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (91%); ELECTIONS (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (78%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (78%); POLITICS (78%); GOVERNORS (78%); US PRESIDENTS (74%); VOTERS & VOTING (74%) 2014; Democrats; Republicans; Senate; Booker, Cory A; Braley, Bruce; Capito, Shelley Moore; Collins, Susan M; Grimes, Alison Lundergan; Hagan, Kay R; King, Steven A; Markey, Edward J; McConnell, Mitch; Pryor, Mark; Racicot, Marc; Rounds, Mike; Schweitzer, Brian; Elections, Senate; Polls and Public Opinion; Democratic Party; Republican Party; Alaska; Arkansas; Colorado; Iowa; Kentucky; Louisiana; Maine; Massachusetts; Michigan; Montana; Nebraska; New Hampshire; New Jersey; North Carolina; Oregon; South Dakota; West Virginia; Politics

ORGANIZATION: Democratic Party; Republican Party

PERSON: SHELLEY MOORE CAPITO (90%); BRIAN SCHWEITZER (90%); MITT ROMNEY (78%); EDWARD J MARKEY (73%); SUSAN COLLINS (73%); MIKE ROUNDS (73%); STEVE KING (73%); BRUCE L BRALEY (73%); KAY HAGAN (73%); MITCH MCCONNELL (73%); MARK PRYOR (73%); JOE BIDEN (58%); BARACK OBAMA (58%) Booker, Cory A; Braley, Bruce; Capito, Shelley Moore; Collins, Susan M; Grimes, Alison Lundergan; Hagan, Kay R; King, Steven A; Markey, Edward J; McConnell, Mitch; Pryor, Mark; Racicot, Marc; Rounds, Mike; Schweitzer, Brian

GEOGRAPHIC: MONTANA, USA (94%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (94%); WEST VIRGINIA, USA (93%); NEW JERSEY, USA (93%); LOUISIANA, USA (93%); ARKANSAS, USA (93%); KENTUCKY, USA (93%); NEW HAMPSHIRE, USA (92%); NEBRASKA, USA (92%); NORTH CAROLINA, USA (92%); COLORADO, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (94%) Alaska; Arkansas; Colorado; Iowa; Kentucky; Louisiana; Maine; Massachusetts; Michigan; Montana; Nebraska; New Hampshire; New Jersey; North Carolina; Oregon; South Dakota; West Virginia

LOAD-DATE: July 16, 2013



430 of 937 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(Paul Krugman)

PUB-DATE: July 15, 2013

SECTION: OPINION

LENGTH: 611 words

HEADLINE: America Is Flat

BYLINE: PAUL KRUGMAN


HIGHLIGHT: Less and less reason to move either people or goods. 

 BODY:
Sorry about radio silence this AM - busy with errands, but also feeling the need for at least a mental vacation from all the ugliness. And I'm going to continue that vacation by posting about something with little or no relevance to current policy debates, but which I've been curious about and doing a bit of casual research about on the side.
I've long had a small bee in my bonnet about the line - which you hear all the time - that portrays long-distance travel, trade, and so on as something new. You know: back in the day people lived in the same place all their lives, they only did business with their immediate neighbors, each village was self-sufficient, but now we're in a world of global globalizing globaloney and all that. 
Obviously if you go back far enough the caricature was true. But we've had a lot of international migration and trade ever since steam engines and telegraphs came in. There has been a recent huge increase in the value of manufacturing trade, tied to vertical disintegration of production; but aside from that, to what extent is the world really getting smaller or flatter or whatever?
Well, there's one trend we know about that runs completely counter to the usual perception: within the United States, at least, people are moving less - a lot less. Greg Kaplan and Sam Schulhofer-Wohl (pdf) say that interstate mobility has been cut in half over the past 20 years. And interestingly, they suggest that this is in part because regions have become more similar: increasingly, different parts of the country are producing the same kinds of things and employing the same kind of people, so that there's less reason to move.
This story actually matches up with what the new economic geography literature says, which is that regional specialization peaked around a century ago and has been declining since. Once upon a time steel came from Pittsburgh, butchered hogs from Chicago, pencils from Pennsylvania, coats from North Dakota, and all that; nowadays we're all cubicle rats doing whatever it is we do:
But here's my question: if we're all increasingly doing the same thing, shouldn't we be doing less trade with each other? Now, we know that international trade has been rising fast. But is the same true of interregional trade within the United States?
Well, we don't actually collect that kind of data (although the Canadians do; more on that in a minute). We do, however, have the Commodity Flow Survey, which measures total domestic shipments of stuff in general. What does this tell us? Well, it shows a slight decline over time in the ratio of shipments to GDP:
Meanwhile, Canada has actual data on interprovincial trade flows. Looking only at goods, to be more comparable to the US numbers, I get this:
It's a smaller number, because a lot of those US shipments are short-distance and wouldn't register as interprovincial trade. But again, a small decline rather than the big rise we see in international trade.
So what's the moral of the story? Well, the world is flat, but America isn't. Or actually, America is flat - more and more, it's all the same, which gives us less reason to move and even less reason to ship stuff around.
And the growth of international trade in manufactured goods needs, perhaps, to be seen as something more special and less generic than often imagined. It's not that there's some inexorable force leading to stuff rattling around the globe; it's that the combination of containerization and trade liberalization has made it possible to break up the value chain to take advantage of international wage differences. 
As I said, no idea if there's any policy relevance here; but I'm having a bit of fun. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); TRENDS (77%); GLOBALIZATION (73%); GROSS DOMESTIC PRODUCT (71%); ECONOMIC NEWS (71%); GEOGRAPHY (71%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (68%); SHIPMENTS (67%)

GEOGRAPHIC: PITTSBURGH, PA, USA (73%) NORTH DAKOTA, USA (79%); PENNSYLVANIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (92%); CANADA (92%)

LOAD-DATE: July 15, 2013



431 of 937 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(T Magazine)

PUB-DATE: July 15, 2013

SECTION: T-MAGAZINE; culture

LENGTH: 792 words

HEADLINE: On View | The Biennial of the Americas Turns Denver Into a Giant Art Fair

BYLINE: FELIX BURRICHTER


HIGHLIGHT: The summer-long event in the Mile High City features street art from the likes of Julieta Aranda, James Franco and Cyprien Gaillard, and even has its own beer &#8212; itself a piece of art. 

 BODY:
In 2010, Denver's Biennial of the Americas, the brainchild of then-mayor John Hickenlooper (now Colorado's governor), launched with the lofty goal to "facilitate the development of a unified vision for the future of the Americas." Tomorrow, the sophomore effort kicks off. Carson Chan, one of four curators, is no stranger to art biennials in unexpected places: the Berlin resident, who was born in Hong Kong and raised in Canada, was behind the successful resurrection of last year's Marrakech Biennale. For Denver, the 33-year-old decided to take the art out of the museum and into the streets. Under the title "Draft Urbanism," 30 artists are turning downtown Denver into a two-month-long outdoor exhibition that will include artwork on billboards and public signage by Julieta Aranda, James Franco, Cyprien Gaillard, Liam Gillick, Laurel Nakadate, Jeremy Shaw, Isabella Rozendaal and more. The show will also include large-scale urban installations by four different architecture studios. Shortly before the opening, Chan discussed the peculiarities of Colorado's capital and why this may be the first biennial with its own beer.
 Q. 
 Why Denver? 
 A. 
Historically, the biennial phenomenon is a very European thing. By bringing it to Denver, you can really invent it to be whatever you want. The Biennial's ambition is to create a cultural event in which the Americas can converge and ask whether there is such a thing as a pan-American cultural thread, from Canada all the way down to Chile and everywhere in between. Denver is an optimal host city in many ways. Not only is it almost in the center of the United States - halfway between East Coast and West Coast - but it also has all the ingredients to be a major cultural capital: world class concert halls, fantastic museums, and there is an active art community here.
 In 2010, for the first edition, the show was limited to the exhibition spaces in the historic McNichols Building. Why did you choose to disperse the biennial throughout the city this time? 
Something I learned from curating the Marrakech Biennale last year is that by showing art in public spaces, you can develop a much larger audience than you would by showing art in a museum or a gallery. By showing art in public spaces you attract new viewers and engage new people. The exhibition is essentially an art and architecture exhibition throughout downtown Denver whose goal is to transform the city into one giant exhibition by repurposing ad spaces like billboards, poster spaces, bus shelters and public LED screens as spaces for art. We've also invited architects to design large-scale public installations that respond to key urban issues in downtown Denver. Architecture firm June14 Meyer-Grohbrügge&Chermayeff designed butterfly enclosures on the 16th Street pedestrian mall. By introducing a new species to an existing urban ecology, they aim to call out the unarticulated tensions between downtown's various subcultures.
 One of the themes of the exhibition is "beer." Explain. 
The "draft" in "Draft Urbanism" refers to urbanism as something always in the state of becoming and yes, as well as to beer. Beer is so integrally tied to the identity of Colorado and to its economy. The state has more craft breweries per capita than anywhere in the world, and the way people understand beer here is the way many others would understand wine; there is a very high regard for beer and its production. More importantly, Denver's urban development is intimately tied to the city's bars and taverns. Denver started as a mining town in 1858 and immediately, the first institutions that emerged after the mines were the bars. So urbanism, and everything that followed afterwards - politics, economy, culture - is integrally connected to that beginning. The exhibition tries to see beer not simply as a beverage but as something that is part of a larger material system. Let's not forget that Colorado's governor John Hickenlooper, Denver's former mayor, was himself a successful bar owner!
 Is it true that you even created a special Biennial beer? 
Yes, the Denver Beer Company is brewing a new beer just for the Biennial. We see them as participants in the exhibition, and the beer as another work. It contains Maya nuts from Nicaragua, which gives it a chocolatey taste, barley from Canada, hops from Colorado and so on. The idea is that the beer itself starts to map out the Americas in its own way, through taste.
 The Biennial of the Americas is on view from July 16 through Labor Day. 

        
Lumiere | YSL in the U.S.A.
        
Artifacts | Ghost Dance
        
On View | Where Arts and Crafts Are One
        
The Making Of | A 19th-Century Victorian House in London, Built With Mirrors
        
On View | Maurizio Cattelan's Shocking Window Displays at the Palais de Tokyo

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: ART COLLECTING (90%); ARTS FESTIVALS & EXHIBITIONS (90%); STREET ART (90%); EXHIBITIONS (89%); PERFORMING ARTS CENTERS (89%); MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (89%); ARCHITECTURAL SERVICES (87%); CITIES (78%); ARTISTS & PERFORMERS (76%); VISUAL & PERFORMING ARTS (76%); OUTDOOR ADVERTISING (75%) Art; Denver (Colo); Culture; On View

PERSON: JOHN HICKENLOOPER (73%)

GEOGRAPHIC: DENVER, CO, USA (98%); BERLIN, GERMANY (92%) COLORADO, USA (98%); WEST USA (79%) UNITED STATES (98%); GERMANY (92%); CANADA (90%); HONG KONG (88%) Denver (Colo)

LOAD-DATE: July 16, 2013



432 of 937 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(DealBook)

PUB-DATE: July 15, 2013

SECTION: BUSINESS

LENGTH: 1149 words

HEADLINE: Insider Traders Should Be Ready to Do Hard Time

BYLINE: PETER J. HENNING


HIGHLIGHT: Two recent decisions by appeals courts have upheld the discretion of judges to mete out long sentences for insider trading, even if this was not the common practice in similar cases. 

 BODY:
The length of the sentences being meted out for insider trading have been on an upward trajectory lately, and recent decisions by federal appeals courts in Manhattan and Philadelphia will further that trend. The message some judges are trying to send is that being caught trading on confidential information can be very costly, far beyond the gains a defendant might realize.
Two recent cases illustrate that message. Zvi Goffer, who organized a ring of sources that used disposable cellphones for sharing tips, was sentenced to 10 years in jail. Matthew Kluger, a lawyer who funneled information from his law firms over a number of years, received 12 years. Both had challenged their sentences as unreasonably long compared with what others have received. 
Mr. Goffer was convicted after trial of paying lawyers at Ropes & Gray for deal information that he then traded on and distributed to others. He was known by the nickname "Octopussy" because of the many connections he had to sources of inside information. Under the federal sentencing guidelines, his recommended sentence was 10 to 12 and a half years.
Mr. Kluger pleaded guilty to charges of passing information through a middleman to a trader, Garrett Bauer. Mr. Kluger is said to have gleaned the information from different law firms where he worked over a 17-year period. The three men were supposed to share the profits, but Mr. Bauer bought far more than he ever told the others, reaping total profits of over $47 million. Mr. Kluger's recommended sentence was approximately 11 to 14 years.
The appeals courts rejected their challenges, making it clear that the wide judicial discretion in deciding the appropriate sentence is not constrained even if others received much lighter punishments for similar violations. The opinions emphasize the need for deterrence as a means to preserve the integrity of the financial markets by making it very costly to trade on inside information.
Sentences have grown longer in the last few years, in large part because of how the federal sentencing guidelines rely on the size the defendant's gain or avoided loss as the primary determinant of the punishment. A profit of $1 million, for example, will result in a recommended sentence of at least four years in prison, while a $20 million gain can lead to a recommendation of more than 10 years.
Nor must the defendant personally receive the benefits of the illegal trading to risk a significant prison term. Mr. Kluger claimed that he had an agreement with his co-conspirators to limit trading to modest amounts to avoid detection, and that he was unaware of the outsize profits Mr. Bauer generated from the tips. 
The United States Court of Appeals for the Third Circuit rejected the argument that Mr. Kluger should not be held accountable for unforeseen conduct by Mr. Bauer, stating that "we are sending a clear warning to individuals, such as Kluger, who, in an attempt to limit their responsibility and the extent of their potential sentencing exposure allege that they had agreements with their co-conspirators to cap the illicit gains." In other words, a lack of honor among thieves is not a valid reason to reduce the punishment.
Some insider trading cases have resulted in sentences well below the punishment recommended by the sentencing guidelines. Judge Jed S. Rakoff of United States District Court in Manhattan, in particular, has been a strident critic of the use of gains and losses as the best measure of the appropriate sentence for economic crimes. Hetold an audience of white-collar defense lawyers that the federal guidelines should "be scrapped in their entirety."
The aversion to the guidelines is one reason for the growing disparity in sentences in insider trading cases, even leaving aside light punishments for those who cooperate and receive little if any jail time. Judge Rakoff has routinely given sentences well below the guidelines recommendation. He sentenced Rajat K. Gupta to a two-year jail term rather than the recommended six and half years, while Winifred Jiau received a four-year sentence although the government had sought a 10-year prison term.
In his appeal, Mr. Kluger cited Judge Rakoff's statement in the sentencing of Ms. Jiau: "There's no way that I'm going to impose a guideline sentence in this case," the judge said, "[because] the guidelines give a mirage of something that can be obtained with arithmetic certainty." The appeals court was not persuaded, however, explaining that there were good reasons Mr. Kluger's case was qualitatively different from others, including that of Mr. Bauer, who received a nine-year prison term. The appeals court pointed out:
"It is really quite remarkable that Kluger could not even wait to graduate from law school before using his employment at a law firm to initiate his illegal activities, and it is equally remarkable that during most of his legal career he was involved in criminal activity, so that in an actual though perhaps not in a legal technical sense as the term is used in the sentencing guidelines, he truly was a career criminal."
In Mr. Goffer's case, the United States Court of Appeals for the Second Circuit rejected his argument that lighter sentences given in other insider trading cases made his punishment unreasonable. The appeals court explained that just because "some judges have chosen as a policy matter not to sentence white-collar criminals to the harshest permissible punishments, this does not entitle other white-collar criminals to lighter punishments than are reasonable under the Guidelines."
Defendants have hoped that lighter punishments in other insider trading cases, coupled with accompanying criticisms of the sentencing guidelines themselves, would establish a ceiling on what is permissible. But these two appeals court decisions have largely squelched that position, making it clear that judges can be as tough - or lenient - as they see fit, so long as the particular sentence is justifiable under the circumstances.
One of the goals of Congress in adopting federal sentencing guidelines was to minimize the disparity in punishments for similar offenses, especially white-collar crimes. The Supreme Court's decision in 2005 in United States v. Booker, in which the court determined that the guidelines were advisory rather than mandatory, has permitted judges more freedom to apply their own predilections, as Judge Rakoff and others have done in insider trading cases.
As a result, the potential sentence is much more difficult to determine in advance. The appeals court decisions involving Mr. Goffer and Mr. Kluger show that the assignment of a case to a particular judge, which is done at the beginning of a prosecution, can have a significant effect on the eventual punishment if the defendant is convicted.

        
Ex-SAC Trader Gets Court Permission for African Honeymoon
        
Ex-Goldman Director to Serve 2 Years in Insider Case

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: INSIDER TRADING (94%); APPEALS COURTS (90%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (90%); LAWYERS (90%); SENTENCING (90%); MAJOR US LAW FIRMS (90%); SENTENCING GUIDELINES (89%); JAIL SENTENCING (89%); DECISIONS & RULINGS (78%); SETTLEMENTS & DECISIONS (78%); LITIGATION (78%); APPELLATE DECISIONS (78%); CRIMINAL CONVICTIONS (78%); GUILTY PLEAS (78%); LEGAL SERVICES (75%); BANKING & FINANCE (73%); MOBILE & CELLULAR COMMUNICATIONS (71%); MOBILE & CELLULAR TELEPHONES (56%) Courts and the Judiciary; Goffer, Zvi; Insider Trading; Kluger, Matthew; Rakoff, Jed S; Ropes & Gray; Sentences (Criminal); Legal/Regulatory; Top Headline 1; White Collar Watch

COMPANY: ROPES & GRAY LLP (57%)

ORGANIZATION: Ropes &amp; Gray

INDUSTRY: NAICS541110 OFFICES OF LAWYERS (57%); SIC8111 LEGAL SERVICES (57%)

PERSON: Goffer, Zvi; Rakoff, Jed S

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%) NEW YORK, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: July 15, 2013



433 of 937 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(Opinionator)

PUB-DATE: July 15, 2013

SECTION: OPINION

LENGTH: 1421 words

HEADLINE: New York's Mixed-Race Riot

BYLINE: LISA ORR


HIGHLIGHT: Black-Irish relations in 19th century New York were more complex than many realize. 

 BODY:
When draft rioters set fire to the Colored Orphan Asylum in New York on the night of July 13, 1863, one man in the crowd called out, "If there is a man among you with a heart within him, come and help these poor children!" Incensed, the crowd turned on him and almost dismembered him. But he had distracted them, enabling the orphans to escape.
The rioters were Irish. So was the man who sacrificed himself. And chances are good that at least some of those orphans were part Irish, too.
In the years before the Civil War, Irish immigrants to Northern cities inhabited the same slums as free blacks, worked alongside them in the worst jobs and often married them. Antebellum New York held no large, specifically black neighborhoods. Many slaves freed in New York's gradual emancipation settled in the Sixth Ward, along with other low-income people of Irish, German and Jewish descent. Those neighborhoods were unified mainly by the kind of work residents performed: cartmen, corn sellers and prostitutes all plied their wares around the infamous Five Points. With the rapid influx of immigrants during the famine years of the 1840s, the majority of the neighborhood became Irish. But the hardscrabble, interracial lifestyle remained. 
Historians disagree on the extent to which the Irish and their black neighbors clashed or cooperated. Examples can be found for both. The Irish and African-Americans lived intimately connected, boarding together and drinking in the same taverns, mingling in the streets and the dance halls. But living closely did not always mean harmoniously. A fire in June 1863, just a month before the riots, destroyed a tenement housing a liquor store, a black husband and wife and Irish immigrants. The black man and an Irish woman who lived above him argued over who started the fire - but their neighbors testified that both were drunk at the time, and equally likely suspects.
Five Points became something of a tourist stop precisely because of its promiscuous race-mixing. Journalists and other writers toured the area under police protection. All found the same mixture of poverty and crime, and all attributed it to the evils of amalgamation. A reporter for a New York paper in the 1830s lamented the "white women, and black and yellow men, and black and yellow women, with white men, all in a state of gross intoxication, and exhibiting indecencies revolting to virtue and humanity." Charles Dickens, in his "American Notes," described the heavily Irish Five Points almost entirely in terms of the black men and their mulatto partners he found in the basement dance halls, while Davy Crockett, in his ghost-written account, dwelt on the infamy of "black and white, white and black, all hugemsnug together." 
Harmonious or not, most mixed-race marriages in New York were between Irish women and black men and mulatto children were common. The year 1850 saw a new racial category, mulatto, added to the census, to account for their offspring. When the draft came, during a heat wave in the bleak middle of the Civil War, the mob targeted mixed-race households, especially those containing Irish women who had children with African-American men.
Southerners used the threat of amalgamation to undermine Northern support for the war. A United States representative from a border state, arguing that Republicans favored total race equality, described "a ball held at Five Points in the city of New York, where white women and negroes mingled `in sweet confusion in the mazy dance.'" (His opponent, Francis W. Kellogg, Republican of Michigan, pointed out that Five Points was within the strongest Democratic ward in the city.)
Two New York City Democrats invented the term miscegenation during the 1864 election campaign. "The present war ... is a war for the negro," argued a faked Republican pamphlet, designed to discredit Lincoln. "Let it go on until ... the great truth shall be declared in our public documents and announced in the messages of our President, that it is desirable the white man should marry the black woman and the white woman the black man." One subhead was entitled, "The Irish and Negroes First to Comingle."
The wording was meant to incense, but it wasn't that far from what Ralph Waldo Emerson had written in response to nativists in 1845: "In this continent - asylum of all races - the energy of the Irish, Germans, Swedes, Poles and Cossacks, and all the European tribes - of the Africans, of the Polynesians - will construct a new race, a new religion, a new state, a new literature, which will be as vigorous as the new Europe which came out of the smelting-pot of the Dark Ages." His Concord neighbor, Louisa May Alcott, published a short story in 1863 featuring an interracial marriage as the happy ending. Northern liberals had already thought through the implications of race equality.
Irish men's perception that they were being asked to fight a war that would free more slaves - who would then move North and compete with them - was stoked by politicians and businessmen with ties to the South. Mayor Fernando Wood told an Irish crowd that the true purpose of the Emancipation Proclamation was to "flood the North" with black mechanics, who would lower wages for whites. He further inflamed his listeners by claiming that rich Republicans believed the "African ... superior to the poor white." Irish men responded by forming trade unions that specifically excluded black men, pushing them further to the economic margins. 
The draft riots followed years of politicians' and middle-class reformers' attempts to separate the two groups. Irish mothers were particularly vulnerable to the latter, for as the men enlisted or were pushed out of work, their families relied more heavily on outside aid. When a widow asked the Methodist minister Lewis M. Pease, director of the Five Points House of Industry, to take in her daughter Lizzie for a few days, until she found work, he obliged. But when she returned, Pease refused to let her have her child, because he had discovered that she lived with a black man. Despite the pleas and tears of both Lizzie and her mother, Pease put the child up for adoption, and sent her on an orphan train to Illinois.
After the riots subsided, a relief committee set up by merchants reported that white wives of black men had been "severely dealt with by the mob." One Irish woman, the committee reported, had been driven insane by the persecution she endured. Among the mob's victims were "colored" people with Irish names like Elizabeth Hennessy.
After the war, the organizers of the Colored Orphanage attempted to rebuild, but found themselves unwelcome in their old neighborhood. Instead they moved uptown, to an isolated area that would become Harlem. The city's segregation had begun.
What happened to all those mixed-race children? In some cases, their ancestry has been forgotten. Working with colleagues on a large-scale DNA analysis, Mark D. Shriver, a Pennsylvania State University geneticist, has found that 30 percent of self-identified white Americans have some African ancestry - including, to his surprise, himself. 
 Follow Disunion at twitter.com/NYTcivilwar or join us on Facebook. 
 Sources: Barnet Schecter, "The Devil's Own Work: The Civil War Draft Riots and the Fight to Reconstruct America"; Tyler Anbinder, "Five Points: The 19th-Century New York City Neighborhood"; The New York Times, June 10, 1863; Charles Dickens, "American Notes for General Circulation"; Noel Ignatiev, "How the Irish Became White"; Speech of Hon. Francis W. Kellogg, of Michigan, in the House of Representatives, June 12, 1860; Elise Lemire, "Miscegenation: Making Race in America"; J. Marcus Bloch, "Miscegenation, Melaleukation and Mr. Lincoln's Dog"; Ralph Waldo Emerson, "Essays and Poems"; Jerome Mushkat, "Fernando Wood: A Political Biography"; "Report of the Committee of Merchants for the Relief of Colored People, Suffering From the Late Riots in the City of New York"; Mark D. Shriver, et al., "Skin Pigmentation, Biogeographical Ancestry and Admixture Mapping," Human Genetics, 112 (2003). 
 Lisa Orr is a professor of English at Utica College and the author of "Transforming American Realism: Working-Class Women Writers of the Twentieth Century" and the novel "The Adventuress," about the daughter of a free black man and an Irish immigrant who passes as white in Civil War-era New York. 

        
Black Elites and the Draft Riots
        
Seeing the New York Draft Riots
        
Holland's Plan for America's Slaves
        
Organizing Black Soldiers
        
Creating 'The Glorious 54th'

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: RIOTS (92%); ORPHANS (90%); CIVIL WAR (90%); RACE & RACISM (90%); IMMIGRATION (90%); ETHNIC CONFLICTS (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); ARSON (89%); FIRES (89%); MEN (89%); WRITERS (85%); CHILD POVERTY (78%); POVERTY & HOMELESSNESS (78%); AFRICAN AMERICANS (78%); MARRIAGE (77%); POOR POPULATION (77%); FAMINE (76%); HISTORY (75%); SLUM DWELLINGS (75%); DRINKING PLACES (73%); LOW INCOME PERSONS (72%); ETHNICITY (60%); BEER WINE & LIQUOR STORES (50%) Blacks; Civil War (US) (1861-65); Draft and Recruitment (Military); Draft Riots; Immigration and Emigration; New York City; Race and Ethnicity; Disunion

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%) NEW YORK, USA (98%) UNITED STATES (98%) New York City

LOAD-DATE: July 15, 2013



434 of 937 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(DealBook)

PUB-DATE: July 15, 2013

SECTION: BUSINESS

LENGTH: 903 words

HEADLINE: Jury Is Seated at Trader's Trial, Then Is Showered With Jargon

BYLINE: MICHAEL J. DE LA MERCED and SUSANNE CRAIG


HIGHLIGHT: The civil trial of former Goldman Sachs trader Fabrice P. Tourre over a failed investment product began Monday in Federal District Court in Manhattan. 

 BODY:
 9:16 p.m. | Updated 
Lawyers on both sides of the federal government's civil lawsuit against a former Goldman Sachs employee who has become a prominent face of the financial crisis were asked to keep legal mumbo jumbo to a minimum.
But despite the presiding judge's plea to avoid terms like swaps and "synthetic C.D.O." - the judge said "mere mortals don't know what a trading desk is" - both sides dove into descriptions of residential mortgage-backed securities and credit default swaps. 
 It was a clunky opening in Federal District Court for the Southern District of New York for the civil trial of Fabrice P. Tourre, whose work putting together a now-notorious mortgage investment is the focus of the Securities and Exchange Commission's case, after a morning in which nine people were speedily seated as the jury.
Mr. Tourre, 34, a Frenchman who was on Goldman's mortgage desk, was the point person in constructing a 2007 debt investment that ultimately failed. As the most prominent target of a government lawsuit tied to the financial crisis, he has become a lightning rod for criticism.
Goldman had been charged alongside Mr. Tourre, but chose to settle, paying what was in 2010 a record $550 million penalty, without admitting or denying guilt. During opening statements, lawyers for both the S.E.C. and Mr. Tourre painted differing pictures of what was at stake in what is expected to be a three-week trial. Mr. Tourre has denied wrongdoing. He is the only individual facing charges stemming from the investment product.
Matthew T. Martens, the S.E.C.'s lead lawyer and the head of the agency's trial unit, argued that the case was about taking on excessive greed and trickery on Wall Street. Contending that Mr. Tourre had misled investors about the true origins of the mortgage investment doomed to fail, he argued that the onetime Goldman employee shirked his legal duties to enrich both his firm and a big hedge fund client.
Ultimately, Goldman made $15 million in fees on the investment. The firm's client, the hedge fund Paulson & Company, made an estimated $1 billion.
"The defendant knew he was committing a fraud," Mr. Martens said. He later added, "It's a civil case to hold him accountable."
One of Mr. Tourre's lawyers, led by Pamela Chepiga of Allen & Overy, instead defended him as merely participating in a game played by intelligent investors. The investment Mr. Tourre assembled was a zero-sum game in which one side had to lose for the other to make money.
And one of the firms that the government has depicted as a victim, the bond insurer ACA Management, was well aware of whom it was wagering against.
"The most sophisticated bettors in the world were the only ones who got a seat at this table," Ms. Chepiga said.
But both sides face the challenge of explaining the complexities of intricate debt instruments to a jury of mostly laypeople.
The trial's first witness, a finance professor at the University of California, Berkeley, was enlisted to help define the language of Mr. Tourre's former world, thick with arcana like "collateralized debt obligations" and "special purpose vehicles." Several jurors appeared to take copious notes as the professor, Dwight M. Jaffee, spoke on the general structure of the kind of investment at the heart of this case.
Among the jurors are a minister - whose profession conjured a poorly phrased comment by Goldman's chief executive, Lloyd C. Blankfein, when he said he was doing "God's work." The jury also includes a retiree and a former retail stockbroker.
For the most part, the judge and the lawyer teams steered clear of jury candidates who professed ties to Wall Street or finance, or those said they had read articles about the case. One woman worked as a mortgage underwriter who had ties to JPMorgan Chase. Another was a day trader who had owned Goldman stock at one point. Neither was seated.
Driving the speedy process is the federal judge overseeing the case, Katherine B. Forrest. She joked during the jury selection process that she was maintaining an invisible hourglass. The nine-person jury was selected in less than 90 minutes, with the two teams of lawyers using only two of three rounds of strikes in challenging jurors.
And while Mr. Tourre's case has been scheduled for three weeks, the judge said she would try to beat that timetable.
"I am known as a judge who moves things along," Judge Forrest said. She later added, "I am a shark on time."
She also told jurors that while Goldman had once been a defendant in the S.E.C.'s lawsuit, it had settled. Judge Forrest warned the jury not to speculate why the investment bank was no longer part of the lawsuit. Nor were they to regard news articles from 2007 about the mortgage boom as evidence in and of themselves.
Staying silent throughout the day's proceedings was Mr. Tourre himself, clad in a dark suit with an orange-patterned tie. During proceedings, he mostly looked at a laptop or leaned over to chat with his lawyer team. But not even the ex-trader was immune to the longueurs of explaining mortgage-backed securities, yawning on occasion during Professor Dwight's testimony.
Meanwhile, a small armada of TV trucks was lined up outside the courthouse in Lower Manhattan - but it was not clear that they were all present for Mr. Tourre's trial. There were five trials in the courthouse Monday.

        
Arsenal of Legal Firepower Masses Around Tourre Trial
        
In Goldman Case, Re-examining Foreign Sales

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (90%); LAWYERS (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (90%); LITIGATION (90%); BANKING & FINANCE AGENCIES (90%); JURY TRIALS (90%); SECURITIES LAW (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); SUITS & CLAIMS (90%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (90%); MORTGAGE INVESTMENTS (89%); MAJOR UK LAW FIRMS (78%); INVESTMENT BANKING (78%); CREDIT CRISIS (78%); JUDGES (78%); REAL ESTATE (78%); CREDIT DEFAULT SWAPS (77%); BANKING & FINANCE REGULATION (77%); SWAP TRANSACTIONS (76%); COLLATERALIZED DEBT OBLIGATIONS (76%); SYNTHETIC SECURITIES (76%); BONDS (76%); SUBPRIME LENDING (75%); MORTGAGE BACKED SECURITIES (75%); MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (75%); FRAUD & FINANCIAL CRIME (74%); SUBPRIME MORTGAGES (70%); FINANCIAL GUARANTY INSURANCE (70%); CORPORATE WRONGDOING (69%); HEDGE FUNDS (61%) Banking and Financial Institutions; Collateralized Debt Obligations; Forrest, Katherine B; Goldman Sachs Group Inc; Securities and Exchange Commission; Subprime Mortgage Crisis; Tourre, Fabrice P; Goldman Sachs Group Inc|GS|NYSE; Financial Services; Investment Banking; Legal/Regulatory

COMPANY: GOLDMAN SACHS GROUP INC (91%)

ORGANIZATION: Goldman Sachs Group Inc; Securities and Exchange Commission

TICKER: GS (NYSE) (91%) Goldman Sachs Group Inc; GS; NYSE

INDUSTRY: NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (91%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (91%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (91%); SIC6289 SERVICES ALLIED WITH THE EXCHANGE OF SECURITIES OR COMMODITIES, NEC (91%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (91%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (91%)

PERSON: FABRICE P TOURRE (90%) Forrest, Katherine B; Tourre, Fabrice P

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%) NEW YORK, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: July 16, 2013



435 of 937 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(DealBook)

PUB-DATE: July 15, 2013

SECTION: BUSINESS

LENGTH: 555 words

HEADLINE: Strauss-Kahn Re-emerges in Finance, in Russia

BYLINE: ANDREW E. KRAMER


HIGHLIGHT: Dominique Strauss-Kahn, the former chief of the International Monetary Fund whose career unraveled in a series of sex scandals, was named a board member of a banking subsidiary of Rosneft. 

 BODY:
 7:20 p.m. | Updated 
Dominique Strauss-Kahn, the former chief of the International Monetary Fund whose career foundered in a series of sex scandals, is making a comeback in finance - this time, in Russia. 
Rosneft, the Russian state oil company, has given Mr. Strauss-Kahn a position on the board of a banking subsidiary, the Russian Regional Development Bank. It is one of the first prominent job offers since Mr. Strauss-Kahn, a French economist and political leader, resolved the last of his legal troubles this year.
 Mr. Strauss-Kahn was arrested in the United States in 2011 on charges, later dropped, of sexually assaulting a maid in a New York hotel. He later faced charges in France, also eventually dismissed, of involvement in a ring that obtained prostitutes for sex parties.
The bank announced the appointment in a regulatory filing on Friday. It said Mr. Strauss-Kahn was also employed with a consulting agency called Parnasse.
Rosneft's media office declined to elaborate on the appointment or on how Mr. Strauss-Kahn would be compensated.
Mr. Strauss-Kahn, a former French presidential contender, is re-emerging in a much smaller role than he once had. The Russian Regional Development Bank is hardly a financial heavyweight. It ranks No. 64 in Russia by assets.
Vedomosti, the leading Russian business newspaper, reported that Rosneft may be seeking to raise the profile of the bank by hiring a former International Monetary Fund director.
Russian government-owned businesses and many in the private sector have for years recruited Western business and political figures for seats on their boards, positions that often pay lavishly. The Western presence on the board is intended to indicate an endorsement by the company of international and ethical business standards.
In one example, Gerhard Schröder, a former chancellor of Germany, took a job on the board of a venture controlled by Gazprom. And he served on the board of the Russian oil company TNK-BP, receiving reported compensation of more than $200,000 a year, resigning in 2011.
President Vladimir V. Putin once personally offered the post of chairman of the board of Rosneft to Donald L. Evans, a former United States commerce secretary, saying the company was looking for "high-class" foreign management. Mr. Evans declined.
Mr. Strauss-Kahn's appointment appears baffling if the intention is to raise the confidence of foreign investors in Rosneft, said one banker in Moscow who spoke only anonymously.
The banker added that "an American company might think that because of his sexual reputation he is actually a liability."
Last year, Mr. Strauss-Kahn's lawyers negotiated a confidential settlement with Nafissatou Diallo, the hotel maid who had accused him of sexual assault in 2011. Mr. Strauss-Kahn was forced to resign from the monetary fund during the ensuing publicity, but the charges were not pursued by the Manhattan prosecutor's office because of doubts about her credibility.
In June, prosecutors in Lille, France, asked to drop charges filed against Mr. Strauss-Kahn in connection with a ring that recruited prostitutes for sex parties in France and the United States. Mr. Strauss-Kahn did not deny attending but said he had been unaware that the women at the parties were prostitutes.

        
Lipsky Talks Debt and I.M.F. Leadership
        
'D.S.K.' Makes His Comedy Debut

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: DEVELOPMENT BANKS (90%); APPOINTMENTS (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); SCANDALS (90%); SEX SCANDALS (90%); CRUDE OIL & NATURAL GAS EXTRACTION (89%); SEX OFFENSES (89%); SEXUAL ASSAULT (89%); OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (89%); INTERNATIONAL ASSISTANCE (78%); FOREIGN INVESTMENT (78%); INVESTMENT BANKING (78%); BANKING & FINANCE REGULATION (77%); STATE OWNED BUSINESSES (77%); ETHICS (77%); RESIGNATIONS (77%); EMPLOYMENT (76%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (75%); ASSAULT & BATTERY (75%); HOTEL HOUSEKEEPING (74%); HOTEL STAFF (74%); BUSINESS ETHICS (72%); ARRESTS (70%); EMPLOYEE TERMINATION (50%) Appointments and Executive Changes; International Monetary Fund; Rosneft; Strauss-Kahn, Dominique; Financial Services; Investment Banking; Legal/Regulatory; Revolving Door

COMPANY: OAO GAZPROM (64%); OAO ROSNEFT OIL CO (58%); TNK-BP LTD (52%)

ORGANIZATION: International Monetary Fund; Rosneft

TICKER: OGZD (LSE) (64%); GAZP (RTS) (64%); ROSN (RTS) (58%); ROSN (LSE) (58%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS211111 CRUDE PETROLEUM & NATURAL GAS EXTRACTION (64%); SIC1311 CRUDE PETROLEUM & NATURAL GAS (64%); NAICS486210 PIPELINE TRANSPORTATION OF NATURAL GAS (64%); NAICS221210 NATURAL GAS DISTRIBUTION (64%); NAICS213112 SUPPORT ACTIVITIES FOR OIL & GAS OPERATIONS (64%); SIC4923 NATURAL GAS TRANSMISSION & DISTRIBUTION (64%)

PERSON: DOMINIQUE STRAUSS-KAHN (96%); VLADIMIR PUTIN (57%); GERHARD SCHRODER (50%) Strauss-Kahn, Dominique

GEOGRAPHIC: MOSCOW, RUSSIAN FEDERATION (58%) RUSSIAN FEDERATION (94%); UNITED STATES (93%); FRANCE (92%); GERMANY (68%)

LOAD-DATE: July 16, 2013



436 of 937 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(Paul Krugman)

PUB-DATE: July 15, 2013

SECTION: OPINION

LENGTH: 476 words

HEADLINE: Wage-Price Flexibility in a Liquidity Trap, Again Again Again

BYLINE: PAUL KRUGMAN


HIGHLIGHT: Deflation doesn&#8217;t help in a liquidity trap. 

 BODY:
One of the frustrating things about macroeconomic discussion since the Great Recession struck is the prevalence of zombie fallacies - misconceptions that one imagines have been killed by logic or evidence, but just keep coming back to eat our brains. Often, maybe usually, politics is what's keeping these zombies alive; or, if not exactly politics, the attempt of economists to defend their intellectual investments in failed theories. 
Sometimes, however, the zombies manage to eat a brain or two simply because someone wasn't paying attention. And I think this is what has just happened to the usually excellent Noah Smith.
Smith finds Japan's persistent shortfall puzzling, because - he claims - this isn't supposed to happen in New Keynesian models:
In a New Keynesian model, when there is a demand shortfall, unemployment is the result. The central bank can print money in order to combat the shortfall, which raises inflation and lowers unemployment. But if the central bank does nothing, prices will eventually adjust, and unemployment will go away. This New Keynesian model corresponds nicely to the simple AD-AS model that people learn in Econ 102.
In the words of Charlie Brown, aaugh!
People, we've been through this.
Yes, in a standard AS-AD or NK model, high unemployment leads to falling wages and prices, and this eventually restores full employment. But how does this happen? Not because making labor cheaper increases the quantity of labor demanded - Keynes understood that point perfectly long before he even wrote the General Theory:
Or again, if a particular producer or a particular country cuts wages, then, so long as others do not follow suit, that producer or that country is able to get more of what trade is going. But if wages are cut all round, the purchasing power of the community as a whole is reduced by the same amount as the reduction of costs; and, again, no one is further forward.
No, the only reason deflation "works" in the standard model is that it increases the real money supply, which leads to lower interest rates; in effect, it acts like an expansionary monetary policy.
But Japan has been in a liquidity trap during the whole period Smith looks at. Monetary expansion is ineffective unless it can raise expectations of future inflation. Deflation is definitely not going to help. In fact, by raising the real burden of debt, it makes things worse
A corollary is that while sticky wages are a real phenomenon - the evidence just keeps getting stronger - their importance has to be appreciated correctly. You need them to understand what we're seeing, which is the failure of deflation to appear in the US now (and the slow pace of deflation in Japan). They are not, repeat NOT the reason either Japan or we have failed to recover.
How is it that this stuff - which is more or less where we came in - hasn't gotten through?

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); RECESSION (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); DEFLATION (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (89%); WAGES & SALARIES (88%); ECONOMIC POLICY (78%); PUBLIC POLICY (77%); FULL EMPLOYMENT (76%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (73%); MONEY SUPPLY (73%); CENTRAL BANKS (73%); MONETARY POLICY (73%); INTEREST RATES (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: JAPAN (94%); UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: July 15, 2013



437 of 937 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(Well)

PUB-DATE: July 15, 2013

SECTION: HEALTH

LENGTH: 878 words

HEADLINE: Cholesterol Levels Are Leveling Off

BYLINE: LAURIE TARKAN


HIGHLIGHT: Average cholesterol levels in Americans have stopped falling since 2008, a study finds, raising concerns about an increase in heart disease and the effectiveness of statins. 

 BODY:
Pharmaceutical companies are racing to develop a new class of drugs that may lower blood levels of LDL cholesterol to a point few scientists had believed attainable, The New York Times reported last week. For many people with high cholesterol, the breakthrough can't come soon enough.
Statins, the miracle drugs responsible for keeping cholesterol in check in wide swaths of the population, may be reaching the limits of their effectiveness. Average cholesterol levels in Americans have stopped falling since 2008, according to a large analysis of patient records published recently in PLoS One. 
Researchers at Quest Diagnostics, a national laboratory chain, reviewed blood levels of LDL, the so-called bad cholesterol, in 105 million adults tested by the company between 2001 and 2011. Average LDL levels declined from 120 milligrams per deciliter of blood in 2001 to 104.7 in 2008, about a 13 percent drop.
But in the next three years, average LDL levels flattened out.
An LDL of 100 mg/dL is considered healthy, but experts say people at very high risk of heart disease should bring their levels down even further, to about 70 mg/dL or lower. The percentage of patients with an LDL under 100 mg/dL rose from 26 percent in 2001 to 45.6 percent in 2008, then leveled off. Those with a high LDL of 160 mg/dL or more dropped from 13.7 percent in 2001 to 6 percent in 2011.
The study was not a random sampling; it comprised individuals whose physicians had requested cholesterol tests. Still, the findings have worried experts.
"The study suggests that the progress has slowed in systematically lowering cholesterol levels," said Dr. Steven Nissen, the chairman of cardiovascular medicine at the Cleveland Clinic, who was not involved in the study.
The authors suggested that these results may affect cardiovascular mortality rates as well. "There has been approximately a 70 percent decrease in cardiovascular disease mortality from 1970 through 2009," said Dr. Harvey W. Kaufman, senior medical director at Quest Diagnostics and an author of the study. "A large portion of this was driven by the reduction in cholesterol, and this progress is now threatened."
A combination of factors have brought down LDL levels, including improved diet and exercise. But statins have been a significant driver over the past 25 years.
The study did not look at causes for the plateau, but Dr. Kaufman and his colleagues speculated that the recession may have played a role by influencing patients' ability to see their physicians and fill their prescriptions for statins. Tough times also may have affected lifestyle factors that can contribute to higher LDL, including stress levels, a high-fat diet and lack of exercise.
The number of prescriptions for statins rose dramatically almost every year since 2001, but the growth slowed in 2010, according to IMS Health, a health care information company. There also was a decline in physician office visits, which means that fewer people are getting their cholesterol tested and treated.
But other experts suggested that LDL levels have flattened out simply because they may be as low as they can go with the available treatments. "We could conceivably be experiencing a bottoming out of the statin effect," said Dr. Ronald M. Krauss, director of atherosclerosis research at Children's Hospital Oakland Research Institute in Oakland, Calif.
According to Dr. Elsa-Grace V. Giardina, director of preventive cardiology training at Columbia University Medical Center, "There may be a rapid rate of change at first, and then you get to a threshold point for which you can't do much more."
To bring LDL levels lower, physicians may need to increase statin doses, particularly in those who are at high risk of heart disease. "The official recommendation has been to reduce LDL as much as possible, but physicians don't always adjust statin dose in practice," Dr. Krauss said. "If it starts off high and it comes down to 100, doctors may be satisfied with that."
But doctors may also have been reluctant to raise doses because of the risk of serious side effects like muscle pain, weakness and increased blood sugar levels.
The trend is to focus on "therapeutic lifestyle modification, for individuals to have a greater input into their health, rather than just popping a pill," Dr. Giardina said.
Obesity may also be limiting the effectiveness of statins. "You have to wonder how much obesity is contributing to this plateau," Dr. Giardina said. Obesity raises the risks of high cholesterol, high blood pressure, high triglycerides and diabetes, all risk factors for heart disease.
She believes average cholesterol levels may be higher than the study found: "Excluded in this analysis are disadvantaged people who don't have health care and among whom obesity is a major problem."
Even if new drugs are found, the obesity epidemic may blunt their effects.
"We're now to the point that a very large fraction of the adult population is obese," Dr. Nissen said. "We will not make any further progress as a society unless we find a way to deal with the obesity epidemic."

        
Ask Well: Calcium, Inflammation and Heart Disease
        
Blaming the Patient, Then Asking Forgiveness
        
Ask Well: Consequences of Low Cholesterol?
        
Ask Well: Women and Statins
        
Playing, and Losing, as a Medical Team

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: CHOLESTEROL (98%); SCIENCE NEWS (90%); SCIENCE & TECHNOLOGY (90%); PHARMACEUTICALS PRODUCT DEVELOPMENT (90%); DISEASES & DISORDERS (90%); LIPID LOWERING AGENTS (90%); CARDIOVASCULAR DRUGS (90%); HEART DISEASE (89%); CARDIOVASCULAR DISEASE (89%); MEDICAL & DIAGNOSTIC LABORATORIES (89%); PHYSICIANS & SURGEONS (89%); RESEARCH REPORTS (89%); NUTRITION (87%); EXERCISE & FITNESS (87%); PHARMACEUTICALS INDUSTRY (79%); PHARMACEUTICAL PREPARATION MFG (79%); DEATHS & DEATH RATES (78%); OILS & FATS (78%); POPULATION & DEMOGRAPHICS (76%); CARDIOLOGY (75%); WRITERS (75%); DIETING (72%); MEDICAL RECORDS (70%); PHYSICIAN PRACTICES (69%) Cholesterol; Diet and Nutrition; Doctors; medicine and health; Weight; Medicine and Health; Body; Featured

COMPANY: QUEST DIAGNOSTICS INC (57%); IMS HEALTH INC (50%)

TICKER: DGX (NYSE) (57%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS621511 MEDICAL LABORATORIES (57%); SIC8731 COMMERCIAL PHYSICAL & BIOLOGICAL RESEARCH (57%); SIC8071 MEDICAL LABORATORIES (57%); NAICS541910 MARKETING RESEARCH & PUBLIC OPINION POLLING (50%); NAICS511210 SOFTWARE PUBLISHERS (50%); SIC8732 COMMERCIAL ECONOMIC, SOCIOLOGICAL, & EDUCATIONAL RESEARCH (50%); SIC7372 PREPACKAGED SOFTWARE (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: CLEVELAND, OH, USA (68%) OHIO, USA (68%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: July 16, 2013



438 of 937 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(The Caucus)

PUB-DATE: July 15, 2013

SECTION: US; politics

LENGTH: 658 words

HEADLINE: Congress Seeks Path Forward on Farm Bill as Deadline Approaches

BYLINE: RON NIXON


HIGHLIGHT: The chairwoman of the Senate Agriculture Committee said she wanted to work with her House counterparts on legislation that would continue agriculture programs set to expire Sept. 30. 

 BODY:
Despite the differences between the farm bills passed by the House and Senate, the chairwoman of the Senate Agriculture Committee said she wanted to work with her House counterparts to draft new five-year farm legislation that would continue agriculture programs set to expire Sept. 30.
"We are willing to take what they give us and work with the chairman and ranking member of the House Agriculture Committee," the chairwoman, Senator Debbie Stabenow, Democrat of Michigan, said in a conference call with reporters on Monday. "Time is of the essence, and we need to move forward on this." 
Ms. Stabenow said the Senate was still waiting for the House to send over its bill so the two chambers can conference and begin working out their differences. She reiterated her opposition to the legislation passed by the House. 
The 608-page farm bill the House passed last week was the first since 1973 not to include a food stamp program.
The 216-to-208 vote saved House Republican leaders from a rerun of the stunning defeat of a broader version of the bill last month, but it left the fate of the food stamp program uncertain. The program, which normally makes up about 80 percent of the farm bill and costs nearly $75 billion a year, has been a constant target for House conservatives who say it has grown too large. About 47 million Americans receive food stamps.
House Republicans have proposed cutting about $20 billion from the program. Representative Eric Cantor of Virginia, the majority leader, has promised to "act with dispatch" to pass a separate food stamp bill in the future, but has not given a timetable.
The Senate passed its version of the farm bill, which included the food stamp program, in June, and Ms. Stabenow said the Senate would not accept a bill that did not include the program. President Obama has also threatened to veto any bill that does not include food stamps.
The House and Senate bills both include fundamental changes to agriculture provisions in the current law. Both would save billions of dollars by consolidating or cutting numerous farm subsidy programs, including the $5 billion paid annually to farmers and landowners whether they plant crops or not. The money saved by eliminating those payments would be directed into the $9 billion crop insurance program, and new subsidies would be created for peanut, cotton and rice farmers.
Both bills add money to support fruit and vegetable growers, and restore insurance programs for livestock producers that expired in 2011, leaving thousands of operations without disaster coverage during last year's drought.
But the bills also differ on major issues besides food stamps.
The House bill includes a new proposal to repeal a provision in the current farm bill, called permanent law, that causes farm programs to revert to 1949 price levels if a new farm bill is not passed. Congress has traditionally maintained the provision to force lawmakers to pass a bill or face large increases in farm program expenditures. Without the provision, many lawmakers and farm groups fear there would be no incentive for Congress to pass a farm bill on time.
The Senate is opposed to repealing the permanent law provision.
The House bill would make substantial changes to a dairy program that limits the amount of milk produced and sold in the United States. Dairy farmers oppose the measures, saying they would result in a loss of revenue.
The House bill also includes a provision, added by Representative Dan Benishek, Republican of Michigan, that would require additional economic and scientific analyses before a sweeping 2010 law to improve the food safety system goes into effect. Food safety advocates say the provision would effectively halt implementation of the law.

        
House Agriculture Committee Approves Farm Bill
        
Senate Panel Approves Farm Bill
        
Food Stamp Program Faces Deeper Cuts Under House Farm Bill
        
Congress Set to Begin Work on Farm Bill
        
New Estimates Question Savings from Farm Bills

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: LEGISLATIVE BODIES (91%); AGRICULTURAL LAW (91%); FOOD STAMPS (90%); LEGISLATION (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); AGRICULTURAL SUBSIDIES (89%); FARMERS & RANCHERS (89%); POLITICAL PARTIES (89%); AGRICULTURE (89%); AGRICULTURAL PRICES (78%); VEGETABLE & MELON FARMING (78%); VETO (78%); AGRICULTURAL INSURANCE (78%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (76%); CONFERENCES & CONVENTIONS (75%); FRUITS & VEGETABLES (73%); ANIMAL FARMING & BREEDING (73%); FRUIT & NUT FARMING (73%); RICE FARMING (73%); CONFERENCE CALLS (70%); CONSERVATISM (67%); CROP INSURANCE (65%); US PRESIDENTS (62%) Farm Bill (US); Food Stamps; House of Representatives; Senate; Stabenow, Debbie; Congress

ORGANIZATION: House of Representatives; Senate

PERSON: DEBBIE STABENOW (90%); BARACK OBAMA (58%); ERIC CANTOR (58%) Stabenow, Debbie

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: July 15, 2013



439 of 937 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(DealBook)

PUB-DATE: July 15, 2013

SECTION: BUSINESS

LENGTH: 1425 words

HEADLINE: Arsenal of Legal Firepower Masses Around Tourre Trial

BYLINE: BEN PROTESS, SUSANNE CRAIG and MICHAEL J. DE LA MERCED


HIGHLIGHT: Sean Coffey and Pamela Chepiga are representing Fabrice Tourre, Matthew Martens is leading the S.E.C.&#8217;s case against Mr. Tourre, and Judge Katherine Forrest will preside. 

 BODY:
When Wall Street lawyers gathered at a conference in Orlando, Fla., during the 2008 financial crisis, one law firm posted an outsize picture of Sean Coffey's head on the body of a wrestler, labeling him Public Enemy No. 1.
Five years later, Mr. Coffey's role is reversed. Once famous for suing Wall Street - Mr. Coffey extracted $6.2 billion from big banks in the wake of WorldCom's collapse - he is now defending a former Goldman Sachs trader, Fabrice Tourre, in one of the biggest actions stemming from the financial crisis.
 The Securities and Exchange Commission's civil case against Mr. Tourre went to trial on Monday in a federal courthouse in Lower Manhattan, putting a spotlight on Mr. Coffey and a tightknit network of other legal players, many of whom are playing unusual roles in the case. 
Mr. Coffey's co-counsel is Pamela Chepiga, a former federal prosecutor who once played basketball with another diminutive lawyer, Mary Jo White, the chairwoman of the S.E.C. The defense team is facing off against the head of the S.E.C.'s trial unit, Matthew T. Martens, who typically supervises cases, but has never before led a jury trial at the S.E.C. (He is a friend of Mr. Coffey's from private practice, though Mr. Martens temporarily unfriended Mr. Coffey on Facebook as a precautionary measure during the trial.) Rounding out the roster, the two sides will argue before Judge Katherine B. Forrest, a longtime corporate lawyer and relative newcomer to the bench who will face her biggest securities trial yet.
The convergence of such prominent lawyers exemplifies the insular world of the securities bar - and the revolving door its members often pass through on their way back and forth between government and private practice. It also underscores the importance of a trial in which Mr. Tourre is fighting a possible ban from the securities industry, and the S.E.C. is seeking a defining victory in its uneven campaign to punish those at the center of the crisis.
In the Goldman case, the S.E.C. accused Mr. Tourre of misleading investors about a mortgage security that ultimately failed. Mr. Tourre, the agency says, sold what is known as a synthetic collateralized debt obligation, a deal linked to the performance of mortgage-backed bonds, while omitting a crucial fact: a hedge fund helped pick the bonds and then bet against them. Goldman chose to settle the case, paying a $550 million penalty without admitting or denying guilt.
On Monday, Ms. Chepiga explained to the nine-person jury that synthetic C.D.O.'s are structured such that someone needs to bet against the deals. One investor bets the bonds will fail; another bets they will pay out, creating what she called a "zero-sum game."
Still, the case will test the lawyers' ability to translate such sophisticated concepts - C.D.O.'s and mortgage bonds, to say nothing of hedge fund strategy - to a jury that includes a minister, a retiree and a graphic designer who likes to watch Fox 5 News.
"You guys are going to have a hard time making this case non-mumbo jumbo," Judge Forrest told the lawyers at a hearing last week. Mr. Coffey later joked: "I couldn't spell C.D.O. a few months ago."
Mr. Coffey's partner on the case, Ms. Chepiga, found her way into securities law as a young federal prosecutor working for Jed S. Rakoff, now one of New York's best-known federal judges. While Ms. Chepiga has handled mostly securities cases at the Allen & Overy firm, she also helped lead a team in 2004 that sued the government on behalf of 15 detainees from Yemen held on suspicion of terrorism at Guantánamo Bay.
In the Goldman case, Ms. Chepiga has represented Mr. Tourre since the S.E.C. filed its suit in 2010. And on Monday - which also happens to be both her and Mr. Coffey's birthday, 64 for her and 57 for him - she delivered opening arguments in the case.
Mr. Coffey's career has also included turns as a federal prosecutor and a defense lawyer. But unlike other securities lawyers, he is a retired naval officer who tracked Soviet submarines during the cold war and served as a personal military assistant to then-Vice President George H. W. Bush. He also defended a death-row inmate in one of the first cases involving DNA evidence.
But it was as a plaintiff's lawyer at Bernstein Litowitz Berger & Grossmann where Mr. Coffey became an enemy of Wall Street. Tom Ajamie, a securities lawyer who attended the seminar in Orlando, said the message was clear: "Here is the guy you need to attack." 
The WorldCom case, possibly Mr. Coffey's biggest success at Bernstein, led him to Ms. Chepiga. While he was suing WorldCom's banks and directors, she represented some of the directors. 
Mr. Coffey left Bernstein in 2009 and began what turned out to be an unsuccessful bid for New York attorney general.
He went on to create BlackRobe Capital Partners, which helped finance litigation against big corporations, but he closed the company recently before joining Mr. Tourre's legal team. One of his partners at BlackRobe was Ms. Chepiga's husband, Michael J. Chepiga.
While Mr. Coffey is also friends with Mr. Martens from their days at the corporate law firm Latham & Watkins, the similarities appear to stop there. Mr. Coffey is a liberal Democrat. Mr. Martens, after graduating first in his class from the University of North Carolina School of Law, was a law clerk to William H. Rehnquist, the conservative former chief justice of the Supreme Court.
After Latham, Mr. Martens joined the Justice Department as an aide to Assistant Attorney General Michael Chertoff. He later became a federal prosecutor in North Carolina, specializing in white-collar fraud.
While Mr. Martens, 41, has tried 20 cases in his career, Mr. Tourre's case will be his first jury trial at the S.E.C., reflecting its importance to the agency. He did, however, represent the S.E.C. in court for its settlement with Citigroup, another C.D.O. case that was among the agency's most complex.
"He's really good at explaining things in plain English," Mr. Chertoff recalled.
Colleagues at the agency described Mr. Martens as serious - he rarely smiles, they say - but also "brilliant."
At times, S.E.C. investigators have complained that Mr. Martens's team is too timid. The team has argued against filing cases that the agency spent years building, according to officials who spoke on the condition that they not be named.
Yet the level of caution has impressed some S.E.C. veterans who argue that the agency should pursue appropriate outcomes, not headlines. The agency also notes that, under Mr. Martens, its Washington office has expanded its docket of actively litigated cases to 90, up from 60 when Mr. Martens started in 2010.
As Mr. Tourre's trial begins, Mr. Martens's unit is in transition. In recent town halls, officials say, the agency has discussed assigning a group of litigators to each team of S.E.C. investigators, an idea aimed at generating more cooperation at the agency.
Mr. Martens is also facing a change himself. Mr. Tourre's trial is seen as one of his final acts for the agency, officials say, as he considers joining a law firm, with Latham and WilmerHale among the possibilities.
 The trial will also prove one of the biggest cases yet for Judge Forrest. A former corporate lawyer who served in the Justice Department's antitrust division, she joined the bench in fall 2011. In perhaps her most prominent ruling, she moved to permanently block the federal government from employing a legal provision allowing for the military detention of people deemed to have provided support to the likes of Al Qaeda or the Taliban.
 Ms. Forrest, 49, came from a difficult childhood - her family was briefly homeless - to attend Wesleyan University and then New York University's law school. She began her career at the law firm Cravath, Swaine & Moore, focusing on antitrust and litigation, but also handling pro bono matters like First Amendment cases.
Friends and former colleagues described Ms. Forrest - known as Kitty to close acquaintances - as decisive.
"To my mind, she has the perfect judicial temperament," said C. Allen Parker, the presiding partner of Cravath.
On Monday, Judge Forrest urged the legal teams to "have a heart" when explaining "gibberish" like C.D.O.'s to the jury. "Do not assume people know what an investment bank does."
An earlier version of this article misidentified the school that Judge Katherine B. Forrest attended as an undergraduate. It was Wesleyan University, not Wesleyan College.

        
In Goldman Case, Re-examining Foreign Sales
        
Jury Is Seated at Trader's Trial, Then Is Showered With Jargon

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: LAWYERS (90%); BANKING & FINANCE AGENCIES (90%); SECURITIES LAW (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (90%); BUSINESS FINANCIAL TROUBLE (89%); JURY TRIALS (89%); MORTGAGE BACKED SECURITIES (89%); BONDS (89%); COLLATERALIZED DEBT OBLIGATIONS (84%); BANKING & FINANCE REGULATION (78%); LITIGATION (78%); CORPORATE DEBT (78%); JUDGES (78%); SETTLEMENTS & DECISIONS (77%); INVESTMENT BANKING (76%); MORTGAGE INVESTMENTS (75%); INTERNET SOCIAL NETWORKING (73%); BASKETBALL (73%); SUITS & CLAIMS (73%); SETTLEMENT & COMPROMISE (73%); HEDGE FUNDS (50%) Banking and Financial Institutions; Bernstein Litowitz Berger & Grossmann LLP; Chepiga, Pamela; Coffey, Sean; Collateralized Debt Obligations; Forrest, Katherine B; Goldman Sachs Group Inc; Mortgage-Backed Securities; Securities and Exchange Commission; Suits and Litigation (Civil); Tourre, Fabrice P; Financial Services; Investment Banking; Legal/Regulatory

COMPANY: GOLDMAN SACHS GROUP INC (90%); VERIZON COMMUNICATIONS INC (57%); FACEBOOK INC (54%)

ORGANIZATION: Bernstein Litowitz Berger &amp; Grossmann LLP; Goldman Sachs Group Inc; Securities and Exchange Commission

TICKER: GS (NYSE) (90%); VZC (LSE) (57%); VZ (NYSE) (57%); FB (NASDAQ) (54%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (90%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (90%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (90%); SIC6289 SERVICES ALLIED WITH THE EXCHANGE OF SECURITIES OR COMMODITIES, NEC (90%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (90%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (90%); NAICS517210 WIRELESS TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (EXCEPT SATELLITE) (57%); NAICS517110 WIRED TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (57%); NAICS519130 INTERNET PUBLISHING & BROADCASTING & WEB SEARCH PORTALS (54%)

PERSON: FABRICE P TOURRE (93%); MARY JO WHITE (72%) Coffey, Sean; Forrest, Katherine B; Tourre, Fabrice P

GEOGRAPHIC: ORLANDO, FLORIDA, USA (90%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%) FLORIDA, USA (91%); NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (91%)

LOAD-DATE: July 17, 2013



440 of 937 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(DealBook)

PUB-DATE: July 15, 2013

SECTION: BUSINESS

LENGTH: 1411 words

HEADLINE: Public-Private Partnerships Could Be a Lifeline for Cities

BYLINE: KENT ROWEY


HIGHLIGHT: Municipalities can gain much needed cash and operating efficiency by contracting with private equity investors to run a public service or utility. The investors make a large up-front payment and receive a concession to operate the service. 

 BODY:
 12:36 p.m. | Updated 
 Kent Rowey is a partner in the energy and infrastructure practice at Allen & Overy in New York. 
Detroit is fighting for its fiscal survival. Over the last four years, the city has spent $100 million more each year than it has collected. Long-term liabilities are estimated to be as high as $20 billion. Gov. Rick Snyder of Michigan installed an emergency manager, who most assume is preparing for a Chapter 9 filing, which would be the largest municipal bankruptcy in United States history.
In May, the manager, Kevyn Orr, was considering selling parts of the permanent collection at the Detroit Institute of Arts to pay creditors. Mr. Orr later backed off that threat, but no doubt he wanted to scare city fathers into getting serious about averting financial disaster. But new worries followed that he would have to unload the city's collection of 62 classic cars.
Detroit's plight may be extreme, but its problems are increasingly common in cities across the United States. Municipalities are struggling to make public payroll, maintain basic services or meet pension fund obligations. Many of the hard choices Detroit has to make will be repeated in towns in the Midwest, Rust Belt, California and throughout the Northeast. 
In truth, Detroit does not have to part with its Diego Rivera murals or its vintage Mustangs and Cadillacs. Instead, it should be taking an inventory of revenue-producing public assets - including on-street and off-street parking systems, water systems, toll bridges, solid waste disposal plants, utilities and airports - to lease or divest with help from private partners willing to invest capital in improving them.
Public-private partnerships are the ideal solution for the fiscal problems plaguing many American cities. In a so-called P3 transaction, private equity investors make a large up-front payment to run a public service or utility - often for hundreds of millions of dollars. In return, they gain a concession to operate the service under a contract that can last for decades. 
Gaining much needed cash and operating efficiency are prime incentives for municipalities to undertake such transactions. Chicago entered into a concession for 36,000 parking meters a few years ago through a 75-year contract valued at more than $1 billion, a deal I advised the investors on. Besides streamlining the costs of running the citywide program, the new concession exposed abuses of handicapped parking permits and led to the passage of a law preventing abuses. Today, the Chicago Metered Parking System is considered one of the world's best.
Does Detroit's lurch toward bankruptcy make it a less-desirable candidate for a public-private transaction? Not necessarily. A municipality that has already filed Chapter 9 may have greater impetus to privatize infrastructure assets to restructure its balance sheet just like any business trying to work through insolvency. 
P3 deals are also effective for cities on the brink. Not only can they generate substantial revenue to stave off defaults, but they need not involve an outright sale of assets. Ownership of the services often remains with the city, avoiding the prospect of a fire sale. As for cities in good financial shape, they should consider private partnerships as a means of undertaking long-term civic improvements at a time when the fiscal roof isn't leaking.
How does a city ensure that it's receiving fair value in a P3? These deals are subject to external market forces. Bidders for public infrastructure assign a value based on prospects for long-term revenue collection - will there be enough drivers crossing a toll bridge or parking their cars on city streets? In reality, infrastructure assets are in general relatively straightforward to value and represent a long-term, income-producing annuity for the right investor.
 Privatization often ignites fears of price-gouging by Wall Street. In fact, your corner grocery store or nail salon has more power to raise prices than a private equity fund operating a public service. The assets at the center of these deals - parking garages, utilities, toll roads - operate under tight regulatory regimes. Rates are adjusted according to inflation and can't be raised without an arduous process of public hearings and agency approvals. In another deal I advised on, Bayonne, N.J., contracted a 40-year concession for its water and waste system through a partnership with Kohlberg Kravis Roberts and United Water, which abides by a strict scheduled rate protocol.
Some people have a knee-jerk aversion to allowing private enterprise to manage public works. The truth is that cities have terrible track records in maintaining their bridges and roadways. Gas and electric utilities have long been run by private entities. If a city can trust private business to operate its nuclear power plant, it has nothing to fear in allowing an investment fund to manage its parking meters.
Privatizing municipal services is not a hand-off of the public trust. The assets in a P3 rely on millions of paying customers for their revenue stream, not city coffers. If the assets remain in the hands of near-bankrupt municipalities, crucial services and infrastructure will become melting ice cubes financed by a vastly shrinking tax base.
Harrisburg, Pa., has been teetering on the edge of bankruptcy for several years, having to service $370 million in debt tied to a trash incinerator built a decade ago. Had the incinerator been developed through a concession with a private investor, Harrisburg's balance sheet would look a lot brighter today.
What about jobs? Don't private operators of public infrastructure torch contracts with municipal unions? In fact, the jobs needed to run these services remain unionized after a P3, typically governed by collective bargaining terms. Yet private concessions frequently create jobs through capital programs that had been sidelined by broke city governments.
Public-private partnerships have gotten a bad rap because of some highly publicized failures. In 2008, when Gov. Ed Rendell of Pennsylvania tried to lease the state's turnpike to an infrastructure fund, the legislature killed the $12.8 billion deal. In Pittsburgh, the city council rejected a $500 million bid for a municipal parking concession that would have more than covered a $350 million shortfall in parking revenue.
These failures did not reflect inherent problems with the P3 structure - the transactions were derailed because of political grudges and fear-mongering. The reality is that government agencies are so constrained they can't meet their responsibilities to operate and maintain - much less build new - public infrastructure. P3s regularly replace aging infrastructure and provide state-of-the-art services. The private operator of the Chicago parking meter system replaced all coin operated meters with credit card devices, which will soon feature pay-by-cellphone options. This would not have been possible had the city continued to manage the meters.
This should be a golden age of public-private partnerships - the need exists in cities across the country. And the capital is there, from private investors seeking long-term returns. American infrastructure has fallen behind countries like France, Italy, Spain, Portugal, Poland, Hungary and countries that have long embraced privatization of urban systems. Ironically, the United States has become an emerging economy when it comes to developing P3 projects - in which opportunity needs to be matched with political will and bold thinking to undertake.
 Ultimately, Detroit and other stressed cities don't have much choice. They must land on solid ground and use new revenue to pay off existing debt. The marvel of public-private partnerships is that a significantly reduced debt load and shift of responsibility to the private sector can allow a city to turn to other priorities, like buying more textbooks for students or enhancing local parks that are a city's true public trust. Divesting noncore assets may be the best way for many towns - not just Motown - to regain their momentum.
Editors' Note: This column has been updated to note the author's connection to the deals involving the parking meter concession in Chicago and the water system concession in Bayonne, N.J. Those connections should have been described in the original post.

        
Cost of Public Projects Is Rising, and Pain Will Be Felt for Years
        
Cities Need to Weigh Costs of Private Partnerships

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: PRIVATE EQUITY (91%); INFRASTRUCTURE (90%); PUBLIC PRIVATE PARTNERSHIPS (90%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (89%); MAJOR UK LAW FIRMS (89%); CITY LIFE (89%); CITIES (89%); PARKING SPACES & FACILITIES (89%); PRIVATIZATION (78%); CITY GOVERNMENT (77%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (77%); PENSION FUNDS (76%); BUSINESS FINANCIAL TROUBLE (75%); DIVESTITURES (75%); PAINTING (74%); CONTRACTS LAW (66%); CONTRACTS & BIDS (66%); WASTE MANAGEMENT & REMEDIATION SERVICES (64%); SOLID WASTE TREATMENT & DISPOSAL (50%); DISABLED PERSONS (50%) Detroit (Mich); Infrastructure (Public Works); Local Government; Private Equity; Another View; Restructuring & Bankruptcy

PERSON: RICK SNYDER (56%)

GEOGRAPHIC: DETROIT, MI, USA (96%) MICHIGAN, USA (96%); NEW YORK, USA (92%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); MIDWEST USA (79%) UNITED STATES (96%) Detroit (Mich)

LOAD-DATE: July 23, 2013



441 of 937 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(DealBook)

PUB-DATE: July 15, 2013

SECTION: BUSINESS

LENGTH: 1101 words

HEADLINE: Growth in Emerging Markets Lifts Citigroup's Profit by 42%, Topping Expectations

BYLINE: JESSICA SILVER-GREENBERG


HIGHLIGHT: Citigroup&#8217;s earnings swelled 42 percent in the second quarter, handily beating expectations, as the sprawling bank worked to cut costs and expand its international lending operations. 

 BODY:
 8:37 p.m. | Updated 
Capitalizing on its emerging market business - a welcome antidote to the lackluster United States economy - Citigroup handily beat expectations on Monday as net income surged 42 percent in the second quarter.
The nation's largest banks are bedeviled by a challenging trifecta - sluggish demand for loans, a stagnant American economy and a raft of financial regulations that have eroded profits. Thanks to its international securities business, though, Citigroup was able to sidestep much of the pain from a challenging consumer banking landscape. 
Citigroup, the nation's third-largest bank by assets, reported a profit of $4.18 billion, or $1.34 a share, compared with $2.95 billion, or 95 cents a share, in the period a year earlier. Revenue rose 11 percent, to $20.48 billion.
Excluding a $477 million gain from a valuation adjustment on Citigroup's debt, the bank reported earnings of $1.25 a share. The performance exceeded analysts' profit expectations of $3.55 billion, or $1.19 a share, on revenue of $19.76 billion.
"Our businesses performed well during the quarter and these results are well balanced through our products and geographies, especially in the emerging markets, where growth is being challenged," Michael L. Corbat, the chief executive of Citigroup, said in a statement on Monday.
Under Mr. Corbat's leadership, the sprawling bank has hitched its hopes for growth to emerging markets, especially in Asia and Latin America. Citigroup is working to whittle down extraneous businesses that do not conform with its global operations, where its securities and lending operations dwarf those of many of its United States rivals. As part of that push, the bank has shed $18 billion worth of assets. Citigroup also sold the remainder of its stake in the Morgan Stanley Smith Barney brokerage joint venture. So far, the strategy is working well.
The bank's international business is a "distinct positive," Tom Lewandowski, a financial services analyst with Edward Jones, said.
More than 50 percent of Citigroup's revenue comes from outside of North America. Despite simmering concerns about less-than-stellar economic growth in emerging markets, profit within Citigroup's international consumer banking business grew by 4 percent, to $826 million. Revenue in those units swelled by 5 percent, to $4.7 billion.
Even at its more tepid, growth in emerging markets has exceeded that in the United States. In Mexico, for example, economic growth was not as robust as expected, Citigroup said. "Mexico shocked everyone," John C. Gerspach, the bank's chief financial officer, said in a conference call on Monday. And while a slowdown in China, which reported a slump in second-quarter gross domestic product on Monday, could spread to other Asian economies, Citigroup's business has not been hit yet.
In fact, Citigroup reported gains across its emerging markets business, especially in its securities business. In Asia, demand for credit grew, nudging the volume of loans up 10 percent for the quarter. Mr. Gerspach said that the bank "did a very good job of managing our business in the emerging market this quarter."
Still, Citigroup's emerging markets business does not entirely inoculate the bank from broader challenges facing the United States industry. On Friday, JPMorgan Chase and Wells Fargo reported declines in mortgage banking revenue, eroded in part by a lull in mortgage refinancing. A sharp uptick in interest rates has caused the refinancing boom to sputter.
And continually rising rates could reduce borrowers' appetite for refinancing existing mortgages or buying a house. Within Citigroup's consumer banking unit, profit fell slightly by 1 percent, to $1.95 billion. As fewer consumers fell behind on their bills, Citigroup was able to empty some of the reserves - approximately $228 million - for the losses. While it received a boost from that improvement in credit quality, Citigroup is still grappling, like many of its large peers, with skittish American consumers who remain skeptical of taking on new debt.
The wariness was clear in Citigroup's American lending operations. "The U.S. consumer is still going through a period of deleveraging," Mr. Gerspach said.
Adding to the uncertainty in the United States are new capital rules introduced by regulators last week. Since the financial crisis of 2008, regulators have been steadily introducing new requirements aimed at bolstering capital levels that could help Wall Street withstand market turbulence.
Under the new rules, called the so-called leverage ratio, regulators are pushing for banks to hold more capital as a percentage of their assets. Banks have two months to comment on the rules. Mr. Gerspach cautioned that the requirements could undercut the bank's ability to compete with its international rivals. Already, the leverage ratio for Citigroup's holding company was around 4.9 percent, hovering just below the 5 percent requirement that will go into effect by 2018.
"We would all be better if there was a level playing field around the world," he said.
A bright spot for Citigroup was its securities and investment banking business, as revenue surged by 25 percent, to $6.8 billion. Within fixed income, revenue swelled by 18 percent, to $3.37 billion. Revenue from stock trading rose 68 percent, to $942 million. Revenue from underwriting and advisory business was up by 21 percent, as well.
Investors are closely watching the bank's quarterly reports during the first year under the leadership of Mr. Corbat, who took the reins in October after the ouster of Vikram S. Pandit. Michael E. O'Neill, the bank's forceful chairman, pushed Mr. Pandit out in favor of his handpicked successor, Mr. Corbat.
Building on the path outlined by Mr. Pandit, Mr. Corbat has promised to continue cutting costs. Toward that goal, Citigroup reduced assets in its Citi Holdings unit by 31 percent in the second quarter, to $131 billion. In an encouraging sign for Citigroup, losses within the unit that houses a morass of soured assets fell to $570 million, from $910 million in the period a year earlier. Losses were lowest since Citigroup created the unit in 2009, after the financial crisis.
Even as Mr. Corbat has aggressively moved to reduce the bank's costs, operating expenses rose 1 percent, to $12.1 billion. As one of his first initiatives after taking over as chief executive, Mr. Corbat announced plans to eliminate 11,000 jobs.
Shares of Citigroup rose $1, or 2 percent, to $51.81.

        
Facing Legal Costs, Citigroup Disappoints in 4th Quarter
        
As Citigroup's Profit Surges, Skittish Borrowers Hurt the Consumer Unit

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: EMERGING MARKETS (92%); COMPANY EARNINGS (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); COMMERCIAL BANKING (90%); FINANCIAL RESULTS (90%); FOREIGN LENDING (90%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (89%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (89%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (78%); GROSS DOMESTIC PRODUCT (78%); INVESTMENT BANKING (77%); RETAIL BANKING (77%); BANKING & FINANCE SECTOR PERFORMANCE (77%); FOREIGN INVESTMENT (76%); MULTINATIONAL CORPORATIONS (76%); EXECUTIVES (70%); CONFERENCE CALLS (50%) Banking and Financial Institutions; Citigroup Inc; Company Reports; Corbat, Michael L; Financial Services; Investment Banking; Wall Street Earnings

COMPANY: CITIGROUP INC (92%); MORGAN STANLEY (57%); SMITH BARNEY HOLDINGS INC (53%)

ORGANIZATION: Citigroup Inc

TICKER: C (NYSE) (92%); C (BMV) (92%); 8710 (TSE) (92%); MS (NYSE) (57%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (92%); NAICS522210 CREDIT CARD ISSUING (92%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (92%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (57%)

PERSON: MICHAEL L CORBAT (93%) Corbat, Michael L

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (95%); ASIA (92%); MEXICO (92%); CHINA (79%); NORTH AMERICA (79%); LATIN AMERICA (79%)

LOAD-DATE: July 15, 2013



442 of 937 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 16, 2013
The New York Times on the Web

SECTION: Section ; Column 0; Obituary; Pg. 

LENGTH: 694 words

HEADLINE: Herbert M. Allison Jr., Former Merrill President, Dies at 69

BYLINE: By CATHERINE RAMPELL

 BODY:
Herbert M. Allison Jr., a former president of Merrill Lynch and chief executive of Fannie Mae who later ran the United States government's bank bailout program, died on Sunday at his home in Westport, Conn. He was 69. The death was confirmed by his son Andrew, who said the cause was possibly a heart attack.
Mr. Allison served in a number of roles in the private and public sector and as a political appointee under both Presidents Obama and George W. Bush. 
''I would say that he was an independent and pragmatic thinker,'' Andrew Allison said. ''He worked with people from different parts of the political spectrum because he was interested in first and foremost serving the nation and its interests.''
Mr. Allison began his financial services career at Merrill, working his way up during his 28 years there to president, chief operating officer and member of the board. While at Merrill, he helped coordinate the group of banks that bailed out the hedge fund Long-Term Capital Management in 1998.
He left soon afterward, in 1999, and ran the finance committee for Senator John McCain's 2000 presidential campaign. He subsequently became chairman, president and chief executive of TIAA-CREF, the pension fund and financial services company.
''He was an amazing man, a tremendous leader who was very ethical and so caring about others,'' said Steve Goldstein, who served as executive vice president at TIAA-CREF alongside Mr. Allison. ''People used to say that working for Herb was like getting an M.B.A. from Harvard, but he'd correct them and say, 'No, it's like getting an M.B.A. from Stanford,' '' where Mr. Allison attended business school.
In 2008 the Bush administration tapped Mr. Allison to become president and chief executive of Fannie Mae after the troubled government-sponsored entity that securitizes home loans was taken over by the government.
Then in 2009 President Obama, whom Mr. Allison had supported in the 2008 election, appointed him to the Treasury Department as assistant secretary for financial stability.
In that role he helped develop administration policy on financial stability issues and oversaw the Troubled Asset Relief Program, or TARP, created under the Bush administration. He left in September 2010, and about a year later the White House appointed him to conduct an independent review of government loans to energy companies after the prominent bankruptcy of Solyndra, a solar panel company.
In a statement, Timothy F. Geithner, the former Treasury secretary, praised Mr. Allison. ''Herb was both a C.E.O. and a statesman, who served his country at a time of peril, bringing financial expertise and commercial judgment to the challenge of saving the American economy from a failing financial system,'' Mr. Geithner said. ''He enriched the lives of those of us who were fortunate to work with him, and we will miss him deeply.''
Mr. Allison held other business and educational leadership positions during his career, including as a director of Time Warner; the founder of a start-up called the Alliance for Lifelong Learning, a joint venture with several universities that focused on distance learning; and a member of the Advisory Board of the Yale School of Management, the Advisory Council of the Stanford Graduate School of Business, and the Federal Reserve Bank of New York's International Advisory Committee.
According to a Treasury statement released when Mr. Allison received his Senate confirmation in 2009, he was a director of the New York Stock Exchange from 2003 through 2005.
He wrote a short book about the financial crisis in 2011, ''The Megabanks Mess,'' in which he argued that the nation's largest banks should be broken up. He was working on a longer book more recently but had not completed it, according to his family.
Mr. Allison earned a bachelor's degree in philosophy from Yale before his time at Stanford. He also spent four years as a Navy officer, including a year in Vietnam.
In addition to his son Andrew, 31, he is survived by his son John, 37; and his wife, Simin Allison, 67, whom he met while he was working for Merrill in Tehran, Iran, where she was working as a secretary to a managing director at a bank.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Obituary (Obit)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: DEATHS & OBITUARIES (95%); EXECUTIVES (92%); BANKING & FINANCE (91%); BANK FAILURES (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (90%); BAILOUTS (90%); TROUBLED ASSET RELIEF PROGRAM (89%); US PRESIDENTS (89%); APPOINTMENTS (89%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (89%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (89%); MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (89%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (89%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (78%); PUBLIC POLICY (78%); CREDIT CRISIS (78%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (78%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); EXECUTIVE MOVES (78%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (76%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (73%); ETHICS (70%); BUSINESS EDUCATION (67%); HEDGE FUNDS (67%); SOLAR ENERGY (60%)

COMPANY: FEDERAL NATIONAL MORTGAGE ASSOCIATION (FANNIE MAE) (93%); MERRILL LYNCH & CO INC (58%); TEACHERS INSURANCE & ANNUITY ASSOCIATION - COLLEGE RETIREMENT EQUITIES FUND (55%); SOLYNDRA INC (51%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS522292 REAL ESTATE CREDIT (93%); SIC6162 MORTGAGE BANKERS & LOAN CORRESPONDENTS (93%); NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (58%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (58%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (58%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (58%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (58%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (58%); SIC6311 LIFE INSURANCE (55%); NAICS334413 SEMICONDUCTOR & RELATED DEVICE MANUFACTURING (51%)

PERSON: HERBERT M ALLISON (94%); GEORGE W BUSH (78%); TIMOTHY GEITHNER (58%); JOHN MCCAIN (58%); BARACK OBAMA (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: CONNECTICUT, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: July 16, 2013



443 of 937 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 16, 2013
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; OP-ED COLUMNIST; Pg. 23

LENGTH: 790 words

HEADLINE: Men On the Threshold

BYLINE: By DAVID BROOKS

 BODY:
As every discerning person knows, ''The Searchers'' is the greatest movie ever made. It is loosely based on the real story of Cynthia Ann Parker, who was abducted from her East Texas home in 1836 when she was 9 years old by Comanche raiders, who then raised her and kept her for 24 years.
John Ford's 1956 movie focuses not on the abducted girl but on her uncle and adopted brother, who, in that telling, spend seven years tracking her and her abductors down. 
The center of the movie is Ethan Edwards, played by John Wayne. He is as morally ambiguous a figure as movies can produce, at once brave, loyal, caring and honest, but also vengeful, hateful, dangerous and tainted by racism. As Glenn Frankel notes in ''The Searchers,'' his recent book on the movie, Edwards spends much of the film in pursuit of an old-fashioned honor killing. At least at first, he doesn't want to rescue his niece; he wants to find her and kill her to enforce his brand of racial and sexual purity.
Classics can be interpreted in different ways. These days, ''The Searchers'' can be profitably seen as a story about men who are caught on the wrong side of a historical transition.
The movie's West was a wild, lawless place, requiring a certain sort of person to tame it. As the University of Virginia literary critic Paul Cantor has pointed out, that person had prepolitical virtues, a willingness to seek revenge, to mete out justice on his own. That kind of person, the hero of most westerns, is hard, confrontational, raw and tough to control.
But, as this sort of classic western hero tames the West, he makes himself obsolete. Once the western towns have been pacified, there's no need for his capacity for violence, nor his righteous fury.
As Cantor notes, ''The Searchers'' is about this moment of transition. Civilization is coming. New sorts of people are bringing education, refinement, marriage and institutionalized justice. Crimes are no longer to be punished by the righteous gunfighter but by law.
Ethan Edwards made this world possible, but he is unfit to live in it. At the end of the movie, after seven years of effort, he brings the abducted young woman home. The girl is ushered inside, but, in one of the iconic images in Hollywood history, Edwards can't cross the threshold. Because he is tainted by violence, he can't be part of domestic joy he made possible. He is framed by the doorway and eventually walks away.
That image of the man outside the doorway is germane today, in a different and even more tragic manner. Over the past few decades, millions of men have been caught on the wrong side of a historic transition, unable to cross the threshold into the new economy.
Their plight is captured in the labor statistics. Male labor force participation has been in steady decline for generations. In addition, as Floyd Norris noted in The Times on Saturday, all the private sector jobs lost by women during the Great Recession have been recaptured, but men still have a long way to go.
In 1954, 96 percent of American men between 25 and 54 years old worked. Today, 80 percent do. One-fifth of men in their prime working ages are out of the labor force.
As Nicholas Eberstadt of the American Enterprise Institute has put it, ''The situation here is basically a disaster, a crisis far worse than most commentators and policy makers seem to recognize, and with no clear prospects for appreciable improvement over the near-term horizon.''
The definitive explanation for this catastrophe has yet to be written. Some of the problem clearly has to do with changes in family structure. Work by David Autor of the Massachusetts Institute of Technology suggests that men raised in fatherless homes, without as many immediate masculine role models, do worse in the labor force. Some of the problem probably has to do with a mismatch between boy culture and school culture, especially in the early years.
But, surely, there has been some ineffable shift in the definition of dignity. Many men were raised with a certain image of male dignity, which emphasized autonomy, reticence, ruggedness, invulnerability and the competitive virtues. Now, thanks to a communications economy, they find themselves in a world that values expressiveness, interpersonal ease, vulnerability and the cooperative virtues.
Surely, part of the situation is that many men simply do not want to put themselves in positions they find humiliating. A high school student doesn't want to persist in a school where he feels looked down on. A guy in his 50s doesn't want to find work in a place where he'll be told what to do by savvy young things.
There are millions of men on the threshold. They can see through the doorway to what's inside. But they're unable or unwilling to come across.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: KIDNAPPING & ABDUCTION (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); FILM (89%); FILM HISTORY (78%); MEN (70%); RACE & RACISM (69%); LITERATURE (68%); LITERARY CRITICISM (68%)

ORGANIZATION: UNIVERSITY OF VIRGINIA (54%)

GEOGRAPHIC: TEXAS, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: July 16, 2013



444 of 937 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 16, 2013
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section D; Column 0; Science Desk; WELL; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 863 words

HEADLINE: Cholesterol Levels Plateau

BYLINE: By LAURIE TARKAN

 BODY:
Pharmaceutical companies are racing to develop a new class of drugs that may lower blood levels of LDL cholesterol to a point few scientists had believed attainable, The New York Times reported last week. For many people with high cholesterol, the breakthrough can't come soon enough.
Statins, the miracle drugs responsible for keeping cholesterol in check in wide swaths of the population, may be reaching the limits of their effectiveness. Average cholesterol levels in Americans have stopped falling since 2008, according to a large analysis of patient records published recently in PLoS One. 
Researchers at Quest Diagnostics, a national laboratory chain, reviewed blood levels of LDL, the so-called bad cholesterol, in 105 million adults tested by the company between 2001 and 2011. Average LDL levels declined from 120 milligrams per deciliter of blood in 2001 to 104.7 in 2008, about a 13 percent drop.
But in the next three years, average LDL levels flattened out.
An LDL of 100 mg/dL is considered healthy, but experts say people at very high risk of heart disease should bring their levels down even further, to about 70 mg/dL or lower. The percentage of patients with an LDL under 100 mg/dL rose from 26 percent in 2001 to 45.6 percent in 2008, then leveled off. Those with a high LDL of 160 mg/dL or more dropped from 13.7 percent in 2001 to 6 percent in 2011.
The study was not a random sampling; it comprised individuals whose physicians had requested cholesterol tests. Still, the findings have worried experts.
''The study suggests that the progress has slowed in systematically lowering cholesterol levels,'' said Dr. Steven Nissen, the chairman of cardiovascular medicine at the Cleveland Clinic, who was not involved in the study.
The authors suggested that these results may affect cardiovascular mortality rates as well. ''There has been approximately a 70 percent decrease in cardiovascular disease mortality from 1970 through 2009,'' said Dr. Harvey W. Kaufman, senior medical director at Quest Diagnostics and an author of the study. ''A large portion of this was driven by the reduction in cholesterol, and this progress is now threatened.''
A combination of factors have brought down LDL levels, including improved diet and exercise. But statins have been a significant driver over the past 25 years.
The study did not look at causes for the plateau, but Dr. Kaufman and his colleagues speculated that the recession may have played a role by influencing patients' ability to see their physicians and fill their prescriptions for statins. Tough times also may have affected lifestyle factors that can contribute to higher LDL, including stress levels, a high-fat diet and lack of exercise.
The number of prescriptions for statins rose dramatically almost every year since 2001, but the growth slowed in 2010, according to IMS Health, a health care information company. There also was a decline in physician office visits, which means that fewer people are getting their cholesterol tested and treated.
But other experts suggested that LDL levels have flattened out simply because they may be as low as they can go with the available treatments. ''We could conceivably be experiencing a bottoming out of the statin effect,'' said Dr. Ronald M. Krauss, director of atherosclerosis research at Children's Hospital Oakland Research Institute in Oakland, Calif.
According to Dr. Elsa-Grace V. Giardina, director of preventive cardiology training at Columbia University Medical Center, ''There may be a rapid rate of change at first, and then you get to a threshold point for which you can't do much more.''
To bring LDL levels lower, physicians may need to increase statin doses, particularly in those who are at high risk of heart disease. ''The official recommendation has been to reduce LDL as much as possible, but physicians don't always adjust statin dose in practice,'' Dr. Krauss said. ''If it starts off high and it comes down to 100, doctors may be satisfied with that.''
But doctors may also have been reluctant to raise doses because of the risk of serious side effects like muscle pain, weakness and increased blood sugar levels.
The trend is to focus on ''therapeutic lifestyle modification, for individuals to have a greater input into their health, rather than just popping a pill,'' Dr. Giardina said.
Obesity may also be limiting the effectiveness of statins. ''You have to wonder how much obesity is contributing to this plateau,'' Dr. Giardina said. Obesity raises the risks of high cholesterol, high blood pressure, high triglycerides and diabetes, all risk factors for heart disease.
She believes average cholesterol levels may be higher than the study found: ''Excluded in this analysis are disadvantaged people who don't have health care and among whom obesity is a major problem.''
Even if new drugs are found, the obesity epidemic may blunt their effects.
''We're now to the point that a very large fraction of the adult population is obese,'' Dr. Nissen said. ''We will not make any further progress as a society unless we find a way to deal with the obesity epidemic.''
This is a more complete version of the story than the one that appeared in print.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO (PHOTOGRAPH BY PAUL J. RICHARDS/AGENCE FRANCE-PRESSE -- GETTY IMAGES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CHOLESTEROL (98%); SCIENCE NEWS (90%); SCIENCE & TECHNOLOGY (90%); PHARMACEUTICALS PRODUCT DEVELOPMENT (90%); DISEASES & DISORDERS (89%); LIPID LOWERING AGENTS (89%); MEDICAL & DIAGNOSTIC LABORATORIES (89%); PHYSICIANS & SURGEONS (89%); CARDIOVASCULAR DRUGS (89%); EXERCISE & FITNESS (87%); CARDIOVASCULAR DISEASE (87%); PHARMACEUTICALS INDUSTRY (79%); PHARMACEUTICAL PREPARATION MFG (79%); DEATHS & DEATH RATES (78%); OILS & FATS (78%); RESEARCH REPORTS (78%); POPULATION & DEMOGRAPHICS (76%); CARDIOLOGY (75%); WRITERS (75%); HEART DISEASE (72%); NUTRITION (72%); DIETING (72%); MEDICAL RECORDS (70%)

COMPANY: QUEST DIAGNOSTICS INC (57%); IMS HEALTH INC (50%)

TICKER: DGX (NYSE) (57%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS621511 MEDICAL LABORATORIES (57%); SIC8731 COMMERCIAL PHYSICAL & BIOLOGICAL RESEARCH (57%); SIC8071 MEDICAL LABORATORIES (57%); NAICS541910 MARKETING RESEARCH & PUBLIC OPINION POLLING (50%); NAICS511210 SOFTWARE PUBLISHERS (50%); SIC8732 COMMERCIAL ECONOMIC, SOCIOLOGICAL, & EDUCATIONAL RESEARCH (50%); SIC7372 PREPACKAGED SOFTWARE (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: CLEVELAND, OH, USA (53%) OHIO, USA (53%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: July 16, 2013



445 of 937 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 16, 2013
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Foreign Desk; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 1055 words

HEADLINE: German Chancellor Urges European Union to Tighten Rules for Internet Privacy

BYLINE: By MELISSA EDDY and JAMES KANTER; Melissa Eddy reported from Paris, and James Kanter from Brussels.

 BODY:
PARIS -- Chancellor Angela Merkel of Germany is calling for the European Union to adopt legislation requiring Internet companies to disclose what information about users they store and to whom they provide it.
Ms. Merkel's remarks, in a television interview on Sunday night, reflected the anger throughout much of Europe, including Germany, over recent accounts of government surveillance by the United States National Security Agency. Those accounts, in government documents leaked by Edward J. Snowden, a former N.S.A. contractor, included the agency's compilation of logs of virtually all telephone calls in the United States and its collection of e-mails of foreigners from the major American Internet companies, including Google, Facebook, Yahoo, Microsoft, Apple and Skype.
Those companies have already begun aggressive lobbying campaigns to stop or dilute tighter privacy rules, which they say would interfere with their business models and decrease profits and growth. The companies' efforts are, in turn, supported by countries like England and Ireland that fear that such restrictions would hamper economic recovery. 
Unlike many citizens in the United States, whose desire to prevent the kind of widespread terrorist attacks like those of Sept. 11, 2001, often trumps their concerns about privacy rights and government surveillance, Germans have experienced the corruption of those rights under the Nazis and later the Communist government of East Germany, making them far more sensitive to the issue. Until now, though, Germany has been slow to back an aggressive privacy initiative across Europe partly because the country's laws are among the tightest in the bloc.
Ms. Merkel said she now believed that only a broader pact could be effective. ''That has to be part of such a data privacy agreement because we have great regulation for Germany, but if Facebook is registered in Ireland, then it falls under Irish jurisdiction,'' she said. ''Consequently we need a common European agreement.''
Human rights groups in Germany and Austria, which has similarly strict rules guarding private information, have taken on the Internet giants over Facebook's default settings on sharing personal data and Google's scooping up of private information while mapping out German cities for its Street View service.
''What actually happens with data when they leave Germany to servers outside of the country, or Europe, where they fall under the jurisdiction of completely different regulations?'' Ms. Merkel asked in the interview on Sunday with the public broadcast network ARD.
She pointed out that existing international accords on privacy protection were drawn up decades before the digital era, and she said she would meet in the coming days with her interior and justice ministers to draw up proposed regulations on data privacy that could apply across the entire 28-nation bloc.
Companies contacted by e-mail, including Google and Microsoft, did not immediately respond to requests for comment about Ms. Merkel's remarks.
''We're still investigating what she said, and in what context she said it,'' said Lisa Randles, a spokeswoman for BSA, an alliance of software companies, including Apple and Microsoft
The European Union's justice commissioner, Viviane Reding, who originally proposed rules overhauling and updating the bloc's privacy standards in early 2012, praised ''this commitment of Chancellor Merkel to strong and uniform E.U. data protection rules'' in a statement on Monday in Brussels.
The N.S.A. revelations have placed an added political strain on Ms. Merkel, who polls suggest remains in a strong position before German elections in September but who is under increasing attack from opposition parties trying to use the matter to undercut her popularity.
''The question is whether this is part of election campaign tactics or something with real substance,'' Jan Philipp Albrecht, a German member of the European Parliament who is the main sponsor of the legislation, said in a telephone interview on Monday. The legislation needs the Parliament's approval to take effect.
Opposition parties have accused Ms. Merkel's government of being too deferential to the United States over the issues of data privacy and government surveillance, and of allowing German intelligence agencies to be complicit in the American programs.
Peer Steinbrück, the chancellor's main rival in the elections, said in an interview published Sunday in the newspaper Bild am Sonntag that she had broken her oath of office by failing in her duties to protect the German people, including their personal data.
''As chancellor, Ms. Merkel swore to prevent harm to the German people,'' Mr. Steinbrück said.
In Brussels, Ms. Reding, the bloc's justice commissioner, suggested that the first real opportunity for countries like Germany to push forward on any proposed legislation would be in October, at a summit meeting in Brussels, where the bloc's leaders should ''address this matter and speed up the work.''
Ms. Reding said the goal should be to reach an agreement at the European Union level by next spring, before elections for the European Parliament.
But Peter Hustinx, the European data protection supervisor, warned last month that the bloc's efforts could be stalled by ''exceptional'' lobbying by Internet companies and by countries opposed to stronger data privacy rules. At their meeting last month, ministers began introducing more business-friendly elements into the proposals, including allowing regulators to scrutinize how companies use personal data only in cases of risks to individuals, including identity theft or discrimination.
The ministers debated a proposal that would allow companies to obtain ''unambiguous'' consent, which is considered a lower legal threshold than the ''explicit'' consent now required from users whose personal data they collect and process. Mr. Albrecht, the German European Parliament member, said the public outcry over surveillance by government and major Internet companies had already made lobbying in Europe harder for the technology industry.
''Companies cannot just say, 'We don't have anything to do with surveillance or misuse of data,' because in fact they are at the core of it,'' Mr. Albrecht said. ''So if they engage in calling for less strict standards, they will lose trust in their services.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Germany's chancellor, Angela Merkel, is asking the European Union to require Internet companies to disclose their practices. (PHOTOGRAPH BY ODD ANDERSEN/AGENCE FRANCE-PRESSE -- GETTY IMAGES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: COMPUTER & INTERNET LAW (90%); INTERNET PRIVACY (90%); INTERNET & WWW (90%); EUROPEAN UNION (90%); PRIVACY RIGHTS (90%); INTERNET SOCIAL NETWORKING (89%); INFORMATION SECURITY & PRIVACY (89%); INTELLIGENCE SERVICES (78%); LOBBYING (78%); INTERVIEWS (77%); PUBLIC TELEVISION (77%); PUBLIC BROADCASTING (77%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (76%); ELECTRONIC MAIL (76%); SEPTEMBER 11 ATTACK (76%); AGENCY RULEMAKING (76%); BROADCASTING INDUSTRY (72%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (71%); SPECIAL INVESTIGATIVE FORCES (71%); HUMAN RIGHTS ORGANIZATIONS (71%); NATIONAL SECURITY (71%); ECONOMIC RECOVERY (68%); TERRORISM (66%); HUMAN RIGHTS (66%); CORRUPTION (65%); TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (64%); TERRORIST ATTACKS (52%)

COMPANY: GOOGLE INC (86%); APPLE INC (83%); FACEBOOK INC (56%)

ORGANIZATION: EUROPEAN UNION (94%); NATIONAL SECURITY AGENCY (83%)

TICKER: GOOG (NASDAQ) (86%); AAPL (NASDAQ) (83%); FB (NASDAQ) (56%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS519130 INTERNET PUBLISHING & BROADCASTING & WEB SEARCH PORTALS (86%); NAICS423430 COMPUTER & COMPUTER PERIPHERAL EQUIPMENT & SOFTWARE MERCHANT WHOLESALERS (83%); NAICS334112 COMPUTER STORAGE DEVICE MANUFACTURING (83%); NAICS334111 ELECTRONIC COMPUTER MANUFACTURING (83%); SIC5045 COMPUTERS & COMPUTER PERIPHERAL EQUIPMENT & SOFTWARE (83%); SIC3572 COMPUTER STORAGE DEVICES (83%); SIC3571 ELECTRONIC COMPUTERS (83%)

PERSON: ANGELA MERKEL (90%); EDWARD SNOWDEN (90%)

GEOGRAPHIC: PARIS, FRANCE (92%) EUROPE (95%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (94%); GERMANY (94%); UNITED STATES (94%); FRANCE (92%); IRELAND (92%); ENGLAND (79%); AUSTRIA (58%); CENTRAL EUROPE (58%)

LOAD-DATE: July 16, 2013



446 of 937 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 16, 2013
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1256 words

HEADLINE: Friendly Faces, Big Money

BYLINE: By BROOKS BARNES

 BODY:
GLENDALE, Calif. -- Inside a modest upstairs office at DreamWorks Animation here -- the one next to a framed poster reading ''You've Got the Goods, Step Out and Show 'Em!'' -- sits one of the film industry's most important executives. His name is Bill Damaschke.
Never heard of him? Neither has most of Hollywood.
Mr. Damaschke, 49, is chief creative officer at DreamWorks Animation, which means that he runs the factory floor, working with directors, writers and artists to deliver hits like ''Kung Fu Panda,'' ''How to Train Your Dragon'' and the ''Madagascar'' movies. On Wednesday, the studio's latest computer-animated film, ''Turbo,'' about a speedy garden snail, arrives in theaters. 
''I trust Bill's taste more than anybody else's, including my own,'' said Jeffrey Katzenberg, DreamWorks Animation's chief executive.
Mr. Katzenberg has always been the studio's public face. It was partly design, a way for a small publicly traded company to get noticed on Wall Street, and partly because Mr. Katzenberg is who he is: relentless. But while Mr. Katzenberg is still involved in major artistic decisions, he has been moving further away from the day-to-day running of his company's movie pipeline, which is expanding. DreamWorks Animation in 2014 will begin releasing three movies a year, up from two.
While Mr. Katzenberg is working on a new TV endeavor, an entertainment complex in Shanghai and indoor theme parks in Russia, Mr. Damaschke (pronounced DAH-mash-kee) is increasingly calling the creative shots. ''As someone who really doesn't like attention, I feel almost uncomfortable saying this, but that is true,'' Mr. Damaschke said last month. ''We put things in front of Jeffrey less frequently.''
Mr. Damaschke, who started at the studio 18 years ago as a production assistant and rose to chief creative officer in 2011, would be entitled to an insufferable ego. He was blessed with dashing good looks and churns out blockbusters; over the last five years, DreamWorks Animation's nine films have taken in roughly $5 billion worldwide after accounting for inflation, compared with about $3.6 billion for Pixar's five releases. Instead, the dapper Mr. Damaschke is quiet and polite, perhaps reflecting his Midwestern upbringing.
Then again, unassuming is all the rage in Hollywood: Kevin Feige, who expertly runs Marvel Studios, is also nearly invisible. If you ''strut your stuff,'' as another poster outside Mr. Damaschke's office instructs, you become vulnerable when movies misfire, as they inevitably do.
Despite positive reviews, DreamWorks Animation's dark ''Rise of the Guardians,'' released in November and directed by Peter Ramsey, cost more than $250 million to make and market but took in $303.7 million, roughly half of which went to theater owners. The company wrote down $87 million tied to the film.
''Guardians'' is not Mr. Damaschke's first disappointment. The money-losing Broadway adaptation of ''Shrek'' was also his baby. But the movie's failure was particularly crushing.
''Some of the things that we thought were cool may have given pause to the most important person buying tickets, and that's mom,'' he said. Noting that the movie was a big seller on DVD, he added, ''I'm still healing from the 'Guardians' experience, to be brutally honest with you.''
''Turbo'' is another creative gamble. Aside from the obvious -- it stars a snail -- the movie was directed by David Soren, a first-time feature filmmaker. Early reviews have been mixed. The Hollywood Reporter deemed it ''narratively challenged'' and zeroed in on a theme that could turn off mothers: ''If you're too small or weak or otherwise incapable of greatness, you have a shot to win if you're juiced.''
But Variety called it an ''endearing underdog story'' that finds the animation studio ''taking a welcome risk and betting on a far-fetched story idea.''
''Turbo'' in many ways represents an artistic shift that Mr. Damaschke has quietly been adopting at the company. In its early days, DreamWorks Animation movies clung tightly to the successful ''Shrek'' formula: irreverent humor, pop culture inside jokes, lots of action, celebrity voices. ''Turbo,'' which riffs on the ''Fast & Furious'' movies, certainly has some of that DNA.
But the film also has atypical quiet moments and tries to break ground by including lots of Hispanic cartoon characters. Its animation style also differs from ''The Croods,'' the studio's hit caveman movie from March, or next year's ''Mr. Peabody & Sherman,'' which is based on bits from the 1960s-era TV series featuring Rocky and Bullwinkle.
''We are trying to really lean into the different sensibilities of our filmmakers,'' Mr. Damaschke said.
There are several reasons behind the shift. While DreamWorks Animation's original formula kept delivering hits, ticket buyers started to show fatigue. Neither the sassy ''Monsters vs. Aliens'' in 2009 nor the cheeky ''Megamind'' in 2010 were strong enough at the box office to quickly spawn hoped-for sequels. Mr. Damaschke began urging his filmmakers to think more about heartfelt moments.
''Bill's notes almost always attend to the emotional point of the story,'' said Chris Sanders, who codirected ''The Croods'' with Kirk DeMicco. ''He will stop us dead in our tracks and say, 'But how does that character feel about this?' Jeffrey, who we honestly don't see that much, despite what everyone thinks, attends more to the audacity of the film.''
DreamWorks Animation's shift was also designed to woo more top people to the company. The writer-director Noah Baumbach helped write the screenplay for last year's ''Madagascar 3: Europe's Most Wanted.'' Rob Minkoff, who codirected ''The Lion King,'' is at the helm of ''Mr. Peabody & Sherman.''
Brenda Chapman, who won an Oscar for Pixar's ''Brave,'' in recent weeks has returned to DreamWorks Animation.
''I left in part because I felt like I was being asked to do the same story over and over,'' said Ms. Chapman, who codirected ''The Prince of Egypt'' for the studio in 1998, but later moved to Pixar. ''I look at the movies DreamWorks is doing now, and I see the exact opposite happening.''
She was pushed out of Pixar after clashing with that studio's chief creative officer, John Lasseter. Although she could have joined another studio, she said she chose to return to Glendale in part because of Mr. Damaschke, who started at DreamWorks Animation in 1995 as a production assistant on ''The Prince of Egypt.''
''As Jeffrey has gained experience and age, and DreamWorks has grown, he has stepped back and allowed other people to run creative,'' Ms. Chapman said. ''At Pixar, it's all John's show.'' She added of DreamWorks Animation, ''you can butt heads here and not be punished for it, unlike at another place I could name.''
A spokesman for Disney, which owns Pixar, had no comment. (The simmering tension has recently increased, with Disney grousing that ''Turbo'' bears similarities to its ''Cars'' franchise; DreamWorks Animation executives have said that is nonsense.)
The oldest of seven children, Mr. Damaschke grew up in Chicago and graduated from the School of Theater Arts at Illinois Wesleyan University. He pursued musical theater -- including a stint in ''Godspell'' in New York -- but ended up in Los Angeles as a production assistant on Disney's ''Pocahontas'' in 1994.
''This studio may be Jeffrey's sandbox,'' said Mr. Soren, the ''Turbo'' director, ''but Bill knows every kid who has ever played in it and where every shovel is buried. Bill may be the biggest reason artists keep coming back to play here.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Above, some of the imaginations behind DreamWorks Animation
and far left, Jeffrey Katzenberg, the chief executive, with Bill Damaschke, the creative director. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY KEVIN SCANLON FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES
 ILYA S. SAVENOK/GETTY IMAGES) (B4) DRAWING: Bill Damaschke, DreamWorks Animation's chief creative officer, and a few of the movie studio's popular creations. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ANIMATION (91%); MOVIE INDUSTRY (91%); ANIMATED FILMS (90%); FILM (90%); EXECUTIVES (89%); FILM DIRECTORS (89%); MOVIE & VIDEO PRODUCTION (78%); MOVIE & VIDEO INDUSTRIES (77%); ENTERTAINMENT & ARTS (77%); ARTISTS & PERFORMERS (71%); AMUSEMENT & THEME PARKS (64%)

COMPANY: DREAMWORKS ANIMATION SKG INC (92%)

TICKER: DWA (NASDAQ) (92%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS512110 MOTION PICTURE & VIDEO PRODUCTION (92%); SIC7812 MOTION PICTURE & VIDEO TAPE PRODUCTION (92%)

PERSON: JEFFREY KATZENBERG (90%)

GEOGRAPHIC: SHANGHAI, CHINA (54%) CALIFORNIA, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (92%); CHINA (68%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (53%)

LOAD-DATE: July 16, 2013



447 of 937 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 16, 2013
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; DEALBOOK; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 558 words

HEADLINE: Ex-Chief Of I.M.F. Joins Bank In Russia

BYLINE: By ANDREW E. KRAMER

 BODY:
7:20 p.m. | Updated Dominique Strauss-Kahn, the former chief of the International Monetary Fund whose career foundered in a series of sex scandals, is making a comeback in finance -- this time, in Russia. 
Rosneft, the Russian state oil company, has given Mr. Strauss-Kahn a position on the board of a banking subsidiary, the Russian Regional Development Bank. It is one of the first prominent job offers since Mr. Strauss-Kahn, a French economist and political leader, resolved the last of his legal troubles this year.
Mr. Strauss-Kahn was arrested in the United States in 2011 on charges, later dropped, of sexually assaulting a maid in a New York hotel. He later faced charges in France, also eventually dismissed, of involvement in a ring that obtained prostitutes for sex parties.
The bank announced the appointment in a regulatory filing on Friday. It said Mr. Strauss-Kahn was also employed with a consulting agency called Parnasse.
Rosneft's media office declined to elaborate on the appointment or on how Mr. Strauss-Kahn would be compensated.
Mr. Strauss-Kahn, a former French presidential contender, is re-emerging in a much smaller role than he once had. The Russian Regional Development Bank is hardly a financial heavyweight. It ranks No. 64 in Russia by assets.
Vedomosti, the leading Russian business newspaper, reported that Rosneft may be seeking to raise the profile of the bank by hiring a former International Monetary Fund director.
Russian government-owned businesses and many in the private sector have for years recruited Western business and political figures for seats on their boards, positions that often pay lavishly. The Western presence on the board is intended to indicate an endorsement by the company of international and ethical business standards.
In one example, Gerhard Schröder, a former chancellor of Germany, took a job on the board of a venture controlled by Gazprom. And he served on the board of the Russian oil company TNK-BP, receiving reported compensation of more than $200,000 a year, resigning in 2011.
President Vladimir V. Putin once personally offered the post of chairman of the board of Rosneft to Donald L. Evans, a former United States commerce secretary, saying the company was looking for ''high-class'' foreign management. Mr. Evans declined.
Mr. Strauss-Kahn's appointment appears baffling if the intention is to raise the confidence of foreign investors in Rosneft, said one banker in Moscow who spoke only anonymously.
The banker added that ''an American company might think that because of his sexual reputation he is actually a liability.''
Last year, Mr. Strauss-Kahn's lawyers negotiated a confidential settlement with Nafissatou Diallo, the hotel maid who had accused him of sexual assault in 2011. Mr. Strauss-Kahn was forced to resign from the monetary fund during the ensuing publicity, but the charges were not pursued by the Manhattan prosecutor's office because of doubts about her credibility.
In June, prosecutors in Lille, France, asked to drop charges filed against Mr. Strauss-Kahn in connection with a ring that recruited prostitutes for sex parties in France and the United States. Mr. Strauss-Kahn did not deny attending but said he had been unaware that the women at the parties were prostitutes.
This is a more complete version of the story than the one that appeared in print.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Dominique Strauss-Kahn is on the board of a Rosneft unit. (PHOTOGRAPH BY MARTIN BUREAU/A.F.P. -- GETTY IMAGES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: DEVELOPMENT BANKS (90%); CRUDE OIL & NATURAL GAS EXTRACTION (89%); BANKING & FINANCE (89%); SEX OFFENSES (89%); OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (89%); SEXUAL ASSAULT (89%); INTERNATIONAL ASSISTANCE (78%); SCANDALS (78%); SEX SCANDALS (78%); STATE OWNED BUSINESSES (77%); ETHICS (77%); EMPLOYMENT (76%); RESIGNATIONS (76%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (75%); ASSAULT & BATTERY (75%); APPOINTMENTS (75%); HOTEL HOUSEKEEPING (74%); HOTEL STAFF (74%); FOREIGN INVESTMENT (73%); BUSINESS ETHICS (72%); ARRESTS (70%); EMPLOYEE TERMINATION (50%)

COMPANY: OAO GAZPROM (64%); OAO ROSNEFT OIL CO (58%); TNK-BP LTD (52%)

ORGANIZATION: INTERNATIONAL MONETARY FUND (84%); NORTH AMERICAN DEVELOPMENT BANK (83%)

TICKER: OGZD (LSE) (64%); GAZP (RTS) (64%); ROSN (RTS) (58%); ROSN (LSE) (58%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS211111 CRUDE PETROLEUM & NATURAL GAS EXTRACTION (64%); SIC1311 CRUDE PETROLEUM & NATURAL GAS (64%); NAICS486210 PIPELINE TRANSPORTATION OF NATURAL GAS (64%); NAICS221210 NATURAL GAS DISTRIBUTION (64%); NAICS213112 SUPPORT ACTIVITIES FOR OIL & GAS OPERATIONS (64%); SIC4923 NATURAL GAS TRANSMISSION & DISTRIBUTION (64%)

PERSON: DOMINIQUE STRAUSS-KAHN (94%); VLADIMIR PUTIN (57%); GERHARD SCHRODER (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: MOSCOW, RUSSIAN FEDERATION (58%) RUSSIAN FEDERATION (94%); UNITED STATES (93%); FRANCE (90%); GERMANY (68%)

LOAD-DATE: July 16, 2013



448 of 937 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 16, 2013
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Obituary; Pg. 21

LENGTH: 2130 words

HEADLINE: Leonard Garment, Lawyer and Nixon Adviser During Watergate, Dies at 89

BYLINE: By ERIC LICHTBLAU

 BODY:
Leonard Garment, a Wall Street litigator who was a top adviser to President Richard M. Nixon at the height of the Watergate scandal and who went on to flourish as one of the capital's most powerful and garrulous lawyers, died on Saturday at his home in Manhattan. He was 89.
His daughter, Dr. Ann R. Garment, confirmed the death.
As White House counsel, Mr. Garment played a central role in some of Watergate's highest drama, discouraging Nixon from destroying White House tapes, pushing unsuccessfully for the president's early resignation in 1973, and recommending to his successor, Gerald R. Ford, that Nixon be pardoned. 
Mr. Garment himself stepped down as Nixon's Watergate lawyer in late 1973 once it became clear to him that the scandal was moving inexorably toward the president's downfall.
Long after many other Watergate figures had gone to prison or faded into ignominy, Mr. Garment remained one of official Washington's most sought-after lawyers, known for his quick puns, gift of gab and savvy media skills. He often represented powerful figures in trouble, among them Attorney General Edwin Meese III and Robert C. McFarlane, a national security adviser to President Ronald Reagan.
But for all his later successes, Mr. Garment remained linked in many minds to Nixon, his longtime friend and former law partner, and the scandal that was his undoing. Mr. Garment regarded Nixon as an older brother of sorts.
The two made for an odd pairing. Mr. Garment was a liberal in a Republican administration, a Democrat who voted for John F. Kennedy over Nixon in the 1960 presidential election. He was a Jew from Brooklyn working for a native Californian given to making anti-Semitic comments in private. He was a gregarious man with a talent for jazz who counseled a dour president. He was a champion of human rights in an administration that many blacks considered hostile to minority issues. And he was regarded as a voice of conscience in a White House that had lost its ethical bearings.
In later years, Mr. Garment viewed Nixon with an uneasy mixture of reverence, nostalgia, conflict and disappointment.
''My feelings about Mr. Nixon remained the same until his death -- a tangle of familial echoes, affections, and curiosities never satisfied,'' Mr. Garment wrote in his 1997 autobiography, ''Crazy Rhythm: From Brooklyn and Jazz to Nixon's White House, Watergate, and Beyond.''
He added: ''The Nixon who was despised by millions of strangers, and who aroused powerful ambivalence in close associates because of his nasty mood swings between grandiosity and pettiness, was not the Nixon I knew. I was exposed mainly to his attractive sides -- his intelligence, idealism, and generosity. Only by 'hearsay,' mainly tape-recorded, did I 'see' the fulminating stranger I was happy not to know.''
Leonard Garment was born on May 11, 1924, ''on a kitchen table,'' he wrote, in a three-room tenement apartment in the Brownsville section of Brooklyn. His father, who owned a dress factory in Queens, had immigrated from Lithuania and his mother from Poland, and the immigrant roots in his neighborhood ran deep; Mr. Garment likened Brownsville to a semirural European shtetl, with the street peddlers hawking their wares in Yiddish.
He went to Samuel J. Tilden High School in East Flatbush, Brooklyn College and Brooklyn Law School, where he was editor of the law review and graduated first in his class in 1949. But his first brush with celebrity was not in law or politics, but in his first love -- music.
Mr. Garment had taken up the clarinet at age 13 and mastered the saxophone as well. As a young man he played jazz gigs from Manhattan to the Catskills. For a time he led his own nine-piece band, enjoying a posh life that offered an escape from what he saw as the dreary confines of Brooklyn. He paid for part of his college education by playing tenor saxophone and clarinet in Woody Herman's band, and in Henry Jerome's band he teamed with an aspiring young economist named Alan Greenspan, also on saxophone.
(When Nixon sent Mr. Garment to the Soviet Union as his emissary in 1969, he took up a clarinet at a Moscow cabaret and led a long jam session.)
After law school, Mr. Garment signed with the New York law firm of Mudge, Stern, Williams & Tucker and became a partner in 1957, heading its litigation department and representing mainly Wall Street clients. It was the law firm that brought him together with Nixon in 1963, when the former vice president -- fresh off his failed run for governor of California -- joined the practice.
Despite their political differences, Mr. Garment saw Nixon as a powerful figure, a man who could help him to pump energy into a law career going stale.
''I couldn't have cared less that Richard Nixon was the political Antichrist of eastern liberalism,'' he wrote in his autobiography. ''He was also an opening to a different life and the possibility of salvation.''
When Nixon looked to rehabilitate his political career in the mid-1960s, Mr. Garment joined a small nucleus of trusted advisers.
Their differences in temperament were apparent even then. After Mr. Garment helped Nixon in a triumphal round of campaigning for Congressional candidates in 1966, Nixon told him: ''You're never going to make it in politics, Len. You just don't know how to lie.''
Mr. Garment was a key adviser in Nixon's successful presidential campaign in 1968, serving, by his own admission, as an ''odds and ends'' utility man: media consultant, policy adviser and talent scout. He recommended another law partner, John N. Mitchell, as campaign manager. Nixon later named Mr. Mitchell attorney general.
In the Nixon White House, where conservatives like Mr. Mitchell, H. R. Haldeman and John Ehrlichman wielded more power, Mr. Garment was ''the resident liberal conscience,'' wrote William Safire, the former Nixon speechwriter and columnist for The New York Times, in his book ''Before the Fall: An Inside View of the Pre-Watergate White House.''
Mr. Garment was initially a special consultant on an odd assortment of issues, grouped as ''civil and human rights, voluntary action and the arts.'' His duties ranged from placating American Indian protesters at historic Wounded Knee in South Dakota to recruiting a new director for the National Endowment for the Arts.
But his most crucial role was in defending Nixon as White House counsel, a job he accepted only grudgingly after John W. Dean III was dismissed.
His aggressive advocacy for Nixon drew criticism. When it was disclosed, for instance, that in talking to the Justice Department he had suggested candidates for the post of special Watergate prosecutor, lawmakers were outraged.
It was Mr. Garment who went before an openly incredulous White House press corps in May 1973 to present Nixon's first detailed defense in the Watergate affair, which began in 1972 when a White House team of burglars, the so-called plumbers, broke into the offices of the Democratic opposition at the Watergate complex during Nixon's re-election campaign. Mr. Garment likened the news conference to ''a public stoning.''
Still, he said later that he had often felt cut off from key information, like the existence and scope of the Watergate tapes that chronicled Nixon's office conversations, and that he had increasingly been shut out of Nixon's inner circle.
After the taping system's existence became known and prosecutors demanded access to the Watergate tapes, it was Mr. Garment who was credited with persuading Nixon not to destroy them.
''I told him it would be an obstruction of justice,'' he said in a 1987 interview. ''My lawyer's view was that it could be the first count in a bill of impeachment.''
Mr. Garment came to regret that recommendation. If he had it to do over, he wrote, he would probably have told Nixon that ''the tapes will kill you,'' and that ''now you alone must decide what to do with them.''
In the fall of 1973 the White House was being hit by a cascade of widening investigations into allegations of a cover-up in the Watergate burglary and other illegalities. There were damaging revelations, like the discovery of the infamous ''18 ½-minute gap'' in a crucial White House tape. Nixon suggested to J. Fred Buzhardt, a partner to Mr. Garment on the Watergate defense team, that he fabricate a tape recording to comply with a subpoena.
The suggestion, Mr. Garment said later, ''went over the line,'' and it prompted him and Mr. Buzhardt to travel to Key Biscayne, Fla., where the president was vacationing, and recommend to the presidential aides Alexander M. Haig and Ron Ziegler that the president resign. General Haig delivered the recommendation to Nixon, who rejected it without seeing his lawyers. Not long after, Mr. Garment decided to phase out of the Watergate defense because, he said, he had ''outlived my usefulness as the president's lawyer.''
Mr. Garment was such an integral figure in the Watergate story that he was long rumored to have been Deep Throat, the enigmatic source used by Bob Woodward and Carl Bernstein in their Watergate coverage for The Washington Post. Mr. Garment himself wrote about the speculation in his book ''In Search of Deep Throat: The Greatest Political Mystery of Our Time,'' published in 2000, five years before W. Mark Felt, a former No. 2 official at the F.B.I., revealed that he had been that confidential source. (In the book Mr. Garment wrote that there was a strong case that Mr. Felt had been Deep Throat.)
Mr. Garment professed to have no lasting scars from Watergate. When he gathered with former White House colleagues in 1990 for the opening of the Nixon presidential library in Southern California, he described the scandal as a kidney stone that ''worked its way out of everybody's system a long time ago.''
''You won't find this group wallowing in Watergate,'' he said.
After leaving the White House in late 1973, he worked for the United Nations on human rights issues, then returned to private practice and a position as one of Washington's ''power lawyers.''
''If you qualify for becoming Len's client,'' Mr. McFarlane said as he faced charges in the Iran-contra affair, ''you have a lot going for you already.''
Mr. Garment represented Mr. Meese when allegations of financial improprieties threatened his nomination for attorney general in 1984. (A court-appointed investigator found no basis for bringing criminal charges.) Mr. Garment's client list also included the televangelist Oral Roberts, the fugitive financier Marc Rich and corporate giants like Toshiba and Fiat.
When Robert H. Bork was nominated to the Supreme Court in 1987, Mr. Garment took up Judge Bork's cause as well -- and contributed tens of thousands of dollars of his own money -- in a failed but spirited public-relations campaign against what he saw as an unfair attack on conservative legal tenets.
In the early 1990s, Mr. Garment returned to one of his passions -- promoting reforms in international human rights law to protect American citizens tortured or killed abroad. After many years as in-demand lawyer, he made some of his last big headlines late in his career after his Philadelphia law firm slashed his pay and implicitly criticized his work. He countered with a $1 million age-discrimination claim in 1999 and, like many clients he had represented, ended up settling.
Mr. Garment's first wife, the former Grace Albert, a writer for the daytime soap opera ''The Edge of Night,'' was found dead in 1977 in a Boston hotel room. The medical examiner ruled the death a suicide. His daughter Sara Elizabeth Garment died in 2011 at 51, and a son, Paul, a professional clarinetist, died in 2012 at age 50.
Besides his daughter Ann, a physician, he is survived by his wife, the former Suzanne Bloom, a lawyer and editor, whom he married in 1980; a brother, Martin; and a grandson.
In his later years Mr. Garment helped create the National Jazz Museum in Harlem and became its chairman. He was also a frequent contributor to newspaper op-ed pages, writing about jazz, presidential politics and other subjects.
In 1999, in an essay in The Times, he reflected on the death of a former colleague.
''I got the news of John Ehrlichman's death via phone calls from the dwindling band of Nixon White House survivors,'' Mr. Garment wrote. He went on to ruminate about how aides like Mr. Ehrlichman felt that they ''had to measure up'' against powerful administration figures in a ''show of toughness.''
''Such was and is part of the price of participating in the great presidential game -- often the only game that seems worth playing to complicated men like Ehrlichman, because the consideration that aides receive in return is the ability to exercise a piece of the president's power. It is a power far beyond what anyone could wield in private life, hard to get and even harder to give up.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Leonard Garment went before an incredulous White House press corps on May 22, 1973, to present President Richard M. Nixon's first detailed defense in the Watergate affair.
 Mr. Garment was also a professional jazz musician who played the clarinet and saxophone. Above, in Washington in 1974. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY ASSOCIATED PRESS) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Obituary (Obit); Biography

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: DEATHS & OBITUARIES (94%); LITIGATION (90%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); POLITICAL SCANDALS (90%); SCANDALS (89%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (78%); ETHICS (78%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (76%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (76%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (76%); ELECTIONS (73%); LIBERALISM (72%); ATTORNEYS GENERAL (71%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (69%); PROFILES & BIOGRAPHIES (50%)

PERSON: RICHARD NIXON (93%); JOHN F KENNEDY (79%); RONALD REAGAN (79%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (93%) NEW YORK, USA (93%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: July 16, 2013



449 of 937 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 16, 2013
The International Herald Tribune

SECTION: Section ; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; INSIDE ASIA; Pg. 

LENGTH: 908 words

HEADLINE: For Abe, It's Time to Deliver

BYLINE: By LINDA SIEG | REUTERS

 BODY:
TOKYO -- Prime Minister Shinzo Abe of Japan is likely to win a mandate Sunday for his three-part recipe to end stagnation in the economy, but anyone expecting him to use it to push a big-bang overhaul agenda might need a reality check.
Mr. Abe's bloc, led by his Liberal Democratic Party, is expected to win a hefty majority in elections for the upper house, ending a ''twisted Parliament'' in which the opposition controls the upper chamber. Surveys by the news media published Monday showed that Mr. Abe's party maintained a substantial lead over rivals. 
The stalemate in Parliament has hampered policies for most of the past six years since Mr. Abe, then in his first term as prime minister, and the Liberal Democratic Party suffered a humiliating defeat in the upper house. He resigned two months later and was followed by a string of short-term leaders.
Mr. Abe, who returned to office in December for a rare second chance, will have few excuses for shying away from overhauls, including deregulation, that many see as vital to generating growth, but his commitment to doing so remains in doubt.
''What's required is the kind of thoroughgoing reform that Mr. Abe doesn't seem to have the vision or stomach for,'' said Jun Okumura, a senior adviser for the Eurasia Group, a political risk research and consulting firm, and former official at the Japanese Ministry of Economy, Trade and Industry.
''Just because he wins an election doesn't mean vested interests will be any more amenable to changes that would affect them negatively,'' he added. ''A leader can do a lot with the ability to appoint and dismiss cabinet members, and ultimately, the right to call a general election.
Hopes for Mr. Abe's prescription of low interest rates, big spending and steps to promote growth -- nicknamed Abenomics -- pushed up Tokyo share prices and weakened the yen even before his bloc won the December election for the powerful lower house.
Business executives and economists welcomed his decision in March to join talks on the U.S.-led Trans-Pacific Partnership, or T.P.P., trade pact, despite fierce opposition from the farm lobby, a traditional backer of the Liberal Democrats.
Advocates say joining the pact would open Japan's economy to competition and increase momentum for deregulation to ignite growth.
''T.P.P. is not about agriculture reform; it's about whether Japan sits at the table when global rules are made and doing whatever it takes to be a first-rate power,'' said Jesper Koll, head of equities research at J.P. Morgan in Tokyo.
Mr. Abe has also backed changes in the energy sector that would break up regional utility monopolies, also powerful supporters of his party, although a political scuffle just before a Parliament session ended in June prevented an overhaul bill from passing.
Optimists argue that the desire of Mr. Abe and like-minded nationalists for a strong economy to ensure Japan's place on the global stage will keep up pressure for overhauls -- a 21st-century version of the ''Enrich the Country, Strengthen the Army'' slogan of the late 19th-century reformers who modernized Japan.
''I think he sees a genuine challenge to the sovereignty and power of the country,'' said Robert Feldman, chief economist at Morgan Stanley MUFG in Tokyo.
But reaction to Mr. Abe's so-called third arrow of structural overhauls, unveiled in June, has been tepid, prompting the prime minister and his aides to promise that more is in store after the upper house election.
Among the areas where critics want bolder steps are agrarian land policy, labor market measures to make it easier for companies to get out of money-losing businesses and shift to growth sectors, cuts in the corporate tax rate and an easing of barriers to immigration to cope with Japan's aging and shrinking population.
A split among Mr. Abe's growth strategists between those who see a big role for government in picking and backing new growth sectors, and those who want government to get out of the way to allow innovation, also clouds the outlook for overhauls.
Too decisive a victory on Sunday could make it harder for Mr. Abe to push through the sort of changes that would harm traditional Liberal Democratic supporters.
Such a win would raise the number of members of Parliament with ties to vested interests and increase complacency in the party.
Some media forecasts give Mr. Abe's party a shot at winning an upper house majority on its own for the first time since 1989. With no national election required again until 2016, members keeping quiet now are likely to become more vocal after Sunday.
''Are we dealing with Japanese politics?'' said Mr. Koll of J.P. Morgan. ''The answer is yes. Will there be compromise? You bet. The risk of compromise moving to the forefront gets bigger the bigger they win.''
Mr. Abe will also face a tough decision in the autumn on whether to give the go-ahead for a plan to raise the sales tax to 8 percent from 5 percent next year, the first stage in a scheduled doubling by October 2015 to help limit the huge public debt.
Some party members fear the tax increase would derail a recovery, but postponing it could cause havoc in financial markets, where the delay would be taken as a signal of reneging on fiscal overhaul.
The International Monetary Fund, while giving a cautious approval to Abenomics, has warned of risks if Japan does not both cut its debt -- already twice the size of its $5 trillion economy -- and enact structural overhauls.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); PRIME MINISTERS (90%); ELECTIONS (89%); DEREGULATION (89%); ENERGY & UTILITY DEREGULATION (87%); APPOINTMENTS (78%); COMMERCE DEPARTMENTS (78%); COUNTRY RISK (77%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (76%); LOBBYING (76%); ENERGY & UTILITY SECTOR PERFORMANCE (71%); ELECTRIC POWER PLANTS (71%); UTILITIES INDUSTRY (71%); CONSULTING SERVICES (70%); ENERGY & UTILITY TRADE (69%); EQUITY RESEARCH (69%); EXECUTIVES (67%); INTEREST RATES (62%); ECONOMIC NEWS (62%); TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (60%)

PERSON: SHINZO ABE (92%)

GEOGRAPHIC: TOKYO, JAPAN (91%) JAPAN (94%); UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: July 16, 2013



450 of 937 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 16, 2013
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 594 words

HEADLINE: Citigroup's Earnings Help S.&P. Rise for an 8th Day

BYLINE: By REUTERS

 BODY:
Citigroup's solid earnings helped push the Standard & Poor's 500-stock index higher on Monday for an eighth consecutive day, the longest such streak since mid-January, although weak retail sales curbed the advance.
Even with slim gains, the Dow Jones industrial average and the S.& P. 500 finished at nominal closing highs for the third consecutive trading session. The Nasdaq composite index posted its highest close since September 2000. 
But trading volume was the lowest of any full day this year, with just 4.89 billion shares changing hands on the New York Stock Exchange, the Nasdaq and the NYSE MKT. This year, daily volume has averaged 6.4 billion shares.
Shares of Citigroup climbed $1, or 2 percent, to $51.81 after it reported earnings that exceeded Wall Street's expectations, including a 42 percent increase in its net income.
The day's economic data was mixed, with growth in New York state manufacturing for July accelerating. June retail sales fell short of expectations. May business inventories barely increased.
Investors are watching for changes in earnings or economic news that could derail the market's rally. Stocks have climbed this year, except for a late-May sell-off after by Ben S. Bernanke, the Federal Reserve chairman, raised the prospect of trimming the Fed's $85 billion in monthly stimulus. The S.& P. 500 has gained 18 percent this year.
Nicholas Colas, chief market strategist at the ConvergEx Group, said the strong results of Citigroup and other financial companies in this earnings season were a positive sign.
''We believe the economy is getting better, so they should be doing well,'' he said. ''That's enough to offset retail sales data.''
The Dow industrials rose 19.96 points, or 0.13 percent, to 15,484.26. The S.& P. 500 gained 2.31 points, or 0.14 percent, to 1,682.50. The Nasdaq advanced 7.41 points, or 0.21 percent, to end at 3,607.49.
Much of the market's focus this week will be on earnings. Analysts expect S.& P. 500 companies' second-quarter earnings to have grown 2.8 percent from a year earlier, with revenue up 1.5 percent from a year ago, Thomson Reuters data showed.
Earnings growth has slowed in recent quarters, but it is expected to pick up in the second half of the year. Bank of America-Merrill Lynch raised its year-end target for the S.& P. 500 to 1,750 from 1,600, citing expected earnings growth.
Most companies also are exceeding analysts' earnings expectations, as they have done in recent quarters. Of the companies that have reported second-quarter results, 66.7 percent are beating earnings estimates. Revenue results are faring worse.
Among the stocks on the move on Monday, shares of Leap Wireless International more than doubled after AT&T said late Friday it would buy the company for about $1.2 billion and at least two brokerage firms raised their ratings on Leap's stock. Leap soared 112.4 percent, or $8.97, to $16.95 -- well above AT&T's offer of $15 a share in cash, in an indication that traders were hoping for a higher bid.
S.& P. 500 industrial shares rose after airlines expressed confidence over the weekend in the safety of Boeing's 787 Dreamliner after a fire on one of the jets. Boeing gained $3.79, or 3.7 percent, to $105.66 and ranked as the Dow's top performer.
Shares of Tiffany rose $2.76, or 3.6 percent, to $79.78 after Stifel Nicolaus upgraded the jeweler's stock to a buy and set a price target of $92.
In the bond market, interest rates retreated. The price of the Treasury's 10-year note rose 13/32, to 93 5/32. Its yield dropped to 2.54 percent, from 2.59 percent late Friday.

GRAPHIC: CHARTS: The Dow Minute by Minute: Position of the Dow Jones industrial average at 1-minute intervals yesterday. (Source: Bloomberg)
 3-Month Treasury Bills: High rate at weekly auction. (Source: The Bond Buyer) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: STOCK INDEXES (99%); STOCK EXCHANGES (90%); INTERIM FINANCIAL RESULTS (89%); RETAIL SALES (89%); EARNINGS PREANNOUNCEMENTS (89%); BANKING & FINANCE (89%); SALES FIGURES (89%); FINANCIAL RATINGS (89%); COMPANY EARNINGS (89%); ECONOMIC NEWS (87%); MANUFACTURING OUTPUT (78%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (78%); FINANCIAL RESULTS (78%); RETAIL SECTOR PERFORMANCE (78%); ECONOMIC INDICATORS (78%); INVENTORIES (74%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (65%)

COMPANY: CITIGROUP INC (92%); MERRILL LYNCH & CO INC (84%); CONVERGEX INC (66%); NYSE MKT LLC (57%); NEW YORK STOCK EXCHANGE LLC (57%); LEAP WIRELESS INTERNATIONAL INC (50%)

TICKER: C (NYSE) (92%); C (BMV) (92%); 8710 (TSE) (92%); LEAP (NASDAQ) (50%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (92%); NAICS522210 CREDIT CARD ISSUING (92%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (92%); NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (84%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (84%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (84%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (84%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (84%); NAICS523991 TRUST, FIDUCIARY & CUSTODY ACTIVITIES (66%); NAICS511210 SOFTWARE PUBLISHERS (66%); NAICS523210 SECURITIES & COMMODITY EXCHANGES (57%); SIC6231 SECURITIES & COMMODITY EXCHANGES (57%); SIC4812 RADIOTELEPHONE COMMUNICATIONS (50%)

PERSON: BEN BERNANKE (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: July 16, 2013



451 of 937 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 16, 2013
The New York Times on the Web

SECTION: Section ; Column 0; OpEd; OP-DOCS; Pg. 

LENGTH: 377 words

HEADLINE: 'Occupy Bakery'

BYLINE: By RACHEL LEARS and ROBIN BLOTNICK. 
Rachel Lears and Robin Blotnick are a filmmaking team based in Brooklyn whose work focuses on labor and culture in the Americas. They are producing a feature documentary, ''The Hand That Feeds,'' from which this Op-Doc video is adapted. Ms. Lears holds a doctorate in cultural anthropology from New York University.

 BODY:
We first met Mahoma López, the subject of this Op-Doc video, in April 2012 at a secret meeting in a McDonald's on the Upper East Side of Manhattan. We'd spent the previous autumn documenting the Occupy Wall Street protests. Mr. López had reached out to the Occupy movement for help with his struggle to improve conditions at his workplace -- the original Hot & Crusty bakery and cafe at 63rd Street and Second Avenue. At first he seemed a quiet, humble worker -- the kind customers often overlook as they wait in line for sandwiches and coffee. But Mr. López would not be invisible for long. 
Mr. López and his co-workers filed a complaint with the New York State Department of Labor but gave up waiting for a response after several months had passed. They reached out to big unions, but were turned away because their shop was too small. (In New York City, there are a number of restaurants called ''Hot & Crusty.'' While they share a name, they are actually a collection of different closely held corporations owned by overlapping groups of investors.)
In May 2012, Mr. López and his co-workers went to the National Labor Relations Board and voted to form their own independent union. This set off a chain of events that we are exploring in our coming feature documentary, ''The Hand That Feeds.''
In the early 20th century, immigrants were at the forefront of the labor movement that helped build our middle class. Today, when the fastest growing job sectors are retail and food preparation, the struggles of low-income workers and their families matter more than ever. Turning these jobs into living-wage jobs while fixing our broken immigration system would lift millions out of poverty and benefit our entire economy by increasing consumption and tax revenue. Mr. López's story is part of a growing wave of low-wage and immigrant workers organizing across New York City and around the country that has the potential to spark this kind of change.
It's time we admit it: America runs on the labor of the undocumented. Their struggle for rights, inside and outside the workplace, is an inseparable part of our democratic project.
This video is part of a series by independent filmmakers who have received grants from the Britdoc Foundation and the Sundance Institute.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: FAST FOOD (90%); TALKS & MEETINGS (90%); RESTAURANTS (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); WAGES & SALARIES (89%); IMMIGRATION (86%); MOVIES & SOUND RECORDING SECTOR PERFORMANCE (78%); DOCUMENTARY FILMS (77%); OCCUPY WALL STREET (77%); RETAIL BAKERIES (76%); LABOR DEPARTMENTS (76%); LABOR UNIONS (76%); FOREIGN LABOR (75%); LIVING WAGE (75%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (74%); LOW INCOME PERSONS (63%); POVERTY & HOMELESSNESS (63%); GRANTS & GIFTS (60%); PROTESTS & DEMONSTRATIONS (57%)

ORGANIZATION: NATIONAL LABOR RELATIONS BOARD (55%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%) NEW YORK, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: July 16, 2013



452 of 937 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 16, 2013
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1287 words

HEADLINE: Last Car Plant Brings Detroit Hope and Cash

BYLINE: By BILL VLASIC

 BODY:
DETROIT -- There is a section of Detroit's east side that sums up the city's decline, a grim landscape of boarded-up stores, abandoned homes and empty lots that stretch all the way to the river.
And in the middle of it stands one of the most modern and successful auto plants in the world.
More than 4,600 workers staff Chrysler's sprawling Jefferson North factory nearly around the clock, making one of the most profitable vehicles on the market, the Jeep Grand Cherokee.
The plant, painted white and surrounded by a fence topped with barbed wire, generates about $2 billion in annual profits and is a huge contributor to the health of Chrysler, the nation's third-largest automaker, and Fiat, its Italian parent company. 
For a city on the brink of bankruptcy and an American auto industry that many had written off, Jefferson North's revival has become a symbol that Detroit's seemingly endless downward spiral can be reversed.
''Everything is aligned there,'' said Kristin Dziczek, an analyst at the Center for Automotive Research in Ann Arbor, Mich. ''You have a hot-selling, high-profit vehicle, a flexible labor agreement and a facility that the company has invested in instead of abandoned.''
Few could have envisioned the turnaround when Chrysler tumbled into bankruptcy in 2009.
The plant was aging, sales volumes were plummeting and its future was in question. But a government bailout, along with two-tiered pay structure that cut wages for new employees by $12 an hour, saved the company and delivered it into the hands of Fiat, which now is its majority owner.
Since then, annual production has skyrocketed from fewer than 100,000 vehicles a year to more than 300,000. And a work force that had dwindled to 1,300 people has more than tripled. In June, Grand Cherokee sales rose 33 percent in the United States, as consumers paid as much as $50,000 for a fully loaded model.
The profits and productivity at Jefferson North would put it on par with the most efficient luxury car plants in Germany and the best factories operated by Japanese automakers in the southern United States.
That Jefferson North is situated in one of the most impoverished parts of Detroit only made it more of a gamble for Chrysler to keep.
''There were certainly skeptics about us continuing to do business in the city,'' said Scott R. Garberding, Chrysler's chief of manufacturing.
Coming out of bankruptcy, the company had little cash, and less margin for error, in deciding which models to push to help it survive. ''For a time, everything was on the bubble,'' Mr. Garberding said.
But at Jefferson North, the company already had a new Grand Cherokee close to production, part of a $1.8 billion investment in the plant it announced in 2008. The plant also had a skilled veteran work force that would not need much training. In addition, the plant had received a city tax abatement on new machinery and equipment.
In the end, Chrysler decided that the stylish Jeep was its best bet for a hit.
Today, Jefferson North stands as the last auto assembly plant entirely within the city limits of Detroit, which once had nearly a dozen of them. General Motors also operates a car plant that is partly in Detroit and partly in the neighboring city of Hamtramck
The Chrysler plant is one of the biggest employers in Detroit, which has a 16 percent unemployment rate. It is also one of its largest taxpayers, last year paying more than $12 million in property taxes. A third of its workers, both union and management, live in the city, the company said.
Since its bankruptcy, Chrysler has hired two full shifts of new workers, about 2,200 people, at the lower wage. Additional workers have come from the ranks of veteran employees who had been laid off.
The company has taken advantage of the groundbreaking labor agreement with the United Automobile Workers union, agreed to in 2007, to bring on new employees at an entry-level wage just under $16 an hour, compared with the $28 earned by longtime union workers.
The infusion of lower-paid workers has bolstered the plant's profitability and competitiveness and provided desperately needed jobs for the community.
Kawanne Clark, a 23-year-old native of Detroit's east side, was hired a year ago to work on the assembly line. He had waited more than two years -- working at a furniture store and attending college part time -- since first applying for the job.
''I took the chance because it's a great opportunity with great earning potential,'' Mr. Clark said. ''You can move up, especially if you're a young guy who is driven and motivated.''
He was recently promoted to team leader on the final stages of the assembly line, which is turning out more than 1,200 new sport utility vehicles a day. About 80 percent of production is the Grand Cherokee, and the rest is the Dodge Durango, another sport utility vehicle. It's a testament to the Grand Cherokee's immense popularity that it is exported from the plant to 127 countries in every region of the world.
''Every vehicle we manufacture is already a sold order,'' Jason Ryska, the plant's manager, said. ''We're not even building inventory.''
The plant's productivity is essential to Chrysler, which is basically supporting Fiat as the two companies complete their merger. When it slowed production in the first quarter of this year to switch to an updated version of the Grand Cherokee, profit at Chrysler plunged 65 percent.
Sergio Marchionne, chief executive of both Chrysler and Fiat, acknowledged the contribution Jefferson North made compared with plants building its other products. ''I'd have to make an awful lot of Dodge Darts to replace the profits made by the Grand Cherokee,'' he told analysts in April.
Among the changes that Mr. Marchionne introduced when he took over Chrysler was Fiat's exacting manufacturing style, which had a big effect in a plant that had struggled under Chrysler's previous owners. One of his first moves was to order a top-to-bottom cleaning and repainting; in an unusual move, it was all done by the plant's workers, not just maintenance crews.
''Coming out of bankruptcy, nobody knew what to expect,'' said Jeffrey Brunson, a union official at the plant. ''It's been amazing how great this has been for the company and the employees and Detroit.''
The success of Jefferson North defies conventional wisdom in the auto industry that the most efficient plants are new factories built on big tracts of rural land in southern states like Tennessee and Alabama. In fact, the wide, sparsely used streets around Jefferson North make it easy for trucks laden with supplies or finished Jeeps to move in and out. ''Our urban core is much less dense than in other cities,'' Ms. Dziczek said. ''And that's a huge statement about Detroit.''
It's hard to escape the stark contrast between the manicured lawns and jammed parking lots on the grounds of the plant and the desolate, pockmarked neighborhoods that surround it.
Streetlights are often dark at night on Jefferson Avenue because of a lack of money in the city's budget. In May, the police discovered a human torso in a burned-out home three blocks from the plant's front entrance.
The biggest building nearby is the long-closed, graffiti-covered Continental Tire factory, empty for decades but never torn down.
For new hires like Mr. Clark, working at the Chrysler plant is a rare chance to be part of what's left of the city's signature industry. His grandmother retired from General Motors, and his father works at the Ford Motor Company. He grew up just a few miles away, but punching in at Jefferson North is like entering a different world.
''I grew up on the east side, and it's not too good around here,'' he said. ''Coming here is one of the best decisions I ever made in my life.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Kawanne Clark works on the assembly line at Chrysler's Jefferson North factory in Detroit.
 The Jefferson North plant generates an estimated $2 billion in annual profits and is a huge contributor to Chrysler's health. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY FABRIZIO COSTANTINI FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) (A3) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: AUTOMOTIVE MFG (92%); PROPERTY VACANCIES (90%); CITY LIFE (90%); AUTOMOBILE MFG (90%); AUTOMAKERS (89%); SALES FIGURES (89%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (88%); RETAIL SALES (77%); WAGES & SALARIES (76%); AUTOMOTIVE SECTOR PERFORMANCE (76%); LABOR FORCE (76%); MOTOR VEHICLES (76%); AUTOMAKER BANKRUPTCIES (76%); PARENT COMPANIES (75%); COMPANY PROFITS (75%); HOLDING COMPANIES (73%); AUTOMOTIVE TECHNOLOGY (70%); AUTOMOTIVE RESEARCH (69%); ANNUAL FINANCIAL RESULTS (69%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (69%); BAILOUTS (68%); RESEARCH INSTITUTES (66%)

COMPANY: CHRYSLER GROUP LLC (95%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS336111 AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING (95%)

GEOGRAPHIC: DETROIT, MI, USA (94%) MICHIGAN, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%); GERMANY (79%)

LOAD-DATE: July 16, 2013



453 of 937 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 16, 2013
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; ON THE ROAD; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 951 words

HEADLINE: An Economy on the Mend Lifts Corporate Travel

BYLINE: By JOE SHARKEY. 
E-mail: jsharkey@nytimes.com

 BODY:
BUSINESS travelers in the United States will spend about $273.3 billion on the road in 2013, a 4.3 percent increase over last year and a reflection of stronger growth in domestic travel as the national economy stabilizes, according to the Global Business Travel Association.
Of that estimated $273.3 billion, about $117.1 billion will be spent on group travel -- meetings and conventions, conferences, incentive trips and the like. And $33.1 billion will be spent in the United States on international travel, the trade group says in a report preceding its annual convention, which will be held early next month in San Diego. 
No matter how you parse it, that's a whole lot of spending for corporate travel managers and individual business travelers to evaluate and track. Another report is coming out this week, from Concur, the travel expense management company, that seeks to ''shine a bright light on a big chunk of data'' for business travel spending, said Robson Grieve, executive vice president for marketing.
I had an early look at the Concur study, which examined individual travel expense accounts totaling $50 billion at 18,000 corporate clients last year. Among the findings I found most interesting: Travelers at small and midsize companies on average spent significantly more in every expense category -- hotels, airfares, dining and entertainment -- than those at large corporations.
That trend is surprising, said Mr. Grieve, who suggested that it probably reflects more aggressive regional business activity by smaller companies scrambling for growth. ''A sales rep in a large corporation, for example, has a much smaller territory to cover and naturally spends fewer nights in fewer places, whereas at a small company, say in the Pacific Northwest, that rep makes a lot more individual trips -- Portland, Seattle, into Montana. That means more dinners out, more airplane flights, more room nights,'' he said.
Hence travelers at small and medium-size companies in the Concur study filed far more individual transactions than those at large companies -- for airline tickets (37 percent more expense receipts), meals (29 percent), entertainment (67 percent) and car rentals (65 percent).
Concur said that the small-to-medium-size category was made up of companies with fewer than 100 employees, mostly operating out of a single location. So on average they tend to spend more on ground transportation, while expense accounts at large companies reflect a ''much higher percentage'' of spending on airlines.
For all companies, business travelers' expense account totals averaged $12,976 during 2012, a slight drop from 2011 because of an unanticipated decline in business travel spending during the fourth quarter. That may be partly attributable to uncertainties over the budget negotiations in Washington, bad weather for travel, and a trend of arranging meetings and conferences that are closer to home, Concur says.
In international travel, the 10 most-visited cities for business travelers based in the United States (ranked by overnight hotel stays) were London, Shanghai, Singapore, Beijing, Tokyo, Toronto, Hong Kong, Paris, Mexico City and São Paulo, Brazil. The 10 most-visited cities in the United States were New York; Las Vegas; Chicago; San Francisco; Houston; Orlando, Fla.; Atlanta; San Diego; Charlotte, N.C.; and Dallas. Las Vegas and Orlando are top destinations for major conventions, of course.
The most expensive international cities, by expense account spending, were Brisbane, Tokyo, Sydney, Perth, London, Stockholm, Melbourne, Zurich, Paris and Dubai. Domestically, the places where business travelers spent the most last year were New York, San Francisco, Garden City on Long Island, Washington, Boston, Long Island City in Queens, Chicago, Miami, Las Vegas and Santa Clara, Calif. (The rankings of Garden City and Long Island City reflect a spillover from Manhattan, and Santa Clara is in the heart of Silicon Valley.)
Other expense account trends I found interesting were spending on airline and airport club access, up 26.8 percent, and spending on in-flight entertainment, down 24.2 percent. It's clear to me, incidentally, that the sharp drop in spending on in-flight entertainment, like on-demand movies on long-haul flights, is directly related to the sharp increase in the number of passengers who are traveling with tablets and other mobile devices on which they have loaded their personal content, including movies. This is not an encouraging trend for the in-flight entertainment business, and we'll be returning to that subject soon.
As for other so-called ancillary fees charged by airlines, spending increased by 11.3 percent for priority access, as business travelers struggled to deal with the worsening boarding-area scrums. Spending was also up, 10.8 percent, on penalty fees charged by airlines for changing itineraries. That figure might be expected to rise this year, with most major domestic airlines moving to raise those penalty fees to $200 for a changed ticket, from $150. (Southwest Airlines, which remains an outlier, does not charge for changing a flight.)
Last year, revenue from all ancillary fees on the world's airlines surged 19.6 percent, to $27.1 billion, according to a report by IdeaWorks, a consulting company specializing in airline revenue.
Corporate travel managers spend a lot of time and effort trying to sort out, and plan for, the confounding proliferation of airline fees. They complain that many of those fees are not sufficiently clear when tickets are booked, and turn up only when expenses are filed.
''We're starting to get better data'' on those fees, Mr. Grieve at Concur said. ''But it definitely adds a layer of complexity.''

GRAPHIC: DRAWING (DRAWING BY CHI BIRMINGHAM) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC RECOVERY (90%); BUSINESS TRAVEL SERVICES (90%); TRENDS (89%); CONFERENCES & CONVENTIONS (89%); DOMESTIC TOURISM (89%); AIRLINES (86%); SMALL BUSINESS (79%); TRAVEL TICKETS (78%); BUDGETS (78%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (77%); TALKS & MEETINGS (76%); EXECUTIVES (74%); INTERNATIONAL TOURISM (73%); INCENTIVE TRAVEL (73%); HOTELS & MOTELS (73%); AIR FARES (70%)

GEOGRAPHIC: SEATTLE, WA, USA (79%); PORTLAND, OR, USA (79%); SAN DIEGO, CA, USA (79%) CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); WEST USA (79%); WASHINGTON, USA (79%); NORTHWEST USA (79%); OREGON, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: July 16, 2013



454 of 937 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 16, 2013
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; FIVETHIRTYEIGHT; Pg. 13

LENGTH: 2473 words

HEADLINE: G.O.P. Sees Promise of Senate Control, but It Has Been There Before

BYLINE: By NATE SILVER

 BODY:
This weekend's announcement by the former governor of Montana, Brian Schweitzer, that he would not seek that state's Democratic nomination for Senate represents the latest in a series of favorable developments for Republicans as they seek control of the chamber.
The G.O.P.'s task will not be easy: the party holds 46 seats in the Senate, and the number will very probably be cut to 45 after a special election in New Jersey later this year. That means that they would need to win a net of six contests from Democrats in order to control 51 seats and overcome Vice President Joseph R. Biden Jr.'s tiebreaking vote. Two years ago at this time, Republicans faced what seemed to be a promising environment and could have won the Senate by gaining a net of three seats from Democrats and winning the presidency. Instead, Mitt Romney lost to President Obama, and the G.O.P. lost a net of two Senate seats. 
But Montana along with West Virginia and South Dakota -- two other red states where an incumbent Democrat has retired and where the Democrats have not identified a strong candidate to replace them -- gives Republicans a running start. Republicans could then win three more seats from among red states like Louisiana and Arkansas, where vulnerable Democratic incumbents are on the ballot, or they could take aim at two purple states, Iowa and Michigan, where Democrats have retired. More opportunities could also come into play if the national environment becomes more favorable to Republicans (such as because of a further slide in Mr. Obama's approval ratings). Meanwhile, while Kentucky and Georgia are possibly vulnerable, Republicans have few seats of their own to defend; unlike in 2012, they can focus almost entirely on playing offense.
A race-by-race analysis of the Senate, in fact, suggests that Republicans might now be close to even-money to win control of the chamber after next year's elections. Our best guess, after assigning probabilities of the likelihood of a G.O.P. pickup in each state, is that Republicans will end up with somewhere between 50 and 51 Senate seats after 2014, putting them right on the threshold of a majority.
The chart below reflects our current overview of the Senate landscape, including the probability estimates. (The estimates are not based strictly on a formula but instead are best guesses, accounting for the partisan lean of each state, the quality of the prospective candidates, and approval-rating or polling data to the extent that it might be informative.) When we last conducted this exercise in February, our projection was for Republicans to win between 49 and 50 Senate seats, meaning that their standing has improved by about one seat since then.
What follows is a series of comments on the most critical races, or those where there has been significant news since February. The races are listed in order of the contests that look strongest for Democrats to those where Republican chances are strongest.
Massachusetts. Although the Democrats' position has become more vulnerable over all, one state where they have less reason to worry is Massachusetts, where Representative Edward J. Markey defeated the Republican Gabriel Gomez by 10 percentage points in a special election in June. The special election reflected reasonably favorable circumstances for Republicans relative to the usual (very difficult) ones in Massachusetts -- an extremely low turnout, and a Democratic candidate who had survived a tough primary. But Republicans did not come particularly close to winning, and November's environment will be no easier for the G.O.P. as Mr. Markey will have gained experience as the incumbent and turnout will probably be high because of a governor's election.
New Jersey. This seat is currently held by a Republican -- Jeffrey Chiesa, the former state attorney general who was appointed to the seat by Gov. Chris Christie after the death of the Democratic incumbent Frank R. Lautenberg. However, it is likely to revert to Democratic control later this year, as the timing of the October special election (and current polling) suggests that Republicans will not nominate a viable opponent against the likely Democratic nominee, Mayor Cory Booker of Newark. Although Republicans could regroup to nominate a stronger candidate in 2014, when the special election winner will stand for re-election, a candidate like Mr. Booker will have gained more experience by that time, as well as the financial advantage that comes with being an incumbent.
Colorado, Minnesota, New Hampshire and Oregon. These states fall into the ''likely Democratic'' category, where Democratic odds of holding the seats vary between about 75 percent and 85 percent, in our view. They consist of two purple states, Colorado and New Hampshire, where a reasonably popular Democratic incumbent is running, and two others, Minnesota and Oregon, where the Democratic incumbent's numbers are more mixed but which are somewhat blue-leaning. In each state, Republicans have had trouble recruiting top-tier challengers. To make the races competitive, Republicans would probably need at least two things to go well: first, a stronger G.O.P. challenger; and second, either a shift in the national political environment toward Republicans or some other circumstance (such as a controversial vote or an ethics problem) that made the incumbents more vulnerable. At this early stage of the election cycle, either is possible in each state, and if it were to occur in one or more of these states the Republican path to a Senate majority would be more robust. But these races will gradually drift toward Democrats absent such changes in the landscape.
Michigan and Iowa. These are states where Democratic incumbents have retired, but where Democrats retain an edge in candidate strength. The G.O.P. avoided their worst-case scenario in Iowa after Representative Steve King declined to run for the seat there, as Mr. King would likely have been far too conservative to win a statewide race. But Republicans have nevertheless had trouble identifying strong candidates to run in Iowa, whereas Democratic Representative Bruce Braley could win his primary easily and conserve money for the general election. In Michigan, the G.O.P.'s list of potential candidates is slightly better, but their strongest potential candidate, Representative Mike Rogers, has decided not to run -- and Michigan has become somewhat blue-leaning in races for federal office.
Alaska. Alaska is more idiosyncratic than its reliably Republican results in presidential elections might imply, and the Democratic incumbent, Mark Begich, is faring reasonably well in head-to-head polls. A good Republican nominee could nevertheless turn the race into a true tossup -- but the G.O.P. could also nominate Joe Miller or former Gov. Sarah Palin, both of whom are now quite unpopular among voters statewide. The Republican primary outcomes in Alaska, Iowa and Michigan will thus go a long way toward determining whether the G.O.P.'s path to a Senate majority is a narrow or wider one.
North Carolina. North Carolina is the closest thing to the tipping point state in the Senate battle. If Republicans avoid losing any of their own seats (other than New Jersey), and win the races that favor them in Montana, West Virginia and South Dakota and the tossup races in Louisiana and Arkansas, then North Carolina would represent their best option to go from a 50-50 tie to a 51-49 Senate majority. Republicans have also not yet identified a top-tier challenger in North Carolina. But the approval ratings of the Democratic incumbent, Kay Hagan, are no better than break-even, which means that a merely decent Republican nominee could make the race very competitive. Although North Carolina is increasingly purple in presidential election years, the coalition of African-Americans and college-aged voters that Democrats depend upon to win races in the state is less likely to turn out for midterm elections.
Arkansas. We had this race rated as ''lean Democratic'' in February on the basis of reasonably strong approval ratings for Mark Pryor, the Democratic incumbent, despite an otherwise difficult environment in the state. However, a poll that came out since then shows middling numbers for Mr. Pryor, with 41.5 percent of voters approving of his job performance against 35 percent disapproving. Mr. Pryor is a savvier politician than the former Democratic senator, Blanche Lincoln, and he is unlikely to face a serious primary challenge, as Ms. Lincoln did in 2010. But Ms. Lincoln lost her race for re-election by more than 20 percentage points, so Mr. Pryor will have to avoid several of her mistakes to hold on to his seat.
Louisiana. This race also rates as a true tossup, as it did in February. The most likely Republican nominee, Representative Bill Cassidy, has an extremely conservative voting record, while the Democratic incumbent, Mary Landrieu, has a moderate one that could partially offset the state's strong Republican lean. But Ms. Landrieu will need to maintain her distance from President Obama while at the same time getting a strong turnout in New Orleans, where her bother Mitch Landrieu is mayor -- a difficult balance.
Montana. The decision of Mr. Schweitzer not to enter the race leaves wide-open primary fields in both parties. However, we have Republicans as roughly three-to-one favorites based on the state's overall partisan lean. Although Democrats have had somewhat more success in statewide races in Montana than in contests for the presidency -- their incumbent senator, Jon Tester, survived a tough re-election race last year -- Republicans now have the best-qualified potential candidate in Marc Racicot, the former governor.
Kentucky. Senator Mitch McConnell, the Republican majority leader, has only break-even approval ratings, and Democrats got one of their better potential recruits in Alison Lundergan Grimes, the Kentucky secretary of state. Although some early polls show a relatively close race, the fundamentals favor Mr. McConnell as Kentucky has become very red-leaning and as he is likely to have a strong fund-raising edge. One factor helping Ms. Grimes is the lack of other credible pickup opportunities for Democrats, which could mean that more Democratic money will be directed toward her race. Still, she will have to run a pitch-perfect campaign to win in such a conservative state in a midterm year.
Georgia. This is something of an overlooked pickup opportunity for Democrats. While Democrats have yet to identify a strong candidate, a number of the Republican ones are extremely conservative, Tea Party-backed candidates who could be vulnerable in the suburban counties around Atlanta and Augusta that make up the swing regions of Georgia. Nor is Georgia as conservative as Kentucky -- although as in North Carolina, Democrats depend on African-Americans and young voters to make the state more purple, groups that may not turn out for the midterms.
Maine. Senator Susan Collins, the popular and moderate Republican incumbent, has clarified her plans to run for re-election, which reduces the risk to Republicans of losing a seat. We give Democrats a small, residual chance of a pickup here -- about 10 percent -- because if Ms. Collins loses in a primary, or has a change of plans, the race would instantly go to favoring Democrats. But she will be an overwhelming favorite if she stands on next November's ballot.
South Dakota and West Virginia. These are red states where Democratic incumbents are retiring -- and where some of the more viable Democratic alternatives, like former Representative Stephanie Herseth Sandlin of South Dakota -- have declined to run. Meanwhile, Republicans have very strong recruits in both states in the form of Representative Shelley Moore Capito of West Virginia; and Mike Rounds, the former South Dakota governor. Democrats have had more success in Congressional races in both of these states than in presidential contests, and they might stand a decent chance to retain these seats with a candidate-quality edge. But the combination of a conservative electorate, a very strong G.O.P. nominee and an underqualified Democratic one will make their chances very slim. In addition, our research does not find much evidence for a carry-over effect or afterglow from incumbency once the incumbent retires; now that Senators John D. Rockefeller IV of West Virginia and Tim Johnson of South Dakota are leaving politics, they won't provide much in the way of electoral benefit to Democrats. Add all these factors up, and we don't see much justification for describing these races as tossups or as merely ''leaning'' toward Republicans, as some other forecasters have them: they are pretty safe bets to be Republican pickups.
Nebraska. Republicans suffered a recruiting blow in Nebraska when the popular Gov. Dave Heineman said he would not run in the Senate race. But Mr. Heineman's decision improves Democrats' chances only to slim from none. In 2012, Democrats nominated an extremely qualified candidate in Bob Kerrey, the former senator and governor, while Republicans had a middling one in Deb Fischer, the state senator -- but Ms. Fischer won overwhelmingly.
***
Let me close with our usual reminder: the fact that the battle for Senate control appears to be very close right now does not guarantee that it will end up that way. Although Senate races behave more idiosyncratically than some other types of contests -- local factors and candidate quality play an important role -- one party has won the vast majority of tossup races in each of the past four election cycles.
In a strong Republican year, the G.O.P. could win all of the tossup and ''lean Democratic'' seats and pick up one of the ''likely Democratic'' seats like New Hampshire, which would give them a net gain of nine seats and leave them with a 55-45 majority in the chamber. In a strong Democratic year, the party could lose only West Virginia and South Dakota -- and pick up New Jersey and one of Kentucky and Georgia -- and hold their current 54-46 edge. It is therefore important to watch macro-level indicators -- especially Mr. Obama's approval ratings, the generic Congressional ballot and major economic measures -- in addition to following the recruitment and polling in individual states.
It is equally important to look for early indications of whether G.O.P. primary voters will be more tolerant of moderate and ''main street'' Republicans than they were in 2010 and 2012. A strong set of Republican nominees could give the party as many as a dozen credible opportunities to pick up the seats they need -- whereas a weaker series of candidates could require them to win almost all of the races that remained competitive after the primaries.
This is a more complete version of the story than the one that appeared in print.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (91%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); ELECTIONS (89%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (78%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (78%); GOVERNORS (78%); US PRESIDENTS (74%); VOTERS & VOTING (74%)

PERSON: BRIAN SCHWEITZER (73%); MITT ROMNEY (58%); JOE BIDEN (58%); BARACK OBAMA (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: MONTANA, USA (93%); WEST VIRGINIA, USA (79%); NEW JERSEY, USA (79%); LOUISIANA, USA (79%); ARKANSAS, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: July 16, 2013



455 of 937 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 16, 2013
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Sports Desk; Pg. 14

LENGTH: 331 words

HEADLINE: Mayor Errs in Saying Yankee Stadium Will Be New Team's Base

BYLINE: By SAM BORDEN

 BODY:
For a moment this weekend, it seemed that New York City Football Club had found a home. The Major League Soccer expansion team, which is partly owned by Manchester City of England's Premier League and the Yankees, does not begin play until 2015, but Mayor Michael R. Bloomberg appeared to indicate in his weekly radio address that the club would play its home games at Yankee Stadium. 
''Yankee Stadium will become the home of the New York City Football Club, the first soccer club in the five boroughs since the 1970s,'' Bloomberg said in an address that detailed the quality of the city's professional sports scene.
After the line raised questions and discussion among soccer fans, the mayor's office issued a correction Monday indicating that Bloomberg -- reading an address prepared for him by staff members -- was mistaken.
''The script for the mayor's radio address on Sunday overstated the possibility that the New York Football Club could play some games at Yankee Stadium while they search for a permanent home,'' Julie Wood, the deputy press secretary, said. ''No decision has been made on where they will play. Wherever they end up, we are thrilled to welcome Major League Soccer to New York City, where pro sports are creating jobs and pumping millions into our economy.''
Officials from the Yankees and from M.L.S. confirmed that no significant progress had been made on determining a permanent home for New York City F.C. Hal Steinbrenner, the managing general partner of the Yankees, has said that the team would be open to having New York City F.C. play some games at Yankee Stadium on a temporary basis while a permanent stadium is being built and, given the challenges of building a new stadium, that seems to be a possibility.
It was initially thought that New York City F.C. would look to build a soccer stadium in the Flushing Meadows area of Queens, though those plans now look unlikely. A site near Yankee Stadium in the Bronx has been seen as another potential option.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: SOCCER (94%); SPORTS (91%); MAYORS (90%); STADIUMS & ARENAS (90%); CITY GOVERNMENT (90%); SPORTS & RECREATION (90%); SPORTS & RECREATION EVENTS (78%); SOCCER TOURNAMENTS (78%); SPORTS FANS (73%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (73%); INDOOR RECREATIONAL CONSTRUCTION (71%); GENERAL PARTNERSHIPS (64%)

ORGANIZATION: NEW YORK YANKEES (84%)

PERSON: MICHAEL BLOOMBERG (78%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (95%); MANCHESTER, ENGLAND (88%) NEW YORK, USA (95%) UNITED STATES (95%); ENGLAND (92%)

LOAD-DATE: July 16, 2013



456 of 937 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 16, 2013
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; DEALBOOK; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 904 words

HEADLINE: Jury Is Seated at Trader's Trial, Then Is Showered With Jargon

BYLINE: By MICHAEL J. DE LA MERCED and SUSANNE CRAIG

 BODY:
9:16 p.m. | Updated Lawyers on both sides of the federal government's civil lawsuit against a former Goldman Sachs employee who has become a prominent face of the financial crisis were asked to keep legal mumbo jumbo to a minimum.
But despite the presiding judge's plea to avoid terms like swaps and ''synthetic C.D.O.'' -- the judge said ''mere mortals don't know what a trading desk is'' -- both sides dove into descriptions of residential mortgage-backed securities and credit default swaps. 
It was a clunky opening in Federal District Court for the Southern District of New York for the civil trial of Fabrice P. Tourre, whose work putting together a now-notorious mortgage investment is the focus of the Securities and Exchange Commission's case, after a morning in which nine people were speedily seated as the jury.
Mr. Tourre, 34, a Frenchman who was on Goldman's mortgage desk, was the point person in constructing a 2007 debt investment that ultimately failed. As the most prominent target of a government lawsuit tied to the financial crisis, he has become a lightning rod for criticism.
Goldman had been charged alongside Mr. Tourre, but chose to settle, paying what was in 2010 a record $550 million penalty, without admitting or denying guilt. During opening statements, lawyers for both the S.E.C. and Mr. Tourre painted differing pictures of what was at stake in what is expected to be a three-week trial. Mr. Tourre has denied wrongdoing. He is the only individual facing charges stemming from the investment product.
Matthew T. Martens, the S.E.C.'s lead lawyer and the head of the agency's trial unit, argued that the case was about taking on excessive greed and trickery on Wall Street. Contending that Mr. Tourre had misled investors about the true origins of the mortgage investment doomed to fail, he argued that the onetime Goldman employee shirked his legal duties to enrich both his firm and a big hedge fund client.
Ultimately, Goldman made $15 million in fees on the investment. The firm's client, the hedge fund Paulson & Company, made an estimated $1 billion.
''The defendant knew he was committing a fraud,'' Mr. Martens said. He later added, ''It's a civil case to hold him accountable.''
One of Mr. Tourre's lawyers, led by Pamela Chepiga of Allen & Overy, instead defended him as merely participating in a game played by intelligent investors. The investment Mr. Tourre assembled was a zero-sum game in which one side had to lose for the other to make money.
And one of the firms that the government has depicted as a victim, the bond insurer ACA Management, was well aware of whom it was wagering against.
''The most sophisticated bettors in the world were the only ones who got a seat at this table,'' Ms. Chepiga said.
But both sides face the challenge of explaining the complexities of intricate debt instruments to a jury of mostly laypeople.
The trial's first witness, a finance professor at the University of California, Berkeley, was enlisted to help define the language of Mr. Tourre's former world, thick with arcana like ''collateralized debt obligations'' and ''special purpose vehicles.'' Several jurors appeared to take copious notes as the professor, Dwight M. Jaffee, spoke on the general structure of the kind of investment at the heart of this case.
Among the jurors are a minister -- whose profession conjured a poorly phrased comment by Goldman's chief executive, Lloyd C. Blankfein, when he said he was doing ''God's work.'' The jury also includes a retiree and a former retail stockbroker.
For the most part, the judge and the lawyer teams steered clear of jury candidates who professed ties to Wall Street or finance, or those said they had read articles about the case. One woman worked as a mortgage underwriter who had ties to JPMorgan Chase. Another was a day trader who had owned Goldman stock at one point. Neither was seated.
Driving the speedy process is the federal judge overseeing the case, Katherine B. Forrest. She joked during the jury selection process that she was maintaining an invisible hourglass. The nine-person jury was selected in less than 90 minutes, with the two teams of lawyers using only two of three rounds of strikes in challenging jurors.
And while Mr. Tourre's case has been scheduled for three weeks, the judge said she would try to beat that timetable.
''I am known as a judge who moves things along,'' Judge Forrest said. She later added, ''I am a shark on time.''
She also told jurors that while Goldman had once been a defendant in the S.E.C.'s lawsuit, it had settled. Judge Forrest warned the jury not to speculate why the investment bank was no longer part of the lawsuit. Nor were they to regard news articles from 2007 about the mortgage boom as evidence in and of themselves.
Staying silent throughout the day's proceedings was Mr. Tourre himself, clad in a dark suit with an orange-patterned tie. During proceedings, he mostly looked at a laptop or leaned over to chat with his lawyer team. But not even the ex-trader was immune to the longueurs of explaining mortgage-backed securities, yawning on occasion during Professor Dwight's testimony.
Meanwhile, a small armada of TV trucks was lined up outside the courthouse in Lower Manhattan -- but it was not clear that they were all present for Mr. Tourre's trial. There were five trials in the courthouse Monday.
This is a more complete version of the story than the one that appeared in print.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Fabrice P. Tourre, the former Goldman Sachs trader, arriving at Federal District Court in Manhattan on Monday, for his civil trial over a failed investment product. (PHOTOGRAPH BY LUCAS JACKSON/REUTERS) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LAWYERS (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (90%); LITIGATION (90%); JURY TRIALS (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); SUITS & CLAIMS (90%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (90%); MORTGAGE INVESTMENTS (89%); MAJOR UK LAW FIRMS (78%); JUDGES (78%); REAL ESTATE (78%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (77%); CREDIT DEFAULT SWAPS (77%); BANKING & FINANCE AGENCIES (77%); SWAP TRANSACTIONS (76%); SYNTHETIC SECURITIES (76%); MORTGAGE BACKED SECURITIES (75%); BONDS (75%); FRAUD & FINANCIAL CRIME (74%); FINANCIAL GUARANTY INSURANCE (70%); CORPORATE WRONGDOING (69%); HEDGE FUNDS (60%)

COMPANY: GOLDMAN SACHS GROUP INC (91%)

ORGANIZATION: SECURITIES & EXCHANGE COMMISSION (74%)

TICKER: GS (NYSE) (91%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (91%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (91%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (91%); SIC6289 SERVICES ALLIED WITH THE EXCHANGE OF SECURITIES OR COMMODITIES, NEC (91%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (91%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (91%)

PERSON: FABRICE P TOURRE (89%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%) NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: July 16, 2013



457 of 937 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 16, 2013
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 696 words

HEADLINE: 'Do Not Track' Rules for Advertising to Web Users Come a Step Closer to an Agreement

BYLINE: By SOMINI SENGUPTA and NATASHA SINGER

 BODY:
Web users should be able to tell advertising networks not to show them targeted advertisements based on their browsing activities -- and those companies should comply. That is the verdict of the leaders of a working group that has been arguing for almost two years over how to establish a uniform Do Not Track standard for the Internet.
The group has been trying to arrive at a consensus draft document that outlines what it means when a Web user turns on a Do Not Track signal. Still unresolved and a major point of difference among the group's members is whether advertising networks and data brokers should be allowed to collect, retain and categorize that browsing data, using small bits of code and other methods that identify each user. 
But the decision on ad targeting moves the group, commissioned by the World Wide Web Consortium, or W3C, a step closer to reaching consensus.
''The public meaning of Do Not Track is to limit behavioral advertising,'' said Peter P. Swire, a law professor at Ohio State University who is a chairman of the Tracking Protection Working Group, along with Matthias Schunter, principal engineer at the Intel Corporation.
The group's internal disagreements aside, more Americans are turning on the Do Not Track signal. A March 2013 survey by Forrester Research found that 18 percent of Web users had turned on the Do Not Track setting in their browsers.
Forrester said the survey pointed to a greater awareness of behavioral tracking. The survey was commissioned by Neustar, an analytics company.
Nearly all browsers offer consumers the option of a Do Not Track signal -- some turning it on by default -- but it is little more than symbolic. Online advertisers are not required to respect the consumer's request. The advertising industry has argued that behavioral tracking is a necessary part of free Web services; in the latest of several proposals, it sought to use behavioral data after scrubbing out certain information.
That approach was rejected by the group's chairmen. It had been vigorously opposed by a host of consumer groups and companies that are among the group's 110 members. In a decision to be made public on Tuesday, the chairmen say that they will use an earlier draft as the ''base text'' for discussions, rejecting the advertising industry's proposal.
The Tracking Protection Working Group has argued for nearly two years about establishing a Do Not Track standard. Their arguments are far from over.
One set of objections comes from representatives of the digital advertising industry. They said on Monday that consensus would be hard to reach because many issues remained unresolved.
''We are always going to participate in an effort to get something that is meaningful, makes sense and continues to preserve the benefits to consumers in products and services that our members offer,'' said Stuart P. Ingis, a lawyer representing the Digital Advertising Alliance, an industry body. ''But participating in a process and agreeing to a failed standard are two different things.''
The advertising industry has been particularly exercised by the fact that browser makers like Microsoft are increasingly turning on the Do Not Track signal by default, rather than leaving it to consumers to activate the signal.
The working group also faces resistance from consumer advocates who contend that the latest proposal does little to assure Web users that their browsing history will not be collected and retained for indefinite periods of time. ''We think Do Not Track should mean 'You can't collect information on users and you can't retain information,' '' said Dan Auerbach, a staff technologist at the Electronic Frontier Foundation.
The current draft, which is the basis of current negotiations, provides that companies should avoid ''unique identifiers for users or devices if alternative solutions are reasonably available.'' That, critics say, is far too vague.
''On substance, with a great deal of additional work issue-by-issue, it is not impossible to make this draft work, perhaps in 2014,'' Aleecia McDonald, director of privacy at the Stanford University Center for Internet and Society, said on the working group's comment page.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Peter Swire, a chairman of the Tracking Protection Working Group, which has worked for almost two years to reach a deal. (PHOTOGRAPH BY ANDREW SPEAR FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: INTERNET & WWW (91%); MARKET DEMOGRAPHICS (90%); POLLS & SURVEYS (90%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING (89%); ONLINE MARKETING & ADVERTISING (79%); INTERACTIVE MARKETING & ADVERTISING (79%); ONLINE ADVERTISING (79%); MARKET RESEARCH FIRMS (78%); INFORMATION SECURITY & PRIVACY (76%); CONSUMER LAW (72%); BEHAVIOR & COGNITION (72%); CONSUMER PROTECTION (72%); WEB DEVELOPMENT (68%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (52%)

COMPANY: INTEL CORP (68%); FORRESTER RESEARCH INC (54%)

ORGANIZATION: OHIO STATE UNIVERSITY (55%)

TICKER: INTC (NASDAQ) (68%); FORR (NASDAQ) (54%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS334413 SEMICONDUCTOR & RELATED DEVICE MANUFACTURING (68%); NAICS541910 MARKETING RESEARCH & PUBLIC OPINION POLLING (54%); SIC8732 COMMERCIAL ECONOMIC, SOCIOLOGICAL, & EDUCATIONAL RESEARCH (54%)

GEOGRAPHIC: OHIO, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: July 16, 2013



458 of 937 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 16, 2013
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; EDITORIAL; Pg. 22

LENGTH: 441 words

HEADLINE: Powering Africa

BYLINE: By THE EDITORIAL BOARD

 BODY:
President Obama's ''Power Africa'' initiative, unveiled during his recent trip there, has the potential to make a major impact on a continent where millions of people -- including more than two-thirds of those in the sub-Saharan region -- live every day without reliable access to affordable electricity. But the outcome depends heavily on how the plan is designed and carried out and whether it is sustained. 
In raw numbers, Mr. Obama's pledge to invest $7 billion over the next five years in eight countries is modest. The International Energy Agency estimates it would cost $300 billion to achieve universal electricity access in the sub-Saharan region by 2030.
Still, the initiative holds promise because it provides a vehicle for leveraging private sector investment and, significantly, anchors the United States firmly in the kind of trade and investment relationship that increasingly will help determine Africa's future. The White House says that companies have already committed to more than $9 billion in projects. In Ethiopia, Ghana, Kenya, Liberia, Nigeria and Tanzania, the focus will be on electricity; in Uganda and Mozambique, it will be on gas and oil development.
For too long, the international response to poverty, war, famine and dictatorial leaders in Africa has consisted largely of humanitarian aid. Today, there are still many problems, but they are increasingly offset by positive trends; six of the world's 10 fastest-growing economies are in Africa. In recent years, China has spent so much on African infrastructure projects and natural resources that it has surpassed the United States as the continent's main trading partner. America has a lot of catching up to do and ignores these markets, with their growing middle classes, at its peril.
The initiative has been enthusiastically endorsed by Tony Elumelu, a Nigerian whose Heirs Holdings has pledged $2.5 billion to expand a power plant in Nigeria and develop other projects. In an essay, he called power the ''single biggest obstacle'' to Africa's development.
Before his trip, Mr. Obama was faulted for not showing enough interest in the continent where his father, a Kenyan, was born. But his administration was central to the independence of South Sudan and has invested heavily in improving Africa's agriculture production through the program.
Still, he has been overshadowed by two predecessors who left a lasting imprint with signature programs, George W. Bush on H.I.V. and Bill Clinton on health care and reduced trade barriers. Having now raised expectations that he intends to make a difference with ''Power Africa,'' it is vital for Mr. Obama to follow through.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Editorial

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); US PRESIDENTS (79%); NATURAL RESOURCES (78%); ELECTRIC POWER PLANTS (78%); FAMINE (78%); UTILITIES INDUSTRY (76%); OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (75%); POWER PLANTS (73%); AGRICULTURAL TRADE (73%); HOLDING COMPANIES (72%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (70%); POVERTY & HOMELESSNESS (66%); TRENDS (65%); INFRASTRUCTURE (52%); AGRICULTURE (50%)

ORGANIZATION: INTERNATIONAL ENERGY AGENCY (57%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (89%); GEORGE W BUSH (59%); BILL CLINTON (59%)

GEOGRAPHIC: AFRICA (99%); UNITED STATES (93%); NIGERIA (93%); KENYA (92%); SUDAN (79%); GHANA (79%); TANZANIA, UNITED REPUBLIC OF (79%); UGANDA (79%); MOZAMBIQUE (79%); LIBERIA (79%); ETHIOPIA (79%)

LOAD-DATE: July 16, 2013



459 of 937 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 16, 2013
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 16

LENGTH: 1065 words

HEADLINE: Citi Field's Neighbors to Protest Evictions Before All-Star Game

BYLINE: By CHARLES V. BAGLI

 BODY:
The All-Star Game on Tuesday is a moment for both New York City and the Mets to show off a new ballpark that was to anchor a larger redevelopment of a long-neglected corner of Queens.
But just over Citi Field's right field wall, the stadium casts a dark shadow over the most visible sign of unfinished business, a ramshackle 62-acre district of junkyards and auto repair shops strung along broken, dusty streets that are often under water when it rains.
As baseball fans from across the country arrive for the opening pitch, a group of business owners plans to protest across the street the eviction notices they received this week, the most serious threat to their livelihoods to emerge in the decade-long battle over the future of the area. 
''We want people to hear our voice during the All-Star Game,'' said Jamie Ramirez, the owner of a cramped, three-bay muffler shop. ''They built a beautiful stadium there. But it's not fair what they're doing to us.''
The long-planned redevelopment of Willets Point, which many residents regard as an eyesore, has been one of the Bloomberg administration's signature projects. But it has been slowed by lack of interest from developers, environmental concerns and protests from those like Mr. Ramirez and others who say they paid taxes for years only to see the city ignore the neighborhood's problems.
Last year, the city suddenly revised the four-year-old plan for Willets Point. It selected a joint venture of the Related Companies and the owners of the Mets -- Fred Wilpon and Saul B. Katz -- to clean toxic substances from a portion of the land and to build a hotel and some shops on 126th Street and a giant retail and entertainment mall on the other side of the stadium.
Some community and church groups that once supported the project now feel betrayed by Mayor Michael R. Bloomberg, contending that the project is designed to benefit the Mets' owners and Related more than the surrounding immigrant communities.
Msgr. Thomas Healy, pastor of Our Lady of Sorrows, a thriving church near the stadium, complained that the 1,900 units of affordable housing that were once the centerpiece of the proposed redevelopment are now an afterthought. Many of his Mexican, Ecuadorean and Dominican parishioners are living, he said, in overcrowded and substandard apartments.
''Bloomberg promised that the big thing in the project would be housing,'' Monsignor Healy said. ''Now it's a grandiose mall, and in 20 years, maybe, we'll get some housing. He doesn't care about the poor.''
Despite the criticisms, the local community narrowly approved the revisions to the project plan, and the Bloomberg administration hopes to get formal approval from the City Council by the end of the year. Opponents, including NYC Park Advocates, plan to file a lawsuit challenging the city's decision to give the developers 30 acres of parkland to build the mall.
The Bloomberg administration said the plans needed to be adjusted to meet market demand, with a spokesman calling the most recent incarnation ''the only way forward.''
Nicholas Kelly, the spokesman for the city's Economic Development Corporation, described the plan as ''an unprecedented effort by the city to remedy decades of environmental damage and create a new mixed-income, mixed-use neighborhood in the process.''
In 2007, Mr. Bloomberg announced plans for New York's ''next great neighborhood,'' a $3 billion development at Willets Point, with 5,500 apartments, a convention center and office space.
Many property owners opposed it, fearing that the city would condemn their land. But the Council approved the project in 2008 after officials agreed with demands from the community that 1,900 units -- 35 percent of the total -- would be set aside for low-income tenants. The city also promised to negotiate with local property owners, many of whom had complained about the lack of sidewalks and sewers in the area for years, and not resort to eminent domain.
The administration subsequently solicited proposals from developers. But over time it became clear, city officials and real estate executives said, that not one developer could or would meet the city's original requirements.
A year ago, the city announced that it had selected Sterling Equities, a real estate company owned by Mr. Wilpon and Mr. Katz, and Related, and abruptly changed the redevelopment plan and broke it into phases.
The project acquired a new feature, a specialty of Related's: a 1.4-million-square-foot mall and garage to go on a parking lot on the west side of the stadium. The developer would also build retail shops along 126th Street, opposite the east side of the stadium, as well as a 200-room hotel. But the housing was pushed into the future.
At a recent public hearing, David Quart, senior vice president for development at the Economic Development Corporation, said the moves were necessary to attract people to Willets Point. Right now, Mr. Quart said, ''there's no there, there.''
First, however, the developer would be required to remediate a 23-acre portion of Willets Point. The plans for affordable housing -- now 2,500 units, 875 affordable -- have been pushed back until after 2025. But housing advocates fear it may never get built.
Despite the substantial changes, the city insisted that the project did not require a new environmental review, merely a few amendments, which are now going through the city's approval process. Willets Point, like the rezoning of Midtown and a proposal for a professional soccer stadium on parkland near Willets Point, is on the mayor's list of legacy projects that the administration expects to approve before he leaves office in December.
So far, the city has acquired 95 percent of the initial 23 acres, and it plans to invest $400 million in the project, including a $100 million capital grant for the developers, as well as a series of tax breaks.
Marco Neira, the owner of a restaurant in Willets Point and president of the Willets Point Defense Committee, said he expected nearly 100 business owners, workers and housing advocates to attend a protest at Citi Field on Tuesday afternoon before the start of the All-Star Game.
''We suffered all these years with the broken roads, no sidewalks, no sewers,'' Mr. Neira said. ''But we paid taxes to New York City. Now the tenants have to leave by August. But if they don't have a place to relocate everybody, where are we going to live?''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Above, William Garcia at Blas Auto Glass on 37th Avenue in Willets Point, Queens. At left, Jamie Ramirez, the owner of Discount Muffler, one of the shops being evicted in order to redevelop the neglected area. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY BRIAN HARKIN FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES
 JABIN BOTSFORD/THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: STADIUMS & ARENAS (92%); EVICTION (90%); BASEBALL (90%); SPORTS & RECREATION FACILITIES & VENUES (90%); AUTOMOTIVE EXHAUST REPAIR SHOPS (76%); LOW COST HOUSING SCHEMES (75%); SPORTS FANS (73%); AUTOMOTIVE REPAIR & MAINTENANCE SHOPS (71%); HOUSING ASSISTANCE (70%); RELIGION (66%); LODGING CONSTRUCTION (65%); APPROVALS (64%); TOXIC & HAZARDOUS SUBSTANCES (51%)

COMPANY: CITIGROUP INC (84%)

ORGANIZATION: NEW YORK METS (84%)

TICKER: C (NYSE) (84%); C (BMV) (84%); 8710 (TSE) (84%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (84%); NAICS522210 CREDIT CARD ISSUING (84%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (84%)

PERSON: MICHAEL BLOOMBERG (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%) NEW YORK, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: July 16, 2013



460 of 937 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 16, 2013
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 297 words

HEADLINE: June Retail Sales Increased, but Not as Much as Expected

BYLINE: By REUTERS

 BODY:
WASHINGTON -- Retail sales rose less than expected in June, the latest sign of a slowdown in economic growth that offers a cautionary note to the Federal Reserve as it considers scaling back its monetary stimulus. 
A separate report on Monday, however, showed factory activity in New York State accelerating in July, bolstering the view of economists that growth was likely to pick up soon.
Many economists now think the nation's gross domestic product expanded at no more than an annual rate of 1 percent in the second quarter, but employment growth has been solid and Wall Street still expects the Fed will soon trim the $85 billion in Treasury and mortgage securities that the central bank is purchasing each month.
''The disappointing retail sales report underscores the soft end to the first half,'' said Millan Mulraine, senior economist at TD Securities. Retail sales increased 0.4 percent in June, the Commerce Department reported, lifted by demand for automobiles and higher gasoline prices. But sales of building materials fell by the most in a year, a potentially worrying signal from the housing market. Economists had forecast a 0.8 percent increase in June.
A second report from the Commerce Department showed businesses were carefully managing their stocks to avoid an unwanted supply of goods in the face of lackluster demand. Business inventories rose 0.1 percent in May after a 0.2 percent gain in April.
But there are hopeful signs for the factory sector. The Federal Reserve Bank of New York's Empire State general business conditions index rose to 9.46 this month from 7.84 in June. A reading above zero indicates expansion in New York's factory activity. The survey's measure of new orders rebounded into positive territory, while two employment gauges also improved.

GRAPHIC: CHARTS: Retail Sales: Total retail and food services sales, seasonally adjusted. (Source: Commerce Department)
 Inventory-Sales Ratio: Total month-end business inventories divided by total monthly business sales, seasonally adjusted. (Source: Commerce Department) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: RETAIL SALES (92%); RETAIL SECTOR PERFORMANCE (92%); SALES FIGURES (91%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (90%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (90%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (90%); CENTRAL BANKS (89%); MANUFACTURING SECTOR PERFORMANCE (89%); ECONOMIC SURVEYS (78%); GROSS DOMESTIC PRODUCT (78%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (78%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (78%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (78%); EMPLOYMENT RATES (78%); NEW ORDERS (78%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (78%); BUSINESS CLIMATE & CONDITIONS (78%); INVENTORIES (78%); REAL ESTATE (78%); COMMERCE DEPARTMENTS (78%); FACTORY ORDERS (77%); HOUSING MARKET (73%); OIL & GAS PRICES (72%); MANUFACTURING FACILITIES (72%); MORTGAGE BACKED SECURITIES (69%); MORTGAGE INVESTMENTS (69%); GASOLINE MARKETS (67%); CONSTRUCTION MATERIALS & COMPONENTS (67%); BUSINESS CONDITIONS INDEX (64%); GASOLINE PRICES (52%)

COMPANY: FEDERAL RESERVE BANK OF NEW YORK (83%)

ORGANIZATION: US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (93%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS521110 MONETARY AUTHORITIES - CENTRAL BANK (83%); SIC6011 FEDERAL RESERVE BANKS (83%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: July 17, 2013



461 of 937 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 16, 2013
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; DEALBOOK; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1397 words

HEADLINE: Arsenal of Legal Firepower Masses Around Tourre Trial

BYLINE: By BEN PROTESS, SUSANNE CRAIG and MICHAEL J. DE LA MERCED

 BODY:
When Wall Street lawyers gathered at a conference in Orlando, Fla., during the 2008 financial crisis, one law firm posted an outsize picture of Sean Coffey's head on the body of a wrestler, labeling him Public Enemy No. 1.
Five years later, Mr. Coffey's role is reversed. Once famous for suing Wall Street -- Mr. Coffey extracted $6.2 billion from big banks in the wake of WorldCom's collapse -- he is now defending a former Goldman Sachs trader, Fabrice Tourre, in one of the biggest actions stemming from the financial crisis.
The Securities and Exchange Commission's civil case against Mr. Tourre went to trial on Monday in a federal courthouse in Lower Manhattan, putting a spotlight on Mr. Coffey and a tightknit network of other legal players, many of whom are playing unusual roles in the case. 
Mr. Coffey's co-counsel is Pamela Chepiga, a former federal prosecutor who once played basketball with another diminutive lawyer, Mary Jo White, the chairwoman of the S.E.C. The defense team is facing off against the head of the S.E.C.'s trial unit, Matthew T. Martens, who typically supervises cases, but has never before led a jury trial at the S.E.C. (He is a friend of Mr. Coffey's from private practice, though Mr. Martens temporarily unfriended Mr. Coffey on Facebook as a precautionary measure during the trial.) Rounding out the roster, the two sides will argue before Judge Katherine B. Forrest, a longtime corporate lawyer and relative newcomer to the bench who will face her biggest securities trial yet.
The convergence of such prominent lawyers exemplifies the insular world of the securities bar -- and the revolving door its members often pass through on their way back and forth between government and private practice. It also underscores the importance of a trial in which Mr. Tourre is fighting a possible ban from the securities industry, and the S.E.C. is seeking a defining victory in its uneven campaign to punish those at the center of the crisis.
In the Goldman case, the S.E.C. accused Mr. Tourre of misleading investors about a mortgage security that ultimately failed. Mr. Tourre, the agency says, sold what is known as a synthetic collateralized debt obligation, a deal linked to the performance of mortgage-backed bonds, while omitting a crucial fact: a hedge fund helped pick the bonds and then bet against them. Goldman chose to settle the case, paying a $550 million penalty without admitting or denying guilt.
On Monday, Ms. Chepiga explained to the nine-person jury that synthetic C.D.O.'s are structured such that someone needs to bet against the deals. One investor bets the bonds will fail; another bets they will pay out, creating what she called a ''zero-sum game.''
Still, the case will test the lawyers' ability to translate such sophisticated concepts -- C.D.O.'s and mortgage bonds, to say nothing of hedge fund strategy -- to a jury that includes a minister, a retiree and a graphic designer who likes to watch Fox 5 News.
''You guys are going to have a hard time making this case non-mumbo jumbo,'' Judge Forrest told the lawyers at a hearing last week. Mr. Coffey later joked: ''I couldn't spell C.D.O. a few months ago.''
Mr. Coffey's partner on the case, Ms. Chepiga, found her way into securities law as a young federal prosecutor working for Jed S. Rakoff, now one of New York's best-known federal judges. While Ms. Chepiga has handled mostly securities cases at the Allen & Overy firm, she also helped lead a team in 2004 that sued the government on behalf of 15 detainees from Yemen held on suspicion of terrorism at Guantánamo Bay.
In the Goldman case, Ms. Chepiga has represented Mr. Tourre since the S.E.C. filed its suit in 2010. And on Monday -- which also happens to be both her and Mr. Coffey's birthday, 64 for her and 57 for him -- she delivered opening arguments in the case.
Mr. Coffey's career has also included turns as a federal prosecutor and a defense lawyer. But unlike other securities lawyers, he is a retired naval officer who tracked Soviet submarines during the cold war and served as a personal military assistant to then-Vice President George H. W. Bush. He also defended a death-row inmate in one of the first cases involving DNA evidence.
But it was as a plaintiff's lawyer at Bernstein Litowitz Berger & Grossmann where Mr. Coffey became an enemy of Wall Street. Tom Ajamie, a securities lawyer who attended the seminar in Orlando, said the message was clear: ''Here is the guy you need to attack.''
The WorldCom case, possibly Mr. Coffey's biggest success at Bernstein, led him to Ms. Chepiga. While he was suing WorldCom's banks and directors, she represented some of the directors.
Mr. Coffey left Bernstein in 2009 and began what turned out to be an unsuccessful bid for New York attorney general.
He went on to create BlackRobe Capital Partners, which helped finance litigation against big corporations, but he closed the company recently before joining Mr. Tourre's legal team. One of his partners at BlackRobe was Ms. Chepiga's husband, Michael J. Chepiga.
While Mr. Coffey is also friends with Mr. Martens from their days at the corporate law firm Latham & Watkins, the similarities appear to stop there. Mr. Coffey is a liberal Democrat. Mr. Martens, after graduating first in his class from the University of North Carolina School of Law, was a law clerk to William H. Rehnquist, the conservative former chief justice of the Supreme Court.
After Latham, Mr. Martens joined the Justice Department as an aide to Assistant Attorney General Michael Chertoff. He later became a federal prosecutor in North Carolina, specializing in white-collar fraud.
While Mr. Martens, 41, has tried 20 cases in his career, Mr. Tourre's case will be his first jury trial at the S.E.C., reflecting its importance to the agency. He did, however, represent the S.E.C. in court for its settlement with Citigroup, another C.D.O. case that was among the agency's most complex.
''He's really good at explaining things in plain English,'' Mr. Chertoff recalled.
Colleagues at the agency described Mr. Martens as serious -- he rarely smiles, they say -- but also ''brilliant.''
At times, S.E.C. investigators have complained that Mr. Martens's team is too timid. The team has argued against filing cases that the agency spent years building, according to officials who spoke on the condition that they not be named.
Yet the level of caution has impressed some S.E.C. veterans who argue that the agency should pursue appropriate outcomes, not headlines. The agency also notes that, under Mr. Martens, its Washington office has expanded its docket of actively litigated cases to 90, up from 60 when Mr. Martens started in 2010.
As Mr. Tourre's trial begins, Mr. Martens's unit is in transition. In recent town halls, officials say, the agency has discussed assigning a group of litigators to each team of S.E.C. investigators, an idea aimed at generating more cooperation at the agency.
Mr. Martens is also facing a change himself. Mr. Tourre's trial is seen as one of his final acts for the agency, officials say, as he considers joining a law firm, with Latham and WilmerHale among the possibilities.
The trial will also prove one of the biggest cases yet for Judge Forrest. A former corporate lawyer who served in the Justice Department's antitrust division, she joined the bench in fall 2011. In perhaps her most prominent ruling, she moved to permanently block the federal government from employing a legal provision allowing for the military detention of people deemed to have provided support to the likes of Al Qaeda or the Taliban.
Ms. Forrest, 49, came from a difficult childhood -- her family was briefly homeless -- to attend Wesleyan University and then New York University's law school. She began her career at the law firm Cravath, Swaine & Moore, focusing on antitrust and litigation, but also handling pro bono matters like First Amendment cases.
Friends and former colleagues described Ms. Forrest -- known as Kitty to close acquaintances -- as decisive.
''To my mind, she has the perfect judicial temperament,'' said C. Allen Parker, the presiding partner of Cravath.
On Monday, Judge Forrest urged the legal teams to ''have a heart'' when explaining ''gibberish'' like C.D.O.'s to the jury. ''Do not assume people know what an investment bank does.''
This is a more complete version of the story than the one that appeared in print.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Sean Coffey, above, is representing Fabrice Tourre against the S.E.C. (PHOTOGRAPH BY MARCUS YAM/THE NEW YORK TIMES) (B1)
 Judge Katherine Forrest will preside over the case in Federal District Court. Matthew T. Martens will lead the S.E.C. case. (B5) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LAWYERS (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (90%); BUSINESS FINANCIAL TROUBLE (89%); JURY TRIALS (89%); BONDS (89%); BANKING & FINANCE AGENCIES (78%); CORPORATE DEBT (78%); SETTLEMENTS & DECISIONS (77%); MORTGAGE BACKED SECURITIES (75%); MORTGAGE INVESTMENTS (75%); INTERNET SOCIAL NETWORKING (73%); BASKETBALL (73%); SUITS & CLAIMS (73%); JUDGES (73%); SETTLEMENT & COMPROMISE (73%); COLLATERALIZED DEBT OBLIGATIONS (65%); HEDGE FUNDS (50%)

COMPANY: GOLDMAN SACHS GROUP INC (90%); VERIZON COMMUNICATIONS INC (57%); FACEBOOK INC (54%)

ORGANIZATION: SECURITIES & EXCHANGE COMMISSION (92%)

TICKER: GS (NYSE) (90%); VZC (LSE) (57%); VZ (NYSE) (57%); FB (NASDAQ) (54%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (90%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (90%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (90%); SIC6289 SERVICES ALLIED WITH THE EXCHANGE OF SECURITIES OR COMMODITIES, NEC (90%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (90%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (90%); NAICS517210 WIRELESS TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (EXCEPT SATELLITE) (57%); NAICS517110 WIRED TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (57%); NAICS519130 INTERNET PUBLISHING & BROADCASTING & WEB SEARCH PORTALS (54%)

PERSON: FABRICE P TOURRE (90%); MARY JO WHITE (72%)

GEOGRAPHIC: ORLANDO, FLORIDA, USA (90%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%) FLORIDA, USA (91%); NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (91%)

LOAD-DATE: July 18, 2013



462 of 937 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 16, 2013
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; DEALBOOK; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 1095 words

HEADLINE: Growth in Emerging Markets Lifts Citigroup Profit by 42%, Topping Expectations

BYLINE: By JESSICA SILVER-GREENBERG

 BODY:
8:37 p.m. | Updated
Capitalizing on its emerging market business -- a welcome antidote to the lackluster United States economy -- Citigroup handily beat expectations on Monday as net income surged 42 percent in the second quarter.
The nation's largest banks are bedeviled by a challenging trifecta -- sluggish demand for loans, a stagnant American economy and a raft of financial regulations that have eroded profits. Thanks to its international securities business, though, Citigroup was able to sidestep much of the pain from a challenging consumer banking landscape. 
Citigroup, the nation's third-largest bank by assets, reported a profit of $4.18 billion, or $1.34 a share, compared with $2.95 billion, or 95 cents a share, in the period a year earlier. Revenue rose 11 percent, to $20.48 billion.
Excluding a $477 million gain from a valuation adjustment on Citigroup's debt, the bank reported earnings of $1.25 a share. The performance exceeded analysts' profit expectations of $3.55 billion, or $1.19 a share, on revenue of $19.76 billion.
''Our businesses performed well during the quarter and these results are well balanced through our products and geographies, especially in the emerging markets, where growth is being challenged,'' Michael L. Corbat, the chief executive of Citigroup, said in a statement on Monday.
Under Mr. Corbat's leadership, the sprawling bank has hitched its hopes for growth to emerging markets, especially in Asia and Latin America. Citigroup is working to whittle down extraneous businesses that do not conform with its global operations, where its securities and lending operations dwarf those of many of its United States rivals. As part of that push, the bank has shed $18 billion worth of assets. Citigroup also sold the remainder of its stake in the Morgan Stanley Smith Barney brokerage joint venture. So far, the strategy is working well.
The bank's international business is a ''distinct positive,'' Tom Lewandowski, a financial services analyst with Edward Jones, said.
More than 50 percent of Citigroup's revenue comes from outside of North America. Despite simmering concerns about less-than-stellar economic growth in emerging markets, profit within Citigroup's international consumer banking business grew by 4 percent, to $826 million. Revenue in those units swelled by 5 percent, to $4.7 billion.
Even at its more tepid, growth in emerging markets has exceeded that in the United States. In Mexico, for example, economic growth was not as robust as expected, Citigroup said. ''Mexico shocked everyone,'' John C. Gerspach, the bank's chief financial officer, said in a conference call on Monday. And while a slowdown in China, which reported a slump in second-quarter gross domestic product on Monday, could spread to other Asian economies, Citigroup's business has not been hit yet.
In fact, Citigroup reported gains across its emerging markets business, especially in its securities business. In Asia, demand for credit grew, nudging the volume of loans up 10 percent for the quarter. Mr. Gerspach said that the bank ''did a very good job of managing our business in the emerging market this quarter.''
Still, Citigroup's emerging markets business does not entirely inoculate the bank from broader challenges facing the United States industry. On Friday, JPMorgan Chase and Wells Fargo reported declines in mortgage banking revenue, eroded in part by a lull in mortgage refinancing. A sharp uptick in interest rates has caused the refinancing boom to sputter.
And continually rising rates could reduce borrowers' appetite for refinancing existing mortgages or buying a house. Within Citigroup's consumer banking unit, profit fell slightly by 1 percent, to $1.95 billion. As fewer consumers fell behind on their bills, Citigroup was able to empty some of the reserves -- approximately $228 million -- for the losses. While it received a boost from that improvement in credit quality, Citigroup is still grappling, like many of its large peers, with skittish American consumers who remain skeptical of taking on new debt.
The wariness was clear in Citigroup's American lending operations. ''The U.S. consumer is still going through a period of deleveraging,'' Mr. Gerspach said.
Adding to the uncertainty in the United States are new capital rules introduced by regulators last week. Since the financial crisis of 2008, regulators have been steadily introducing new requirements aimed at bolstering capital levels that could help Wall Street withstand market turbulence.
Under the new rules, called the so-called leverage ratio, regulators are pushing for banks to hold more capital as a percentage of their assets. Banks have two months to comment on the rules. Mr. Gerspach cautioned that the requirements could undercut the bank's ability to compete with its international rivals. Already, the leverage ratio for Citigroup's holding company was around 4.9 percent, hovering just below the 5 percent requirement that will go into effect by 2018.
''We would all be better if there was a level playing field around the world,'' he said.
A bright spot for Citigroup was its securities and investment banking business, as revenue surged by 25 percent, to $6.8 billion. Within fixed income, revenue swelled by 18 percent, to $3.37 billion. Revenue from stock trading rose 68 percent, to $942 million. Revenue from underwriting and advisory business was up by 21 percent, as well.
Investors are closely watching the bank's quarterly reports during the first year under the leadership of Mr. Corbat, who took the reins in October after the ouster of Vikram S. Pandit. Michael E. O'Neill, the bank's forceful chairman, pushed Mr. Pandit out in favor of his handpicked successor, Mr. Corbat.
Building on the path outlined by Mr. Pandit, Mr. Corbat has promised to continue cutting costs. Toward that goal, Citigroup reduced assets in its Citi Holdings unit by 31 percent in the second quarter, to $131 billion. In an encouraging sign for Citigroup, losses within the unit that houses a morass of soured assets fell to $570 million, from $910 million in the period a year earlier. Losses were lowest since Citigroup created the unit in 2009, after the financial crisis.
Even as Mr. Corbat has aggressively moved to reduce the bank's costs, operating expenses rose 1 percent, to $12.1 billion. As one of his first initiatives after taking over as chief executive, Mr. Corbat announced plans to eliminate 11,000 jobs.
Shares of Citigroup rose $1, or 2 percent, to $51.81.
This is a more complete version of the story than the one that appeared in print.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Citigroup's headquarters in Manhattan. The bank's executives have been working to cut costs, including eliminating 11,000 jobs. (PHOTOGRAPH BY MARIO TAMA/GETTY IMAGES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: EMERGING MARKETS (91%); COMPANY EARNINGS (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); COMMERCIAL BANKING (90%); FINANCIAL RESULTS (90%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (89%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (89%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (78%); GROSS DOMESTIC PRODUCT (78%); RETAIL BANKING (77%); BANKING & FINANCE SECTOR PERFORMANCE (77%); FOREIGN INVESTMENT (76%); MULTINATIONAL CORPORATIONS (76%); EXECUTIVES (70%); CONFERENCE CALLS (50%)

COMPANY: CITIGROUP INC (92%); MORGAN STANLEY (57%); SMITH BARNEY HOLDINGS INC (53%)

TICKER: C (NYSE) (92%); C (BMV) (92%); 8710 (TSE) (92%); MS (NYSE) (57%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (92%); NAICS522210 CREDIT CARD ISSUING (92%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (92%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (57%)

PERSON: MICHAEL L CORBAT (79%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%) NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (95%); ASIA (92%); MEXICO (92%); CHINA (79%); NORTH AMERICA (79%); LATIN AMERICA (79%)

LOAD-DATE: July 16, 2013



463 of 937 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(Economix)

PUB-DATE: July 16, 2013

SECTION: BUSINESS; economy

LENGTH: 1085 words

HEADLINE: Inflationphobia, Part II

BYLINE: BRUCE BARTLETT


HIGHLIGHT: Rather than seeing inflation as a way to fight economic stagnation, inflationphobes always fear it will lead to something worse, an economist writes. 

 BODY:
Bruce Bartlett held senior policy roles in the Reagan and George H.W. Bush administrations and served on the staffs of Representatives Jack Kemp and Ron Paul. He is the author of the forthcoming book "The Benefit and the Burden: Tax Reform - Why We Need It and What It Will Take."
Last week, I discussed the phenomenon of inflationphobia - an irrational fear of inflation that is constraining the Federal Reserve and holding back the economy. The roots of inflationphobia go back at least to the Great Depression, when inflationphobes made the same arguments year after year despite continuing deflation - a falling price level. 
The defining characteristic of the Great Depression was deflation, which began in 1927, two years before the stock market crash. The following data from the Bureau of Labor Statistics show the average change in the Consumer Price Index.
Between 1926 and 1933, the price level fell about 25 percent. This meant that any obligation fixed in dollars increased 25 percent in real terms. This was particularly important in two areas - wages and debts. If a worker managed to keep the same monetary wage between 1926 and 1933, she actually got an increase in pay of 25 percent in terms of what she could buy because the prices of things she consumed fell 25 percent.

Similarly, if one had a debt in 1926, the real burden of that debt and the debt service increased 25 percent between 1926 and 1933. This was especially important for farmers because the prices of agricultural produce fell very rapidly and the burden of their debts increased just as rapidly.
The great economist Irving Fisher thought that the increasing real burden of debt resulting from deflation was the core cause of the Great Depression.
Despite the falling price level year after year, there were inflationphobes even then, who saw signs of inflation, inevitably leading to German-style hyperinflation, everywhere. The leading inflationphobe was a writer named Henry Hazlitt. Although not trained as an economist, he had a strong interest in the subject and the rare skill to write about it clearly.
H.L. Mencken once said of Mr. Hazlitt that he was "one of the few economists in human history who could really write." From 1934 to 1946, he was an editorial writer for The New York Times, writing a vast number of editorials and signed articles, mainly on economic issues.
In 1932, Mr. Hazlitt was still writing for The Nation magazine, where he was a strenuous supporter of the gold standard and a fierce critic of John Maynard Keynes, whom he viewed as nothing but a crude inflationist. Mr. Hazlitt thought the cure for deflation was for all workers to slash their wages, which would lower business costs and restore growth. Debtors would simply repudiate their debts and renegotiate them.
No doubt if workers had been willing to slash their wages 25 percent, and banks and bondholders had been willing to slash their interest and principal 25 percent, this would have gone a long way toward alleviating the negative economic effects of deflation. But absent a law requiring it - which the libertarian Mr. Hazlitt would have opposed - this process could only take place slowly, painfully and unevenly.
By contrast, simply reflating the price level back to its 1926 level was relatively easy. The Federal Reserve just had to increase the money supply sufficiently. By the 1960s, even the arch-conservative Milton Friedman said this was what the Fed should have done.
But in the early 1930s, the idea of reflation was controversial, mainly because bondholders enjoyed getting back 25 percent more than they had lent in real terms. Why should they give that up? That is why one of the strongest supporters of the gold standard and opponents of reflation was Benjamin M. Anderson Jr., chief economist of the Chase National Bank.
Irving Fisher and other economists argued in favor of reflation, even being joined by Winston Churchill, who had lately been chancellor of the Exchequer in England. But the most outspoken advocate of reflation was Mr. Keynes, who was quoted in The Wall Street Journal on March 2, 1932, as saying, "It is unthinkable that we can step straight from the financial crisis to relief of the industrial crisis without the cheap money phase intervening." 
In 1933, Franklin D. Roosevelt became president and tried to stanch the deflation by suspending the gold standard and proposing legislation that would fix prices and prevent them from falling further. But these policies were ineffective because they did not get at the root of the problem, which was a fall in the money supply.
This resulted because there was no deposit insurance, so bank deposits literally disappeared when banks failed, and because the Fed refused to offset the resulting fall in the money supply through open-market monetary operations.
Mr. Fisher and some members of Congress kept pointing to the Fed, but to no avail. Responding to Republican attacks on reflation, Mr. Fisher said, there is "absolutely no escape from our present imminent danger except through reflation."
They were opposed by Mr. Anderson and the New York banker James P. Warburg, who demanded restoration of the gold standard. In 1934, Mr. Warburg published a book detailing his criticism of reflation that was favorably reviewed in The Times by Mr. Hazlitt.
In a June 10, 1934, article for The Times, Keynes explained that monetary stimulus by itself was insufficient to stop deflation and that the
price-fixing instituted by the National Industrial Recovery Act was counterproductive, if well intentioned. He said government spending was essential to get money moving throughout the economy and recommended an increase of $400 million per month - close to $100 billion per month in today's economy.
In an editorial probably written by Mr. Hazlitt, The Times rejected any resort to inflation no matter how much prices fell. "The one thing your inflationist cannot have too much of is inflation," the editorial said. "Give him one dose and he becomes much more emphatic in his demands for another."
In other words, it's always a slippery slope - a little inflation today invariably leads to hyperinflation tomorrow. If economic stagnation and high unemployment result, it's a small price to pay to avoid something worse, the inflationphobes always assert.
Next week I will have more to say about inflationphobia.

        
Inflationphobia, Part I
        
Yes, We Have No Inflation
        
Little Cause for Inflation Worries
        
The Gorilla and the Maginot Line
        
The Impact (if Any) of the Fed's Dual Mandate

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); GREAT DEPRESSION (90%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (90%); ECONOMIC DEPRESSION (90%); CENTRAL BANKS (90%); DEFLATION (90%); WRITERS (89%); WAGES & SALARIES (88%); BANKING & FINANCE (78%); CONSUMER PRICE INDEX (76%); STATISTICS (74%); LABOR SECTOR PERFORMANCE (74%); TAXES & TAXATION (72%); AGRICULTURAL PRICES (71%); BONDS (71%); STOCK MARKET CRASHES (70%); LABOR DEPARTMENTS (68%); TAX REFORM (57%) Federal Reserve System; Fisher, Irving (1867-1947); Inflation (Economics); Keynes, John Maynard; United States Economy; Today's Economist

ORGANIZATION: Federal Reserve System

PERSON: RON PAUL (73%); GEORGE H W BUSH (73%) Fisher, Irving (1867-1947); Keynes, John Maynard

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: July 16, 2013



464 of 937 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(City Room)

PUB-DATE: July 16, 2013

SECTION: NYREGION

LENGTH: 711 words

HEADLINE: New York Today: All-Star Evening

BYLINE: ANDY NEWMAN


HIGHLIGHT: What you need to know for Tuesday: more sweltering heat, mayoral polls and a palatial new home for the Bronx Zoo&#8217;s giant lizards. 

 BODY:
Updated, 12:23 p.m. | The All-Star Game will be played tonight at Citi Field, home of the Mets.
For baseball fans, this is a big deal. The Mets have not hosted the game since 1964. Their ace, Matt Harvey, will be the starting pitcher.
For the rest of New York, it means a parade of retired ballplayers and costumed mascots down 42nd Street that will set off a cascade of street closings. 
Next door to Citi Field in Queens, auto body-shop owners will protest their proposed eviction to make way for redevelopment.
Harvey may be a baseball celebrity. But when he asked New Yorkers what they thought about one Matt Harvey, the results were amusing. (Almost no one recognized him.)
It's all captured in a video that Jimmy Fallon showed Monday night.
Here's what else you need to know to start this steamy Tuesday.
 WEATHER 
The weather forecast, sadly, has not changed. It will be scorchingly hot, with a forecast high of 95, a degree hotter than Monday's high of 94. No relief in sight until Saturday. City cooling centers are open, and some pools in Nassau County are staying open till 8 p.m.
 TRANSIT & TRAFFIC 
 RoadsAlternate-side parking rules in effect.
 Mass Transit Click for the latest M.T.A. status. 
 COMING UP TODAY 
 On the campaign trail, Anthony D. Weiner unveils a plan to save mom-and-pop pharmacies. John A. Catsimatidis will speak at The Common Good's candidate series. Scott M. Stringer, trailing Eliot Spitzer by 15 points in a new poll, is live on MSNBC at noon.
 Jews and Muslims will join together at Beth Elohim, a synagogue in Park Slope, Brooklyn, to mark the observance of both Ramadan, the Muslim fasting holiday, and the end of Tisha B'Av, a Jewish fast day. 
 Van Holmes, who ran a Queens nonprofit group tied to former State Senator Shirley Huntley, will be arrested on charges that he stole $88,000 in government funds, The New York Post reports.
Metropolitan Opera stars will sing arias and duets at Central Park SummerStage, off Fifth Avenue and 72nd Street, at 8 p.m. [Free]
 The New York Philharmonic plays Van Cortlandt Park in the Bronx at 8 p.m. [Free]
 Find films, not cars, on the roof deck of Bronx Terminal Market's parking garage. At sunset, it's the first iteration of "Despicable Me." [Free] 
 Bars and restaurants along Stone Street in the Financial District are hosting a street party tonight to raise money for Self Help Africa, a nonprofit that works to improve the continent's agricultural economy.
 Brace yourself, it's hurricane season. Better yet, join volunteers packing disaster relief supplies this afternoon at the Food Bank for New York City, 355 Food Center Drive in the Bronx. 
 For more events, see The New York Times's Arts & Entertainment guide. 
 IN THE NEWS 
 A poll shows Anthony D. Weiner and Christine C. Quinn leading the pack among Democratic candidates for mayor. [New York Times]
 Two teenagers who stole a motorized wheelchair from a man with cerebral palsy and joy-rode it through Roslyn on Long Island had their day in court. [CBS2 New York]
 CUNY had planned to pay David Petraeus, the former C.I.A. director, $200,000 a year to be an adjunct professor. Now, after a backlash, he is going to earn $1. [New York Times]
 Thieves stole an entire ATM from a diner in Queens. It contained $9,000. [Daily News]
 An 89-year-old Staten Island woman's hurricane-damaged home had just been repaired. Then burglars broke in and set fire to it. [Staten Island Advance]
 Metta World Peace, the basketball player formerly known as Ron Artest, returns to the Knicks. [New York Times]
 After months of labor (by humans), Komodo dragons have a gorgeous new home at the Bronx Zoo. [New York Times]
 AND FINALLY... 
This week in New York rock history: in 1967, a very loud quartet from Long Island called Vanilla Fudge had the No. 70 hit with an oozing, plodding deconstruction of the Supremes' "You Keep Me Hanging On."
Makes a nice soundtrack for a turgid summer day.
 Michaelle Bond and Sarah Maslin Nir contributed reporting. 
 We're testing New York Today, which we put together just before dawn and update until noon. 
What information would you like to see here when you wake up to help you plan your day? Tell us in the comments, send suggestions to anewman@nytimes.com or tweet them at @nytmetro using #NYToday. Thanks! 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: BASEBALL (92%); SPORTS & RECREATION EVENTS (90%); STADIUMS & ARENAS (90%); PARKS & PLAYGROUNDS (89%); WEATHER (88%); URBAN TRANSIT SYSTEMS (87%); NONPROFIT ORGANIZATIONS (87%); JEWS & JUDAISM (86%); HOLIDAYS & OBSERVANCES (86%); JEWISH HOLIDAYS & OBSERVANCES (86%); SPORTS FANS (78%); ATHLETES (78%); CELEBRITIES (78%); RESTAURANTS (75%); EVICTION (73%); AGRICULTURAL OUTPUT (72%); FUNDRAISING (71%); NATURAL DISASTERS (71%); DISASTER RELIEF (71%); SMALL BUSINESS (70%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (70%); PARKING SPACES & FACILITIES (70%); MUSLIMS & ISLAM (68%); RAMADAN (68%); FOOD BANKS & SOUP KITCHENS (67%); SINGERS & MUSICIANS (66%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (66%); RELIGION (63%); OPERA (61%); ARRESTS (61%); FOOD CHARITIES (60%) New York Today

COMPANY: CITIGROUP INC (85%)

TICKER: C (NYSE) (85%); C (BMV) (85%); 8710 (TSE) (85%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (85%); NAICS522210 CREDIT CARD ISSUING (85%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (85%)

PERSON: JOHN CATSIMATIDIS (56%); ANTHONY D WEINER (56%); ELIOT SPITZER (56%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (95%) NEW YORK, USA (95%) UNITED STATES (95%)

LOAD-DATE: July 16, 2013



465 of 937 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(DealBook)

PUB-DATE: July 16, 2013

SECTION: BUSINESS

LENGTH: 944 words

HEADLINE: Goldman, After Profit Doubles, Expresses Caution on Global Growth

BYLINE: SUSANNE CRAIG


HIGHLIGHT: The bank posted net income of $1.93 billion, or $3.70 a share, well ahead of analysts&#8217; expectations. 

 BODY:
 6:24 p.m. | Updated 
The country's improving economy gave a nice lift to second-quarter earnings at Goldman Sachs.
The bank posted profit on Tuesday that was twice what it reported in the period a year earlier, fueled by strong trading and investment banking results as companies looked to Goldman to arrange mergers and acquisitions.
 Net income was $1.93 billion, or $3.70 a share, compared with $962 million, or $1.78 a share, in the period a year earlier. The performance beat analysts' expectations for $2.82 a share, according to Thomson Reuters. Still, the results were not enough to propel Goldman shares higher. They closed at $160.24, down $2.76, or 1.7 percent. Investors, wondering if Goldman would be able to repeat the performance in coming quarters, opted to take some profit off the table rather than stick around and find out. 
Goldman itself, while expressing optimism about the United States economy, was cautious about growth globally. Harvey Schwartz, Goldman's chief financial officer, said client activity improved during the quarter but was then damped a bit by "macro concerns" about countries like China.
"Ultimately our clients are assessing the broader global economy, specifically whether a recovering U.S. will offset potential slower growth in other economic regions," he told analysts during a conference call.
Goldman's results followed similar strong performances by JPMorgan Chase and Citigroup. Over all, Goldman's revenue in the quarter rose to $8.6 billion, from $6.6 billion in the period a year earlier.
On Wall Street, the last couple of months were dominated by a sudden and sharp rise in interest rates after the Federal Reserve indicated it might wind down its big bond purchase program, which has helped the economy recover from the financial crisis.
A rise in interest rates can both help and hurt banks, depending on the businesses they are in. As rates rise, fewer borrowers are likely to refinance or buy a house, and that reluctance can cut into banks' profit. Goldman, unlike its rival JPMorgan Chase, is not a big player in originating residential mortgages, but it does trade mortgages, and as rates increased, its revenue in this area fell. At the same time, the move by various central banks to raise rates ignited a flurry of currency trading, which helped Goldman and other banks.
On the analyst call, Mr. Schwartz, in response to a question, said investors needed to look into why rates were rising. If they are being driven by inflation, he said, that is more problematic than "returning to a normal world of more steady economic growth," as many investors believe. "That is what we are rooting for," he added.
The surge in interest rates was felt most acutely in Goldman's fixed-income, or bond, department. Net revenue in the unit was $2.46 billion, up 12 percent, reflecting what the company said was significant higher net revenue in currencies, credit products and commodities. Still, these increases were offset in part by significantly lower revenue in mortgages and interest-rate products.
The bank reduced the risk it was taking in products related to interest rates. The firm's so-called value-at-risk in rates declined to an average of $59 million in the second quarter from $83 million in the period a year earlier and $62 million in the first quarter. Value-at-risk is a yardstick of the amount of losses that could be experienced in one trading day.
The firm's annualized return on equity was 10.5 percent for the quarter, up from 5.4 percent in the period a year earlier. It was far below its performance in boom years like 2006, when its return on equity was 41.5 percent.
Revenue from investing and lending activities came in at $1.42 billion, up from just $203 million in the period a year earlier. The firm had a rather rocky second quarter in 2012, and its results in that quarter included a big loss on a significant investment in this unit.
Investment banking revenue rose 29 percent, to $1.6 billion, helped by significantly higher net revenue in debt and equity underwriting. Equity underwriting was a particular standout, jumping 55 percent, to $371 million. Debt underwriting rose 40 percent, to $695 million.
Goldman also disclosed that it had set aside $3.7 billion in the quarter for compensation, up 27 percent from the period a year earlier. The current accrual represents 43 percent of revenue, which is in line with other years. Banks like Goldman set aside compensation during the year but do not pay it out until they determine earnings for the full year.
Over the last year, Goldman has reduced its payroll to 31,700 employees, down 2 percent from the period a year earlier, as the firm continues to focus on cutting costs.
On the call, analysts also pressed Mr. Schwartz to disclose how close Goldman was to meeting leverage ratio requirements proposed recently by regulators - 5 percent for the big bank holding companies and 6 percent for insured deposit-taking subsidiaries. The leverage ratio calculates capital as a percentage of assets held as a buffer against losses when investments go bad.
"Our first assessment is we're very comfortable with where we are," Mr. Schwartz said. Not satisfied, a Morgan Stanley analyst, Betsy Graseck, took another run at the question. "What is your definition of comfortable?" she asked.
"Comfortable," Mr. Schwartz responded. "I'm not trying to be cute with you. Look, it's just come out. Our team has looked at it. Our early read is all of the things we've done on the balance sheet over the past several years have left us reasonably well positioned."

        
Goldman Appoints a New President in Asia
        
Executive Covets Goldman Seat Where a Friend Snugly Sits

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: COMPANY EARNINGS (91%); INTERIM FINANCIAL RESULTS (90%); BANKING & FINANCE SECTOR PERFORMANCE (90%); ECONOMIC RECOVERY (90%); INVESTMENT BANKING (90%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); BANKING & FINANCE (89%); MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (89%); BONDS (89%); INTEREST RATES (88%); EMERGING MARKETS (78%); COMPANY REVENUES (78%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (78%); CENTRAL BANKS (78%); REAL ESTATE (78%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (78%); MERGERS (77%); BUSINESS FORECASTS (75%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (73%); CURRENCIES (72%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (72%); MERGERS & ACQUISITIONS (71%); MORTGAGE LOANS (66%); CONFERENCE CALLS (65%); EXECUTIVES (52%) Banking and Financial Institutions; Blankfein, Lloyd C; Company Reports; Goldman Sachs Group Inc; Schwartz, Harvey; Goldman Sachs Group Inc|GS|NYSE; Financial Services; Investment Banking; Wall Street Earnings

COMPANY: GOLDMAN SACHS GROUP INC (91%); CITIGROUP INC (90%); JPMORGAN CHASE & CO (85%)

ORGANIZATION: Goldman Sachs Group Inc

TICKER: GS (NYSE) (91%); C (NYSE) (90%); C (BMV) (90%); 8710 (TSE) (90%); JPM (NYSE) (85%); JPM (LSE) (85%); 8634 (TSE) (85%) Goldman Sachs Group Inc; GS; NYSE

INDUSTRY: NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (91%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (91%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (91%); SIC6289 SERVICES ALLIED WITH THE EXCHANGE OF SECURITIES OR COMMODITIES, NEC (91%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (91%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (91%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (90%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (90%); NAICS522210 CREDIT CARD ISSUING (90%); NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (85%); NAICS523999 MISCELLANEOUS FINANCIAL INVESTMENT ACTIVITIES (85%); SIC6022 STATE COMMERCIAL BANKS (85%)

PERSON: LLOYD BLANKFEIN (72%) Blankfein, Lloyd C

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: July 17, 2013



466 of 937 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(DealBook)

PUB-DATE: July 16, 2013

SECTION: BUSINESS

LENGTH: 1859 words

HEADLINE: Morning Agenda: Strength at Goldman

BYLINE: WILLIAM ALDEN


HIGHLIGHT: Goldman Sachs&#8217;s second-quarter profit doubles. | The Fabrice Tourre trial puts a spotlight on a tightknit network of legal players. | A new report suggests big banks&#8217; high-minded words about ethics may largely be lip service. | Herbert M. Allison Jr., a former president of Merrill Lynch, dies at 69. 

 BODY:
Goldman Sachs posted second-quarter profit on Tuesday that was twice what the bank reported in the period a year earlier. The profit of $1.93 billion, or $3.70 a share, was well ahead of analysts' expectations of $2.83 a share, according to Thomson Reuters. Revenue rose to $8.6 billion from $6.6 billion in the year-ago period. "The firm's performance was solid, especially in the context of mixed economic sentiment during the quarter," Goldman's chairman and chief executive, Lloyd C. Blankfein, said in a statement. A conference call to discuss the results is being held at 9:30 a.m.
LEGAL FIREPOWER IN TOURRE TRIAL | The lawyer Sean Coffey was known five years ago as Wall Street's Public Enemy No. 1, having extracted billions from big banks in the wake of WorldCom's collapse. Today, his role is reversed. Mr. Coffey is defending a former Goldman Sachs trader, Fabrice Tourre, in a trial that puts a spotlight on a tightknit network of legal players, Ben Protess, Susanne Craig and Michael J. de la Merced report in DealBook. The Securities and Exchange Commission's civil case against Mr. Tourre went to trial on Monday in a federal courthouse in Lower Manhattan. 
DealBook writes: "Mr. Coffey's co-counsel is Pamela Chepiga, a former federal prosecutor who once played basketball with another diminutive lawyer, Mary Jo White, now the chairwoman of the S.E.C. The defense team is facing off against the head of the S.E.C.'s trial unit, Matthew T. Martens, who typically supervises cases but has never before led a jury trial at the S.E.C. (He is a friend of Mr. Coffey from private practice, though Mr. Martens temporarily unfriended Mr. Coffey on Facebook as a precautionary measure during the trial.) Rounding out the roster, the two sides will argue before Judge Katherine B. Forrest, a longtime corporate lawyer and relative newcomer to the bench who will face her biggest securities trial yet."
"The convergence of such prominent lawyers exemplifies the insular world of the securities bar - and the revolving door its members often pass through on their way back and forth between government and private practice. It also underscores the importance of a trial in which Mr. Tourre is fighting a possible ban from the securities industry, and the S.E.C. is seeking a defining victory in its uneven campaign to punish those at the center of the crisis."
Lawyers on both sides were asked to keep the legal and financial jargon to a minimum. "Mere mortals don't know what a trading desk is," the judge said. But as the trial opened, both sides dove into descriptions of residential mortgage-backed securities and credit-default swaps.
WALL STREET'S CULTURE OF GREED | A new report on Wall Street insiders about ethical conduct, to be released on Tuesday, suggests that big banks' high-minded words about ethics and integrity may largely be lip service, Andrew Ross Sorkin writes in the DealBook column. Of 250 industry insiders from dozens of financial companies who responded to questions, 23 percent said "they had observed or had firsthand knowledge of wrongdoing in the workplace." In addition, 24 percent said they would "engage in insider trading to make $10 million if they could get away with it."
Mr. Sorkin writes: "As we approach the fifth anniversary of the onset of the financial crisis this September, it appears memories are shorter than ever. If the report is accurate, the insidious culture of greed is back - or maybe it never left."
ON THE AGENDA | Johnson & Johnson and Coca-Cola report earnings on Tuesday morning. Yahoo reports earnings after the market closes. The Consumer Price Index for June is out at 8:30 a.m. Data on industrial production in June appears at 9:15 a.m. Mohamed El-Erian, chief executive of Pimco, is on CNBC at 8:30 a.m.
HERBERT ALLISON DIES AT 69 | 
Herbert M. Allison Jr., a former president of Merrill Lynch and chief executive of Fannie Mae who later ran the United States government's bank bailout program, died on Sunday at his home in Westport, Conn., The New York Times reports. He was 69. His son Andrew said the cause was possibly a heart attack.
"I would say that he was an independent and pragmatic thinker," Andrew Allison said. "He worked with people from different parts of the political spectrum because he was interested in first and foremost serving the nation and its interests." Mr. Allison, who served in a number of roles in the private and public sector and as a political appointee under both Presidents Obama and George W. Bush, began his financial services career at Merrill, working his way up during his 28 years there. While at Merrill, he helped coordinate the group of banks that bailed out the hedge fund Long-Term Capital Management in 1998.
 | Contact: @williamalden | E-mail
Sign up for the DealBook Newsletter, delivered every morning and afternoon.
Mergers & Acquisitions »
T. Rowe Price Reiterates Opposition to Dell Buyout | A major investor in Dell, T. Rowe Price, said ahead of a shareholder vote on Thursday that it believed "the proposed buyout does not reflect the value of Dell," Bloomberg News reports. BLOOMBERG NEWS
Baidu to Pay $1.9 Billion for Chinese App Store Operator | Baidu, China's largest search engine company, said on Tuesday that it had reached a preliminary deal to acquire 91 Wireless, a leading mobile app developer and app store operator in China. DealBook »
VMware Sells Zimbra Amid Shift in Strategy | VMware is selling Zimbra, a provider of corporate e-mail and collaboration software, to Telligent, which makes social software for businesses. DealBook »
AT&T's Defensive Play | AT&T's deal for Leap Wireless "may be more of a jab at T-Mobile than a boost to AT&T," The Wall Street Journal's Heard on the Street column writes. WALL STREET JOURNAL
Tokyo Exchange Completes Merger With Osaka Rival | 
BLOOMBERG NEWS
INVESTMENT BANKING »
Barclays Hires a JPMorgan Executive as Its Next C.F.O. | Tushar Morzaria, the chief financial officer of corporate and investment banking at JPMorgan Chase, will join Barclays in the autumn. DealBook »
Strauss-Kahn Re-emerges in Finance, in Russia | Dominique Strauss-Kahn, a former chief of the International Monetary Fund whose career unraveled in a series of sex scandals, was named a board member of a banking subsidiary of Rosneft. DealBook »
Growth in Emerging Markets Lifts Citigroup's Profit by 42%, Topping Expectations | Citigroup's earnings swelled 42 percent in the second quarter, handily beating expectations, as the sprawling bank worked to cut costs and expand its international lending operations. DealBook »
R.B.S. Said to Seek Buyer for Education Unit | The Royal Bank of Scotland "is studying the sale of a unit that manages 11 Australian schools, said a person with knowledge of the matter," Bloomberg News reports. BLOOMBERG NEWS
PRIVATE EQUITY »
Billabong Secures $364 Million in Financing | After failing to strike a takeover deal with private equity firms last month, the Australian surfing apparel company said on Tuesday that some of those same firms would help it arrange short-term financing to pay down debts and finance its working capital needs. DealBook »
First Data to Suspend 401(k) Contributions | The credit card processing company First Data, which is owned by the private equity firm K.K.R., plans to suspend 401(k) contributions for employees and replace cash bonuses with stock, The Wall Street Journal reports. The company, which is trying to return to profitability, recently hired the longtime JPMorgan executive Frank Bisignano to be chief executive. WALL STREET JOURNAL
Generali Said to Be Selling Private Equity Fund Stakes to Lexington | The holdings in the funds were valued at almost 500 million euros ($648 million), Bloomberg News reports. BLOOMBERG NEWS
HEDGE FUNDS »
Hong Kong Brings Civil Case Against Tiger Asia | The Financial Times reports: "Hong Kong's market regulator has abandoned the chance to pursue a criminal case against U.S.-based hedge fund Tiger Asia Management by launching formal civil proceedings on market abuse allegations from almost four years ago." FINANCIAL TIMES
I.P.O./OFFERINGS »
After Pork Deal, Plans for a Hong Kong I.P.O. | Reuters reports: "China's Shuanghui International Holdings, which has agreed to buy the U.S. pork producer Smithfield Foods Inc. for $4.7 billion, plans to list the combined company in Hong Kong after completing the takeover, people with knowledge of the matter told Reuters." REUTERS
Third Point Reinsurance Files for I.P.O. | Third Point Reinsurance, a reinsurer based in Bermuda that was founded by the hedge fund manager Daniel S. Loeb, has filed to go public. It plans to list its shares on the New York Stock Exchange under the ticker symbol TPRE. DealBook »
VENTURE CAPITAL »
Airbnb Said to Shift Strategy Abroad | The start-up Airbnb, which helps people rent out their rooms, "has recently slowed down hiring in its international operation, according to several people with direct knowledge of the matter," The Wall Street Journal reports. WALL STREET JOURNAL
LEGAL/REGULATORY »
China Says Glaxo Used Travel Firms for Bribery | Authorities in China said they had uncovered a conspiracy involving tens of millions of dollars, directed by senior executives at the British drug giant GlaxoSmithKline, The New York Times reports. NEW YORK TIMES
Insider Traders Should Be Ready to Do Hard Time | Two recent decisions by appeals courts have upheld the discretion of judges to mete out long sentences for insider trading, even if this was not the common practice in similar cases, Peter J. Henning writes in the White Collar Watch column. DealBook »
Public-Private Partnerships Could Be a Lifeline for Cities | Municipalities can gain much needed cash and operating efficiency by contracting with private equity investors to run a public service or utility, writes Kent Rowey, a partner at Allen & Overy in New York. The investors make a large upfront payment and receive a concession to operate the service. DealBook »
Looking Past G.D.P. to the Changes in China Ahead | It is now difficult for even the most bullish of China analysts to argue that the economy is not in very difficult straits, Bill Bishop writes in the China Insider column. DealBook »
Report Finds Flaws in S.E.C.'s Vetting of Contractors | The Securities and Exchange Commission "failed to properly investigate the possible criminal backgrounds of up to 70 contractors, including one who later assaulted his girlfriend, the agency's watchdog found in a previously unreleased investigative report," Reuters reports. REUTERS
Britain Charges 2 Former Brokers in Libor Inquiry | Two former brokers at RP Martin Holdings, Terry J. Farr and James A. Gilmour, were charged with conspiracy to defraud related to an investigation into the manipulation of benchmark interest rates. DealBook »
Banks Dodge a Bullet With Deal on Swaps | Global banks will now have the choice of trading and clearing trans-Atlantic swaps in either Europe or the United States, Dominic Elliott and George Hay of Reuters Breakingviews write. REUTERS BREAKINGVIEWS
Sign up for the DealBook Newsletter, delivered every morning and afternoon.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: COMPANY PROFITS (91%); INTERIM FINANCIAL RESULTS (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); LAWYERS (89%); FINANCIAL RESULTS (78%); EXECUTIVES (75%); JURY TRIALS (74%); ETHICS (74%); JUDGES (74%); INTERNET SOCIAL NETWORKING (73%); SWAP TRANSACTIONS (72%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (72%); BASKETBALL (70%); CREDIT DEFAULT SWAPS (66%); MORTGAGE BACKED SECURITIES (66%); CONFERENCE CALLS (55%) Morning Agenda

COMPANY: GOLDMAN SACHS GROUP INC (92%); VERIZON COMMUNICATIONS INC (56%); FACEBOOK INC (53%)

TICKER: GS (NYSE) (92%); VZC (LSE) (56%); VZ (NYSE) (56%); FB (NASDAQ) (53%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (92%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (92%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (92%); SIC6289 SERVICES ALLIED WITH THE EXCHANGE OF SECURITIES OR COMMODITIES, NEC (92%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (92%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (92%); NAICS517210 WIRELESS TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (EXCEPT SATELLITE) (56%); NAICS517110 WIRED TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (56%); NAICS519130 INTERNET PUBLISHING & BROADCASTING & WEB SEARCH PORTALS (53%)

PERSON: FABRICE P TOURRE (90%); HERBERT M ALLISON (79%); MARY JO WHITE (70%); LLOYD BLANKFEIN (59%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (71%) NEW YORK, USA (71%) UNITED STATES (71%)

LOAD-DATE: July 16, 2013



467 of 937 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(DealBook)

PUB-DATE: July 16, 2013

SECTION: BUSINESS

LENGTH: 1859 words

HEADLINE: Morning Agenda: Strength at Goldman

BYLINE: WILLIAM ALDEN


HIGHLIGHT: Goldman Sachs&#8217;s second-quarter profit doubles. | The Fabrice Tourre trial puts a spotlight on a tightknit network of legal players. | A new report suggests big banks&#8217; high-minded words about ethics may largely be lip service. | Herbert M. Allison Jr., a former president of Merrill Lynch, dies at 69. 

 BODY:
Goldman Sachs posted second-quarter profit on Tuesday that was twice what the bank reported in the period a year earlier. The profit of $1.93 billion, or $3.70 a share, was well ahead of analysts' expectations of $2.83 a share, according to Thomson Reuters. Revenue rose to $8.6 billion from $6.6 billion in the year-ago period. "The firm's performance was solid, especially in the context of mixed economic sentiment during the quarter," Goldman's chairman and chief executive, Lloyd C. Blankfein, said in a statement. A conference call to discuss the results is being held at 9:30 a.m.
LEGAL FIREPOWER IN TOURRE TRIAL | The lawyer Sean Coffey was known five years ago as Wall Street's Public Enemy No. 1, having extracted billions from big banks in the wake of WorldCom's collapse. Today, his role is reversed. Mr. Coffey is defending a former Goldman Sachs trader, Fabrice Tourre, in a trial that puts a spotlight on a tightknit network of legal players, Ben Protess, Susanne Craig and Michael J. de la Merced report in DealBook. The Securities and Exchange Commission's civil case against Mr. Tourre went to trial on Monday in a federal courthouse in Lower Manhattan. 
DealBook writes: "Mr. Coffey's co-counsel is Pamela Chepiga, a former federal prosecutor who once played basketball with another diminutive lawyer, Mary Jo White, now the chairwoman of the S.E.C. The defense team is facing off against the head of the S.E.C.'s trial unit, Matthew T. Martens, who typically supervises cases but has never before led a jury trial at the S.E.C. (He is a friend of Mr. Coffey from private practice, though Mr. Martens temporarily unfriended Mr. Coffey on Facebook as a precautionary measure during the trial.) Rounding out the roster, the two sides will argue before Judge Katherine B. Forrest, a longtime corporate lawyer and relative newcomer to the bench who will face her biggest securities trial yet."
"The convergence of such prominent lawyers exemplifies the insular world of the securities bar - and the revolving door its members often pass through on their way back and forth between government and private practice. It also underscores the importance of a trial in which Mr. Tourre is fighting a possible ban from the securities industry, and the S.E.C. is seeking a defining victory in its uneven campaign to punish those at the center of the crisis."
Lawyers on both sides were asked to keep the legal and financial jargon to a minimum. "Mere mortals don't know what a trading desk is," the judge said. But as the trial opened, both sides dove into descriptions of residential mortgage-backed securities and credit-default swaps.
WALL STREET'S CULTURE OF GREED | A new report on Wall Street insiders about ethical conduct, to be released on Tuesday, suggests that big banks' high-minded words about ethics and integrity may largely be lip service, Andrew Ross Sorkin writes in the DealBook column. Of 250 industry insiders from dozens of financial companies who responded to questions, 23 percent said "they had observed or had firsthand knowledge of wrongdoing in the workplace." In addition, 24 percent said they would "engage in insider trading to make $10 million if they could get away with it."
Mr. Sorkin writes: "As we approach the fifth anniversary of the onset of the financial crisis this September, it appears memories are shorter than ever. If the report is accurate, the insidious culture of greed is back - or maybe it never left."
ON THE AGENDA | Johnson & Johnson and Coca-Cola report earnings on Tuesday morning. Yahoo reports earnings after the market closes. The Consumer Price Index for June is out at 8:30 a.m. Data on industrial production in June appears at 9:15 a.m. Mohamed El-Erian, chief executive of Pimco, is on CNBC at 8:30 a.m.
HERBERT ALLISON DIES AT 69 | 
Herbert M. Allison Jr., a former president of Merrill Lynch and chief executive of Fannie Mae who later ran the United States government's bank bailout program, died on Sunday at his home in Westport, Conn., The New York Times reports. He was 69. His son Andrew said the cause was possibly a heart attack.
"I would say that he was an independent and pragmatic thinker," Andrew Allison said. "He worked with people from different parts of the political spectrum because he was interested in first and foremost serving the nation and its interests." Mr. Allison, who served in a number of roles in the private and public sector and as a political appointee under both Presidents Obama and George W. Bush, began his financial services career at Merrill, working his way up during his 28 years there. While at Merrill, he helped coordinate the group of banks that bailed out the hedge fund Long-Term Capital Management in 1998.
 | Contact: @williamalden | E-mail
Sign up for the DealBook Newsletter, delivered every morning and afternoon.
Mergers & Acquisitions »
T. Rowe Price Reiterates Opposition to Dell Buyout | A major investor in Dell, T. Rowe Price, said ahead of a shareholder vote on Thursday that it believed "the proposed buyout does not reflect the value of Dell," Bloomberg News reports. BLOOMBERG NEWS
Baidu to Pay $1.9 Billion for Chinese App Store Operator | Baidu, China's largest search engine company, said on Tuesday that it had reached a preliminary deal to acquire 91 Wireless, a leading mobile app developer and app store operator in China. DealBook »
VMware Sells Zimbra Amid Shift in Strategy | VMware is selling Zimbra, a provider of corporate e-mail and collaboration software, to Telligent, which makes social software for businesses. DealBook »
AT&T's Defensive Play | AT&T's deal for Leap Wireless "may be more of a jab at T-Mobile than a boost to AT&T," The Wall Street Journal's Heard on the Street column writes. WALL STREET JOURNAL
Tokyo Exchange Completes Merger With Osaka Rival | 
BLOOMBERG NEWS
INVESTMENT BANKING »
Barclays Hires a JPMorgan Executive as Its Next C.F.O. | Tushar Morzaria, the chief financial officer of corporate and investment banking at JPMorgan Chase, will join Barclays in the autumn. DealBook »
Strauss-Kahn Re-emerges in Finance, in Russia | Dominique Strauss-Kahn, a former chief of the International Monetary Fund whose career unraveled in a series of sex scandals, was named a board member of a banking subsidiary of Rosneft. DealBook »
Growth in Emerging Markets Lifts Citigroup's Profit by 42%, Topping Expectations | Citigroup's earnings swelled 42 percent in the second quarter, handily beating expectations, as the sprawling bank worked to cut costs and expand its international lending operations. DealBook »
R.B.S. Said to Seek Buyer for Education Unit | The Royal Bank of Scotland "is studying the sale of a unit that manages 11 Australian schools, said a person with knowledge of the matter," Bloomberg News reports. BLOOMBERG NEWS
PRIVATE EQUITY »
Billabong Secures $364 Million in Financing | After failing to strike a takeover deal with private equity firms last month, the Australian surfing apparel company said on Tuesday that some of those same firms would help it arrange short-term financing to pay down debts and finance its working capital needs. DealBook »
First Data to Suspend 401(k) Contributions | The credit card processing company First Data, which is owned by the private equity firm K.K.R., plans to suspend 401(k) contributions for employees and replace cash bonuses with stock, The Wall Street Journal reports. The company, which is trying to return to profitability, recently hired the longtime JPMorgan executive Frank Bisignano to be chief executive. WALL STREET JOURNAL
Generali Said to Be Selling Private Equity Fund Stakes to Lexington | The holdings in the funds were valued at almost 500 million euros ($648 million), Bloomberg News reports. BLOOMBERG NEWS
HEDGE FUNDS »
Hong Kong Brings Civil Case Against Tiger Asia | The Financial Times reports: "Hong Kong's market regulator has abandoned the chance to pursue a criminal case against U.S.-based hedge fund Tiger Asia Management by launching formal civil proceedings on market abuse allegations from almost four years ago." FINANCIAL TIMES
I.P.O./OFFERINGS »
After Pork Deal, Plans for a Hong Kong I.P.O. | Reuters reports: "China's Shuanghui International Holdings, which has agreed to buy the U.S. pork producer Smithfield Foods Inc. for $4.7 billion, plans to list the combined company in Hong Kong after completing the takeover, people with knowledge of the matter told Reuters." REUTERS
Third Point Reinsurance Files for I.P.O. | Third Point Reinsurance, a reinsurer based in Bermuda that was founded by the hedge fund manager Daniel S. Loeb, has filed to go public. It plans to list its shares on the New York Stock Exchange under the ticker symbol TPRE. DealBook »
VENTURE CAPITAL »
Airbnb Said to Shift Strategy Abroad | The start-up Airbnb, which helps people rent out their rooms, "has recently slowed down hiring in its international operation, according to several people with direct knowledge of the matter," The Wall Street Journal reports. WALL STREET JOURNAL
LEGAL/REGULATORY »
China Says Glaxo Used Travel Firms for Bribery | Authorities in China said they had uncovered a conspiracy involving tens of millions of dollars, directed by senior executives at the British drug giant GlaxoSmithKline, The New York Times reports. NEW YORK TIMES
Insider Traders Should Be Ready to Do Hard Time | Two recent decisions by appeals courts have upheld the discretion of judges to mete out long sentences for insider trading, even if this was not the common practice in similar cases, Peter J. Henning writes in the White Collar Watch column. DealBook »
Public-Private Partnerships Could Be a Lifeline for Cities | Municipalities can gain much needed cash and operating efficiency by contracting with private equity investors to run a public service or utility, writes Kent Rowey, a partner at Allen & Overy in New York. The investors make a large upfront payment and receive a concession to operate the service. DealBook »
Looking Past G.D.P. to the Changes in China Ahead | It is now difficult for even the most bullish of China analysts to argue that the economy is not in very difficult straits, Bill Bishop writes in the China Insider column. DealBook »
Report Finds Flaws in S.E.C.'s Vetting of Contractors | The Securities and Exchange Commission "failed to properly investigate the possible criminal backgrounds of up to 70 contractors, including one who later assaulted his girlfriend, the agency's watchdog found in a previously unreleased investigative report," Reuters reports. REUTERS
Britain Charges 2 Former Brokers in Libor Inquiry | Two former brokers at RP Martin Holdings, Terry J. Farr and James A. Gilmour, were charged with conspiracy to defraud related to an investigation into the manipulation of benchmark interest rates. DealBook »
Banks Dodge a Bullet With Deal on Swaps | Global banks will now have the choice of trading and clearing trans-Atlantic swaps in either Europe or the United States, Dominic Elliott and George Hay of Reuters Breakingviews write. REUTERS BREAKINGVIEWS
Sign up for the DealBook Newsletter, delivered every morning and afternoon.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: COMPANY PROFITS (91%); INTERIM FINANCIAL RESULTS (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); LAWYERS (89%); FINANCIAL RESULTS (78%); EXECUTIVES (75%); JURY TRIALS (74%); ETHICS (74%); JUDGES (74%); INTERNET SOCIAL NETWORKING (73%); SWAP TRANSACTIONS (72%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (72%); BASKETBALL (70%); CREDIT DEFAULT SWAPS (66%); MORTGAGE BACKED SECURITIES (66%); CONFERENCE CALLS (55%) Morning Agenda

COMPANY: GOLDMAN SACHS GROUP INC (92%); VERIZON COMMUNICATIONS INC (56%); FACEBOOK INC (53%)

TICKER: GS (NYSE) (92%); VZC (LSE) (56%); VZ (NYSE) (56%); FB (NASDAQ) (53%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (92%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (92%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (92%); SIC6289 SERVICES ALLIED WITH THE EXCHANGE OF SECURITIES OR COMMODITIES, NEC (92%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (92%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (92%); NAICS517210 WIRELESS TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (EXCEPT SATELLITE) (56%); NAICS517110 WIRED TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (56%); NAICS519130 INTERNET PUBLISHING & BROADCASTING & WEB SEARCH PORTALS (53%)

PERSON: FABRICE P TOURRE (90%); HERBERT M ALLISON (79%); MARY JO WHITE (70%); LLOYD BLANKFEIN (59%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (71%) NEW YORK, USA (71%) UNITED STATES (71%)

LOAD-DATE: July 16, 2013



468 of 937 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(After Deadline)

PUB-DATE: July 16, 2013

SECTION: TIMESTOPICS

LENGTH: 1607 words

HEADLINE: Getting Names Wrong

BYLINE: PHILIP B. CORBETT


HIGHLIGHT: The most fundamental task of journalism is to get the facts right. People&#8217;s names are among the most basic and important facts we report. And yet &#8230; you know where this is going, because we&#8217;ve been over this ground many times before. 

 BODY:
The most fundamental task of journalism is to get the facts right. People's names are among the most basic and important facts we report. And yet ... 
Errors in names are the single most common reason for corrections. As I've noted before, each mistake - usually just a misspelling - may seem small in itself. But together, they add up to a large and continuing toll on our credibility. We have to do better, and then keep doing better.
One frequent misstep involves common names with multiple variations - Wolfe vs. Woolfe vs. Woolf, Stephen vs. Steven. Many other mistakes involve unusual or unfamiliar names. All names should be double-checked, but those two situations in particular cry out for additional scrutiny, by reporters and editors alike.
Below is the tally from just a week's worth of print corrections. It is not a litany that would inspire confidence in a skeptical reader. 
 July 2 
 An obituary on Sunday about the social critic Philip E. Slater misstated the surname of Mr. Slater's co-author for the book "The Temporary Society." He is Warren Bennis, not Bunnis. 
 An article on Monday about the high cost of fees to workers who receive their wages on prepaid cards rather than by paychecks misstated the surname of a policy associate at Retail Action Project who commented on the issue. He is Naoki Fujita, not Fuji. 
 July 3 
 An article on Tuesday about more than 6,000 pages of documents released by the Roman Catholic Archdiocese of Milwaukee misstated the surname of a Milwaukee priest who helped to form the group Catholic Whistleblowers. He is James Connell, not O'Connell. 
 An article on Tuesday about the deadly wildfire that killed 19 firefighters misidentified, in some editions, the university where Stephen J. Pyne, one of the nation's leading fire historians, is a professor. It is Arizona State University, not the University of Arizona. The article also misspelled the surname of a contributing reporter in some editions. He is John Dougherty, not Doherty. 
 A headline last Wednesday with an article about flavored whiskeys misstated the surname of a distiller. He was Jack Daniel, not Daniels. 
 July 4 
 An article on Wednesday about the inquiry into the death of the 19 firefighters killed in an Arizona wildfire misspelled, in some copies, the surname of the sole surviving firefighter in the group known as the Granite Mountain Hotshots. He is Brendan McDonough, not McDonogh. The article also misstated, in some copies, the given name of a spokesman for the Southwest Incident Command Team. He is Bob Orrill, not Paul. 
 A critic's notebook article on Tuesday about the new ESPN documentary series "Nine for IX" misstated the given name of the director of a film in the series, "Venus VS." She is Ava DuVernay, not Ana. 
 July 5 
 An article on Monday about new Obama administration regulations requiring American companies investing in Myanmar to show steps they have taken to respect human rights there and to protect the environment misspelled the surname of a researcher at Human Rights Watch who said she expected that companies would comply to avoid public criticism. She is Lisa Misol, not Mosol. 
 A critic's notebook article on June 17 about a recital and a workshop by the violinist Monica Germino and the electronic sound designer Frank van der Weij, at the Austrian Cultural Forum in Manhattan, misspelled the surname of the composer of a work that was performed, "With a Blue Dress On." She is Julia Wolfe, not Woolfe. 
 July 7 
 The theater entry in the Week Ahead column last Sunday about the new play "Choir Boy" misstated the surname of the play's author. He is Tarell Alvin McCraney, not McRaney. 
 An article on June 23 about the WYOamericana Caravan, a 14-date tour through the heart of the West featuring three popular Wyoming bands, misstated the given name and the surname of the founder of the Web site sonicbids.com, which connects musicians with promoters, booking agents and retailers. He is Panos Panay, not Panay Pajos. 
 An article last Sunday about automobile-branded bicycles misstated the surname of a BMW spokeswoman. She is Nicole Fallenbeck, not Kallenbach. 
 July 9 
 A picture caption on Saturday with an article about the annual Midsummer Night Swing festival, at Lincoln Center, misspelled the surname of a dance instructor who has given lessons at the event. As the article correctly noted, she is Margaret Batiuchok, not Batiuchuk. 
 An article on Monday about the marketing of "Monkey: Journey to the West," the centerpiece of this year's Lincoln Center Festival, misstated the name of the work's director. He is Chen Shi-Zheng, not Cheng Shi Zheng. 
 
 In a Word 
This week's grab bag of grammar, style and other missteps, compiled with help from colleagues and readers.
 The four-member commission was comprised of Justice Javed Iqbal of the Supreme Court, a retired police officer, a retired diplomat and a retired army general. 
Remember, the whole comprises the parts. Make it "included," "comprised," "was composed of" or some other alternative.
 "They didn't approach like the usual fanboys who asked, 'You're brother was in Nirvana?' " she said. 
"Your" brother, of course, not "you're."
 As American palettes have evolved from Budweiser to Brunello di Montalcino, wineries have popped up in all 50 states, from the shores of Lake Michigan to the Texas Hill Country. 
A distressingly common mistake. Make it "palates."
 Upon removing a woman's body laying midway on the border between the two countries, they discover two halves - one belonging to a Swedish politician and the other to a Danish prostitute. 
Lying, not laying. 
 The ultimate luxury for some of them, in fact (though not for Ms. Uttech), would be the option to be a stay-at-home mother. 
 "I never miss a baseball game," said Ms. Uttech, uttering a statement that is a fantasy for millions of working mothers (and fathers) nationwide. (This attendance record is even more impressive when you realize that her children play in upward of six a week.) 
A fascinating piece, but this article was stuffed with parentheses, which make for choppy reading.
 Now he has become so aggravated that he is willing to stop his development and sell once and for all - just not to Mr. Serpico. 
The use of "aggravate" as a synonym for anger or irritate is informal and best avoided; the precise meaning is "make worse."
 On Wednesday, Mr. Bloomberg ate his last ceremonial hot dog as mayor - heavy on the mustard, like usual - and promised to return to the festivities next year as a private citizen. 
Make it "as usual."
 The collection of 500 statements, which includes inmates' verbal as well as written remarks, has been the subject of analysis, criticism and debate by lawyers, criminal justice researchers and activists who oppose the death penalty. 
"Verbal" means in words. Make it, "oral as well as written remarks."
 To me, having covered the South for many years, the term seems like one of those polite euphemisms that hides more than it reveals. 
Make it "euphemisms that hide more than they reveal." The subject of the relative clause in this construction - as we have pointed out many, many times before - is "that," which here is plural to agree with its antecedent, "euphemisms." The pronoun is not singular and does not refer to "term" or "one." It would be a different construction, and a different meaning, if we said "the term seems like one that hides more than it reveals." But in this sentence, we were describing a whole group of "euphemisms" that have a quality in common, not just one.
 At the end of my tour, I walked down the aisle past business (less gadgetry, but still a lot), past economy plus (more legroom), and to the vast acreage of economy, row upon row of empty seats that, in a few hours, would be filled with squalling babies, muscled guys in Bubba Gump T-shirts, girls in flamingo-pink tank tops, obese armrest hoggers, divorce lawyers jabbering on their cellphones before takeoff, women in spectacles reading "Wolf Hall," Hasids, Pakistanis, Japanese - the melting pot of American coach. 
Use Hasidim, not Hasids, for the plural.
 The day the photographs were published, the group said, four times as many people visited its Web site than usually do. 
"Four times as many ... as," not "than." 
 Marion Bartoli of France, the No. 15 seed, and Sabine Lisicki of Germany, the No. 23 seed, will face each other on Saturday, and one will win their first Grand Slam title. 
"Her," not "their." This was later fixed online. 
 Forty-percent of those here illegally didn't jump a fence; they simply overstayed a student or tourist visa. 
No reason for a hyphen.
 Standing outside the home here of a lesbian couple who has lived together and raised a family for 30 years, Democratic leaders said they would push to override the Republican governor's veto of a same-sex marriage bill the Legislature passed last year. 
"Have," not "has." See the entry in The Times's stylebook on "couple":
 couple may be either singular or plural. Used in reference to two distinct but associated people, couple should be construed as a plural: The couple were married in 1952. The couple argued constantly; they [not it] even threw punches. When the idea is one entity rather than two people, couple may be treated as a singular: Each couple was asked to give $10; The couple was the richest on the block. In general, couple causes fewer problems when treated as a plural.
 [Caption] Lake Bell and Isaac Mizrahi was among the celebrities who turned out for the annual Bergh Ball. 
"Were" among, of course, not "was."

        
Bright Passages
        
Singular? Plural? Pick One
        
Tangled Passages
        
Words We Love Too Much
        
Spoiler Alert: Phrase Is Overused

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: CHRISTIANS & CHRISTIANITY (90%); DEATHS & OBITUARIES (90%); JOURNALISM (89%); FIREFIGHTERS & FIREFIGHTING (86%); FIRES (86%); HUMANITIES & SOCIAL SCIENCE (78%); DOCUMENTARY FILMS (78%); WRITERS (78%); INVESTIGATIONS (78%); CATHOLICS & CATHOLICISM (69%); RELIGION (69%); COLLEGES & UNIVERSITIES (68%); DISTILLERIES (65%); HISTORY (64%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (63%); FILM DIRECTORS (60%); PREPAID CARDS (51%) After Deadline; Grammar

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: ARIZONA, USA (90%) UNITED STATES (90%)

LOAD-DATE: July 16, 2013



469 of 937 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(Wheels)

PUB-DATE: July 16, 2013

SECTION: AUTOMOBILES

LENGTH: 754 words

HEADLINE: Wheelies: The Land of the Rising Datsun Edition

BYLINE: BENJAMIN PRESTON


HIGHLIGHT: Datsun returns &#8211; in India &#8211; and Red Bull holds soap box derbies in England and Germany. 

 BODY:
In which we bring you motoring news from around the Web:
 The Datsun name, phased out in North America in the 1980s, is on its way back, albeit in India this time. Nissan says it will be bringing the Datsun Go, a 5-seat, 4-door hatchback, to India early next year. The new car - which is to be manufactured at the Renault plant in Chennai, India - will sell for less than $7,000 and is part of Nissan's plan to garner 10 percent of the market in India by 2016. A Renault-Nissan executive told The Economic Times that although the company doesn't plan on building anything that will compete directly with the tiny Tata Nano, it will probably offer a $4,000 car in the near future. (The Economic Times) 
 David Strickland, head of the National Highway Traffic Safety Administration, said that the agency would take a tough stance on vehicle recalls, requiring vehicle manufacturers to not only comply with federal safety standards when vehicles are built but also to conform to evolving safety standards. Mr. Strickland - whose agency was involved in a brief dispute with Chrysler when the automaker declined to issue a recall ordered by N.H.T.S.A. - told Automotive News that "reasonable risk" was a moving target, and one that automakers will have to strive to meet in the coming years. According to Automotive News, recalls have risen to 664 in 2012, from from 207 in 1992, a spike that may be attributable to a rapidly changing automotive industry. (Automotive News)
 Red Bull sponsors more than its screaming V-8 powered Formula One racecars; the company also puts on races for gravity-powered cars. Red Bull was the host of two events on Sunday, a soap box derby in London, and another in Germany. Most of the cars were made of wood, and although they had steering and brakes, there were no motors of any kind allowed. But gravity played its part well, giving the cars plenty of speed before hitting a giant ramp toward the end of each course. The Red Bull Formula One driver Sebastian Vettel competed in the German event dressed like Super Mario, but he did not win. (The Huffington Post)
 Since spring, Nissan Leaf sales have increased, leaving the automaker with more demand than it has supply for the E.V. At the beginning of 2013, production shifted to the United States from Japan, bringing the car's price down $6,400 over the previous year's model. That, combined with electric car subsidies, seems to have increased its popularity beyond what Nissan projected. According to a report by Autoblog, monthly sales for the Nissan Leaf have been above 2,000 units since March. (Autoblog Green)
 If the stock 2014 Corvette Stingray isn't enough car for you, Hennessey Performance might have you covered. The performance company announced Monday the unveiling of its modified version of the C7, the Hennessey HPE700 Corvette. Scheduled to hit the market in October, the HPE700 will feature a 700-horsepower supercharged V-8 mated to either a 7-speed manual or a 6-speed automatic transmission, along with a host of body and suspension upgrades designed to increase the car's traction and cooling capabilities. (Hennessey Performance)
 When he was fired as head of Mercedes-Benz USA in October 2011, Ernst Lieb didn't waste time filing an appeal in a German court. According to a report by Automotive News, the courts have spoken, and Mr. Lieb's wrongful dismissal appeal was struck down. Mercedes-Benz's parent company, Daimler, had fired Mr. Lieb amid accusations that he had used more than $100,000 of the company's funds to make improvements to his Mahwah, N.J., home. At the time of his firing, Mr. Lieb had put in 36 years with the company, and had been serving as chief of Mercedes-Benz USA since 2006. (Automotive News)
 According to a report from The Detroit Free Press, Tesla is worth more than Fiat and PSA Peugeot Citroën combined. According to The Free Press, Tesla's market capitalization is $15 billion, compared with Fiat's at $7.1 billion and the Peugeot combine at $2.7 billion. Critics hold that current numbers aren't definitive for the Tesla's long-term prospects. Tesla shares rose to $129.90 on Friday; the company is being added to the Nasdaq 100 index. (The Detroit Free Press)

        
Wheelies: The Let's Sit Down and Talk Edition
        
N.H.T.S.A. Investigates Mercedes C-Class for Potential Electrical Problems
        
Tesla Issues Recall of Model S for Faulty Rear Seat Latch
        
Recall Roundup: Honda, Chrysler, G.M., Mercedes and Yakima Issue Recalls
        
Cadillac to Recall SRX Models for Wheel Problem; Triumph and Nissan Issue Recalls

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: ROAD TRANSPORTATION SAFETY (90%); AUTOMOTIVE MFG (90%); AUTOMAKERS (90%); AUTOMOBILE MFG (90%); AUTOMOTIVE RECALLS (90%); FORMULA ONE RACING (89%); MOTOR VEHICLES (89%); AUTOMOTIVE SECTOR PERFORMANCE (77%); STOCK EXCHANGES (77%); AUTOMOTIVE SAFETY STANDARDS (76%); PRODUCT SAFETY (76%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (73%); PRODUCT RECALLS (72%); ELECTRIC VEHICLES (72%); AUTOMOTIVE TECHNOLOGY (71%) Automobile Safety Features and Defects; automobiles; India; Lieb, Ernst; Mercedes-Benz; National Highway Traffic Safety Administration; Nissan Motor Co; Soapbox Derby; Strickland, David; Tesla Motors Inc; Vettel, Sebastian; Automobiles; Tesla Motors Inc|TSLA|NASDAQ

COMPANY: REGIE NATIONALE DES USINES RENAULT SA (84%); NISSAN MOTOR CO LTD (73%)

ORGANIZATION: Mercedes-Benz; National Highway Traffic Safety Administration; Nissan Motor Co; Tesla Motors Inc

TICKER: RNO (PAR) (84%); RNO (BIT) (84%); 7201 (TSE) (73%) Tesla Motors Inc; TSLA; NASDAQ

INDUSTRY: NAICS336111 AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING (84%); SIC3711 MOTOR VEHICLES & PASSENGER CAR BODIES (84%); NAICS522220 SALES FINANCING (84%); NAICS336112 LIGHT TRUCK & UTILITY VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (84%); SIC6141 PERSONAL CREDIT INSTITUTIONS (84%)

PERSON: Lieb, Ernst; Strickland, David; Vettel, Sebastian

GEOGRAPHIC: LONDON, ENGLAND (53%) TAMIL NADU, INDIA (90%) INDIA (94%); NORTH AMERICA (92%); GERMANY (90%); UNITED STATES (79%); JAPAN (76%); ENGLAND (68%); CENTRAL EUROPE (53%) India

LOAD-DATE: July 16, 2013



470 of 937 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(Economix)

PUB-DATE: July 16, 2013

SECTION: BUSINESS; economy

LENGTH: 990 words

HEADLINE: The Path to Complexity on the Health Care Act

BYLINE: JARED BERNSTEIN


HIGHLIGHT: An economist formerly in the Obama administration says the need to accommodate the current employer-based insurance system has made the Affordable Care Act a challenge to carry out. 

 BODY:
Jared Bernstein is a senior fellow at the Center on Budget and Policy Priorities in Washington and a former chief economist to Vice President Joseph R. Biden Jr. 
In contemplating the one-year delay in the Affordable Care Act's employer penalty, I was reminded that the health care law is an awfully complicated piece of work.
I'm a supporter of the bill, and someone who was working for the administration when health legislation was designed, so let's be clear: the fact that it's complex doesn't mean its implementation is anything like the train wreck that conservative Republicans (and Max Baucus) like to call it. 
In fact, as I read the recent report from the Government Accountability Office on setting up the state exchanges - the most complex part of the bill's implementation - I'd say it's proceeding apace despite train wreckers trying to derail it. I suspect most state exchanges will be up and running on Oct. 1 (the federal government is setting up and will operate most of them), and when you consider the magnitude of this challenge amid the blowback and underfunding of the effort, if I'm even close to correct, that will be a very impressive outcome.
But when the White House announced the delay in the employer penalty, a lot of people pointed out that had the United States gone with a single-payer, Medicare-for-all style system, it wouldn't have had to futz around with Rube Goldberg policy structures like that in the illustration below from the Congressional Research Service on the employer penalty.
It's a fair point, and one that took me back to my days of selling the bill out on Pebble Beach, that little strip of land next to the White House where television cameras film administration officials. A typical interview back then (2009-10) would usually involve a reporter asking me to defend the proposed reform and explain why the people should be for it. I cringe to think that I often started out by suggesting that it had the potential to "bend the cost curve" - i.e., slow the unsustainable growth of health costs. 
Why cringe? Not because I was wrong - that was a major motivator and the law may already be showing some promise in that critical regard. The cringe is because very few listeners knew what to make of that assertion, and it certainly didn't answer what they really wanted to know, which was, "How is this thing going to affect me and my family?"
That's why being able to say the other line I recall using out there - "If you're happy with your current coverage, this law won't affect you at all" - was so important. And that's also why we're stuck with a lot more complexity than we'd like.
To understand why we are where we are with the Affordable Care Act, it's useful to think about the concept of path dependency, meaning that where you end up is often a function of where you start out. And in the United States, we start out with an employer-based system. Though employers have been shedding coverage, about 58 percent Americans and their families are still covered through their job, down from 68 percent a decade ago (not counting older Americans). Perhaps more importantly, among those with private coverage, a group that the opposition was and is trying to scare about the impact of the law, about 90 percent are covered through their employer.
That's the path we started on, and our judgment was that straying from that path would doom the bill. I suspect we were right. I can assure you that being able to hammer home that line about keeping what you have was very important and comforting for people to hear. Passing the law was in no small part about convincing a majority of passengers on an already rickety boat that they'd be better off if they threw a life preserver to the minority floundering in the water.
That doesn't mean that what we ended up with is optimal. Certainly, the addition of a public, Medicarelike option within the health care exchanges would have been a good compromise, a way to stay on the path but branch off in a more progressive direction. But even without that, objective analysts score the bill as eventually covering millions of people and saving billions of dollars.
Could we have bucked path dependency? Must we continue to accommodate the employer-based system, not to mention the powerful insurance industry deeply embedded in America's uniquely inefficient health care delivery system? Do we really need a bunch of separate health care exchanges?
Well, private insurers supported the law only when it looked as though they'd get to cover a lot more people, with many getting subsidized coverage. Though the coverage offered in the exchanges has to meet national standards, states will continue to regulate the insurers within their borders. (The state accommodations are particularly ironic, because deference to states run by arch conservatives is turning out to be a tough implementation barrier; according to G.A.O., 11 states say they lack "the authority to enforce or are not otherwise enforcing" the insurance market provisions of the Affordable Care Act. It's starting to look like the euro zone out there.)
Perhaps my former colleagues and I lacked imagination, but in the case of health care, with large, risk-averse majorities worried about keeping what they had, powerful industries lining the existent path and a largely reactionary House of Representatives, it's hard to imagine that we could have deviated from path dependency.
So as the implementation season proceeds and new delays and complications pop up, remember the rocky path we started on. I firmly believe that if we can fully carry out the Affordable Care Act - and I think we will - the path will become smoother. And that means the next round of reform will start from a better place.

        
Putting Off the Employer Mandate
        
Health Coverage Worthy of a Senator
        
The New Economics of Part-Time Employment
        
Confusing the Public on the Affordable Care Act
        
The Myriad Benefits of a Carbon Tax

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: HEALTH CARE LAW (90%); HEALTH CARE POLICY (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); EMPLOYEE HEALTH PLANS (90%); HEALTH CARE (90%); US PATIENT PROTECTION & AFFORDABLE CARE ACT (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); HEALTH CARE REFORM (90%); INTERVIEWS (78%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (78%); MEDICARE (78%); HEALTH CARE COSTS (78%); GOVERNMENT CONTROLLERS & AUDITORS (78%); LEGISLATION (77%); PUBLIC HEALTH & WELFARE LAW (77%); MANAGED CARE ORGANIZATIONS (77%); CONSERVATISM (74%); POLITICS (73%) Goldberg, Rube; Health Insurance and Managed Care; Insurance; Obama, Barack; Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act (2010); Republican Party; United States Politics and Government; Today's Economist

ORGANIZATION: Republican Party

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (88%); JARED BERNSTEIN (74%); JOE BIDEN (73%); MAX BAUCUS (55%) Goldberg, Rube; Obama, Barack

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: July 16, 2013



471 of 937 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(Ross Douthat)

PUB-DATE: July 16, 2013

SECTION: OPINION

LENGTH: 1306 words

HEADLINE: Why French Women Don't Get Promoted

BYLINE: ROSS DOUTHAT


HIGHLIGHT: Family-friendly socialism and its discontents &#8212; and the lessons thereof. 

 BODY:
Last fall, the expat writer and new mother Claire Lundberg wrote an essay for Slate about how much she loved France's pro-family socialism, with its government-funded crèches and ecoles maternelle, and how the French model suggested that with sufficient public support for the career-family juggle, working mothers really might be able to "lean in," "have it all," and so forth.
Except that then Lundberg set out to actually find a job in France, which has inspired a new piece reconsidering some her initial positivity. Here's an excerpt: 
I don't want being a mother to change the way employers see me, but of course, it does. I'm in my 30s. It's true that I'll likely get pregnant again. It's true I will sometimes want to have dinner with my family. And it's true that any company that hires me is making a long-term investment-it's much more difficult to fire people in France than in the United States. This causes employers to think about the future when hiring, including how a woman's eventual or actual children might affect her job performance. It's also not illegal in France to ask about a person's age and marital status in an interview. It is illegal to discriminate based on the answers, but this kind of discrimination can be very hard to prove.
As I continued to look for work, I learned that France actually does quite poorly in world rankings of gender equality in the workplace. In its 2012 Global Gender Gap Index, the World Economic Forum ranked France a shocking 57th, behind most other European countries, the United States (too low at No. 22), Jamaica, and Russia. This year, the Economist ranked it slightly higher on its list of best countries to be a working woman, at No. 11-just in front of the United States ...
Lundberg goes on to consider the hidden costs of social democracy: The ways in which "some of the government protections and incentives offered to mothers in France may in fact make their advancement in the workplace more difficult," while "the more Spartan benefits in the U.S. actually contribute to providing more opportunities for women" - because there's "less of a stigma in the United States about changing jobs or even careers in mid-life than there is in France, and because U.S. employers can more easily fire people, they may be more willing to hire as well."
In effect, she's providing a personal, country-specific confirmation of the point made by Kay Hymowitz in a recent Foreign Policy essay, which compared the achievements of working women in the laissez-faire U.S. to their counterparts in social democracies:
.... American women are far more likely to work full time and rise to the top levels of business, academia, and professional fields like law and medicine - though not politics - than women in other developed countries. According to a recent study by Cornell University economists Francine Blau and Lawrence Kahn, American women are about as likely as American men to be company managers, while women in the researchers' comparison group of 10 other developed countries were only half as likely as men to have made it that far. In fact, the United States has the highest proportion of women in senior management positions of any country in the Organization for Economic Cooperation and Development (OECD), a grouping of the world's most developed countries. At 43 percent, it is a percentage that comes close to women's 47 percent overall share of the U.S. labor force.
Indeed, the World Economic Forum (WEF) ranks the United States eighth globally on gender equality in economic participation and opportunity, ahead of Sweden, Finland, Denmark, the Netherlands, and Iceland. According to Blau and Kahn, 24 percent of working American women are in the professional fields, compared to only 16 percent of working American men; the gap in other countries also favors women, but by much less, 19 vs. 17 percent ... In general, the U.S. labor market is less segregated by sex than those of other economically advanced countries, with more women breaking into traditionally male fields. 
Family-friendly socialism, Hymowitz notes, does seem to encourage more women to stay in the workforce after they have children. But it also helps explain the persistence of "the glass ceilings, as well as stubbornly large wage gaps in more progressive countries," because working women tend to be shunted more decisively onto a mommy track than they are in the United States. And it shunts them in other ways as well: To borrow an insight Neil Gilbert, the author of one of the must-read books on this topic, the social-democratic combination of high tax rates and a large state-run caregiving apparatus creates a strong economic incentive for mothers to leave their children with professional caregivers while taking a job ... as a professional caregiver. This boosts workforce participation and G.D.P. - but whether it boosts actual female welfare seems at least somewhat debatable.
However: The fact that the French system, and other European models like it, can have perverse consequences doesn't mean that America's lack of a family policy is just brilliant benign neglect. If family-friendly socialism creates mommy tracks and throws up hurdles to female advancement, family-unfriendly mixed-economy capitalism just makes it really, really hard for middle-income parents to balance work and life, find decent childcare and/or get by on a single income, and have as many kids as they would like.
These hardships have consequences: The recent decline in the American birthrate, the role that family instability plays in the struggles of the American working class, the link between the attention paid to small children and their prospects later in life, even the the role that affordable family formation plays in the formation of political allegiances ... these are all reasons for American conservatives, in particular, to learn from the problems with the French model, rather than reject it out of hand.
The distortions created by mandatory leave policies and state-run daycares are not an inevitable consequence of family-friendly policies. Rather, they're an inevitable consequence of family-friendly policies that take sides in the mommy wars, subsidizing working parenthood rather than just supporting parenthood, full stop. And there's an obvious alternative: The kind of pro-family tax reform that I'm constantly and no doubt tediously championing in this space, which would ease the burdens on parents while remaining agnostic about how they should choose to organize their lives - by having one parent stay at home full time, by juggling part-time work, by paying for day care and working full time, whatever. The only significant distortion this system would create would be a pro-child distortion, and that's one I think our society can live with.
I'll conclude with the voice of an actual French parent, the perspicacious Pascal-Emmanuel Gobry, who concluded a right-of-center critique of his country's pro-family policies with the following words about their strengths:
I often like to say that I'd rather have a welfare state that does a few things well than one that does many things poorly. And it seems obvious to me that in a world of declining birthrates, endemic family instability and increasing returns to human capital, supporting families should be one of those few things to do well. The French don't often get the how right, but they have the what right, and they've had it right for well over a century. Americans on the Left would do well to pay attention to the problems with the how, but those on the Right should really pay attention to the what.
 Exactement.

        
Rubio-Schumer and the Republican Future
        
The Great Assimilation Debate
        
What Is Reform Conservatism?
        
What Conservative Reformers Don't Like About Immigration Reform
        
On Suicide, Does Density Disprove Durkheim?

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: FAMILY (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); WOMEN WORKERS (89%); EMPLOYMENT SEARCH (89%); WOMEN (89%); DISCRIMINATION (88%); GENDER EQUALITY (87%); INTERVIEWS (78%); WORK-LIFE BALANCE (78%); WORKING MOTHERS (78%); GENDER & SEX DISCRIMINATION IN EMPLOYMENT (76%); PREGNANCY & CHILDBIRTH (73%); BIRTHS & BIRTH RATES (73%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (65%) Birth Rates; France; Gender; United States; Women and Girls; Work-Life Balance; Workplace Environment

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (97%); FRANCE (96%); EUROPE (79%) France; United States

LOAD-DATE: July 16, 2013



472 of 937 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(Opinionator)

PUB-DATE: July 16, 2013

SECTION: OPINION

LENGTH: 2057 words

HEADLINE: The Boston Draft Riots

BYLINE: BRETT M. PALFREYMAN


HIGHLIGHT: In July 1863, New York wasn&#8217;t the only city to get hit by mob violence. 

 BODY:
Maj. Stephen Cabot must have expected the worst when he assumed command of the Massachusetts militia unit stationed at the Cooper Street Armory, in Boston's North End, on the evening of July 14, 1863. Earlier that afternoon, federal officials trudging through neighborhoods around the city had delivered the first round of conscription notices to the homes of drafted men. Cabot, like many in Boston, was probably aware that rampaging crowds of draft resisters had stormed across New York City the previous day, looting, burning and killing along the way. There was a good chance, he knew, that Bostonians might greet their nation's call to service in the same way. 
Looking out from his fortified position within the walls of the armory, the major set his jaw and resolved to maintain control of his city, whatever the cost. His heart must have stopped when, around dusk, Gov. John A. Andrew informed him that a "mob" was "beating the police" and "there was every appearance of serious trouble during the coming night." 
Major Cabot and his detachment of 166 militiamen watched through shuttered windows and cracks in barred doors as a mob of between 500 and 1,000 people gathered on Cooper Street, outside the armory. Young men tore up bricks from the sidewalks beneath their feet and hurled them at the building, breaking windows and splintering fragments from the armory's massive double doors. 
A reporter from The Boston Herald remembered "one Amazonian woman, shouting and screaming, and urging the assailants on in their desperate work. A dozen men were trying to get her away from the scene, but she tore herself from their arms, and with hair streaming, arms swinging, and her face the picture of phrenzy, she rushed again and again to the assault." A young girl watching nearby recalled that "women came out in large numbers, some of them holding their babies up in their arms and daring the soldiers to fire at them." As furious rioters wielding firearms, clubs and other homemade weapons pressed up against the failing wooden doors, Major Cabot finally gave the order he'd been hoping to avoid. 
One of the armory's two cannons was loaded with grape shot and rolled into position near the entrance, aimed directly at the closed doors and the protesters on the other side. A single shot was all it took. The cannon discharged with a flash of light and a thunderous report, spraying a barrage of lead balls through the double doors and into the heart of the crowd beyond. "Dead and wounded lay on every side and the havoc was appalling;" one 12-year-old boy died instantly, shot through the heart. A middle-aged man fell nearby, "eleven shot taking effect in his head and body" and "his arm nearly shot off." 
The crowd wavered, fell back, and finally dispersed as soldiers burst through the doorway and into the streets with bayonets fixed. Major Cabot's initial sense of relief probably darkened as he surveyed the smoke-filled square and saw that "nothing was to be seen of the mob, except those who had paid the penalty for lawlessness." 
The Boston draft riots have never received as much scholarly or popular attention as their more well-known counterparts in New York City. The Boston riots were shorter and less destructive, and they resulted in fewer deaths (while the exact number of people killed in Boston is unclear, the final death toll was certainly far lower than the 120 or more souls who lost their lives in New York). 
But we also hear less about the Boston draft riots today because the overwhelming majority of written documents about them came from the city's elites: newspaper editors, concerned politicians, the chief of police and even Major Cabot himself. In Civil War Boston, these men tended to be wealthier and more educated. They were staunch Republicans, ardent supporters of Lincoln and his draft, and wholeheartedly committed to the cause of the Union. As such, they had good reason to deny the legitimacy of draft protests in their city. If word spread that common people were to taking to the streets to resist the draft in Boston - the ostensible heart of antislavery, the supposed stronghold of the Union - how could the North ever hope to win the war? 
Unsurprisingly, the written records left behind by literate Bostonians downplayed the ultimate significance of draft resistance in the city. One writer dismissed the disturbance as "a chance mob" and an "accidental gathering without object." City officials, said another, had "nervously imagined ... an opposition to the government draft, because some women and children collected in one of our streets, and had been allowed to remain there unmolested for several hours." Boston's Republican leaders refused to believe (or at least refused to acknowledge publicly) that anything important had happened in their city. 
So how can we rediscover the other side of the story? How can we recapture the voices of the men, women, and children who gathered on Cooper Street to stare down the rifle barrels of their neighbors and countrymen stationed within the Armory walls? What did they want? How much were they willing to risk in order to achieve their goals? 
The people in the streets did not publish lists of grievances in Boston newspapers; they did not write their own accounts of the riots for historians to find years later. What we know about them, then, is only as much as we can infer from a biased documentary record. Since they did not (or could not) tell us what they were thinking, we must focus instead on their actions. 
First of all, who were the people involved in the riots? Boston draft rioters tended to be recent immigrants or children of immigrants. They tended to be Irish, many of them descendants of the wave of refugees that flooded into Boston during the Irish potato famine of the 1840s. A journalist on the scene in the North End reported that an "Irishwoman was conspicuous in the crowd"; another stated that the mob contained "a goodly number of Irishwomen" and a group of "boys and young men, many of them foreigners." The police arrested suspected rioters with common Irish surnames like Shea, Sullivan, Sheehan and McGrath.
We know that most of the rioters came from the working class. The Boston Journal identified one victim at Cooper Street - an unfortunate man with "at least a dozen balls" in his chest and legs - as a "laboring man, middle-aged and of medium stature." The city's very first draft notices were delivered to squalid "tenement houses" huddled behind Endicott Street, not far from the scene of the events at the armory. 
From the wealth of news reports and other accounts, we can safely assume that the mob at Cooper Street contained a substantial proportion of women and children. From inside his North End apartment, Patrick Gould recalled that the "crowd was composed mostly of women and boys." George Talbot testified he noticed a "little girl, ten or twelve years old, throwing bricks and stones" - many of the children were "so small as to be unable to reach the object they were throwing at." 
More than a few contemporary commentators interpreted the presence of women and children as evidence of a lack of legitimacy or sincerity on the part of protesters. They were happy to dismiss some mild unruliness on the part of irrational women and their bored children as mere passing excitement. But in Civil War Boston, the truth was often the opposite. Women played central roles in voicing grievances and expressing frustration on behalf of their families and neighbors, especially in immigrant and Irish communities. When wartime shortages, inflationary prices and the absence of male wage-earners endangered family welfare, women became responsible for dealing with public authorities and finding solutions. Margaret Leahy of South Boston addressed her requests for aid directly to the mayor, writing, "I had an only son who was my only support, until last April, when he enlisted in the Ninth Mass. Regiment. Now I am in a destitute condition and am obliged to appeal to you." Similarly, Anne Henry asked the governor if she could "draw pay since [my husband] enlisted three months ago" and "I have two children and no support." The prevalence of women and children among protesters was not, as many observers suggested, evidence of a lack of seriousness or commitment. Rather, the disproportionate involvement of women and children in the riots is best interpreted as an indication of substantial unrest within the immigrant community. 
Finally, and most important, we know that Boston's rioters were deeply committed to resisting the 1863 draft and the new Union agenda it had come to represent. Early in the war, Irish immigrants throughout the country jumped at the opportunity to demonstrate their "Americanness" by volunteering to fight to preserve the Union. They served admirably in battle-hardened units like the Massachusetts 9th Regiment or New York's 69th Infantry, the so-called "Irish Brigade." 
By 1863, however, after years of suffering and anguish, Boston Irish saw the war very differently. They refused to be drafted to fight for the emancipation of African-American slaves or the enrichment and advancement of Union leaders. The editors of The Pilot, Boston's Catholic newspaper, affirmed that "not one volunteer in a hundred has gone forth ... to liberate the slaves." "At one time we did support Lincoln," they wrote bitterly, "but he changed, and so have we." 
The riots at Cooper Street began as a direct result of official attempts at conscription and targeted specific symbols associated with the draft and with local institutions thought to be collaborating in the effort. The initial outbreak of violence in Boston was directly precipitated by the arrival of draft agents in lower-class neighborhoods. One of the first reported confrontations occurred between a draft official and the wife of a draftee. After they argued, as the agent fled the scene, the Irish woman was said to lean from her window and call "to her husband 'to protect himself from the draft.'"
Once in the streets, protesters continued to voice objections to the forcible conscription of poor Irish men. According to The Boston Journal, "an Irishwoman was conspicuous in the crowd on Haymarket Square, showing a photograph of her boy who she said was killed in battle and praying that 'Yankees, Irishmen, and Dutchmen might all be killed.'" The federal marshal in Boston quickly cleared his office of draft-related materials - his "books and papers, including the names of the enrolled, the record of the draft, & etc." - and moved to a safer location. He clearly understood that protesters were primarily concerned with compromising the government's ability to execute the draft. 
With the physical apparatus of the draft out of reach, rioters targeted other symbols of authority associated with coercive government power. They accosted police officers and draft agents throughout the North End. As militia units began to arrive in affected neighborhoods, protesters focused their attention on marching troops and military structures. On Cooper Street, "the Regulars had hardly reached the [armory], when a perfect shower of missiles were hurled at them and the building. Sidewalks were torn up by the rod by women and children, and carried forward to men and boys in front, and the mob commenced a siege in good earnest." 
The Irish men and women who gathered at Cooper Square that July day realized that their lives and livelihoods were quite literally in jeopardy. If they submitted to the draft, the men would march south to stare down Confederate guns on the battlefields of the Civil War, while women and children might succumb to poverty and starvation at home in Boston. If they resisted, men, women and children alike would face rifles and cannons manned by soldiers and police in their own neighborhoods. Each of Boston's rioters understood that death - whether at war or at home - was a distinct possibility. They took to the streets in 1863 to have a say in where, how and for what purpose. 
 Follow Disunion at twitter.com/NYTcivilwar or join us on Facebook. 
 Brett M. Palfreyman is a graduate student in American history at Binghamton University. 

        
Seeing the New York Draft Riots
        
New York's Mixed-Race Riot
        
Black Elites and the Draft Riots
        
Organizing Black Soldiers
        
Creating 'The Glorious 54th'

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: RIOTS (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); PARAMILITARY & MILITIA (89%); PROTESTS & DEMONSTRATIONS (76%); WOUNDS & INJURIES (68%); ARMED FORCES (61%) Boston (Mass); Civil War (US) (1861-65); Demonstrations, Protests, and Riots; Draft and Recruitment (Military); Disunion

COMPANY: BOSTON HERALD (54%)

GEOGRAPHIC: BOSTON, MA, USA (97%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%) MASSACHUSETTS, USA (97%); NEW YORK, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (97%) Boston (Mass)

LOAD-DATE: July 16, 2013



473 of 937 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(T Magazine)

PUB-DATE: July 16, 2013

SECTION: T-MAGAZINE; culture

LENGTH: 432 words

HEADLINE: Rules of Style | Carla Bruni-Sarkozy on the Allure of the Pantsuit and the Importance of Staying Hydrated

BYLINE: ALAINNA LEXIE BEDDIE


HIGHLIGHT: The effortlessly elegant singer-songwriter and former First Lady of France shares her tips for formal dressing, healthy skin and more. 

 BODY:
"My personal style's never really changed," Carla Bruni-Sarkozy explained recently. Wearing a striped pantsuit and worn brown leather men's brogues, the former model and onetime first lady of France was sitting on a sofa in her suite at the London Hotel in New York City, puffing an e-cigarette. In town to promote her fourth album, the simple, easygoing "Little French Songs," she showed no ill effects from a late night performing at the Royalton Hotel the previous night - her only American gig this year, though she does plan to tour the United States in 2014. Here, the effortlessly elegant 45-year-old shares a few of her timeless style maxims. 
 Moisturize and hydrate. 
"Dryness is never good," Bruni observed. She said she uses Hydranorme, a French face cream by La Roche-Posay, and admitted a love for all cold creams for their moisturizing properties. Her other beauty tips are to drink a lot of water, sleep a lot and avoid the sun.
 Don't overlook the pantsuit. 
"I love the suit," she said, singling out Yves Saint Laurent's Le Smoking tuxedo suit. "I think it's such a brilliant idea to make a suit to go out for a woman. When you wear just a black suit, and a nice pair of earrings, it's also a great economy of time."
 Be understated. 
When women overdo it, especially on formal occasions, they can end up looking like "a Christmas tree," she said. Her favorite couture gown is essentially an L.B.D., a gift from Yves Saint Laurent. "It's just an evening dress, black, so it's very simple," she explained. "But it has a very nice cut in the back. So when you look at it from the front, it's really, you know, almost conservative. But it's open in the back, very open."
 There's nothing wrong with dressing casually. 
Now that she's freed from her state duties, Bruni's outfits are usually informal. When she was first lady, Bruni said, "Of course, what I would wear in a public situation changed because when you actually have the honor of representing a country, you try to achieve a higher level of elegance to make them happy and proud, you know? But my personal style is basically pants, shoes and T-shirts."
 Stop smoking! (Even if you are French.) 
"This is to avoid smoking, right?" she said, brandishing her mint-flavored e-cigarette. "It's delicious, you know. It's so nice that I think it has to be toxic. You never find something very delicious that is completely untoxic, right?"

        
Just for Kicks | Fashion's New Favorite Sneakers
        
The Look | Angelina Jolie Does Modern Grecian in London
        
Photos of The Moment | Saint Laurent
        
New Label Alert | Julia Jentzsch
        
Lumiere | YSL in the U.S.A.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: SINGERS & MUSICIANS (90%); COSMETICS & TOILETRIES (90%); MUSIC INDUSTRY (90%); SMOKING (89%); WOMEN'S CLOTHING (89%); FASHION & APPAREL (87%); HAUTE COUTURE (77%); SONG WRITING (76%); SKIN CARE PRODUCTS (74%); SMOKING CESSATION (71%); FASHION ACCESSORIES (69%); CHRISTMAS (64%) Sarkozy, Carla; Fashion and Apparel; Yves Saint Laurent; Culture; Women's Fashion

ORGANIZATION: Yves Saint Laurent

PERSON: CARLA BRUNI (92%) Sarkozy, Carla

GEOGRAPHIC: LONDON, ENGLAND (73%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (73%) NEW YORK, USA (90%) FRANCE (93%); UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: July 16, 2013



474 of 937 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(DealBook)

PUB-DATE: July 16, 2013

SECTION: BUSINESS

LENGTH: 1241 words

HEADLINE: Possibly Unfair, but Not Necessarily Fraudulent

BYLINE: PETER J. HENNING


HIGHLIGHT: Although it is natural to think that having access to information that influences the markets before others is always wrong, the laws on fraud do not go that far. 

 BODY:
When someone has access to a service that is not equally available to others, the immediate response is often to say, "That's not fair!" And when the securities markets are involved, the first thought seems to be that any informational advantage is not only unfair but potentially fraudulent.
Of course, there are advantages everywhere. Airlines sell access to early boarding, and you can buy a pass at Universal Studios to skip the lines. Few seem troubled that someone who bundled millions of dollars in donations receives an invitation to an inaugural ball while common contributors might receive a token souvenir. 
While we are accustomed to paying extra for things that were once free, like checked baggage on airlines, when it comes to the public markets for stocks, bonds and commodities, the reaction to those buying preferential access is to cry foul. 
That became clear last week when New York's attorney general, Eric T. Schneiderman, announced an agreement with Thomson Reuters concerning a closely watched economic indicator. Thomson Reuters agreed that it would no longer sell access to the University of Michigan's consumer confidence index to high-frequency trading firms two seconds before other subscribers. Mr. Schneiderman described this as a step toward creating a "level playing field" in the markets by ending an "unfair business practice." 
His office is investigating whether other firms are violating the law, particularly with regard to New York's broad Martin Act, in how they sell data to subscribers who can trade in advance of its public release. And Mr. Schneiderman is not the only one looking at disclosures of this type of information.
Senator Charles E. Grassley sent a letter to the University of Michigan asking questions about its arrangement "to allow preferential access" to the information. DealBook reported that the Securities and Exchange Commission was also investigating how Thomson Reuters released manufacturing data milliseconds before its public disclosure, giving high-frequency trading firms an opportunity to profit on it.
Although it is natural to think that having access to information that influences the markets before others is always wrong, the laws on fraud do not go that far. Instead, they focus on whether someone has been deceived, either through a misstatement or by a failure to disclose information.
The Martin Act, adopted in 1921, is considered one of the broadest antifraud laws available to police the securities markets. It does not require proof of intentional misconduct, and there is even a possibility that a misdemeanor violation could be proved without showing any intent - known as strict liability. That gives Mr. Schneiderman a powerful tool to go after companies like Thomson Reuters for disclosures that affect the market.
But the core of any violation is still about proving fraud, which includes not just false statements but also any "deception, concealment, suppression, false pretense or fictitious or pretended purchase or sale" of securities. A 1926 decision by the New York Court of Appeals on the scope of the Martin Act stated that the law reaches acts "which do by their tendency to deceive or mislead the purchasing public."
Is selling access to proprietary information to those willing to pay a premium a species of fraud when it allows traders to reap profits at the expense of those unwilling to pay the premium?
Thomson Reuters and others who selectively disclose information to subscribers are not hiding what they do. Indeed, it is the exact opposite - they tell the world that only those willing to pay will get the advantage of an early peek at the information.
There is a tiny universe of potential customers who would want access to financial data two seconds ahead of others. No individual would ever be able to take advantage of that time period, but high-frequency traders certainly can. As James B. Stewart reported, dropping the two-second advantage last week resulted in a steep drop in the amount of trading in the milliseconds before the broader release of the index.
Some informational advantages are fraudulent, as the recent spate of insider trading cases shows. Unlike companies that sell an informational advantage, however, the key to insider trading is keeping the information confidential and not letting anyone know you are using it to profit. It is the failure to publicly disclose the information before using it that brings about the violation, not just the fact that the information is confidential.
Still, it appears anomalous that someone at Thomson Reuters who used its confidential market information without permission to trade profitably would be guilty of insider trading, but the company can sell that same advantage to a select few willing to pay for it without violating the law. The difference is that insider trading requires proof of a breach of fiduciary duty, so that the proprietor of the information can do whatever it wishes so long as it does not deceive the investing public. 
In a famous case in the 1980s, Carpenter v. United States, the Supreme Court upheld the conviction of a former Wall Street Journal reporter for trading on confidential information about companies before it was published. While the reporter breached his fiduciary duty, the court noted that The Journal had a proprietary interest in the information its reporters gathered, and could do with it as it saw fit.
Consumers of the information sold by media companies would not be subject to any claim of fraud because they are not trading on it in breach of a duty. When a company obtains the information through legitimate means, like the agreement Thomson Reuters has with the University of Michigan to distribute its index, then there is no violation of any duty by selling advance access to the data.
The S.E.C. does have a rule in place, Regulation FD, which requires public companies to disclose information to everyone at once and not just to select recipients. But this rule applies only to internal corporate information and not to the type of research data about the economy that is sold by companies.
The issue then is whether Mr. Schneiderman or the S.E.C. can police these types of arrangements by companies that sell information they obtain legally. It is notable that, even though the two-second advantage has stopped, Thomson Reuters continues to sell the information five minutes before its release to the general public, undermining the idea that any early disclosure is somehow fraudulent. 
There is no broad mandate for the government to ensure that the markets are "fair" or that they offer a "level playing field" without any informational disparities, at least under the fraud laws. While fraudulent transactions are certainly unfair, simply asserting that buying access to information in advance of others is somehow unfair does not necessarily make it illegal.
The issue may be more about how high-frequency trading firms can take advantage of information in just a few milliseconds to garner profits far beyond what might have been possible before computerized trading. If that is the case, then the focus should be on policing how these firms trade rather than cracking down on the sale of information to those willing to pay. Otherwise, perhaps the airlines should not be allowed to let so many people board ahead of me.

        
Regulators Examining Sales of Early Financial Data
        
Thomson Reuters to Suspend Early Peeks at Key Index

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC NEWS (91%); CONSUMER CONFIDENCE (91%); ECONOMIC INDICATORS (90%); FRAUD & FINANCIAL CRIME (89%); INVESTIGATIONS (89%); DEREGULATION (89%); BANKING & FINANCE AGENCIES (77%); SECURITIES LAW (77%); SUITS & CLAIMS (77%); MISCONDUCT (72%); BONDS (69%); ATTORNEYS GENERAL (68%); CRIMINAL OFFENSES (65%); MISDEMEANORS (50%) Consumer Confidence (Economic Indicator); High-Frequency and Flash Trading; Regulation and Deregulation of Industry; Schneiderman, Eric T; Thomson Reuters Corporation; University of Michigan; Legal/Regulatory; Top Headline 2; White Collar Watch

ORGANIZATION: Thomson Reuters Corporation; University of Michigan

PERSON: CHUCK GRASSLEY (50%) Schneiderman, Eric T

GEOGRAPHIC: MICHIGAN, USA (94%); NEW YORK, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: July 17, 2013



475 of 937 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(The Public Editor's Journal)

PUB-DATE: July 16, 2013

SECTION: OPINION

LENGTH: 1555 words

HEADLINE: 'Sex on Campus' Writer Responds to Questions and Complaints

BYLINE: MARGARET SULLIVAN


HIGHLIGHT: An article on college &#8220;hookups&#8221; in the Styles section generated close to 800 comments and became the most e-mailed on Sunday. 

 BODY:
With its photo illustration of a bare thigh and dark-painted nails amid the bedsheets, Kate Taylor's nearly 4,800-word "Sex on Campus" article dominated the Styles cover on Sunday.
The article, titled "She Can Play That Game, Too," had the ability to startle. For example, in a paragraph very likely to give pause to parents of college students everywhere, Ms. Taylor wrote:
One girl, explaining why her encounters freshman and sophomore year often ended with fellatio, said that usually by the time she got back to a guy's room, she was starting to sober up and didn't want to be there anymore, and giving the guy oral sex was an easy way to wrap things up and leave.
But no one should be startled by the article's rapid rise up the most e-mailed list to the top spot on Sunday and Monday morning, or by the almost 800 readers who wrote comments, or by the way it was discussed among college students and the parents of college students - though not necessarily in the same room with one another. It was also the topic of outside comment, including from Philly Magazine and The Atlantic.
 
I heard many comments and concerns about the article from readers, and I asked Ms. Taylor to respond to some of them - as well as to some of my questions. What follows is a condensed version of my e-mail exchange with her over the past two days, as reader e-mail arrived. (Ms. Taylor mentions Glenn Kramon in answering the first question; he is a Times editor who works on enterprise stories.)
 Q. 
How did this get started and how did you decide to focus on Penn?
 A. 
Glenn Kramon had the idea of sending a reporter to a college for a semester to talk to young women about their social lives. We wanted a school that was elite but also had a fairly typical collegiate social scene, and after considering a few different schools, and talking to some students at various schools, I chose Penn, because it fit that bill, was large and diverse, and not in New York City but not far from it either. Originally we had thought of focusing on drinking, but as I started talking to women, their feelings about relationships and sex seemed more central and interesting, with alcohol obviously playing an important role in their sexual interactions.
 Q. 
Are you surprised by the amount of reaction, and how would you characterize the reaction over all?
 A. 
I am surprised, though not completely, since I was pretty fascinated by what I was learning as I did the reporting. I feel as if the readers who appear to have read the article carefully - which is important, because it has many layers, not reflected in the snappy headline - have had very thoughtful reactions. From the comments, many older people seem to have been disturbed and saddened by the picture painted of college sex. Some commenters have reflected on some of the factors that have shaped young women's attitudes about sex and relationships, like the economic pressure they're under to succeed. I've been particularly interested in the reaction of current and recent college students, and a good amount of that has been positive. The response I've gotten so far from the women I interviewed has been very positive, and I've gotten very interesting e-mails from women at other schools about their experiences.
 Q. 
One thing I'm hearing is that by focusing on one Ivy League university, you got a certain kind of young woman - highly competitive, career-oriented, etc. Some people think reporting it more broadly would have been worthwhile. Why this particular choice?
 A. 
From the beginning the editors felt that it was important to do the reporting at one school, to give the story a sense of place and as much of a narrative as possible. There would have been other benefits in an approach looking at several schools. It would be very interesting to know how these issues play out at, say, a big state school, and even at community colleges. If this had been a series instead, that would have been wonderful.
 Q. 
How difficult was it to get the women to speak freely?
 A. 
It was very difficult, which is why I had to use middle names and even middle initials. Understandably, students were worried about future employers Googling them and seeing that they once talked about their sex lives. But beyond that, even students who said that they themselves didn't have any regrets about their sexual experiences were concerned that other people would judge them for being too promiscuous.
 Q. 
What has been the criticism you've heard most and how would you address it?
 A. 
I've heard criticism from some young women at Penn that they think I painted the picture of relationships there too bleakly - that I didn't pay enough attention to the women who do have boyfriends, whether at Penn or long-distance. I certainly met girls who had boyfriends, but they were the exception, not the rule, and I included the voices of several girls who either were dating people or had dated people in college in the story. The most prominent voice was that of Mercedes, whose experience was also distinct in that she came from a working-class background, did not participate at all in the "hookup" culture, and was still a virgin. It seems as if some students felt that having the only major character in the story with a boyfriend also be a virgin made things seem too black and white.
 Q. 
How long did you work on this? Were you working on it exclusively?
 A. 
I worked on it exclusively from September through January, and then on and off (while reporting on the mayor's race) since February.
 Q. 
Why now? Was it pegged to a study or did it just grow organically from your interest? Is there any time peg to it?
 A. 
It grew organically - first from Glenn presenting me with the opportunity, and then (as I started talking to women) from my interest in how things had changed even in the 12 years since I graduated from college. But I think it turned out to be unexpectedly timely, with Hanna Rosin's "The End of Men" and Susan Patton's letter to The Daily Princetonian bringing up similar issues, and, in the case of Patton's letter, causing quite a furor.
 Q. 
There are no men quoted in the story - students or experts. Was this a decision you made in advance? Wouldn't including men's voices have provided a more well-rounded story?
 A. 
Because of the way the story evolved, it was always focused on women. I did interview male students, though not as many and not in as much depth as the female students. At a certain point their voices were in the story, as a discrete section, but my editors found that awkward, so it got cut. Obviously what men want and how men feel is a critical part of the picture, and in my fantasies it might have been a pair of articles, but that wasn't possible.
 Q. 
What about gay and lesbian students? They aren't mentioned here. Why?
 A. 
I did interview several lesbians and bisexual women in my research, and found their experiences and perspectives fascinating. One argued that the "hookup" culture was itself inherently heterosexual, and said that, while there was certainly its equivalent among gay men on campus, there was not among lesbians. Another lesbian expressed attitudes similar to that of many of the heterosexual girls I interviewed, that career preparation was her first priority and she was not going to have a relationship that was too time-consuming. I would have loved to discuss the similarities and differences between heterosexual and L.G.B.T. students, but I just didn't have the space.
 Q. 
Finally, some readers believed your article didn't give enough attention to the fine line between the alcohol-fueled "hookup" culture and sexual assault. Although one section described Haley, who experienced sexual assault, how do you respond to those who say it was not enough?
 A. 
I actually feel as if it was handled quite well. The role of rape was flagged up high. (A sentence early in the article read, "Some women described a dangerous edge to the 'hookup' culture, of sexual assaults and degrading encounters enabled by drinking and distinguished by a lack of emotional connection.") Haley's story came about halfway through the story, and, at 911 words, it was by far the longest of any of the individual sections of the article. My intent was not to write a whole article focused exclusively on the problem of sexual assault in college. That would have been a different story. Some readers have objected to including a discussion of rape at all within an article about the college "hookup" culture. I think people would prefer these subjects to be completely separable, but the take-away from my reporting, and what I think the article accurately shows, is that they are not. In a context in which young people are drinking a lot, and having sexual encounters in which there is often little clear communication, there is a real danger of sexual assault.
Here's my take: The story, though certainly not the final word on this topic, was fascinating and worthwhile. The article itself was more nuanced than the headline and presentation got across, which is hard to avoid. (Try telling a complex story in six engaging words sometime; it's not easy.) Like many articles of this nature, which depend heavily on anecdotes and personal experience, this one can't be seen as definitive, but as a snapshot that gets people talking and thinking. Unquestionably, it did that.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); WRITERS (89%); WOMEN (78%); ELECTRONIC MAIL (73%); COLLEGES & UNIVERSITIES (71%) Colleges and Universities; Dating and Courtship

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%) NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: July 19, 2013



476 of 937 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(ArtsBeat)

PUB-DATE: July 16, 2013

SECTION: ARTS

LENGTH: 2461 words

HEADLINE: Q. and A.: Orville Schell and John Delury on China's Quest for Rejuvenation

BYLINE: EDWARD WONG


HIGHLIGHT: Talking to the authors of &#8220;Wealth and Power: China&#8217;s Long March to the Twenty-First Century.&#8221; 

 BODY:
BEIJING - Last November, after ascending to the top position in the Chinese Communist Party, Xi Jinping led the other six members of the new Politburo Standing Committee to an outing at the National Museum, on the east side of Tiananmen Square. The men stood in dark jackets at an exhibition on modern Chinese history titled "The Road to Rejuvanation," or [#x590d][#x5174][#x4e4b][#x8def]. This was their first appearance together outside the Great Hall of the People, and so it was loaded with meaning.
The exhibition, which had been carefully put together during the museum's recent renovation, was a narrative that told of how the Communist Revolution that succeeded in 1949 had finally allowed China to stand proud after what state propaganda likes to call a century of humiliation at the hands of Western powers, starting with the First Opium War. At that November appearance, Mr. Xi talked about the "Chinese Dream," and he seemed to be referring to a mission of national revival, one in which all Chinese could play a role. 
In a provocative new book whose ideas have already begun stirring debate among China watchers, Orville Schell and John Delury argue that the quest for national rejuvenation, or for wealth and power, [#x5bcc][#x5f37], has long been at the heart of modern Chinese political and intellectual thought. On July 16, Jonathan Spence, the Yale historian, is scheduled to host a book launch event with the authors at the Asia Society in New York. From my perch in Beijing, I engaged with Mr. Schell and Mr. Delury in an e-mail conversation over the weekend about the themes in their book, "Wealth and Power: China's Long March to the Twenty-First Century." Below are excerpts.
 Q. 
In your research, you found that the idea of national rejuvenation, or [#x590d][#x5174], is a strong current in modern Chinese intellectual thought. Can you tell us more?
 A. 
The concept of rejuvenation has deep roots in Chinese political thought, going back to the notion of "mid-dynastic revival", or [#x4e2d][#x5174], which imperial rulers invoked during periods of stagnation as a means to re-energize the empire. Since the fall of the last Chinese dynasty, the Qing, in 1911, a modern variant emerged in the notion of "rejuvenation", [#x590d][#x5174], which is no longer about a particular ruling house, but rather, the revival of the Chinese nation-state itself, and in particular, its emergence as a strong, prosperous and respected modern nation. Virtually every intellectual and political figure we look at in our book shares that central preoccupation with rejuvenating the nation.
Then, President Xi Jinping recently added a new dimension to this reverie of "rejuvenation" by lofting the notion of a "China dream"[#x4e2d][#x570b][#x5922]. By doing so, he seemed to be inviting individual Chinese to allow themselves to imagine a greater and more glorious role in the world for their country, thus placing himself solidly in this stream of thinking that goes back centuries. 
 Q. 
Besides rejuvenation, what other ideas form the backbone of Chinese national thought today? How do you see these ideas manifest in events unfolding in and around China and in policy decisions by its leaders?
 A. 
So much of China's thinking about itself and its place in the world has roots that go back into the 19th century. For example, the idea of "overcoming humiliation" remains omnipresent in Chinese national self-consciousness, and we trace its roots back to ideas put forward by Confucius about the curative powers of a sense of shame - the way in which feeling humiliation can sometimes serve as a catalyst for self-improvement - that were revived in the Opium War era by reformist thinkers like Wei Yuan, the first figure profiled in our book.
In more modern times a critical element for every leader or political party has been to use nationalism - which Sun Yat-sen described as "that precious possession which enables a state to aspire to progress and a nation to perpetuate its existence" - to unify Chinese people behind a more united and stable government with sufficient authority to rule effectively.
A close sibling of nationalism was the concept of "tutelage," another Sun Yat-sen contribution, that described the process Chinese people would need to undergo before finally becoming ready for self-government. Indeed, from the earliest, proto-democratic thinkers in the later Qing dynasty to many of today's political theorists, Chinese reformers frequently have fallen back on this idea that their people are not yet sufficiently advanced in their thinking and political experience to be granted the rights and responsibilities of full democratic life.
 Q. 
Of the thinkers and writings you examined, which ones did you find had the greatest impact and reach? Which ones had the greatest transformative power on modern Chinese history?
 A. 
If there is one verity that both Chinese and foreigners reformers and revolutionaries have all been forced to accept, it is that China changes only grudgingly. So impact is a difficult thing to measure when it comes to the history of ideas, even of action. Someone like Liang Qichao, the early 20th century reformer, is perhaps most remarkable in terms of the reach of his writings and ideas, since he was living in exile in Japan at the time - having been chased out of China with a death sentence over his head by the Empress Dowager Cixi. But, whereas Liang Qichao's essays were read by almost everyone back in China, even Qing dynasty officials - more recent exiles, the post-1989 generation, for example - have struggled to remain relevant to the politics of their homeland once they leave. In Liang's case, however, his ideas about the need for a "new citizen," the constructive value of what he called "destructivism," and the need for "the people" to change their consciousness - not just their form of government - inspired many generations to come.
 Q. 
What did you discover during your research that surprised you the most?
 A. 
Even though we have both spent many years studying modern Chinese history, neither of us quite knew how to make sense out of it. As we surveyed China's modern past before undertaking this project, it looked something like a series of miscellaneous one-act plays all involving failed reforms, broken dreams, disjointed efforts at national self-reinvention or dead-end revolutions that did not add up to anything coherent. But, as we began reading, we were taken aback by how often the term "wealth and power" [#x5bcc][#x5f37] kept re-occurring. Indeed, as we discovered, it was a leitmotif that was strewn throughout the writings of virtually every leader and thinker of consequence in the modern period. In fact, we finally had to edit down the number of references to this phrase, as well as the idea, in our quotations from historical figures, lest our own book take on the air of redundancy. But, it was a stunning revelation to see how this grand meme, fuqiang, reprised itself generation after generation, from the 1810s right down to the 2010s. Indeed, when Xi Jinping formally took the reins last fall, we were hardly surprised when he, too, began speaking as if scripted by the central themes of our book.
 Q. 
If you could sit down with one of the Chinese thinkers or leaders you wrote about and have a face-to-face conversation with him or her, who would it be? Why?
 A. 
(Schell) The person I would most liked to have conversed with is certainly the great essayist and short-story writer Lu Xun, whose dark and satiric writing captured the abject despair of the teens and twenties during the last century. But I would hardly have eschewed a chance to talk with Mao about his view of modern Chinese history's teleology and how he might have viewed it as being somehow different than that of the West.
(Delury) I would probably choose the least known character in our cast, a Confucian theorist named Feng Guifen, who developed a program for China's "self-strengthening" based partly on what he observed about the West's "techniques for wealth and power" while living near foreigners in Shanghai in the 1860s. My guess is Feng hid away more of his political writings, and I'd ask if he'd show them to me.
 Q. 
In recent years, the Obama administration appears to have been feeling out various ways of coping or engaging with a rising China, and its strategies have had varying levels of success. Based on your research, what should American policymakers keep in mind as they try to manage this important relationship?
 A. 
While it is completely understandable that Americans should want to stand up for such things as democracy and human rights as the universal birthrights of peoples anywhere and everywhere, it is always important for them to understand how, because of historical sensitivities, Chinese (and especially their leaders) have always chafed under imputations of inequality. This has meant that, while weakness has often compelled them to endure being lectured, criticized and to be found lacking, they have always chafed under such a censorious regimen. And, now that they are stronger and it is less necessary to accept such posture from the West, they have started to arch their backs against it in a more aggressive way. It is this dynamic that is perhaps most important to understand in trying to facilitate better relations.
But our book makes no pretense to offer policy prescriptions, or tell United States officials how to do their jobs. Rather, we hope to give a new vantage point on Chinese passage to modernity that is in a way half-Chinese and half-American. Perhaps if both sides can read and reflect on this story it can help bridge the divides that persist in Sino-U.S. relations.
 Q. 
What kind of impact is China's historically consistent quest for wealth, power and status, as you lay out in your book, having on the region today? How will it change the dynamics of various parts of Asia - from Central Asia to Southeast Asia - in the years to come?
 A. 
For one thing, it's interesting to note that the quest for wealth, power and status is by no means a Chinese monopoly in an East Asian context. In the book, we talk about how Japan's more successful modernization drive starting in the 1860s was partly inspired by Chinese reformers' talk of fuqiang. A hundred years later, the South Korea's strongman Park Chung-hee used the same term to inspire his development drive in the 1960s. Even the North Korean leadership talks about making their nation a "strong and prosperous great country." So in one sense China's modern mission is consonant with that of many of its neighbors. But considering China's vast size, the question that leaders and publics across Asia want to know is, what will China do with its wealth and power? And, especially give all the current territorial maritime disputes, most of China's neighbors, who only a few years ago were quite well-disposed to China and its rise, now have a much more wary attitude.
China's challenge over the next decade will be to find a way to "rise" without threatening these neighbors. And, above all, China, which views itself as having been historically kicked around and bullied by other Great Powers, must strive not to succumb to the very understandable temptation - especially as it grows stronger - to put the shoe on the other foot and exercise dominance over lesser powers.
 Q. 
What direction do you believe China's new leaders are taking the country, and what are the biggest challenges that confront them? How will China look a decade from now?
 A. 
Domestically speaking, if the Chinese government and the Chinese Communist Party cannot find a way to deal with the country's rampant corruption, the yawning abyss between rich and poor, the environmental disaster caused by its economic "boom," and the injustices of that grow out of its system of one-party authoritarian rule, it is difficult to imagine how it can continue to move Chinese society forward in a stable and peaceful manner. And likewise, if it cannot begin to put its sense of its own national victimization behind it, and start dealing with other countries in a less suspicious manner, it is difficult to imagine that China will ever feel truly comfortable and thus become truly respected in the world, much less become a truly constructive new great power.
 Q. 
What were the biggest challenges you faced in doing historical research on these topics and tracking down primary sources?
 A. 
For the most part, we were fortunate to have a fascinating set of original texts - the writings and speeches and documents of our 11 figures - plus a very rich body of existing scholarship to work off. There were some areas that took more hunting, however, or posed particular historiographical problems. The story of the Empress Dowager Cixi, for example, is shrouded in myth, slander, and speculation. To some extent, scholars have been scared off by the lack of reliable sources, such that to this day there is no full-length scholarly biography of Cixi. And yet, here is this woman who is a dominant political actor, if not paramount leader, for a critical 40-year-period when China missed the first boat to becoming a strong and prosperous modern nation. So although she was hard to approach, we felt she had to be in the mix.
(Delury) There was one manuscript in particular I wanted to see but couldn't for reasons that are themselves revealing. The aforementioned Feng Guifen wrote notes in the margin of a manuscript copy of his 1861 treatise, Dissenting Views from a Hut Near Bin, which we discuss at length in our book. I went to the Shanghai Library to see the original, rather thrilled at the idea of seeing Feng's own brush in action. But after a few days of scouring, it turned out the manuscript had disappeared. Librarians told me that, although still listed in the old catalog, it was most likely lost, along with so much else, during the Cultural Revolution. That was a bitter moment.
(Schell) I was fascinated by Chiang Kai-shek's diary, which is at the Hoover Institution, but now has various edited Taiwan and mainland editions. It showed so clearly that it was not just the Communists who had elaborated a victim complex.
But, finally our main challenge was not so much to uncover new English- and Chinese-language primary sources or unheralded secondary scholarly works, but just to digest the massive amounts of both to which we already had easy access. So, we labored hardest in taking what was already available and trying to make some new sense out of it, especially in light of the dramatically new "ending" we are now watching unfold as China at last achieves its long quest for strength and prosperity.

        
Asia Society to Host China-India Program
        
Book Review Podcast: Orson Welles Speaks
        
Small Books With Big Souls
        
PEN Announces Finalists and Judges for Book Prizes
        
'Suitable Boy' Author Renegotiating $1.7 Million Contract After Unsuitable Delay

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: WRITERS (90%); MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (90%); POLITICS (89%); POLITICAL PARTIES (78%); HISTORY (77%); LITERATURE (74%); BOOK REVIEWS (72%); OPIUM (53%) Books and Literature; China; Schell, Orville; Books

PERSON: XI JINPING (91%) Schell, Orville

GEOGRAPHIC: BEIJING, CHINA (89%) NORTH CENTRAL CHINA (93%); NEW YORK, USA (76%) CHINA (99%); UNITED STATES (76%) China

LOAD-DATE: July 17, 2013



477 of 937 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(Taking Note)

PUB-DATE: July 16, 2013

SECTION: OPINION

LENGTH: 369 words

HEADLINE: The Decline of North Carolina, Continued

BYLINE: DOROTHY J. SAMUELS


HIGHLIGHT: So much for the state&#8217;s public financing program for judicial elections. 

 BODY:
An editorial last week lamented North Carolina's abandonment of progressive policies in the seven months since Republicans took control of both the executive and legislative branches in the Tar Heel State for the first time since reconstruction. 
The piece cited backward slides in areas such as public education, tax fairness, voting, abortion rights and the mean-spirited slashing of federal unemployment benefits for roughly 70,000 residents.
To that depressing list, I would add one more item: the destruction of North Carolina's public financing system for judicial elections.

Enacted in 2002, the program set a laudable national example by allowing candidates for the bench to reduce their reliance on the special interest campaign money that now dominates state races for important judicial posts across the country - creating conflicts of interest that a new study from the American Constitution Society links to friendly rulings for business interests by both Republican and Democratic judges.
"In 2002, the last year without public financing, 73 percent of campaign funds for judicial candidates came from attorneys and special interest groups," noted Alicia Bannon of the Brennan Center for Justice in a recent op-ed piece for the Raleigh News and Observer. "After public financing was introduced in 2004, that number dropped to 14 percent. Last year, every single candidate for the Supreme Court and Court of Appeals opted to receive public financing."
The Supreme Court's 2010 Citizen United ruling and subsequent campaign-finance decisions diminished the program's effectiveness. Now, instead of making changes to strengthen it, North Carolina is on the verge of eliminating it. The state legislature is finalizing a budget that eliminates financial support for the program, making it a hollow shell.
There's also a chance the legislature will compound the damage to the judiciary. A bill expected to be introduced this week would turn the state's non-partisan judicial elections into partisan elections with heightened involvement of the political parties. Just what North Carolina needs.

        
The Spitzer Blitz
        
Revisiting the I.R.S. 'Scandal'
        
O'Connor Regrets Bush v. Gore
        
A Political Marriage
        
Grassroots, Big Money

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: ELECTIONS (90%); SUPREME COURTS (90%); CAMPAIGN FINANCE (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); CONFLICTS OF INTEREST (78%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (78%); US POLITICAL PARTIES (78%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (78%); POLITICS (78%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (78%); POLITICAL ORGANIZATIONS (78%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (78%); TAX LAW (77%); BUDGETS (77%); TAXES & TAXATION (77%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (75%); APPELLATE DECISIONS (75%); PUBLIC SCHOOLS (72%); EDUCATION FUNDING (72%); JUDGES (70%); APPEALS COURTS (65%); ABORTION (57%); UNEMPLOYMENT INSURANCE (56%) Campaign Finance; North Carolina; Featured Posts

PERSON: AL GORE (58%); GEORGE W BUSH (56%)

GEOGRAPHIC: RALEIGH, NC, USA (79%) NORTH CAROLINA, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%) North Carolina

LOAD-DATE: July 16, 2013



478 of 937 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(DealBook)

PUB-DATE: July 16, 2013

SECTION: BUSINESS

LENGTH: 908 words

HEADLINE: Despite Fears, Bond Market Is Functioning Fine

BYLINE: PETER EAVIS


HIGHLIGHT: In the last few days, the three big American bond-trading firms &#8211; JPMorgan Chase, Citigroup and Goldman Sachs &#8211; all reported second-quarter financial results that were helped by healthy bond trading revenue. 

 BODY:
There may be less reason to fear the big, bad bond market.
With $38 trillion of bonds outstanding, any large and negative moves in bond prices have the potential to damage the wider financial system. 
This occurred during the financial crisis of 2008, when mortgage-backed bonds plunged in value. It also happened during the European debt crisis, when losses piled up on sovereign bonds. Banks that held large amounts of such bonds suffered huge hits to their balance sheets, and bailouts became necessary. 
So how is the financial system faring after the turbulence that swept through the bond market? Pretty well, judging by the latest financial results from Wall Street banks. 
In the last few days, the three big American bond-trading firms - JPMorgan Chase, Citigroup and Goldman Sachs - all reported second-quarter financial results that were helped by healthy bond trading revenue. 
That's somewhat remarkable considering the amount of pain in the bond market during the quarter. The selling started in early May, and became particularly intense after Ben S. Bernanke, the Federal Reserve chairman, said the central bank might pare back the enormous bond-buying programs it has undertaken to support the economy.
This turning point in the markets barely dented the banks. In the second quarter, Citigroup reported revenue of $3.4 billion in its fixed-income division, which trades bonds, currencies and commodities, as well as derivatives linked to those assets. Citi's revenue was 18 percent up on the same quarter in the previous year. Over the same period, JPMorgan's fixed-income revenue rose by 17 percent, and Goldman's climbed 12 percent. 
One reason the banks fared relatively well is that, despite the sharp fall in bond prices, their customers didn't withdraw en masse from the market. That occurred in the second quarter of last year during a swoon in European markets. Wall Street firms posted weak fixed-income results for that period.
Regulation may have helped in shielding the wider system from bond market stress. Banks hold large stockpiles of bonds, partly to service client demand and partly to generate trading income. However, since the financial crisis, new rules have made it less comfortable for banks to hold huge inventories, causing them to shrink drastically. 
Currently, Wall Street dealers hold nearly $60 billion of corporate bonds, mortgage-backed bonds and short-term debt called commercial paper, according to data from the Federal Reserve Bank of New York. In 2007, those inventories peaked at $235 billion. 
Put bluntly, banks have less stuff to take losses on these days. When the market value of the bonds in these inventories decline, Wall Street entities have to book losses to reflect that the holdings are worth less. This tends to be the source of the most punishing losses during bond market shakeouts. But with smaller inventories, banks stand to suffer far less pain. 
Skeptics of the new rules say that one danger of shrinking bond inventories is that banks have less capacity to acquire bonds from sellers when bond markets are weak. In turn, they say, this can contribute to violent price swings when investors turn against bonds. The steep declines in bond prices in the last month may have something to do with this. 
But it appears that prices moved lower in a relatively orderly fashion. This can be seen in a measure of the bid-offer spread, which is the difference between the price at which banks buy bonds and then sell them to investors.
 The bid-offer spread typically increases substantially in times of stress. But during the latest upheaval, the increase was slight. The spread right now is 0.11 of a percentage point on highly rated corporate bonds, according to an index from MarketAxess, a firm that runs a bond-trading platform and conducts bond market research. 
That's wider than the recent low of 0.075 of a percentage point. But it is still well below the 0.35 of percentage point at the end of 2008. In other words, the market held together even though banks had historically low bond inventories. 
But it might be a mistake to assume all is well. First, while regulations appear to have shielded Wall Street from crippling bond losses in recent weeks, they have shown up elsewhere in the system, like the investment funds that hold bonds. Those losses create real financial pain for real people. However, such losses are less likely to be destabilizing to the system.
Mutual funds and similar investment vehicles aren't acquiring their bonds using large amounts of borrowed money, or leverage, to boost returns. That's an important distinction. In the past, it's been leverage that has magnified bond losses and made them crippling to the system. 
Wall Street firms do, however, use large amounts of leverage. And that is why regulators introduced new rules to make their fixed-income businesses safer.
Things could still go wrong, though.Some analysts believe that the most recent downturn shouldn't be seen as the decisive test for the post-crisis bond market. When the Federal Reserve actually does stop buying bonds, the convulsions could be far greater than those seen in the last month. 
"When tapering kicks in, the market will look very different to this," Will Rhode, a principal of Tabb Group, a firm that analyzes market infrastructure, said. "You ain't seen nothing yet."

        
Fed Rebukes Goldman Sachs and JPMorgan Chase Over Capital Plans
        
Regulators Seek Stiffer Bank Rules on Capital

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: BOND MARKETS (96%); BONDS (93%); FINANCIAL RESULTS (92%); COMPANY EARNINGS (91%); GOVERNMENT BONDS (90%); SECURITIES TRADING (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); CENTRAL BANKS (90%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (90%); EURO CRISIS (89%); CORPORATE DEBT (89%); PUBLIC DEBT (78%); MORTGAGE INVESTMENTS (78%); CORPORATE BONDS (78%); BAILOUTS (77%); BANKING & FINANCE REGULATION (77%); MORTGAGE BACKED SECURITIES (77%); COMMERCIAL PAPER (77%); DEBT CRISIS (77%); ANNUAL FINANCIAL RESULTS (76%); INVESTMENT BANKING (76%); COMPANY REVENUES (74%); ECONOMIC NEWS (72%) Banking and Financial Institutions; Bernanke, Ben S; Citigroup Inc; Credit and Debt; Federal Reserve System; Goldman Sachs Group Inc; JPMorgan Chase & Company; Stocks and Bonds; Citigroup Inc|C|NYSE; Goldman Sachs Group Inc|GS|NYSE; JPMorgan Chase & Company|JPM|NYSE; Financial Services; Investment Banking; News Analysis; Top Headline 1; Wall Street; Wall Street Earnings

COMPANY: JPMORGAN CHASE & CO (92%); CITIGROUP INC (92%); GOLDMAN SACHS GROUP INC (90%); FEDERAL RESERVE BANK OF NEW YORK (62%)

ORGANIZATION: Citigroup Inc; Federal Reserve System; Goldman Sachs Group Inc; JPMorgan Chase &amp; Company

TICKER: JPM (NYSE) (92%); JPM (LSE) (92%); 8634 (TSE) (92%); C (NYSE) (92%); C (BMV) (92%); 8710 (TSE) (92%); GS (NYSE) (90%) Citigroup Inc; C; NYSE; Citigroup Inc; C; NYSE; Goldman Sachs Group Inc; GS; NYSE; Citigroup Inc; C; NYSE; Goldman Sachs Group Inc; GS; NYSE; JPMorgan Chase & Company; JPM; NYSE

INDUSTRY: NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (92%); NAICS523999 MISCELLANEOUS FINANCIAL INVESTMENT ACTIVITIES (92%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (92%); SIC6022 STATE COMMERCIAL BANKS (92%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (92%); NAICS522210 CREDIT CARD ISSUING (92%); NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (90%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (90%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (90%); SIC6289 SERVICES ALLIED WITH THE EXCHANGE OF SECURITIES OR COMMODITIES, NEC (90%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (90%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (90%); NAICS521110 MONETARY AUTHORITIES - CENTRAL BANK (62%); SIC6011 FEDERAL RESERVE BANKS (62%)

PERSON: BEN BERNANKE (88%) Bernanke, Ben S

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%); EUROPE (79%)

LOAD-DATE: July 17, 2013



479 of 937 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(DealBook)

PUB-DATE: July 16, 2013

SECTION: BUSINESS

LENGTH: 348 words

HEADLINE: An Architect of the Tourre Case to Depart S.E.C.

BYLINE: BEN PROTESS


HIGHLIGHT: Kenneth R. Lench, who oversaw the Securities and Exchange Commission&#8217;s case against Goldman Sachs and Fabrice P. Tourre, announced his departure from the agency just as Mr. Tourre&#8217;s trial was beginning. 

 BODY:
Kenneth R. Lench oversaw the Securities and Exchange Commission's case against Goldman Sachs and Fabrice P. Tourre, a trader at the bank.
On Tuesday, a day after Mr. Tourre's trial began, the S.E.C. announced that Mr. Lench's 23-year career at the agency was ending. Mr. Lench, the agency said, will join the private sector after he departs at the end of July. 
Mr. Lench played a significant role in the S.E.C.'s response to the financial crisis. When the agency created the "structured and new products unit" in early 2010 to investigate mortgage securities and other complex financial instruments at the center of the crisis, it chose Mr. Lench to lead the 45-person team.
Under his control, this group filed civil enforcement actions against some of the biggest names on Wall Street, including JPMorgan Chase and Citigroup. The most prominent case came against Goldman and Mr. Tourre, which it accused of misleading investors about a mortgage security that ultimately failed.
Goldman chose to settle the case, paying a $550 million penalty without admitting or denying guilt. Mr. Tourre fought the charges.
His civil trial continued on Tuesday in a federal courtroom in Lower Manhattan. His lawyers, who have portrayed Mr. Tourre as a fall guy for a deal that was approved at higher rungs of Goldman, are expected to argue that investors were well aware of the mortgage security's contents.
While Mr. Lench oversaw the investigation of the case, he was not involved in the trial.
Mr. Lench, who joined the S.E.C.'s enforcement unit in 1990, also led the S.E.C.'s auction rates securities settlements with several banks including UBS and Bank of America. He also investigated accounting fraud.
"It has been a privilege to lead such a talented and dedicated team of professionals committed to uncovering wrongdoing in our securities markets," Mr. Lench said in a statement. "I am fortunate to have had the opportunity to work on significant and challenging cases on behalf of our nation's investors."

        
S.E.C. Hopes for Validation in Goldman Sachs Trader Case
        
In Goldman Case, Re-examining Foreign Sales

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: BANKING & FINANCE (90%); BANKING & FINANCE AGENCIES (90%); SECURITIES LAW (90%); INVESTIGATIONS (89%); ACCOUNTING (78%); CLEARING OPERATIONS (78%); MORTGAGE INVESTMENTS (78%); MORTGAGE BACKED SECURITIES (78%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (78%); AGENCY RULEMAKING (78%); SETTLEMENT & COMPROMISE (78%); LITIGATION (77%); LAWYERS (75%); APPROVALS (73%); FINES & PENALTIES (73%); SETTLEMENTS & DECISIONS (72%); FRAUD & FINANCIAL CRIME (72%); NEW PRODUCTS (72%); CRIMINAL INVESTIGATIONS (69%) Securities and Commodities Violations; Securities and Exchange Commission; Tourre, Fabrice P; Legal/Regulatory; Revolving Door

COMPANY: GOLDMAN SACHS GROUP INC (92%); CITIGROUP INC (90%); BANK OF AMERICA CORP (90%); JPMORGAN CHASE & CO (84%)

ORGANIZATION: Securities and Exchange Commission

TICKER: GS (NYSE) (92%); C (NYSE) (90%); C (BMV) (90%); 8710 (TSE) (90%); BAC (NYSE) (90%); BAC (LSE) (90%); 8648 (TSE) (90%); JPM (NYSE) (84%); JPM (LSE) (84%); 8634 (TSE) (84%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (92%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (92%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (92%); SIC6289 SERVICES ALLIED WITH THE EXCHANGE OF SECURITIES OR COMMODITIES, NEC (92%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (92%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (92%); NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (90%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (90%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (90%); NAICS522210 CREDIT CARD ISSUING (90%); SIC6712 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (90%); NAICS523999 MISCELLANEOUS FINANCIAL INVESTMENT ACTIVITIES (84%); SIC6022 STATE COMMERCIAL BANKS (84%)

PERSON: FABRICE P TOURRE (94%) Tourre, Fabrice P

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (76%) NEW YORK, USA (76%) UNITED STATES (76%)

LOAD-DATE: July 17, 2013



480 of 937 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(T Magazine)

PUB-DATE: July 16, 2013

SECTION: T-MAGAZINE; culture

LENGTH: 274 words

HEADLINE: Travel Diary | Piper Perabo's Party for the Residents of Medellín, Colombia

BYLINE: T MAGAZINE


HIGHLIGHT: After she shot the premiere of the new season of her TV show &#8220;Covert Affairs&#8221; in the South American metropolis, the actress thanked the folks who helped her out with an advanced outdoor screening. 

 BODY:
When Piper Perabo landed in Medellín, Colombia, in March, to film the fourth season of the C.I.A. drama "Covert Affairs," which premieres tonight on USA, she had never been to South America before and was surprised to be traveling to a city she knew only as the hometown of Pablo Escobar. But she was instantly impressed by Medellín, which has transformed itself from a battleground for warring drug cartels into a model of 21st-century urban planning. "The city itself is shaped like a bowl," Perabo explained. "The downtown is on the flat part at the bottom, and then on the steep sides on the mountain rim are all what's called the communas. Those are sort of ghettos or favelas, built in pretty steep tiers up the side of the mountain and numbered into districts." One of Medellín's recent innovations: a government-built escalator that safely carries passengers 1,300 feet from the communas down into the city. 
It was Holy Week in the heavily Catholic city when Perabo and her crew were there filming, so all the residents of Communa 8 were off work and out of school. "They brought us up and let us scout, and they were incredibly passionate about filmmaking," she said. Even teenagers got involved, corralling the little ones throughout the day and directing traffic around the set. Grateful for the help and hospitality, Perabo worked with the nonprofit Wandering Cinema to set up a special outdoor advance screening of the season premiere for residents of the neighborhood. In this slideshow, she remembers that last Saturday in June, which she describes as an "all-night party" that everyone came to.
Slide Show: A Saturday night in Medellín

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: ACTORS & ACTRESSES (90%); SLUM DWELLINGS (90%); FILM (78%); CITY LIFE (77%); URBAN DEVELOPMENT (76%); ECONOMIC NEWS (76%); MOUNTAINS (74%); EASTER SEASON (73%); CITIES (72%); CITY GOVERNMENT (72%); CATHOLICS & CATHOLICISM (67%); CARTELS (56%) Perabo, Piper; Medellin (Colombia); Culture; Travel

PERSON: Perabo, Piper

GEOGRAPHIC: COLOMBIA (94%); UNITED STATES (92%); SOUTH AMERICA (90%) Medellin (Colombia)

LOAD-DATE: September 5, 2013



481 of 937 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 17, 2013
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Obituary; Pg. 17

LENGTH: 890 words

HEADLINE: Herbert M. Allison Jr., 69; Led Bailout Efforts

BYLINE: By CATHERINE RAMPELL

 BODY:
Herbert M. Allison Jr., a former president of Merrill Lynch who was appointed to lead and help rescue a troubled Fannie Mae and who later ran the federal government's bank bailout program, died on Sunday at his home in Westport, Conn. He was 69.
The death was confirmed by his son Andrew, who said the cause was possibly a heart attack. 
Mr. Allison, a political appointee of both President Obama and President George W. Bush, was put in charge of Fannie Mae in 2008 as part of the Bush administration's effort to rescue it and its sister company, Freddie Mac. The two companies, both government-sponsored, are the nation's largest mortgage finance entities, created during the Depression to help make mortgages more affordable for homeowners.
The bailout of the companies, engineered by the Treasury secretary, Henry M. Paulson Jr., was one of the most extraordinary and expensive federal interventions in American history, totaling about $180 billion. By taking over the companies and replacing their managements, the administration sought to calm Wall Street concerns that these ''too big to fail'' institutions would go under and take the rest of the housing market -- as well as the entire economy -- with them.
Mr. Allison, who at the time had only recently retired as chairman and chief executive of TIAA-CREF, the giant financial services company, replaced Daniel H. Mudd at Fannie Mae after Fannie suffered a staggering $29 billion third-quarter loss in 2008. The losses almost wiped out shareholders entirely as housing prices plummeted, leaving millions of homeowners struggling to pay mortgages that were often larger than the value of their homes. Five years later the government still controls Fannie and Freddie, which are now profitable.
After President Obama took office in 2009, he appointed Mr. Allison to the Treasury Department as assistant secretary for financial stability. Mr. Allison had supported Mr. Obama's 2008 presidential run, even though two election cycles earlier he had run the finance committee for Senator John McCain's 2000 presidential campaign.
As assistant secretary, Mr. Allison helped oversee the Troubled Asset Relief Program, or TARP, the banking industry bailout also created under the Bush administration and endorsed by Mr. Obama. Mr. Allison left the Treasury Department in September 2010, and about a year later the White House appointed him to conduct an independent review of government loans to energy companies after the bankruptcy of Solyndra, a solar panel company that had received government financing under the Obama administration.
In a statement on Monday night, Timothy F. Geithner, the former Treasury secretary, described Mr. Allison as ''both a C.E.O. and a statesman, who served his country at a time of peril, bringing financial expertise and commercial judgment to the challenge of saving the American economy from a failing financial system.''
Herbert Monroe Allison Jr. was born on Aug. 2, 1943, in Pittsburgh and grew up on Long Island in Garden City. His father worked for the F.B.I.
Mr. Allison earned a bachelor's degree in philosophy from Yale before earning his master's degree in business at Stanford.
''People used to say that working for Herb was like getting an M.B.A. from Harvard,'' said Steve Goldstein, who was executive vice president under Mr. Allison at TIAA-CREF, ''but he'd correct them and say, 'No, it's like getting an M.B.A. from Stanford.' ''
Mr. Allison also served in the Navy as an officer for four years, one of them based in Nha Trang during the war in Vietnam.
He began his financial services career at Merrill and remained with it for 28 years, working his way up to president, chief operating officer and member of the board. While at Merrill, he helped coordinate the group of banks that bailed out the hedge fund Long-Term Capital Management in 1998. That same year he oversaw large layoffs after a period of turmoil in the markets. He left in 1999 amid a leadership shake-up.
After joining TIAA-CREF (which stands for Teachers Insurance and Annuity Association-College Retirement Equities Fund), Mr. Allison oversaw its downsizing, laying off 500 of its employees, or about 8 percent of the work force. Employees called the dismissals ''Herbicides.''
Mr. Allison was also the founder of a start-up called the Alliance for Lifelong Learning, a joint venture with several universities; a director of Time Warner; and a member of advisory panels at the Yale School of Management, the Stanford Graduate School of Business and the Federal Reserve Bank of New York. He was a director of the New York Stock Exchange from 2003 through 2005.
Mr. Allison wrote a book about the financial crisis in 2011, ''The Megabanks Mess,'' in which he argued that the nation's largest banks should be broken up. He was working on another book at his death, his family said.
Besides his son Andrew, Mr. Allison is survived by his wife, the former Simin Nazemi; another son, John, and a younger brother, George.
Mr. Allison met his wife in Tehran, where he was working for Merrill at the time and she was a secretary to a bank managing director. Before the two could marry, however, her father insisted that Mr. Allison first learn some Persian, his son Andrew said. So Mr. Allison did, building a vocabulary of 1,000 Persian words over two weeks by reading them from flashcards.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Herbert Allison Jr. in 2009. (PHOTOGRAPH BY MANDEL NGAN/A.F.P. -- GETTY IMAGES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Obituary (Obit); Biography

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: DEATHS & OBITUARIES (93%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); APPOINTMENTS (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); REAL ESTATE (90%); MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (90%); BAILOUTS (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (90%); TROUBLED ASSET RELIEF PROGRAM (89%); BANK FAILURES (89%); HOUSING MARKET (89%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (89%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (89%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (89%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (89%); HOMEOWNERS (89%); HOME PRICES (88%); ECONOMIC NEWS (88%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (78%); EXECUTIVES (78%); CREDIT CRISIS (78%); OBAMA'S FIRST 100 DAYS (78%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); BANKING & FINANCE SECTOR PERFORMANCE (77%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (77%); REAL ESTATE VALUATIONS (77%); COMPANY LOSSES (75%); ECONOMIC DEPRESSION (74%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (72%); SOLAR ENERGY (60%); HISTORY (53%)

COMPANY: FEDERAL NATIONAL MORTGAGE ASSOCIATION (FANNIE MAE) (93%); MERRILL LYNCH & CO INC (91%); FEDERAL HOME LOAN MORTGAGE CORP (FREDDIE MAC) (84%); TEACHERS INSURANCE & ANNUITY ASSOCIATION - COLLEGE RETIREMENT EQUITIES FUND (54%); SOLYNDRA INC (51%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS522292 REAL ESTATE CREDIT (93%); SIC6162 MORTGAGE BANKERS & LOAN CORRESPONDENTS (93%); NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (91%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (91%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (91%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (91%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (91%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (91%); SIC6111 FEDERAL & FEDERALLY-SPONSORED CREDIT AGENCIES (84%); SIC6311 LIFE INSURANCE (54%); NAICS334413 SEMICONDUCTOR & RELATED DEVICE MANUFACTURING (51%)

PERSON: HERBERT M ALLISON (94%); BARACK OBAMA (89%); GEORGE W BUSH (78%); TIMOTHY GEITHNER (58%); JOHN MCCAIN (58%); DANIEL H MUDD (58%); HENRY PAULSON (56%)

GEOGRAPHIC: CONNECTICUT, USA (92%); PENNSYLVANIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (95%)

LOAD-DATE: July 17, 2013



482 of 937 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 17, 2013
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 821 words

HEADLINE: Battery Seen As Way to Cut Heat-Related Power Losses

BYLINE: By DIANE CARDWELL

 BODY:
As scorching weather envelops the Northeast and the Midwest, electric utilities are scrambling to keep the power on while air-conditioners strain utilities' capacity. By Tuesday afternoon in New York City and Westchester County, for instance, Consolidated Edison had logged nearly 7,700 interruptions since the heat arrived on Sunday, and it had dispatched crews to restore almost all of the power.
Such disruptions have plagued utilities for years: how do they keep extra electricity on hand and ready to go, avoiding the need to cut the voltage in stressed neighborhoods and lowering the risk of blackouts? 
Now, several utilities, including Con Edison, National Grid and the large European utilities Enel and GDF SUEZ, have signed up to fine-tune and test what they hope could lead to an answer -- a battery half the size of a refrigerator from Eos Energy Storage, the company said Tuesday. If the testing goes well, the batteries hold the promise of providing storage that until now has been unaffordable on a large scale.
''Energy storage is no longer an idea and a theory -- it's actually a practical reality,'' said Steve Hellman, Eos's president. ''You're seeing a lot of commercial activity in the energy storage sector.''
Part of the appeal is economic: utilities could buy power from centralized plants during off-peak hours, when it is cheaper, and use it to feed the grid at peak hours when it is typically more expensive. That could also relieve congestion on some transmission lines, reducing strain and the need to spend money upgrading or repairing them. In addition, batteries could help integrate more renewable sources like solar and wind into the power grid, smoothing out their intermittent production.
''Energy storage in general has been kind of a holy grail for utilities -- a lot of the generation and demand is instantaneous,'' said Joseph Carbonara, project manager in research and development at Con Edison, who is managing the Eos program. ''The utilities have always been looking to buffer that.''
Utilities and institutions across the country, many with grants from federal or state energy departments, are testing energy storage technologies. Con Edison and the City University of New York are using a different zinc-based battery from Urban Electric Power to help reduce the school's peak energy use as part of a New York State Energy Research and Development Authority program. In California, Pacific Gas and Electric is studying sodium-sulfur batteries that can store more than six hours of energy. And Duke Energy is working with lead acid batteries from Xtreme Power that are linked to a wind farm in Texas.
At the same time, there are a host of start-ups racing to develop different technologies for a wide range of applications, and already there are some large-scale batteries tied to the grid. But the technology has generally proved too expensive for widespread adoption.
Eos says it has gotten around that problem. Its battery relies on zinc, a relatively plentiful and cheap element. The company projects that its cost will be $160 a kilowatt-hour, and that it would provide electricity cheaper than a new gas power plant built to help fulfill periods of high demand, Eos executives said. Other battery technologies can range from $400 to about $1,000 a kilowatt-hour.
''They've got a cost factor that makes it economically viable to use their batteries,'' said Troy DeVries, director of research and development at Con Edison. He added that the batteries did not contain toxic chemicals, making them more appealing for use in a congested city like New York.
In recent years, utilities have had to find creative ways to contend with surging demand during heat waves. Con Edison, for instance, has used generators to support electric substations and, from its central command station, has shut off central air-conditioning units in thousands of homes and businesses. The utility has even canceled Little League night games in Staten Island to save the energy that the field lights would use.
The battery project is still in its early stages, with the company collaborating with each utility to complete its prototypes with an aim of having some up and running next year.
Eos plans to work with the utilities to test small-scale versions of the batteries and how they connect to different power grid systems. The eventual goal would be to develop a battery the size of a cargo container for use on a commercial scale.
Testing on a small scale is necessary, said Michael Oster, the Eos chief executive, because the companies are trying to sell a new technology to a traditionally conservative industry.
''We're getting that industry involved early -- we're understanding their pain and understanding their needs and getting them comfortable with the technology,'' Mr. Oster said. ''They need it badly enough that they're willing to take the risks but also to join in mitigating those risks with others.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: The Eos Energy System battery is about half the size of a refrigerator. Several utilities in the United States and abroad plan to test it for storage of electricity for times when it is needed most. (PHOTOGRAPH BY EOS ENERGY STORAGE) (B5) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: NATURAL GAS & ELECTRIC UTILITIES (90%); ELECTRIC POWER PLANTS (90%); POWER FAILURES (90%); UTILITIES INDUSTRY (90%); ELECTRIC POWER INDUSTRY (90%); WIND POWER PLANTS (89%); WIND ENERGY (89%); ELECTRICITY TRANSMISSION & DISTRIBUTION (89%); ENERGY DEPARTMENTS (78%); ENERGY RESEARCH (78%); ENERGY DEVELOPMENT PROGRAMS (78%); ENERGY CONSUMPTION (78%); RENEWABLE ENERGY (78%); RESEARCH & DEVELOPMENT (66%); PROJECT MANAGEMENT (61%)

COMPANY: CONSOLIDATED EDISON INC (92%); NATIONAL GRID PLC (90%); GDF SUEZ SA (84%); NEW YORK STATE ENERGY RESEARCH & DEVELOPMENT AUTHORITY (62%); PG&E CORP (58%); DUKE ENERGY CORP (50%)

TICKER: ED (NYSE) (92%); NGG (NYSE) (90%); NG (LSE) (90%); GSZ (PAR) (84%); GSZ (BIT) (84%); PCG (SWX) (58%); PCG (NYSE) (58%); DUK (NYSE) (50%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS221210 NATURAL GAS DISTRIBUTION (92%); NAICS221122 ELECTRIC POWER DISTRIBUTION (92%); SIC4924 NATURAL GAS DISTRIBUTION (92%); SIC4911 ELECTRIC SERVICES (92%); NAICS221121 ELECTRIC BULK POWER TRANSMISSION & CONTROL (90%); NAICS221112 FOSSIL FUEL ELECTRIC POWER GENERATION (90%); SIC4931 ELECTRIC & OTHER SERVICES COMBINED (90%); NAICS551112 OFFICES OF OTHER HOLDING COMPANIES (84%); NAICS211112 NATURAL GAS LIQUID EXTRACTION (84%); NAICS211111 CRUDE PETROLEUM & NATURAL GAS EXTRACTION (84%); SIC6719 OFFICES OF HOLDING COMPANIES, NEC (84%); SIC1321 NATURAL GAS LIQUIDS (84%); SIC1311 CRUDE PETROLEUM & NATURAL GAS (84%); NAICS221111 HYDROELECTRIC POWER GENERATION (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%) NEW YORK, USA (94%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: July 17, 2013



483 of 937 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 17, 2013
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 12

LENGTH: 1101 words

HEADLINE: Trying to Sidestep Political Gridlock To Build a Bridge

BYLINE: By KIRK JOHNSON

 BODY:
PORTLAND, Ore. -- The bicycling commuter in pipestem jeans is not just a caricature of nerdy Pacific Northwest cool. Miles driven per year in old-fashioned automobiles -- partly through dint of pedal power and pedestrians -- are lower now than in 1995 here on Multnomah County's major thoroughfares, according to state figures, even as the population has grown by more than 21 percent.
But follow the bike lanes and greenways north to the Columbia River, where the spidery steel trusses of the Interstate 5 bridge clutch the banks, and Portland looks like any typical American city, choked by traffic. The oldest elements of the bridge date from 1917. 
These intertwined, competing identities are central to what comes next for the Columbia River Crossing, a $3.4 billion bridge-replacement project of new highway ramps, traffic lanes and light rail linking Portland to Vancouver, Wash., that was supposed to resolve a traffic choke point. The old plan, after more than 20 years and tens of millions of dollars' worth of studies, was killed last month by the Washington State Senate after the Republican-dominated majority coalition declined to vote on financing it.
The governors of Oregon and Washington, both Democrats, immediately ordered further planning work halted.
Then, almost without missing a beat, local leaders picked up the ball. If political paralysis in Olympia, the capital of Washington, had killed the old proposal, they said, then cooperation on the ground, by people who have witnessed the region's transportation changes firsthand, would find the way.
''Let's leave all that behind and talk city to city about what we envision our future to be,'' said Josh Alpert, the policy director in the office of Portland's mayor, Charlie Hales. Mayor Timothy D. Leavitt of Vancouver agreed. Thinking locally, he said, and acting locally, too, in a conversation with Portland is the way forward. ''People are regrouping, taking a deep breath,'' Mr. Leavitt said.
There is a pattern in this, reflected across the nation, say planners, economists and academics: cities are taking the lead. As recession and government downsizing have squeezed federal and state options, and partisan stalemate politics have crippled some state capitals, local leaders have pushed the front lines of change, if only by necessity.
''The cavalry is not coming,'' write Bruce Katz and Jennifer Bradley in their recently published book, ''The Metropolitan Revolution,'' which lays out case studies of urban self-assertion and innovation. ''With each illustration of partisan gridlock and each indication of federal, and also state, unreliability, metros are becoming more ambitious in their design, more assertive in their advocacy, more expansive in their reach.''
Here on the Columbia River, officials in Portland and Vancouver said they had no illusions that they could build, on their own, a major interstate highway bridge on a major freight and passenger corridor that runs from Canada to California and carries an average of 124,000 vehicles a day. Even the much smaller Skagit River Bridge, which collapsed in May on Interstate 5 about four hours north of here, will cost more than $15 million to replace.
But the officials say that they can at least start breaking the eggs to make the omelet. The old plan had a sense of inevitability, they said, that nothing could be changed for fear of unwinding the many delicate political compromises built in over the years. A new plan would put everything back on the table.
Even a mass transit element, which Portland had insisted on before, could be rethought, Mr. Alpert said, if, for example, an existing freight rail bridge over the water could be used for passenger transit in a new plan. Mr. Leavitt, a civil engineer who said he leans to the right politically -- though the Vancouver mayor's office is nonpartisan -- said he bristled at what he says was hostility toward liberal Portland by conservatives in the Washington State Legislature. In a completely interconnected economy, he said, a blow against Portland is a blow against Vancouver.
The truth, transportation data suggests, is that the entire Pacific Northwest is developing its own unique transportation profile.
Since 1990, for example, per capita gasoline use has fallen in many states. But Washington and Oregon were at the front of the pack, with greater percentage declines than any state but Nevada, the Sightline Institute, a research and environmental advocacy group based in Seattle, reported in an analysis of federal and state data. And Nevada's decline was mostly driven by the rapid growth of Las Vegas -- more people concentrated in a city without the need to drive vast distances.
''The U.S., in my opinion, is almost like a conglomeration of small, different countries,'' said Anna Nagurney, a professor of operations management at the Isenberg School of Management at the University of Massachusetts, Amherst, who has followed the Columbia River Crossing saga. ''Portland is one of the leaders in terms of all these transportation innovations,'' she said.
Vancouver's project development and policy manager, Matt Ransom, said there were many elements in any future bridge plan that are constrained by financial and engineering realities no matter how bold the new vision might get. Like the old design, a new one will have to be limited in height because of airspace concerns at nearby Portland International Airport, but it must be high enough to accommodate ship traffic. Much of the money to pay for it will still have to come from state and federal transportation funds.
Though the bridge is not considered at risk of failing, it was built before the age of sophisticated seismic protection and must ultimately be replaced, Mr. Ransom said.
The relationship between congestion and behavior is a chicken-or-egg problem if ever there was one: Decisions to drive less, or differently, or to take one route over another or work from home affect both transportation and traffic patterns -- which are in turn affected by those tens of thousands of individual decisions.
As the years of planning went on for the Columbia River Crossing project, those questions became tangled as bicycle and transit use grew in Portland, along with traffic headaches.
The prospect of a giant project that promised giant benefits led state transportation officials to avoid or postpone work that would have to be undone when the Crossing project began in earnest, said Joe Cortright, an economist in Portland who studied and criticized the old project for years.
''They thought the big fix was coming,'' Mr. Cortright said.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: A rendering of the Columbia River Crossing, above, a bridge-replacement project that was to link Portland with Vancouver, Wash., but was killed last month by the Washington Senate. Millions were spent planning the new bridge, which would replace the Interstate Bridge, right. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY TOUCHSTONE ARCHITECTS, VIA THE COLUMBIAN
THOMAS PATTERSON FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) (A12)
 Mayor Charlie Hales of Portland, above, and Mayor Timothy D. Leavitt of Vancouver, Wash., intend to build bridges. (PHOTOGRAPH BY THOMAS PATTERSON FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) (A15) MAP 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: VEHICLE TRAFFIC (90%); CITIES (89%); CITY GOVERNMENT (89%); CYCLING (78%); POPULATION GROWTH (76%); PUBLIC POLICY (76%); ROAD & BRIDGE CONSTRUCTION (75%); CITY LIFE (75%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (75%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (75%); HIGHWAYS & STREETS (75%); BRIDGES & TUNNELS (73%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (72%); POLITICS (71%); RECESSION (71%); ECONOMIC NEWS (71%); POLITICAL PARTIES (71%); CASE STUDIES (67%)

GEOGRAPHIC: PORTLAND, OR, USA (98%); OLYMPIA, WA, USA (79%) OREGON, USA (98%); WASHINGTON, USA (94%); WEST USA (92%); NORTHWEST USA (92%) UNITED STATES (98%)

LOAD-DATE: July 17, 2013



484 of 937 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 17, 2013
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 321 words

HEADLINE: Profit and Sales Slip for Coke, But It Expects a Better 2nd Half

BYLINE: By REUTERS

 BODY:
Coca-Cola reported disappointing second-quarter sales on Tuesday as global economic weakness and cool, wet weather crimped demand for soft drinks.
The company, the world's largest soda maker, said its revenue fell 3 percent, which was below its expectations, while its earnings fell 4 percent. 
The company cited economic slowdowns in Europe and Asia, a consumer credit squeeze in Brazil and inflation in Mexico as reasons for the decrease. It also said a wet and cold spring in the United States, very early monsoons in India, and flooding in Central Europe curbed sales and overall consumer spending.
Coca-Cola's chief executive, Muhtar Kent, described the disappointing performance as an anomaly and a ''confluence of events'' that should not continue to occur. He said performance would improve in the second half of 2013, even though foreign exchange rates are expected to hurt company earnings by 4 percent, or double its previous estimate.
The summer weather is now more comparable with the previous year and performance should improve in Latin America, where social unrest in Brazil had interrupted sales.
Coca-Cola also expects sales in China, where volume was flat, to improve because of factors including a new management team, new packages and expanded distribution.
In the second quarter, ending June 28, Coca-Cola's net income dipped to $2.68 billion, or 59 cents a share, compared with $2.79 billion, or 61 cents a share, a year earlier.
Excluding items like restructuring charges and tax matters, the company earned 63 cents a share, in line with the average analyst estimates, according to Thomson Reuters.
Coca-Cola's revenue dropped 3 percent to $12.75 billion, from $13.09 billion a year earlier, missing analysts' expectations for $12.96 billion. Foreign exchange rates hurt revenue by 2 percent.
By region, sales volume fell 1 percent in North America and 4 percent in Europe, but rose in other international regions.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: INTERIM FINANCIAL RESULTS (90%); COMPANY PROFITS (90%); SALES FIGURES (90%); COMPANY REVENUES (90%); FINANCIAL RESULTS (90%); SOFT DRINKS (90%); COMPANY EARNINGS (90%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (78%); WEATHER (78%); BEVERAGE SALES & REVENUES (78%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (77%); CREDIT CRISIS (73%); ECONOMIC NEWS (71%); CONSUMER LENDING (71%); EXECUTIVES (69%); EXCHANGE RATES (68%); CORPORATE RESTRUCTURING (66%)

COMPANY: COCA-COLA CO (90%)

TICKER: KO (NYSE) (90%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS312111 SOFT DRINK MANUFACTURING (90%); SIC2086 BOTTLED & CANNED SOFT DRINKS & CARBONATED WATER (90%)

PERSON: MUHTAR KENT (59%)

GEOGRAPHIC: EUROPE (94%); BRAZIL (93%); MEXICO (92%); ASIA (92%); INDIA (79%); CHINA (79%); NORTH AMERICA (79%); UNITED STATES (79%); LATIN AMERICA (77%); CENTRAL EUROPE (57%)

LOAD-DATE: July 17, 2013



485 of 937 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 17, 2013
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Foreign Desk; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 1003 words

HEADLINE: Dementia Rate Is Found to Drop Sharply With Better Health and Education

BYLINE: By GINA KOLATA

 BODY:
A new study has found that dementia rates among people 65 and older in England and Wales have plummeted by 25 percent over the past two decades, to 6.2 percent from 8.3 percent, a trend that researchers say is probably occurring across developed countries and that could have major social and economic implications for families and societies.
Another recent study, conducted in Denmark, found that people in their 90s who were given a standard test of mental ability in 2010 scored substantially better than people who had reached their 90s a decade earlier. Nearly one-quarter of those assessed in 2010 scored at the highest level, a rate twice that of those tested in 1998. The percentage of subjects severely impaired fell to 17 percent from 22 percent. 
The British study, published on Tuesday in The Lancet, and the Danish one, which was released last week, also in The Lancet, soften alarms sounded by advocacy groups and some public health officials who have forecast a rapid rise in the number of people with dementia, as well as in the costs of caring for them. The projections assumed the odds of getting dementia would be unchanged.
Yet experts on aging said the studies also confirmed something they had suspected but had had difficulty proving: that dementia rates would fall and mental acuity improve as the population grew healthier and better educated. The incidence of dementia is lower among those better educated, as well as among those who control their blood pressure and cholesterol, possibly because some dementia is caused by ministrokes and other vascular damage. So as populations controlled cardiovascular risk factors better and had more years of schooling, it made sense that the risk of dementia might decrease. A half-dozen previous studies had hinted that the rate was falling, but they had flaws that led some to doubt the conclusions.
Researchers said the two new studies were the strongest, most credible evidence yet that their hunch had been right. Dallas Anderson, an expert on the epidemiology of dementia at the National Institute on Aging, the principal financer of dementia research in the United States, said the new studies were ''rigorous and are strong evidence.'' He added that he expected that the same trends were occurring in the United States but that studies were necessary to confirm them.
''It's terrific news,'' said Dr. P. Murali Doraiswamy, an Alzheimer's researcher at Duke University, who was not involved in the new studies. It means, he said, that the common assumption that every successive generation will have the same risk for dementia does not hold true.
The new studies offer hope amid a cascade of bad news about Alzheimer's disease and dementia. Major clinical trials of drugs to treat Alzheimer's have failed. And a recent analysis by the RAND Corporation -- based on an assumption that dementia rates would remain steady -- concluded that the number of people with dementia would double in the next 30 years as the baby boom generation aged, as would the costs of caring for them. But its lead author, Michael D. Hurd, a principal senior researcher at RAND, said in an interview that his projections of future cases and costs could be off if the falling dementia rates found in Britain held true in the United States.
Dr. Marcel Olde Rikkert of Radboud University Nijmegen Medical Center in the Netherlands, who wrote an editorial to accompany the Danish study, said estimates of the risk of dementia in older people ''urgently need a reset.''
But Maria Carrillo, vice president of medical and scientific relations at the Alzheimer's Association, an advocacy group, was not convinced that the trends were real or that they held for the United States.
The studies assessed dementia, which includes Alzheimer's disease but also other conditions that can make mental functioning deteriorate. Richard Suzman, the director of the division of behavioral and social research at the National Institute on Aging, said it was not possible to know from the new studies whether Alzheimer's was becoming more or less prevalent.
The British researchers, led by Dr. Carol Brayne of the Cambridge Institute of Public Health, took advantage of a large study that tested 7,635 randomly selected people, ages 65 and older, for dementia between 1984 and 1994. The subjects lived in Cambridgeshire, Newcastle and Nottingham. Then, between 2008 and 2011, the researchers assessed a similar randomly selected group living in the same areas.
''We had the same population, the same geographic area, the same methods,'' Dr. Brayne said. ''That was one of the appeals.''
But Dr. Carrillo questioned the data because many subjects had declined to be assessed: the researchers assessed 80 percent of the group it approached in the first round and 56 percent of those approached in the second. Her concern is reasonable, Dr. Brayne said, but the researchers addressed it by analyzing the data to see if the refusals might have skewed the results. They did not.
In the Danish study, Dr. Kaare Christensen of the University of Southern Denmark in Odense and his colleagues compared the physical health and mental functioning of two groups of elderly Danish people. The first consisted of 2,262 people born in 1905 who were assessed at age 93. The second was composed of 1,584 people born in 1915 and assessed at age 95. In addition to examining the subjects for physical strength and robustness, the investigators gave them a standard dementia screening test, the mini-mental exam and a series of cognitive tests.
The investigators asked how many subjects scored high, had scores indicating dementia and were in between. The entire curve was shifted upward among the people born in 1915, they discovered.
Dr. Anderson, of the National Institute on Aging, said the news was good.
''With these two studies, we are beginning to see that more and more of us will have a chance to reach old age cognitively intact, postponing dementia or avoiding it altogether,'' he said. ''That is a happy prospect.''

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: RESEARCH REPORTS (92%); DEMENTIA (90%); TRENDS (89%); ALZHEIMER'S DISEASE (89%); EVIDENCE (87%); POPULATION GROWTH (78%); RESEARCH INSTITUTES (78%); ELDER HEALTH (77%); DISEASES & DISORDERS (77%); INTELLIGENCE & COGNITION (76%); EPIDEMIOLOGY (73%); CHOLESTEROL (70%); CARDIOVASCULAR DISEASE (69%); PUBLIC HEALTH ADMINISTRATION (68%); HEALTH DEPARTMENTS (67%)

COMPANY: RAND CORP (60%)

INDUSTRY: SIC8732 COMMERCIAL ECONOMIC, SOCIOLOGICAL, & EDUCATIONAL RESEARCH (60%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%); ENGLAND (90%); UNITED KINGDOM (90%); WALES (88%)

LOAD-DATE: July 17, 2013



486 of 937 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 17, 2013
The New York Times on the Web

SECTION: Section ; Column 0; Foreign Desk; Pg. 

LENGTH: 726 words

HEADLINE: Kerry Returns to Middle East in Bid for Peace Talks

BYLINE: By MICHAEL R. GORDON and JODI RUDOREN

 BODY:
AMMAN, Jordan -- Making his sixth trip to the Middle East as secretary of state, John Kerry arrived here Tuesday to try to bolster the prospects for renewed peace talks between Israel and the Palestinians.
Mr. Kerry was scheduled to have a private dinner on Tuesday evening with Mahmoud Abbas, the president of the Palestinian Authority, and to meet on Wednesday with diplomats from the Arab League and King Abdullah of Jordan.
However, Mr. Kerry has no plans to go to Israel before returning to Washington on Thursday. 
In Jerusalem, Mr. Kerry's decision to dispense with the frenetic shuttle diplomacy that marked his visit to Jordan and Israel last month was seen by some in the Israeli media as a sign that he has pushed the Israeli government about as far as it is prepared to go in making concessions and that he is now turning his attention to Mr. Abbas.
American officials, who have repeatedly refused to specify what issues are being discussed with the two sides, declined to discuss Mr. Kerry's strategy and played down expectations of an imminent breakthrough in resuming formal negotiations, which were last held in 2010.
Mr. Kerry's wife, Teresa Heinz Kerry, recently suffered a seizure and is undergoing rehabilitation in Boston, another factor that may have led him to limit the length of his current trip.
During his previous visits to the region, Mr. Kerry has repeatedly said that Palestinian and Israeli officials were nearing the point at which they needed to make hard decisions about jump-starting the moribund peace talks.
American officials have also stressed that it is important to secure a commitment from Israel and the Palestinian leaders to resume formal negotiations before September, when the United Nations General Assembly will again take up the Palestinian issue.
That has already fueled expectations that Mr. Kerry will be taking a seventh trip to the Middle East this summer, perhaps in just a few weeks.
In addition to meeting with Mr. Abbas, Mr. Kerry is scheduled to meet with diplomats from the Arab League in a bid to maintain Arab support for his Middle East peace efforts. Qatar, which presides over the Arab League committee on the Middle East peace initiative, agreed to shift that committee's meeting this week to Amman to accommodate Mr. Kerry's schedule of consultations.
Mr. Kerry also plans to discuss with Arab League diplomats the conflict in Syria and the situation in Egypt, including the efforts of William J. Burns, the deputy secretary of state, who has been meeting with officials in Cairo.
The Syrian opposition recently selected a new leader: Ahmad Assi al-Jarba, a leader of the Shammar tribe who was backed by Saudi Arabia. Mr. Kerry, however, does not plan to meet with the Syrian opposition here. Egypt is expected to send a representative to the Arab League meeting here, but American officials said they did not know how high ranking that official would be.
Mr. Kerry met Tuesday evening with Nasser Judeh, Jordan's foreign minister, who noted that they were conferring on the humanitarian crisis in Syria and the effect on Jordan's economy. Mr. Kerry said that he may visit a camp for Syrian refugees in Jordan.
''I think we may wind up visiting one of the refugee camps as we talk about Syria,'' Mr. Kerry said. ''We were just chatting about the importance of that.''
Since Mr. Kerry's trip to the region last month, two State Department officials -- Frank Lowenstein, Mr. Kerry's Middle East adviser, and Jonathan Schwartz, an official from the State Department's legal office -- have been in Israel meeting with Israeli and Palestinian officials.
The remaining issues are believed to center on ways to bridge the gap between Mr. Abbas's demand that Israel take steps to demonstrate its seriousness before resuming talks, such as releasing Palestinian prisoners and imposing a freeze on settlements, and the refusal of Israel's prime minister, Benjamin Netanyahu, to agree to preconditions.
The Palestinians, who won an upgraded status of ''nonmember observer state'' at the United Nations last year, have warned that if diplomatic progress is not made they may seek further international recognition as a state, like membership in the International Criminal Court. American officials fear any such bid would prompt an Israeli response and set back the already difficult effort to resume formal peace talks.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PEACE PROCESS (92%); TALKS & MEETINGS (91%); UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (63%)

ORGANIZATION: LEAGUE OF ARAB STATES (57%)

PERSON: JOHN KERRY (92%); MAHMOUD ABBAS (78%)

GEOGRAPHIC: AMMAN, JORDAN (93%); CAIRO, EGYPT (79%); JERUSALEM, ISRAEL (79%); BOSTON, MA, USA (71%) MASSACHUSETTS, USA (71%) ISRAEL (98%); PALESTINIAN TERRITORY, OCCUPIED (96%); MIDDLE EAST (96%); UNITED STATES (94%); JORDAN (94%); SYRIA (93%); EGYPT (92%); SAUDI ARABIA (79%); QATAR (79%)

LOAD-DATE: July 17, 2013



487 of 937 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 17, 2013
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1299 words

HEADLINE: For Global Drug Manufacturers, China Becomes a Perilous Market

BYLINE: By KATIE THOMAS

 BODY:
Multinational drug companies now employ more sales agents in China than they do in the United States, their largest market. Several, including Merck and GlaxoSmithKline, are making huge scientific investments in the country, including building research and development centers. Within the next few years, China is poised to surpass Japan as the world's second-largest pharmaceutical market.
The booming Chinese demand for drugs could not come at a better time for Western manufacturers, whose sales have been slumping because of patent expirations in the United States and stringent price controls in Europe.
But selling pharmaceuticals and other health care products in China is increasingly fraught with peril, as shown by accusations in China this week that GlaxoSmithKline funneled payments through travel agents to doctors, hospitals and government officials to bolster drug sales in the country. 
Chinese officials have compared the company's operations to organized crime and have detained four Chinese executives for questioning. Shortly after government investigators raided the Shanghai offices of Glaxo last month, the British executive in charge of the company's Chinese operations left the country. He has not been back since.
Earlier this month, the top manufacturers of infant formula, including Abbott and Nestlé, lowered their prices in China under government pressure, and Chinese officials have said they are investigating the pricing policies of up to 60 foreign and domestic drug companies.
The rash of investigations is one measure of how critical the health care market has become to global companies -- and to the Chinese government. The Chinese have made no secret of their goal of pushing the country's domestic drug industry into more direct competition with the world's top manufacturers.
As a result, global companies can expect more scrutiny, said Tarun Khanna, a professor at Harvard Business School who has studied foreign investment in China. ''Practices that may have been O.K. some time back may be more scrutinized by foreigners now,'' he said, especially as the government seeks to shift from an export-based economy to one that is also focused on selling to Chinese consumers. ''They're trying to get more balance back.''
Several factors are contributing to the boom in China, experts said. China's growing economy has given rise to a middle class that is increasingly able to afford expensive Western drugs, and to treat conditions -- like depression and respiratory illnesses -- that may have otherwise gone undiagnosed or unmedicated.
And under a new health care program, China has expanded insurance coverage to hundreds of millions of new patients -- 95 percent of the population had insurance in 2011, compared with 43 percent in 2006, according to a recent report by the consulting firm McKinsey & Company. By 2020, China's total spending on health care is expected to grow to $1 trillion, from $357 billion in 2011, according to McKinsey.
Even as foreign companies raise their investment, the Chinese are also looking to capitalize on the booming health care market. The government identified the medical industry as one of seven major areas for development in its most recent five-year economic plan, and the country's medical sector invested $160 billion in research and development in 2012, nearly surpassing Japan, according to a recent report by the Boston-based Lux Research.
''China is interested in building a very strong, homegrown industry,'' said Kevin Pang, a research director at Lux.
But some believe Western companies will have an edge because consumers may be willing to pay more for brands that are known for high-quality ingredients.
''There are so many drugs that are poor quality in China, so the ability to differentiate yourself is important,'' said Craig A. Wheeler, the chief executive of the American generic drug maker Momenta Pharmaceuticals. His company is developing complex drugs known as biosimilars through a business deal with Baxter, which has an established presence in China.
Mr. Wheeler said the recent crackdowns were to be expected. ''These markets are maturing, and these markets are going to be therefore more highly regulated,'' he said.
GlaxoSmithKline has been struggling to rebuild its image after a $3 billion fine in the United States last year, in which the company admitted to improperly promoting its antidepressants and failing to report safety data about the diabetes drug Avandia. Andrew Witty, who took over as chief executive in 2008, has repeatedly pitched the company as a global leader in ethical practices and said it had moved on from its previous lapses.
Chinese investigators told a different story on Monday, however. At a news conference in Beijing, they said senior executives had organized fake conferences, overbilled for training sessions and paid kickbacks in cash and luxury travel. The illegal activity was funneled through travel agencies, authorities said, some of whom even hired young women to engage in ''sexual bribery,'' or activities, with Glaxo managers to win long-term contracts with the company.
The Chinese government said it had detained four senior executives -- all Chinese nationals -- but noted that the British head of the Chinese operations, Mark Reilly, had left the country shortly after authorities raided their offices.
A company spokesman confirmed that Mr. Reilly left China about 10 days ago, and that he was currently working from the company's offices in Britain. He declined to comment on whether Mr. Reilly planned to return to China.
On Monday, one of the detained executives appeared on Chinese television and admitted to much of the activity, according to news reports. In the interview, Liang Hong, the vice president of operations for Glaxo in China, acknowledged organizing fake conferences and other activities, and said the payments that were made to doctors and government officials contributed to the higher prices of the company's drugs in China.
In a statement, Glaxo said it was ''deeply concerned and disappointed'' by the accusations. ''GSK shares the desire of the Chinese authorities to root out corruption,'' the company said, adding that it had stopped its relationships with the travel agencies identified in the investigation and was reviewing past transactions with them. ''These allegations are shameful and we regret this has occurred.''
While some said the investigation was unusual both for its scope and the forceful actions taken by the Chinese government, several analysts said that on some level, such activities are typical of foreign companies seeking to do business in China and other emerging markets.
''Most large-scale bribery investigations focus on the use of intermediaries,'' said Richard L. Cassin, who is editor of the FCPA Blog and a lawyer who specializes in such cases. But he said that the accusation by Chinese authorities that Glaxo channeled as much as 3 billion renminbi (about $489 million) through more than 700 travel agencies makes this case more egregious than most. ''The question of 700 travel agencies, it's an astounding number,'' he said.
Such practices have attracted growing attention from the United States, which is investigating several large pharmaceutical companies, including Glaxo, according to financial filings.
Last year, the American drug maker Eli Lilly agreed to pay $29 million to settle charges filed by the Securities and Exchange Commission that it had used third parties to funnel bribes to overseas government officials. In China, employees at a Lilly subsidiary falsified expense reports to provide spa treatments, jewelry and other gifts, S.E.C. officials said. Pfizer and the medical device maker Biomet have also recently settled federal charges of bribery in China and other countries.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Chinese demand for drugs is booming, and the country wants its drug makers to compete with the world's top manufacturers. (PHOTOGRAPH BY MARK/EUROPEAN PRESSPHOTO AGENCY) (B1)
 Glaxo was accused of funneling payments through Chinese travel agents to doctors, hospitals and officials to bolster drug sales. (PHOTOGRAPH BY ALY SONG/REUTERS) (B2) CHARTS: Another Measure of Fast Growth in China: In the five years from 2006 to 2011, health care spending and the pharmaceutical market in China more than doubled. And the top-10 drug makers have more the tripled their sales staff there. (Source: McKinsey and Company) (B2) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PHARMACEUTICALS INDUSTRY (93%); SALES FORCE (90%); PRICE MANAGEMENT (90%); MULTINATIONAL CORPORATIONS (90%); INVESTIGATIONS (90%); PHARMACEUTICAL PREPARATION MFG (90%); HEALTH CARE (89%); ORGANIZED CRIME (78%); RESEARCH & DEVELOPMENT (78%); DISEASES & DISORDERS (78%); HEALTH CARE COSTS (78%); FOREIGN INVESTMENT (77%); EXPORT PRICES (75%); PRODUCT PRICING (75%); BABY FOODS INDUSTRY (73%); RESPIRATORY DISEASE (73%); DRY & CONDENSED DAIRY PRODUCT MFG (71%); INSURANCE COVERAGE (70%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (70%); BUSINESS EDUCATION (68%); CONSULTING SERVICES (65%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (61%); PATENTS (56%); TRAVEL AGENTS (54%); INFANT FORMULA (51%)

COMPANY: GLAXOSMITHKLINE PLC (92%); MCKINSEY & CO INC (80%); NESTLE SA (55%)

TICKER: GSK (NYSE) (92%); GSK (LSE) (92%); BIOC (EGX) (92%); NESN (SWX) (55%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS325412 PHARMACEUTICAL PREPARATION MANUFACTURING (92%); SIC2834 PHARMACEUTICAL PREPARATIONS (92%); NAICS541611 ADMINISTRATIVE MANAGEMENT & GENERAL MANAGEMENT CONSULTING SERVICES (80%); SIC8742 MANAGEMENT CONSULTING SERVICES (80%); NAICS312112 BOTTLED WATER MANUFACTURING (55%); NAICS311920 COFFEE & TEA MANUFACTURING (55%); NAICS311514 DRY, CONDENSED & EVAPORATED DAIRY PRODUCT MANUFACTURING (55%); NAICS311351 CHOCOLATE & CONFECTIONERY MANUFACTURING FROM CACAO BEANS (55%)

GEOGRAPHIC: SHANGHAI, CHINA (79%) EAST CHINA (79%) CHINA (99%); UNITED STATES (93%); EUROPE (79%)

LOAD-DATE: July 17, 2013



488 of 937 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 17, 2013
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 476 words

HEADLINE: Gas Raises Consumer Prices, but Inflation Remains Tame

BYLINE: By THE ASSOCIATED PRESS

 BODY:
WASHINGTON -- Higher gasoline costs helped raise a measure of consumer prices in June. But the overall trend in inflation stayed tame.
The Labor Department reported on Tuesday that its Consumer Price Index increased 0.5 percent in June from May. Two-thirds of the gain came from a 6.3 percent jump in gas prices, the largest since February. 
Excluding volatile food and energy costs, so-called core prices rose just 0.2 percent.
Consumer prices have been stable this year, giving the Federal Reserve room to continue efforts to stimulate the economy.
Over all, prices rose just 1.8 percent in the last 12 months. And core prices rose just 1.6 percent in that period -- the smallest 12-month change in two years. Each measure was below 2 percent, the Fed's inflation target.
Slow economic growth and high unemployment have kept wages from rising quickly. That has made it harder for retailers and other businesses to increase prices.
In June, prices for all energy products rose 3.4 percent, mostly because of the surge in gas costs. Other prices changed little.
The gas price surge was caused by a jump in global oil prices, which was influenced by the political turmoil in Egypt. Chris G. Christopher Jr., director of consumer economics at IHS Global Insight, predicted prices at the pump would fall once conditions stabilized in Egypt.
Food prices edged up 0.2 percent. New-car prices increased 0.3 percent but were up just 1.3 percent over the last year. Clothing prices rose 0.9 percent in June but were up just 0.8 percent over the last 12 months. Prices for used cars fell 0.4 percent and were down 2.3 percent over the last year.
The Federal Reserve reported on Tuesday that manufacturing production rose 0.3 percent in June from May, as factories made more business equipment, home electronics and cars. That followed a 0.2 percent gain in May. Still, the two consecutive gains barely offset declines in March and April.
Overall industrial production, which includes factories, mines and utilities, also rose 0.3 percent in June. Mining output increased 0.8 percent and utility output slid 0.1 percent.
Manufacturing is the most critical component of industrial production. The recent gains are a hopeful sign that factories could help the economy grow in the second half of the year.
The ''report confirms the picture of a moderate recovery in the manufacturing sector,'' Annalisa Piazza, senior economist at Newedge Strategy, wrote in a research note.
Manufacturers have struggled this year, providing little support to the economy. Their output was up just 1.8 percent in the last 12 months. And factories cut jobs in each of the last four months, shedding 24,000 since February.
Slower global growth has cut demand for American exports. Europe is still in a recession and China's economy grew from April through June at the slowest pace in more than two decades.

GRAPHIC: CHART: Consumer Prices: Percent change, month to month, seasonally adjusted. (Source: Bureau of Labor Statistics)
Industrial Production: Index of total industrial production, 2007 = 100, seasonally adjusted.
 Capacity Utilization: Total industrial output as a percentage of capacity, seasonally adjusted. (Source: Federal Reserve) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PRICE INCREASES (95%); OIL & GAS PRICES (94%); CONSUMER PRICE INDEX (91%); TRENDS (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); GASOLINE (90%); PRICE CHANGES (90%); GASOLINE PRICES (90%); MANUFACTURING OUTPUT (89%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (89%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (89%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (78%); LABOR DEPARTMENTS (78%); RECESSION (78%); LABOR SECTOR PERFORMANCE (78%); FOOD PRICES (78%); MINING & EXTRACTION SECTOR PERFORMANCE (77%); MANUFACTURING SECTOR PERFORMANCE (77%); MINING OUTPUT (77%); FOOD & BEVERAGE (76%); EMERGING MARKETS (75%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (75%); LAYOFFS (73%); CONSUMER ELECTRONICS (73%); RETAILERS (73%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (68%); CONSUMER ELECTRONICS MFG (67%); EXPORT TRADE (50%)

COMPANY: NEWEDGE GROUP (51%)

ORGANIZATION: BUREAU OF LABOR STATISTICS (59%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS523140 COMMODITY CONTRACTS BROKERAGE (51%); NAICS523130 COMMODITY CONTRACTS DEALING (51%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (51%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%); EGYPT (92%); CHINA (79%)

LOAD-DATE: July 17, 2013



489 of 937 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 17, 2013
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; The Arts/Cultural Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 973 words

HEADLINE: Upstart Roils Nerves In a Packed TV Race

BYLINE: By BILL CARTER

 BODY:
The nominations for the Emmy Awards will be announced on Thursday in Los Angeles, and it is widely expected that, for the first time, the headlines will be all about Netflix.
Two programs created for that Internet streaming service, the drama ''House of Cards'' and the comedy ''Arrested Development,'' are leading contenders for best actor or best program nominations that formerly were the province of shows produced for broadcast and cable networks. And if they are nominated, it would be the first time that slots in the most avidly pursued categories went to programs not specifically produced for the medium of television.
The reaction to this development inside the traditional television business has been largely muted, with many executives suggesting that only the quality of the work is important. But to some, this is a moment reminiscent of the days when cable channels like HBO first began to challenge the dominance of broadcast networks like ABC. 
John Landgraf, the chairman of the cable network FX, who has been critical of Netflix's practice of not disclosing how many people are watching its programs, acknowledged that ''House of Cards'' seems likely to grab one of the six nominations for best drama, potentially knocking out one of his network's strong candidates, like ''Justified'' or ''The Americans.''
Mr. Landgraf said that FX aggressively pursues Emmy nominations, but he added, ''It would be the height of bad sportsmanship to seek to keep a show out because it comes from a different distribution system.''
Another senior broadcast network executive said, ''It's hard to say anything about the Netflix thing because we only sound defensive or whiny.'' The executive insisted on anonymity because of a reluctance to criticize the inclusion of streaming services publicly.
More than anything else, Netflix's arrival in the Emmy mix is disquieting to some broadcast and cable executives because it is probably only the beginning.
Though there is little evidence than winning Emmys drives up viewership (just ask Tina Fey about ''30 Rock''), creators and networks still see them as validation. Netflix clearly does; it campaigned ardently for nominations this year, which including planting lawn signs in Los Angeles neighborhoods presumed to be dense with members of the Academy of Television Arts and Sciences.
With everyone from Amazon to YouTube to Condé Nast having announced rosters of planned programs this spring, the prospect of a glut of new nominees is on the horizon. Already the number of eligible dramas under consideration has leapt to 105, from 87 last year. One academy member said this year's nominating ballot ''was mind-boggling; it was like an SAT test.''
John Leverence, the academy's senior vice president for awards, said of the proliferation, ''I think this is a parallel situation to what happened with cable 20 years ago.''
In 1988 the academy opened its doors to cable entries, and within a few years, led by ''The Sopranos,'' cable networks had slowly eroded the hegemony broadcast networks had enjoyed at the Emmys, leading to cable domination in certain categories, especially drama.
Mr. Leverence recalled how the series creator Steven Bochco argued that he faced limitations on content in his drama ''NYPD Blue'' that ''The Sopranos'' never had to deal with.
''The Bochco argument was very compelling,'' Mr. Leverence said. ''It was so compelling, he made poor Dennis Franz take his pants off.'' Laughing at the memory, he added, ''Nobody liked that solution.''
The issue of freedom versus limits persists. Yet Preston Beckman, who was the top program scheduler at NBC and later at Fox, said that the inclusion of Netflix and other streaming sites ''is a big deal, but not a game changer.''
Since pay cable channels already are included in the Emmys, ''what does it matter if two shows from some other source are included?'' he said. ''The issue isn't so much these streaming sites as the fact that you have five entities that are constrained in terms of what they can put on the air and need to attract as large an audience as possible.''
Mr. Leverence said the Emmys ''are about excellence.'' But he agreed that the mix of shows is important to the academy, which is eager to generate strong ratings for its annual awards broadcast.
After attracting more than 16 million viewers in 2006 -- coincidentally, the last time broadcast shows won both best drama (''24'') and best comedy (''The Office'') -- the show has not surpassed 13.5 million viewers and has fallen below 13 million three times. Last year, it hit a record low among the viewers most prized by broadcast advertisers, those between the ages of 18 and 49.
Mr. Leverence acknowledged that the awards show risks losing viewers ''when they are not going to have any rooting interest'' because the nominated shows were seen only through streaming services or Web sites. One potential answer would be to expand the number of nominees in the categories with hordes of eligible entrants.
Four years ago, the academy expanded nominees in the two major categories to six from five. Mr. Leverence said that academy rules are fluid and that some other adjustments might be made.
The film industry, in search of a way to include movies that attracted big crowds after ''The Dark Knight'' was snubbed in 2009, expanded the number of best picture nominees to 10 the next year. Mr. Leverence said his awards committee has had some discussion about expanding the pool of nominees. But, he said, ''There is always a hesitation about award inflation.''
Similarly, he said that another suggestion -- separating categories either by traditional distribution versus Internet or advertiser-supported channels versus subscription services like Netflix -- would threaten to devalue the trophy.
''Tiering is degrading,'' he said. ''The best should be the best.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Emmy contenders? Top, Kevin Spacey in Netflix's ''House of Cards''
above, Michael Cera in ''Arrested Development.'' Both Netflix series are viewed as strong prospects. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY CHARLES KRUPA/ASSOCIATED PRESS (NETFLIX ENVELOPE)
PATRICK HARBRON FOR NETFLIX
SAM URDANK FOR NETFLIX) (C1)
From left, Steven Van Zandt, James Gandolfini and Tony Sirico in ''The Sopranos,'' the HBO hit that led cable's charge into drama nominations. (PHOTOGRAPH BY ANTHONY NESTE/HBO)
 Lawn signs promoting original Netflix series for Emmys in Los Angeles's Los Feliz neighborhood. (PHOTOGRAPH BY EMILY BERL FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) (C5) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CABLE TELEVISION (90%); TELEVISION INDUSTRY (90%); ENTERTAINMENT & ARTS AWARDS (90%); TELEVISION PROGRAMMING (90%); BROADCASTING INDUSTRY (90%); CABLE INDUSTRY (90%); ACTORS & ACTRESSES (78%); TELEVISION DRAMAS (78%); INTERNET SOCIAL NETWORKING (77%); EXECUTIVES (74%)

COMPANY: NETFLIX INC (87%)

TICKER: NFLX (NASDAQ) (87%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS532230 VIDEO TAPE & DISC RENTAL (87%); SIC7841 VIDEO TAPE RENTAL (87%)

PERSON: TINA FEY (56%)

GEOGRAPHIC: LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (92%) CALIFORNIA, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: July 17, 2013



490 of 937 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 17, 2013
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1277 words

HEADLINE: Senate Strikes Filibuster Deal, Ending Logjam on Nominees

BYLINE: By JONATHAN WEISMAN and JENNIFER STEINHAUER

 BODY:
WASHINGTON -- Senate leaders reached an agreement on Tuesday to preserve the filibuster in exchange for confirmation votes on President Obama's stalled nominees, ending, at least for now, months of partisan warfare that threatened the stability of several federal agencies and a generation of procedural traditions.
The deal, which paved the way for votes on seven nominees, was a classic Senate outcome: an inconclusive result that left both sides claiming some vindication. It was sealed with congratulations and awkward hugs among members who praised a private meeting Monday night attended by 98 senators for averting a parliamentary crisis.
The immediate result was the confirmation, in a 66 to 34 vote, of Richard Cordray as the first permanent director of the Consumer Financial Protection Board after his nomination for a five-year term had languished for months. His approval, a decisive victory for frustrated Democrats who pushed to establish the agency in the aftermath of the financial crisis, will expand the powers of the new watchdog agency, allowing it to move forward with plans to regulate a variety of consumer lending programs.
Senator Harry Reid of Nevada, who as the majority leader had forced the agreement by threatening to upend filibuster rules, said he believed the tussle had not only cleared the way for the approval of Mr. Cordray and others but had also changed the environment in the Senate for the better. 
''This must be a new normal,'' Mr. Reid said after the Senate allowed consideration of Mr. Cordray. ''Qualified executive nominees must not be blocked on procedural supermajority votes.''
Any new Senate spirit will be severely tested in the weeks ahead as the chamber moves toward the politically charged nominations of a series of federal appeals court judges as well as a nominee for secretary of the Department of Homeland Security, a position tied closely to the immigration legislation sought by Mr. Obama.
Unlike a 2005 agreement on judges that limited filibusters to ''extraordinary circumstances,'' the new deal did not put in place any framework for restricting such procedural tactics in the future or address the larger question of how to unclog the Senate.
The deal began to take shape during late-night talks on Monday between Democrats and a Republican, John McCain of Arizona, who appeared to bypass his own leadership. They ended with early-morning commitments in the Senate gym.
A clear winner was Mr. Obama, who gained a functioning consumer agency created on his watch, resurrected a defunct labor board and secured confirmation of a new E.P.A. chief and a disputed labor secretary. The Senate will also vote Wednesday to confirm Fred P. Hochberg to a new term at the helm of the Export-Import Bank.
Democrats withdrew two nominees for the National Labor Relations Board whom the president had appointed during a Senate recess. On Tuesday Mr. Obama nominated as replacements Nancy Schiffer and Kent Hirozawa. Ms. Schiffer retired last year as an associate general counsel at the A.F.L.-C.I.O., and Mr. Hirozawa is the chief counsel to the board's chairman.
Most important to Republicans, Mr. Reid dropped his plan to change Senate rules to limit the filibuster -- for now.
The agreement came after a meeting on Monday night where 98 Senators vented for over three hours. Members of both parties admitted some culpability in the political fighting, with Democrats conceding that their headlong drive to alter the rules may have been overly aggressive.
''We're not without sin,'' said Senator Claire McCaskill, Democrat of Missouri.
Many Republicans admitted their efforts to hobble executive agencies by denying confirmation of their leadership was wrongheaded. ''Cordray was being filibustered because we don't like the law'' that created the consumer agency, said Senator Lindsey Graham, Republican of South Carolina. ''That's not a reason to deny someone their appointment. We were wrong.''
The two parties ended the day in essence like a married couple making up after a nasty fight, knowing that the next shoe could still drop. ''Is it a panacea? No,'' said Mr. McCain. ''But I think it's an important step forward.''
Though the agreement did nothing to change or save the filibuster in the future, negotiators insisted the deal -- and the difficult process that created it -- would have far-reaching ramifications in restoring comity and cooperation in the Senate and could create an atmosphere for reaching larger legislative agreements.
Senator Jeff Merkley of Oregon, one of the more junior Democrats pressing to change the filibuster rules, called the agreement ''a milestone on the path to restoring the functionality of the Senate.''
In the end, Republicans got little. The withdrawal of the president's two labor board nominees was more a face-saving move than a fundamental shift. Senator Mitch McConnell of Kentucky, the Republican leader who was virtually left out of the final deal by other Republican negotiators, defended it: ''You can pick at it if you want to, but I think it was an important moment for the Senate.''
On Friday, Mr. McCain first broached Senator Charles E. Schumer, Democrat of New York, with what would be the final deal. Mr. McConnell had been pressing Democrats for months to withdraw Mr. Obama's labor board nominees, but the new proposal marked a critical shift, allowing union leaders to recommend replacements who would then not be blocked.
The agreement began coming together on Saturday as Mr. Schumer, the No. 3 Democrat, was bicycling around Martha's Vineyard during a meeting of the Democratic Senatorial Campaign Committee. Mr. McCain called him repeatedly during the ride to urge him to bring Democratic leaders to the table.
On Monday, Mr. McConnell offered Mr. Reid an up-or-down vote on all seven nominees in exchange for a promise that Democrats would not change the filibuster rules on their own in the future. Mr. Reid demanded that Republicans refrain from any future filibusters of executive branch nominees. Neither of those offers were accepted.
Senator repaired at 6 p.m. to a meeting in the Old Senate Chamber, appealing to one another to come together. Especially eloquent, many said, was Senator Susan Collins, Republican of Maine, who said she ''felt a great sense of sadness'' at what she believed would undermine the fundamental purpose of the Senate.
After the all-Senate meeting, Mr. McCain remained behind in the chamber to meet with top Senate Democratic leaders. Senators McCain, Graham and Kelly Ayotte, Republican of New Hampshire, retired to Mr. McCain's office in the Capitol.
The Democratic leaders went to Mr. Reid's suite, and negotiations began in earnest around 10 p.m. Democrats were initially incredulous that Mr. McCain was offering acceptance to any nominee they would come up with for the labor board, but Mr. McCain insisted he would stick to that.
By 7:30 a.m. Tuesday, Mr. Schumer had touched base with Mr. McCain again, then held impromptu sessions with three or four Republicans at the Senate gym before telling Mr. Reid a deal was done.
Around 10 a.m., Mr. McConnell entered Mr. Reid's office unannounced to reiterate his offer for the seven nominees in exchange for a promise of no rule changes going forward. Mr. Reid was just minutes away from a planned statement on the Senate floor with Mr. McCain that they were nearing a separate deal. Mr. Reid rejected the leader's offer, went into the Senate chamber and pulled the Senate back from the brink.
Mr. Reid announced the deal by quoting Senator Barbara A. Mikulski, Democrat of Maryland, who had just told her colleagues in a closed-door luncheon, ''No gloating, maximum dignity.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Senator Harry Reid, the majority leader, above, announcing an accord on the filibuster Tuesday at the Capitol. Senators John McCain, far left, a Republican, and Charles E. Schumer, a Democrat, were instrumental in reaching the deal. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY CHRISTOPHER GREGORY/THE NEW YORK TIMES) (A14) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: FILIBUSTER (92%); POLITICS (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); LABOR DEPARTMENTS (89%); US PRESIDENTS (89%); TALKS & MEETINGS (89%); POLITICAL PARTIES (89%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (89%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (89%); CONSUMER LENDING (88%); CONSUMER PROTECTION (88%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (79%); APPOINTMENTS (78%); APPROVALS (77%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (75%); CONSUMER LAW (74%); JUDGES (74%); IMMIGRATION LAW (73%); SPECIAL INVESTIGATIVE FORCES (72%); NATIONAL SECURITY (72%); APPELLATE DECISIONS (71%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (63%); APPEALS COURTS (50%); IMMIGRATION (50%); EXPORT IMPORT BANKING (50%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (89%); HARRY REID (78%); RICHARD CORDRAY (73%); JOHN MCCAIN (58%); CHARLES SCHUMER (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: ARIZONA, USA (79%); NEVADA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: July 17, 2013



491 of 937 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 17, 2013
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; OP-ED COLUMNIST; Pg. 25

LENGTH: 853 words

HEADLINE: If Churchill Could See Us Now

BYLINE: By THOMAS L. FRIEDMAN

 BODY:
Whenever we go into political drift as a country, optimists often quote Winston Churchill's line that Americans will always do the right thing, after they've ''exhausted all other possibilities.'' I don't think that's true anymore. Churchill never met the Tea Party, and he certainly never met today's House Republicans, a group so narrow-minded and disinterested in governing -- and the necessary compromises that go with it -- that they're ready to kill an immigration bill that is manifestly in the country's economic, social and strategic interests.
Proving Churchill at least half-right, we have foolishly ignored immigration reform for years. But today, finally, we've found a coalition of Senate Democrats and 14 Senate Republicans who have courageously compromised on a bill that, though not perfect -- it still spends too much on border defense -- opens more opportunity for the high- and low-skilled immigrants we need to thrive and gives those already here illegally a legitimate pathway to citizenship. Yet it appears that brain-dead House Republicans and their pusillanimous leadership are not inclined to do the right thing and pass a similar bill. We've exhausted all other possibilities, and we're still stuck. That is how a great country becomes un-great. 
Many House Republicans are resistant to a bill because they come from gerrymandered districts dominated by older white people who have a knee-jerk resistance to immigration reform -- borne of fears of job-loss to illegal immigrants and a broader anxiety about the changing color and demographics in America. And rather than trying to defuse those fears by putting the immigration bill into the larger context in which it belongs, a critical mass of House Republicans seems committed to fanning them.
What world are we living in today? Countries that don't start every day by asking that question do not thrive in the long run. We are living in a world with at least five competing market platforms: North America, the European Union, South America, Greater China and East Asia. We have already derived great economic benefit through the North American Free Trade Agreement, or Nafta. And, if we were thinking strategically, one of our top foreign policy priorities would be to further integrate North America.
I wonder how many Americans know that we sell twice as many exports to Mexico as to China, and we export more than twice as much to Mexico and Canada as to the European Union and three times as much as we do to East Asia. I wonder how many Americans know that out of every $1 of Mexican exports to the U.S., 40 cents comes from materials and parts made in the U.S. By comparison, out of every $1 of Chinese exports to the world, just 4 cents comes from products made in the U.S., according the National Bureau of Economic Research. And, with the discovery of natural gas in America leading to more manufacturing returning to this country, and the prospect of pending energy reform in Mexico, there is an opportunity to create the lowest-cost, clean-energy manufacturing platform in the world, with mutually beneficial supply chains crisscrossing the continent.
To enhance such a win-win growth strategy that would incentivize more Mexicans to stay home, we should be investing in a major expansion of transportation corridors to facilitate truck, intermodal (including shipping and high-speed rail) and human traffic in a much more efficient and legal fashion. In short, we'd start with where we want and need North America to go, so we can thrive even more, and then forge a border and immigration policy with both Mexico and Canada to achieve that. We're doing just the opposite -- starting with a fear-fence and not thinking strategically at all.
''Instead of lowering the barriers to create a modern border and a more competitive and secure continent, the Republicans propose to deal with illegal migration by doubling our border patrol to over 40,000, which is 10 times more than it was before Nafta, at an additional cost of more than $40 billion,'' notes Robert Pastor, founder of the Center for North American Studies at American University, and author of ''The North American Idea: A Vision of a Continental Future.''
''The Republicans claim they are interested in free markets, but instead of trying to flatten the continent, they are fracturing it,'' added Pastor. ''Instead of eliminating the huge rules of origin tax and creating a common external tariff and a seamless continental market, they want to wall off our neighbors.''
By focusing exclusively on fences, we will not stop undocumented immigration -- because 40 percent of illegal residents are people who overstayed their visas -- but we will fail to invest in the infrastructure that represents a critical foundation for our future. More important, says Pastor, we will also be telling ''the Mexicans and the Canadians that we view them as threats, not as partners.''
The whole approach is shortsighted, does not play to our strengths, increases the deficit and ignores where the world is going and how America can best compete and lead within it. Churchill would be aghast.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); IMMIGRATION (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); EXPORT & IMPORT LAW (89%); IMMIGRATION LAW (89%); EXPORT TRADE (85%); FREE TRADE TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (84%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (84%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (78%); EUROPEAN UNION (78%); ILLEGAL IMMIGRANTS (75%); TEA PARTY MOVEMENT (73%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE LAW (72%); BORDER CONTROL (68%); FOREIGN POLICY (67%); TRADE TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (64%); TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (60%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (95%); NORTH AMERICA (94%); MEXICO (93%); CHINA (93%); ASIA (92%); EASTERN ASIA (92%); SOUTH AMERICA (79%); CANADA (79%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (67%)

LOAD-DATE: July 17, 2013



492 of 937 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 17, 2013
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; DEALBOOK; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 944 words

HEADLINE: Goldman, Its Profit Doubling, Sees Hope for U.S. Recovery but Doubts for Global Growth

BYLINE: By SUSANNE CRAIG

 BODY:
6:24 p.m. | Updated The country's improving economy gave a nice lift to second-quarter earnings at Goldman Sachs.
The bank posted profit on Tuesday that was twice what it reported in the period a year earlier, fueled by strong trading and investment banking results as companies looked to Goldman to arrange mergers and acquisitions.
Net income was $1.93 billion, or $3.70 a share, compared with $962 million, or $1.78 a share, in the period a year earlier. The performance beat analysts' expectations for $2.82 a share, according to Thomson Reuters. Still, the results were not enough to propel Goldman shares higher. They closed at $160.24, down $2.76, or 1.7 percent. Investors, wondering if Goldman would be able to repeat the performance in coming quarters, opted to take some profit off the table rather than stick around and find out. 
Goldman itself, while expressing optimism about the United States economy, was cautious about growth globally. Harvey Schwartz, Goldman's chief financial officer, said client activity improved during the quarter but was then damped a bit by ''macro concerns'' about countries like China.
''Ultimately our clients are assessing the broader global economy, specifically whether a recovering U.S. will offset potential slower growth in other economic regions,'' he told analysts during a conference call.
Goldman's results followed similar strong performances by JPMorgan Chase and Citigroup. Over all, Goldman's revenue in the quarter rose to $8.6 billion, from $6.6 billion in the period a year earlier.
On Wall Street, the last couple of months were dominated by a sudden and sharp rise in interest rates after the Federal Reserve indicated it might wind down its big bond purchase program, which has helped the economy recover from the financial crisis.
A rise in interest rates can both help and hurt banks, depending on the businesses they are in. As rates rise, fewer borrowers are likely to refinance or buy a house, and that reluctance can cut into banks' profit. Goldman, unlike its rival JPMorgan Chase, is not a big player in originating residential mortgages, but it does trade mortgages, and as rates increased, its revenue in this area fell. At the same time, the move by various central banks to raise rates ignited a flurry of currency trading, which helped Goldman and other banks.
On the analyst call, Mr. Schwartz, in response to a question, said investors needed to look into why rates were rising. If they are being driven by inflation, he said, that is more problematic than ''returning to a normal world of more steady economic growth,'' as many investors believe. ''That is what we are rooting for,'' he added.
The surge in interest rates was felt most acutely in Goldman's fixed-income, or bond, department. Net revenue in the unit was $2.46 billion, up 12 percent, reflecting what the company said was significant higher net revenue in currencies, credit products and commodities. Still, these increases were offset in part by significantly lower revenue in mortgages and interest-rate products.
The bank reduced the risk it was taking in products related to interest rates. The firm's so-called value-at-risk in rates declined to an average of $59 million in the second quarter from $83 million in the period a year earlier and $62 million in the first quarter. Value-at-risk is a yardstick of the amount of losses that could be experienced in one trading day.
The firm's annualized return on equity was 10.5 percent for the quarter, up from 5.4 percent in the period a year earlier. It was far below its performance in boom years like 2006, when its return on equity was 41.5 percent.
Revenue from investing and lending activities came in at $1.42 billion, up from just $203 million in the period a year earlier. The firm had a rather rocky second quarter in 2012, and its results in that quarter included a big loss on a significant investment in this unit.
Investment banking revenue rose 29 percent, to $1.6 billion, helped by significantly higher net revenue in debt and equity underwriting. Equity underwriting was a particular standout, jumping 55 percent, to $371 million. Debt underwriting rose 40 percent, to $695 million.
Goldman also disclosed that it had set aside $3.7 billion in the quarter for compensation, up 27 percent from the period a year earlier. The current accrual represents 43 percent of revenue, which is in line with other years. Banks like Goldman set aside compensation during the year but do not pay it out until they determine earnings for the full year.
Over the last year, Goldman has reduced its payroll to 31,700 employees, down 2 percent from the period a year earlier, as the firm continues to focus on cutting costs.
On the call, analysts also pressed Mr. Schwartz to disclose how close Goldman was to meeting leverage ratio requirements proposed recently by regulators -- 5 percent for the big bank holding companies and 6 percent for insured deposit-taking subsidiaries. The leverage ratio calculates capital as a percentage of assets held as a buffer against losses when investments go bad.
''Our first assessment is we're very comfortable with where we are,'' Mr. Schwartz said. Not satisfied, a Morgan Stanley analyst, Betsy Graseck, took another run at the question. ''What is your definition of comfortable?'' she asked.
''Comfortable,'' Mr. Schwartz responded. ''I'm not trying to be cute with you. Look, it's just come out. Our team has looked at it. Our early read is all of the things we've done on the balance sheet over the past several years have left us reasonably well positioned.''
This is a more complete version of the story than the one that appeared in print.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Lloyd C. Blankfein, chief executive of Goldman Sachs, at a White House event in February. (PHOTOGRAPH BY BRENDAN SMIALOWSKI/AGENCE FRANCE-PRESSE -- GETTY IMAGES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: INTERIM FINANCIAL RESULTS (90%); BANKING & FINANCE SECTOR PERFORMANCE (90%); ECONOMIC RECOVERY (90%); COMPANY EARNINGS (90%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); BANKING & FINANCE (89%); MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (89%); BONDS (89%); INTEREST RATES (88%); EMERGING MARKETS (78%); INVESTMENT BANKING (78%); COMPANY REVENUES (78%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (78%); CENTRAL BANKS (78%); REAL ESTATE (78%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (78%); MERGERS (77%); BUSINESS FORECASTS (75%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (73%); CURRENCIES (72%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (72%); MERGERS & ACQUISITIONS (71%); MORTGAGE LOANS (66%); CONFERENCE CALLS (65%); EXECUTIVES (52%)

COMPANY: GOLDMAN SACHS GROUP INC (91%); CITIGROUP INC (90%); JPMORGAN CHASE & CO (85%)

TICKER: GS (NYSE) (91%); C (NYSE) (90%); C (BMV) (90%); 8710 (TSE) (90%); JPM (NYSE) (85%); JPM (LSE) (85%); 8634 (TSE) (85%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (91%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (91%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (91%); SIC6289 SERVICES ALLIED WITH THE EXCHANGE OF SECURITIES OR COMMODITIES, NEC (91%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (91%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (91%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (90%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (90%); NAICS522210 CREDIT CARD ISSUING (90%); NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (85%); NAICS523999 MISCELLANEOUS FINANCIAL INVESTMENT ACTIVITIES (85%); SIC6022 STATE COMMERCIAL BANKS (85%)

PERSON: LLOYD BLANKFEIN (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: July 17, 2013



493 of 937 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 17, 2013
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 22

LENGTH: 858 words

HEADLINE: In Style of Bloomberg, Wealthy Technology Executive Will Enter Mayor's Race

BYLINE: By MICHAEL BARBARO and MICHAEL M. GRYNBAUM

 BODY:
Jack D. Hidary, a wealthy and well-connected technology executive, has lingered around the edges of the New York City mayor's race for weeks, quietly talking up the possibility of a Bloomberg-style bid that seemed quixotic and half-baked.
But as he prepares to officially unveil his candidacy on Wednesday, a quest that once seemed fanciful has evolved into an unexpectedly serious operation, guided by a group of political heavyweights and underwritten by Mr. Hidary's sizable bank account. 
Mr. Hidary has recruited Joe Trippi, who oversaw Howard Dean's Democratic run for the White House, as his top adviser; Kenneth A. Gross, the campaign finance lawyer for Michael R. Bloomberg, as his general counsel; Richard Strauss, a media guru in the Clinton White House, as a media consultant; and Campaign Grid, a firm that advised Chris Christie on his run for New Jersey governor, to perform outreach to voters.
In an interview, he said he was dipping into his personal fortune to pay for a high-caliber team, even as he told of collecting a staggering $300,000 from well-heeled friends at a single fund-raiser. But his campaign remains a long shot: so far, aides said, he has raised $450,000, a fraction of the funds his opponents have.
He argues that most New Yorkers will not begin paying attention to the race until after the Democratic and Republican primaries are held in September, leaving him plenty of time to build a campaign team, secure a line on the ballot and forge a coalition of voters who are uninspired by the current field.
''There is a clear message from the voters: they are not satisfied with the current set of choices,'' Mr. Hidary said.
Mr. Hidary's entry into the field, as a political independent with a business-minded approach to government, is the latest jolt to a topsy-turvy campaign that is the most wide-open and crowded since 1977, when Edward I. Koch emerged from a seven-way Democratic primary to win office.
Mr. Hidary, a 44-year-old whose Rolodex brims with the names of fellow attendees at Renaissance Weekends and the World Economic Forum in Davos, Switzerland, is offering himself up as a Bloomberg for the post-Bloomberg era, with a dose of personal charisma and charm the current mayor lacked when he entered politics in 2001.
A neuroscience major at Columbia, Mr. Hidary struck it big in the go-go days before the tech bubble burst, founding EarthWeb, a matchmaking business for information industry companies and workers that he and his brother took public in 1998. A few years ago, he paid $2.4 million for an apartment on Central Park South, just west of the Plaza Hotel.
He has a reputation for collecting friends and embracing causes: In an effort to convince cabdrivers that hybrid taxis were in their best interests, he recruited a team a few years ago to make hundreds of back-seat pitches to them during rides around the city.
''We took very short $5 cab rides,'' he recalled. ''We had these $5 rolled up bills, going around and around.'' Later, many of those drivers testified on behalf of a law allowing for the new cabs; the law passed, but was later overturned in court.
Still, he faces daunting electoral roadblocks. He will have no support from city unions, a potent force in Election Day politics. There are two fellow businessmen in the race, Joseph J. Lhota and John A. Catsimatidis. And he will be hampered by his decision to participate in the city's voluntary campaign finance system, which will allow him to lend money to his campaign but will cap his spending at around $7 million, in exchange for eligibility for public matching funds. (Mr. Bloomberg, who opted out, spent $74 million to win office in 2001.)
Mr. Hidary insists that he can draw on his ties to Jewish voters, especially the Sephardic community in outer Brooklyn where he grew up, and to the city's new army of technology workers to drum up enough votes in November.
He seems willing to bypass the city's traditional political constituencies, whose loyalties are already pledged. He has reached out to the entertainment world, including a pair of Kanye West's business and style advisers, Izvor Zivkovic, who is known as Izzy, and Matthew Williams.
Mr. Hidary, who played piano and violin as a child, recounted a conversation with the jazz legend Herbie Hancock, whose support he is courting.
''I said, 'My commitment to you, Herbie, is to bring jazz and music to every school in New York City,' '' Mr. Hidary recalled.
He outlined plans, if elected, to spur business by putting technology campuses in all five boroughs and temporarily reducing the city's capital gains tax to encourage investments in companies. He said he envisioned himself as New York City's ''chief investment attractor,'' traveling the globe to encourage corporations to open offices here.
In an interview, Mr. Trippi, the campaign adviser, returned again and again to the idea that New Yorkers were unimpressed by their choices for mayor this year, and would be willing to give Mr. Hidary a chance.
''Nobody is running away with this thing,'' Mr. Trippi said. ''People look at the candidates that are running and say, 'This is it? We can't do better than this?' ''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Jack Hidary, 44, at left, is joining the mayor's race after assembling an impressive campaign team, including the strategist Joe Trippi, above. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY DAMON WINTER/THE NEW YORK TIMES
 NEILSON BARNARD/GETTY IMAGES FOR TIME INC.) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (92%); MAYORS (90%); CITY GOVERNMENT (90%); VOTERS & VOTING (88%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (78%); PRIMARY ELECTIONS (78%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (78%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (77%); CAMPAIGN FINANCE (76%); POLITICS (76%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (76%); INTERVIEWS (73%); LAWYERS (71%); FUNDRAISING (69%); CORPORATE COUNSEL (69%); PARKS & PLAYGROUNDS (69%); ECONOMIC BUBBLE (65%)

PERSON: MICHAEL BLOOMBERG (79%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%) NEW YORK, USA (93%); GRAUBUNDEN, SWITZERLAND (79%); NEW JERSEY, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (93%); SWITZERLAND (79%)

LOAD-DATE: July 17, 2013



494 of 937 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 17, 2013
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 19

LENGTH: 1047 words

HEADLINE: 2 Hospital Networks Agree to Merge, Raising Specter of Costlier Care

BYLINE: By ANEMONA HARTOCOLLIS

 BODY:
Two major New York City hospital networks have agreed to merge, creating the largest private hospital system in the city, raising the prospect of higher prices for consumers, and positioning the new system to take advantage of coming changes under the federal health care law.
The boards of the two hospital systems, Mount Sinai Medical Center and Continuum Health Partners, a network of community-oriented hospitals that includes Beth Israel and the two St. Luke's-Roosevelt campuses, approved the merger in consecutive votes on Monday and Tuesday. The decision came after a year of courtship and after Mount Sinai, with a last-minute offer, scuttled a deal between Continuum and a competitor, NYU Langone Medical Center, that would have threatened its position. 
The new enterprise would have more than 3,300 beds at seven campuses spread through Manhattan, Brooklyn and Queens, making it the largest hospital system in New York City outside of the public hospital system. It would eclipse the reigning giant, NewYork-Presbyterian Hospital, with 2,600 beds, and would become one of the country's largest nonprofit systems.
Mount Sinai and Continuum would join a trend of consolidation among hospitals nationwide, according to a new report from PricewaterhouseCoopers, which noted that higher prices for consumers often follow.
Dr. Kenneth L. Davis, chief executive of Mount Sinai, said after the final vote on Tuesday that the merger would allow the hospitals to ''be more efficient at what they do'' and to make up for ''the inability of the federal government or the state governments to be able to pay for the health care that people in the past have demanded.''
The combination of Mount Sinai's specialty care and medical school and Continuum's primary care would, he said, create ''an integrated system that can take care of the patient for the whole life cycle for all degrees of problems.''
Dr. Davis said the regional office of the Federal Trade Commission, which reviews antitrust issues, had already approved the merger, and that the only regulatory hurdles remaining were reviews by the State Health Department and the federal Department of Housing and Urban Development, concerning some hospital debt.
If all goes as expected, the merger would be complete by fall, Dr. Davis said.
Other hospital officials said that the two hospital systems had been pushed together by anticipated changes in the way health care is delivered as the federal health care law takes hold over the coming year.
''The fee-for-service system is going to be history shortly,'' said Richard Ravitch, who is a member of Mount Sinai's board.
It will be replaced with a system of bundled payments for the overall care needed by each patient, perhaps eventually as a single payment. ''To be successful with that, you need a population that's larger than what any one of these institutions has itself today,'' Mr. Ravitch said.
While the merger could be a boon for the hospitals, hospital mergers often lead to higher prices for consumers, many studies have shown. Larger hospital systems can have more clout to negotiate higher prices from insurance companies, resulting in higher insurance premiums, according to these studies.
''The real question is whether, after the merger, the new system is what's called a must-have, a hospital system that every insurance company must have in their network,'' said Martin S. Gaynor, professor of economics and health policy at Carnegie Mellon University in Pittsburgh.
''The strong evidence is that these kind of mergers raise prices anywhere from 20, 30, 40 percent up to 50 percent, if a merger strongly enhances a hospital system's negotiating power,'' Professor Gaynor said.
Karen Ignagni, chief executive of America's Health Insurance Plans, a national trade association, called hospital consolidation ''one of the most important health policy issues today.'' ''There's a mismatch between the promise and the reality,'' Ms. Ignagni added. ''The promise is usually greater efficiency. The reality is higher prices for consumers.''
Dr. Davis said insurance payments had not been a consideration, adding, ''In all our financial models, we have not included an increase in any commercial rates.''
If the merger survives the regulatory process, New York City, and especially Manhattan, would be dominated by a handful of highly competitive networks.
''We live in an environment of five excellent hospitals -- Memorial Sloan-Kettering and Special Surgery, NYU, NewYork-Presbyterian and Mount Sinai,'' Dr. Davis said. ''I don't know of five such good facilities within a few minutes of each other any other place on the planet. So we don't worry about any single competitor. We're not motivated by that.''
The union between Mount Sinai and Continuum would result in a new company, the Mount Sinai Health System, and Continuum Health Partners would cease to exist, officials said. Stanley Brezenoff, Continuum's chief executive, is expected to retire but remain as a consultant for the transition, with Dr. Davis leading the new entity.
Dr. Davis said that it was too early to talk about the possibility of reductions in staff, adding that financially, Mount Sinai was in ''robust health'' and Continuum had ''been doing well in recent years.''
Officials said that Continuum could benefit in the long run from capital improvements to its physical plant, which Mount Sinai has the resources to finance. Officials at the two main competitors, NewYork-Presbyterian and NYU Langone, declined to comment on the merger.
Mount Sinai went through a merger with NYU in the late 1990s, which fell apart a few years later, mainly because of a rivalry between the medical schools at the two institutions. That will not be a problem at Continuum, which does not have its own medical school. Continuum's current affiliation with other medical schools will be ended.
The boards of Continuum and NYU had voted a year ago to explore a merger, but those talks collapsed two weeks later, after Continuum began considering an offer from Mount Sinai, which was seeing an opportunity.
James Tallon, president of the United Hospital Fund, said the merger could prompt NYU Langone to seek a partner as well. ''I suspect the consolidation of systems in New York will still continue to move forward,'' he said.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: The Madison Avenue side of Mount Sinai Hospital. The new enterprise would have more than 3,300 beds at seven campuses spread through Manhattan, Brooklyn and Queens. (PHOTOGRAPH BY TINA FINEBERG FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) (A22) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: HOSPITALS (98%); HEALTH CARE (90%); HEALTH CARE LAW (89%); HEALTH CARE POLICY (89%); TRENDS (78%); CITIES (78%); PHYSICIANS & SURGEONS (78%); JOINT VENTURES MERGERS & ACQUISITIONS LAW (78%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (78%); HEALTH DEPARTMENTS (77%); APPROVALS (77%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (77%); ANTITRUST & TRADE LAW (74%); COMMERCE DEPARTMENTS (74%); HOUSING AUTHORITIES (72%); GRADUATE & PROFESSIONAL SCHOOLS (63%); EXECUTIVES (51%); PUBLIC HEALTH ADMINISTRATION (50%)

COMPANY: PRICEWATERHOUSECOOPERS (55%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS541211 OFFICES OF CERTIFIED PUBLIC ACCOUNTANTS (55%); SIC8721 ACCOUNTING, AUDITING, & BOOKKEEPING SERVICES (55%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%) NEW YORK, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: July 17, 2013



495 of 937 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 17, 2013
The International Herald Tribune

SECTION: Section ; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 

LENGTH: 307 words

HEADLINE: McDonald's Gets a Toehold in Vietnam

BYLINE: By THE ASSOCIATED PRESS

 BODY:
HANOI -- McDonald's said Tuesday that it would open its first restaurant in Vietnam, after awarding the franchise to the son-in-law of the Communist-ruled nation's prime minister. 
The fast-food chain is a relative latecomer to Vietnam, where other Western consumer brands, like Starbucks, Subway and Pizza Hut, have already opened stores.
Despite a slowdown in growth from torrid levels, Vietnam's youthful population is a strong lure for foreign companies.
It also represents the latest chapter in the march of McDonald's across the world, to countries that include some with which the United States shares a bloody history.
The company said it would open the restaurant early next year in Ho Chi Minh City, formerly Saigon, where a U.S.-backed government was based until it fell to Communist forces 38 years ago.
It will join Starbucks, which opened its first cafe in Ho Chi Minh City this year, and other brands. Vietnam's rulers only began opening the country's economy to the world in the early 1990s. Foreign brands enjoy prestige among people who are eager to experiment with food and lifestyle choices that were unavailable to their parents' generation.
The company said it had chosen Henry Nguyen, a Vietnamese-American investor and the son-in-law of Vietnam's prime minister, Nguyen Tan Dung, as the main franchise partner based on a ''rigorous'' selection process. Mr. Nguyen was quoted as saying that a stint at McDonald's had been one of his first jobs as a teenager in the United States.
''I have dreamed of one day opening a McDonald's restaurant in my native country ever since my return to Vietnam more than a decade ago,'' Mr. Nguyen said. ''I have been in contact with McDonald's over the years sharing the opportunity that exists in our country.''
McDonald's operates in more than 100 countries across the world, including 38 in Asia.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: RESTAURANTS (91%); FAST FOOD (90%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (90%); PRIME MINISTERS (90%); RESTAURANT FOOD & BEVERAGE SALES (78%)

COMPANY: MCDONALD'S CORP (92%); PIZZA HUT INC (57%)

TICKER: MCD (NYSE) (92%)

INDUSTRY: SIC5812 EATING PLACES (92%); NAICS722513 LIMITED-SERVICE RESTAURANTS (92%)

GEOGRAPHIC: HO CHI MINH CITY, VIETNAM (93%); HANOI, VIETNAM (91%) VIET NAM (97%); VIETNAM (93%); UNITED STATES (93%); ASIA (79%)

LOAD-DATE: July 17, 2013



496 of 937 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 17, 2013
The International Herald Tribune

SECTION: Section ; Column 0; OpEd; OP-ED CONTRIBUTOR; Pg. 

LENGTH: 973 words

HEADLINE: The Message of Brazil's Youth

BYLINE: By LUIZ INÁCIO LULA da SILVA

 BODY:
São Paulo -- Young people, quick fingers on their cellphones, have taken to the streets around the world.
It would seem easier to explain these protests when they take place in nondemocratic countries, as in Egypt and Tunisia in 2011, or in countries where the economic crisis has raised the number of unemployed young workers to frightening highs, as in Spain and Greece, than when they emerge in countries with popular democratic governments -- like Brazil, where we currently enjoy the lowest unemployment rates in our history and an unparalleled expansion of economic and social rights.
Many analysts attribute recent protests to a rejection of politics. I think it's precisely the opposite: They reflect a drive to increase the reach of democracy, to encourage people to take part more fully. 
I can only speak with authority about my country, Brazil, where I think the demonstrations are largely the result of social, economic and political successes. In the last decade, Brazil doubled its number of university students, many from poor families. We sharply reduced poverty and inequality. These are significant achievements, yet it is completely natural that young people, especially those who are obtaining things their parents never had, should desire more.
These young people did not live through the repression of the military dictatorship in the 1960s and 1970s. They did not live through the inflation of the 1980s, when the first thing we did when we received our paychecks was to run to the supermarket and buy everything possible before the prices rose again the next day. They remember very little about the 1990s, when stagnation and unemployment depressed our country. They want more.
It is understandable that it should be so. They want the quality of public services to improve. Millions of Brazilians, including those in the emerging middle class, have purchased their first cars and have begun to travel by air. Now, public transportation must be efficient, making life in the large cities less difficult.
The concerns of young people are not merely material. They want greater access to leisure and cultural activities. But above all, they demand political institutions that are cleaner and more transparent, without the distortions of Brazil's anachronistic political and electoral system, which has recently shown itself to be incapable of managing reform. The legitimacy of these demands cannot be denied, even if it's impossible to meet them quickly. It's first necessary to find funds, establish goals and set timelines.
Democracy is not a commitment to silence. A democratic society is always in flux, debating and defining its priorities and challenges, constantly craving new achievements. Only in a democracy could an Indian be elected president of Bolivia, and an African-American be elected president of the United States. Only in a democracy could first a metalworker and then a woman be elected president of Brazil.
History shows that when political parties are silenced, and solutions are sought by force, the results are disastrous: wars, dictatorships and the persecution of minorities. Without political parties there can be no true democracy. But people do not simply wish to vote every four years. They want daily interaction with governments both local and national, and to take part in defining public policies, offering opinions on the decisions that affect them each day.
In short, they want to be heard. This creates a tremendous challenge for political leaders. It requires better ways of engagement, via social media, in the workplace and on campuses, reinforcing interaction with workers groups and community leaders, but also with the so-called disorganized sectors, whose desires and needs should be no less respected for lack of organization.
It has been said, and with good reason, that while society has entered the digital era politics has remained analog. If democratic institutions used the new communication technologies as instruments of dialogue, and not for mere propaganda, they would breathe fresh air into their operations. And that would more effectively bring them in tune with all parts of society.
Even the Workers Party, which I helped found and which has contributed so much to modernize and democratize politics in Brazil, needs profound renewal. It must recover its daily links with social movements and offer new solutions for new problems, and do both without treating young people paternalistically.
The good news is that young people are not conformist, apathetic or indifferent to public life. Even those who think they hate politics are beginning to participate. When I was their age, I never imagined I would become a political militant. Yet we wound up creating a political party when we discovered that the National Congress had practically no representatives from the working class. Through politics we managed to restore democracy, consolidate economic stability and create millions of jobs.
Clearly there is still much to do. It's good news that our young people want to fight to ensure that social change continues at a more intense pace.
The other good news is that President Dilma Rousseff proposed a plebiscite to carry out the political reforms that are so necessary. She also proposed a national commitment to education, health care and public transportation, in which the federal government would provide substantial financial and technical support to states and municipalities.
When talking with young leaders in Brazil and elsewhere, I like to tell them this: Even when you are discouraged with everything and everyone, don't give up on politics. Participate! If you do not find in others the politician you seek, you may find him or her in yourself.
Luiz Inácio Lula da Silva is a former president of Brazil who now works on global initiatives with Instituto Lula.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PROTESTS & DEMONSTRATIONS (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (89%); POLITICS (89%); UNEMPLOYED PERSONS (78%); POOR POPULATION (78%); FAMILY (77%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (77%); ELECTIONS (76%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (76%); POLITICAL PARTIES (76%); POLITICAL ORGANIZATIONS (76%); POVERTY & HOMELESSNESS (76%); MOBILE & CELLULAR TELEPHONES (73%); PRICE INCREASES (72%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (67%); PUBLIC TRANSPORTATION (63%); US PRESIDENTS (60%); AFRICAN AMERICANS (60%)

GEOGRAPHIC: BRAZIL (97%); EGYPT (92%); UNITED STATES (92%); SPAIN (92%); BOLIVIA (79%)

LOAD-DATE: July 17, 2013



497 of 937 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 17, 2013
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Foreign Desk; Pg. 10

LENGTH: 1229 words

HEADLINE: Israel Condemns New European Union Rules on Territory Seized in 1967 War

BYLINE: By JODI RUDOREN; Andrew Higgins contributed reporting from Brussels, and Michael R. Gordon from Amman, Jordan.

 BODY:
JERUSALEM -- In a move Israeli leaders quickly condemned as undermining Secretary of State John Kerry's push to revive peace talks, the European Union issued guidelines this week that for the first time ban the financing of and cooperation with Israeli institutions in territory seized during the 1967 war.
Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu said Tuesday evening in a defiant statement that he would ''not accept external dictates'' on his country's borders, and that the matter would be ''solely resolved in direct negotiations between the sides.'' Other senior Israeli ministers denounced the European action as ''discriminatory,'' ''hypocritical'' and ''unhelpful.''
An American official, speaking on the condition of anonymity because of the delicacy of the diplomatic process, also called the move ''unhelpful.'' 
The guidelines, which are to be published Friday and take effect next year, reflect the increasing tension between Israel and Europe over Jewish settlements in the West Bank that world leaders have long considered illegal, as well as Europe's efforts to press Israel to resolve its conflict with the Palestinians.
European Union officials played down the significance of the guidelines, which apply only to deals between Israel and the union itself, not its 28 member countries, saying they were simply an act of longstanding opposition to Israeli activities in the West Bank, the Gaza Strip, the Golan Heights and East Jerusalem. Approved on June 28, the guidelines say that agreements providing research grants, scholarships and cultural exchanges must state explicitly that they apply to Israel's pre-1967 borders.
News of the rules, published Tuesday in an article in the left-leaning Israeli newspaper Haaretz, came as Mr. Kerry arrived in Jordan for his sixth visit in four months to the region, where he is trying to revive the long-stalled peace talks. They threatened to complicate that mission by appearing at least to buttress the Palestinian insistence that Israel's 1967 borders be the starting point for negotiations, something Mr. Netanyahu has rejected.
Mr. Kerry had a five-hour dinner on Tuesday with Mahmoud Abbas, the president of the Palestinian Authority, and planned to meet on Wednesday with King Abdullah II of Jordan and diplomats from the Arab League.
However, Mr. Kerry had no plans to go to Israel before returning to Washington on Thursday. That was seen here as a sign that Mr. Kerry has pushed the Israeli government about as far as it is prepared to go in making concessions and that he is now turning his attention to Mr. Abbas.
While the United States and Europe have long said that the 1967 borders, with minor adjustments, should be the basis of a two-state solution, since March the Obama administration has echoed Israel's rejection of preconditions.
Daniel Levy, a Middle East analyst at the European Council on Foreign Relations, said the guidelines indicated that Europe, after years of criticizing Israeli settlement activity, was putting ''its policy where its mouth is.''
''They have become convinced that they need to lean in a little,'' Mr. Levy said, ''in demonstrating that they are not totally toothless in translating those concerns into action.''
The European Union is Israel's largest trading partner, with nearly $40 billion of imports and exports in 2011. The guidelines cover only projects financed directly out of the bloc's next long-term budget, which covers 2014 to 2020; officials said that it was impossible to estimate the projects' value, but noted that it was not a large sum.
''This is not about money,'' said Rosa Balfour, a senior analyst at the European Policy Center, based in Brussels. ''It's about politics.''
Israeli politicians reacted with alarm to the new guidelines. Zeev Elkin, the deputy foreign minister, said that the move would ''impede Israeli organizations as a whole, and not only in the territories.''
Yair Lapid, the finance minister, called it ''a miserable decision'' that ''sabotages'' Mr. Kerry's initiative by making Palestinians ''believe that Israel will be forced to bow to the diplomatic and economic pressure.''
Uri Ariel, the pro-settlement housing minister, went further, saying the move was racist and ''reminiscent of boycotts of the Jews in Europe over 66 years ago.''
Hanan Ashrawi, a member of the Palestine Liberation Organization's executive committee, welcomed the decision, saying in a statement that Europe ''has moved from the level of statements, declarations and denunciations to effective policy decisions and concrete steps, which constitute a qualitative shift that will have a positive impact on the chances of peace.''
But a senior Israeli official, speaking on the condition of anonymity because of the sensitivity surrounding Mr. Kerry's diplomatic initiative, said Tuesday night that the Europeans were ''intentionally or inadvertently undermining'' the active American engagement in the peace process that they had been calling for for years.
''Why would any Palestinian leader agree to re-engage if they can get what they want without negotiating?'' the official said. ''Why enter the give and take of negotiations when you can just take what is offered by international bodies?''
The guidelines come as the European Union continues to debate whether to label products made in West Bank settlements, which some member countries have already done, making it easier to boycott them. Tzipi Livni, the Israeli minister in charge of negotiations with the Palestinians, cautioned in a recent speech that potential boycotts ''won't stop at the settlements'' but will spread ''to all of Israel'' because it is seen as a ''colonialist country.''
Shlomo Ben-Ami, a former Israeli foreign minister, said he saw the European move as a ''good sign'' because it distinguished between pre-1967 Israel and the territories rather than punishing the country as a whole.
''Given the trend and the waves of protest against Israel's occupation and the call for boycott of the entire state, this distinction is interesting,'' Mr. Ben-Ami said. ''You delegitimize the occupation, not the state of Israel.''
Europe and Israel have a complex relationship colored by the memory of the Holocaust. Most current European leaders have been strong supporters of Israel and of the creation of a Palestinian state. But with the peace process stalled, public opinion in many countries has turned increasingly critical.
The union's member countries are deeply divided on some questions dear to Israel -- like a decision expected next week on whether to classify Hezbollah, the Lebanese Shiite militia, as a terrorist group -- but ''on settlements policy they are quite united,'' said Ms. Balfour of the European Policy Center.
Europeans have struggled to find a leadership role in the peace process, and have largely quieted moves to penalize Israel over its treatment of the Palestinians since Mr. Kerry began his push to revive negotiations this spring. The State Department, and many independent experts, believe that if Mr. Kerry's effort does not yield results soon, Europe will take even harsher measures to isolate Israel.
''The ship is turned, it's pointed in a certain direction,'' said Mr. Levy, the analyst based in London, who lived in Israel and worked on its earlier negotiations with the Palestinians. ''It still moves very slowly, but it's going to be difficult to turn it back.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: An Israeli settlement in the West Bank, territory seized by Israel in 1967 that will be subject to a European financing ban. (PHOTOGRAPH BY ABED AL HASHLAMOUN/EUROPEAN PRESSPHOTO AGENCY) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: EUROPEAN UNION (92%); TALKS & MEETINGS (90%); PEACE PROCESS (90%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (89%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (78%); FOREIGN RELATIONS (78%); EUROPEAN UNION LAW (78%); FOREIGN POLICY (78%); PRIME MINISTERS (78%); EUROPEAN UNION INSTITUTIONS (78%); TERRITORIAL & NATIONAL BORDERS (77%); JEWS & JUDAISM (74%); LIBERAL MEDIA (66%); US PRESIDENTS (65%); GRANTS & GIFTS (65%)

ORGANIZATION: EUROPEAN UNION (94%)

PERSON: JOHN KERRY (89%); MAHMOUD ABBAS (58%); BENJAMIN NETANYAHU (58%); BARACK OBAMA (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: JERUSALEM, ISRAEL (93%) EUROPE (96%); ISRAEL (96%); PALESTINIAN TERRITORY, OCCUPIED (95%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (95%); UNITED STATES (93%); JORDAN (92%); MIDDLE EAST (79%)

LOAD-DATE: July 17, 2013



498 of 937 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 17, 2013
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; OP-ED CONTRIBUTOR; Pg. 25

LENGTH: 769 words

HEADLINE: Fired for Being Beautiful

BYLINE: By MICHAEL KIMMEL. 
Michael Kimmel, a professor of sociology and gender studies at Stony Brook University, is the author of the forthcoming book ''Angry White Men: American Masculinity at the End of an Era.''

 BODY:
MOST everyone knows by now about ''lookism'' -- the preferential treatment given to those who conform to social standards of beauty. Research suggests that people who are judged physically attractive are seen as more competent and more socially graceful than those who aren't; they have more friends and more sex; and they make more money. One economic study found a 5 percent bonus for being in the top third in the looks department (as assessed by a set of observers), and a 7 to 9 percent penalty for being in the bottom 9 percent.
All of which might come as a surprise to Melissa Nelson, a 33-year-old dental assistant in Fort Dodge, Iowa. Ms. Nelson, you see, was fired in 2010 by her dentist boss, James Knight, because she was too attractive. Mr. Knight, who is married, said he felt that Ms. Nelson's beauty was simply too tempting to pass unnoticed and that he was worried he would have an affair with her. And so as a pre-emptive move (and at his wife's insistence), he fired her. 
Ms. Nelson sued on grounds of sex discrimination. Stunningly, an Iowa district court dismissed the case, contending that she was fired ''not because of her gender but because she was a threat to the marriage of Dr. Knight.'' Naturally, she appealed, but last week the Iowa Supreme Court upheld the lower court's decision (for the second time), maintaining its view that an employee ''may be lawfully terminated simply because the boss views the employee as an irresistible attraction.''
Now, you might think that this case of reverse-lookism gives the gorgeous a taste of their own medicine. Better than being fired because you're ugly, right?
But I propose that we think not about how such a case differs from its converse, but about how they are actually similar.
Discrimination based on beauty is rooted in the same sexist principle as discrimination against the ugly. Both rest on the power of the male gaze -- the fact that men's estimation of beauty is the defining feature of the category.
I know you might think: ''Not so fast. What about good-looking or ugly men?'' And yes, handsome men reap the benefits of lookism and the short, fat and bald suffer its penalties. Lookism is gender-neutral.
The workplace, however, isn't. Think of all those mannequin-thin sales representatives for pharmaceutical companies, whose job is to persuade physicians, a great many of them men, to prescribe their products. Think of companies like American Apparel, whose top executive, Dov Charney, has been accused of firing employees that he judges unattractive. The writer Naomi Wolf has called this the ''professional beauty quotient'' -- a standard of beauty that tacitly operates as an occupational qualification (as flight attendants have complained). The glass ceiling is reinforced by a looking glass.
But the professional beauty quotient has now morphed into what we might call the Goldilocks dilemma. Like the porridge in that famous fable, you can't be too cold. But as Ms. Nelson found out, you can't be too hot, either. You have to be ''just right.'' But just right in whose eyes? Beauty may be in the eye of the beholder, but the beholder in the workplace usually has a Y chromosome.
After all, the case of Melissa Nelson rests not on her beauty but on Mr. Knight's perception of her beauty. In his eyes, her beauty was simply too tempting, too potentially injurious. (Ever notice, the writer Timothy Beneke once asked, how the words we use to describe women's beauty -- bombshell, knockout, stunning, femme fatale -- are words that connote violence and injury to men?)
What a pathetic commentary on Mr. Knight: his willpower so limp, his commitment to his wife so weak, that he must be shielded from the hot and the beautiful.
Now, I ask you: Where have we heard that before -- that men's vulnerability to women's sexuality and attractiveness is so great that women must be prevented from showing any part of their bodies to them?
Yes, like some Midwestern Taliban tribunal, the Iowa Supreme Court permitted a male boss to fire anyone who might conceivably tempt him. Mullah Omar would approve.
Maybe we ought to reconsider the case of Samantha Elauf, a Muslim teenager from Oklahoma, on whose behalf the Equal Employment Opportunity Commission sued Abercrombie & Fitch in 2009 after she was not hired because her hijab did not meet the retailer's appearance policy. Maybe instead, the Iowa Supreme Court should require all beautiful women to wear burqas. With Ms. Nelson completely covered, Mr. Knight could pay full attention to his patients' dental concerns -- while ignoring the ethical cavity that mars discrimination law in Iowa.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: SETTLEMENTS & DECISIONS (90%); DISMISSALS (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); DISCRIMINATION (89%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (87%); PHARMACEUTICALS INDUSTRY (78%); DENTISTRY (78%); GENDER & SEX DISCRIMINATION IN EMPLOYMENT (76%); EMPLOYEE TERMINATION (74%); DECISIONS & RULINGS (72%); SUITS & CLAIMS (72%); SALES FORCE (71%); SUPREME COURTS (71%); LITIGATION (71%); APPEALS (71%); PHARMACEUTICAL PREPARATION MFG (62%)

ORGANIZATION: IOWA SUPREME COURT (54%)

PERSON: DOV CHARNEY (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: IOWA, USA (93%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: July 17, 2013



499 of 937 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 17, 2013
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section D; Column 0; Dining In, Dining Out / Style Desk; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 1037 words

HEADLINE: Breweries Not Too Big for Their Barrels

BYLINE: By CLAY RISEN

 BODY:
Every other Friday at 2 a.m., Rich Castagna walks out to the one-car garage behind his home in Maspeth, Queens, and fills a 55-gallon stainless-steel barrel with water. While his wife and three daughters are asleep inside the house, he fires up a burner and slowly brings the water to a boil, turning the 150-square-foot room into a sauna.
Another day at the Bridge and Tunnel Brewery has begun.
Mr. Castagna, who works for a New Jersey shipping company during the day, opened his one-man beer works in September, and has attracted an ardent following among New York's craft-beer bars, with demand far exceeding the 45 or so gallons he can churn out in each batch. ''All I can tell them now is, can you be a little patient,'' he said. ''It's not easy keeping everyone happy.'' 
Bridge and Tunnel is one of nearly a dozen nanobreweries, or nanos, as they are known in the trade, to open in and around New York City in the last few years. They range in size from Bridge and Tunnel, with its 1.5-barrel capacity, to Port Jeff Brewing in Port Jefferson, on the North Shore of Long Island, a relative behemoth with its seven-barrel system. (Large craft breweries can produce 100 to 200 barrels at a time.) Across the country, more than 200 nanos are in operation or about to open.
''The best beer is coming out of these small breweries,'' said Jimmy Carbone, whose East Village bar, Jimmy's No. 43, usually has two or three local nanos on tap. ''They have the passion.''
Nanos are the garage bands of the craft-beer world: basically souped-up home-brewing operations whose owners have decided to go commercial, but still hold tight to a do-it-yourself ethic. Working out of garages or small industrial spaces, they make a few small batches at a time, which they sell in kegs to local bars or to growler-bearing customers out their front doors.
As shoestring operations whose few employees often work day jobs elsewhere, nanobreweries can rarely guarantee consistent supplies. But in some ways that is part of their appeal, underlining the handmade, artisanal nature of their beers.
Indeed, Mr. Castagna was surprised when, a couple of months after hanging out his shingle, he began getting unsolicited orders from bars and restaurants. ''I said: 'You guys can have any beer you want on draft. Why me?' And they said, 'People want local beer.' ''
Bar owners love the personal relationships that come from working with tiny breweries. ''The same guy is making the beer and delivering it,'' Mr. Carbone said. ''That's what craft should be.''
Nanobrewing is an outgrowth of a nationwide upsurge in home brewing, said Gary Glass, the director of the American Homebrewers Association, where membership has grown 20 percent a year since 2005. In New York City, the number of home-brewing clubs has risen to 10 today, from 2 in 2001.
A result of all that activity is more information and knowledge sharing, as well as more and better brewing-supply stores, said Chris Cuzme, the brewer at 508 GastroBrewery in SoHo and a former president of the New York City Homebrewers Guild. That really launched the renaissance in nanobrewing, he said, as skilled hobbyists began looking for ways to take their passion to the next level.
It helps that many states have recently changed their post-Prohibition liquor laws, making it easier for small breweries to get started. Last year Gov. Andrew M. Cuomo signed a law easing taxes and fees for small breweries. Nanobreweries still have to meet state and federal licensing requirements. (They are spared local health inspections because beer is essentially antiseptic.)
Mr. Castagna needed a zoning variance to run a business on his property, and had to prove that his garage-cum-brewery was detached from his house. Finally, he had to pass a six-hour inspection before receiving his state license.
The slow-growing economy has limited how big a step start-up brewers can take. A typical new craft brewery, with a 30-barrel system and an automated bottling line, might cost upward of $1 million to open, not counting labor and space. ''Credit has been an issue,'' Mr. Glass said, ''so launching a large brewery isn't an option.''
A nanobrewery, in contrast, can start for as little as $10,000, depending on how much equipment the owners can make themselves. Mr. Castagna built his mash tub out of a barrel he bought from a Chinese restaurant. Other advantages to starting small besides price include the ability to experiment without too much at stake (or, in the case of home-based outfits like Mr. Castagna's, without disturbing neighbors).
That urge to invent was the inspiration for Big Alice Brewing, a nano in a Long Island City, Queens, warehouse that used to store Bibles. ''We opened the whole thing for the price of a car,'' said Robby Crafton, who brews there when he is not working as an information technology specialist for a nearby air-conditioning company. ''That way we can pursue our passion without any risk.''
Passion is the key word: the beer business is about volume, and at such a small level, it's almost impossible to turn a profit, since the margins on keg sales to bars and restaurants is extremely low.
''We did a basic business plan, and we came to the conclusion that this was a horrible idea,'' said Kyle Hurst, the head brewer at Big Alice.
For now, Big Alice makes money through an innovative community-share program, in which customers order six-months' worth of beer. Other brewers go directly to the public; Paul Dlugokencky, the owner of the Blind Bat Brewery in Centerport, on Long Island, sells his beer at nearby farm markets.
Many nanobrewers hope to grow quickly, using their proven demand to justify a loan to build a larger system.
''People told us that a 2-barrel system like ours wasn't a winning concept,'' said Ethan Long, an owner of the Rockaway Brewing Company, in an old bacon plant in Long Island City. ''So for our next thing, we would love to make it a 15-barrel brewery.''
But for others, like Mr. Castagna, small is beautiful. He said he would like to move to a slightly bigger space, and maybe hire a couple of assistants, but stay tiny.
''I just want it to be a little bigger, to keep people satisfied,'' he said. ''I'm not looking to make this the next big thing.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: A handful of hops. Top left, John Chapman, left, Ethan Long, center, and Marcus Burnett, right, at Rockaway Brewery Company in Long Island City, Queens. Top right, Mr. Burnett, left, and Mr. Long, right, in front of the brewery.
 Right, Rich Castagna uses his garage in Maspeth, Queens, to brew his Bridge and Tunnel Brewery beer. Far right, inside the 150-square-foot brewery space. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY MICHAEL NAGLE FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BREWERIES (90%); BEER & ALE (90%); DRINKING PLACES (89%); ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGES (89%); BRIDGES & TUNNELS (76%); RESTAURANTS (69%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%) NEW YORK, USA (92%); NEW JERSEY, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: July 17, 2013



500 of 937 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 17, 2013
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 883 words

HEADLINE: Jobless Rate Will Continue to Increase in Europe, O.E.C.D. Forecasts

BYLINE: By JULIA WERDIGIER

 BODY:
LONDON -- The social impact of the European economic crisis shows little sign of abating, with unemployment in Spain, Greece and other southern European economies expected to continue to rise through the end of next year, the Organization for Economic Cooperation and Development said in a study published Tuesday.
Joblessness is expected to continue edging up, to about 28 percent in Spain and Greece, 12.5 percent in Italy and 11 percent in France by the end of 2014, the Paris-based O.E.C.D. said in its forecast. Young people and the low-skilled will be affected the most, according to the organization, which represents 34 of the world's largest economies. Two of the biggest exceptions to the trend are the United States and Germany, where the number of people out of work is expected to decline further next year, the study said. 
''The social scars of the crisis are far from being healed,'' the organization's secretary general, Ángel Gurría, said.
Unemployment in many developed economies around the world has been on a steady rise since the financial crisis started in 2008. People on short-term contracts, especially the younger and lower skilled workers, were often the first to be fired at the beginning of the crisis and struggled to find a new job, the O.E.C.D. said.
Chancellor Angela Merkel of Germany declared youth unemployment Europe's biggest challenge earlier this year. And some governments, including France, pledged new measures to try and reduce unemployment.
But some economists said that some labor policies pushed through by governments to improve the employment situation, including apprenticeship programs, can do only so much to alleviate the unemployment burden. Government reforms can help a bit, said Jennifer McKeown, an economist at Capital Economics, but ''it's more about boosting firms' confidence and easing access to credit and maybe further easing of austerity.''
The O.E.C.D. warned against trying to address youth unemployment by turning to early retirement programs or relaxing unemployment benefits for older workers, saying it would be ''a costly mistake.'' New evidence cited by the O.E.C.D. showed that even though workers tend to retire later because of better health or financial needs, they did not stay in their jobs longer at the expense of younger workers.
Holger Schmieding, chief economist at Berenberg Bank, agreed with that assessment, saying that European demographics and the growing financial demands of pensions made it necessary to get people to work longer, not shorter. But Mr. Schmieding was less pessimistic than the O.E.C.D. He said that while more bad news on unemployment was already ''baked into the cake,'' the labor markets should stabilize as the economic environment improves, probably over the summer.
''Unemployment is a lagging economic indicator and even if the economies stabilize there may be pressure, but it doesn't have to get quite as bad as the O.E.C.D. forecasts,'' Mr. Schmieding said.
In Europe's hardest-hit job markets, the outlook remains grim. In Greece, where thousands walked off their jobs Tuesday in a 24-hour general strike against austerity measures, one university graduate at the protest in Athens said she had few hopes of finding a job in the fall.
''I was top of my class and all my teachers said I should have a bright future, but I can't see it, can you?'' said Aliki Tsavou, 24, an economics graduate who has been working part time and uninsured in a cafe for the past year as she looks for a full-time job. ''I've even applied to make coffee in an accountant's office but there's nothing, absolutely nothing.''
The O.E.C.D. also said that governments should spend more on helping the unemployed with their job search and training. Spending per job seeker fell on average by almost 20 percent among O.E.C.D. countries since the beginning of the crisis.
In Italy, addressing youth unemployment is a stated priority of the 11-week old government of Enrico Letta, which at the end of June approved a series of programs to increase jobs. The measures include tax breaks for employers, as well as new training and internship programs. But concerns remain that Italy's overall economic situation -- limping through a two-year recession -- will continue to act as a brake to new hires.
''The real issue is one of demand,'' said Stefano Sacchi, assistant professor of political science at the University of Milan, who noted that work incentives were unsustainable in the long term.
Calls for the government to relieve the tax load on companies and reduce labor costs to boost employment have also been widespread, but tax breaks in other areas have reduced the government's wriggle room. ''The margins for this are tight in the current situation,'' Mr. Sacchi said.
Flavio Vallone, 28, a Web developer and university graduate in Siena, Italy, has been struggling after a first job that ended when the company was taken over. Now that he has spare time, he has been teaching himself new skills in Web marketing and social media in the hope that it will help land new employment.
''I'm taking advantage of being unemployed to learn what I didn't while I was at university,'' he said. But prospects look dim. ''Companies want the compromise between a young person and a person who has experience, which is a paradox.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: A job office in Madrid. Unemployment in Spain is expected to reach 28 percent by late 2014. (PHOTOGRAPH BY SUSANA VERA/REUTERS) CHART: Persistent Strains: The number of unemployed in May in the 34 countries of the O.E.C.D. was nearly 16 million more than in December 2007, before the onset of the financial crisis. (Source: Organization for Economic Cooperation and Development) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (91%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (90%); UNEMPLOYED PERSONS (90%); RESEARCH REPORTS (90%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (89%); EMPLOYMENT (87%); EMERGING MARKETS (78%); ECONOMIC POLICY (78%); LABOR SECTOR PERFORMANCE (78%); ECONOMIC INDICATORS (78%); TRENDS (77%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (73%); OLDER WORKERS (73%); UNEMPLOYMENT INSURANCE (73%); BANKING & FINANCE (71%); EARLY RETIREMENT (71%); APPRENTICESHIPS & INTERNSHIPS (68%); PERSONAL FINANCE (61%)

ORGANIZATION: ORGANISATION FOR ECONOMIC CO-OPERATION & DEVELOPMENT (84%)

PERSON: ANGELA MERKEL (53%)

GEOGRAPHIC: MADRID, SPAIN (79%); PARIS, FRANCE (57%) EUROPE (96%); SPAIN (95%); FRANCE (93%); SOUTHERN EUROPE (92%); GREECE (90%); GERMANY (88%); UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: July 17, 2013



501 of 937 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 17, 2013
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Foreign Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1234 words

HEADLINE: Panama Seizes Korean Ship, And Sugar-Coated Arms Parts

BYLINE: By RICK GLADSTONE and DAVID E. SANGER; Reporting was contributed by Anne-Sophie Bolon from London; Raphael Minder from Paris; Gerry Mullany from Hong Kong; Choe Sang-hun from Seoul, South Korea; and Karla Zabludovsky from Mexico City.

 BODY:
It started with a tip: that a rusty North Korean freighter, which had not plied the Caribbean in years, was carrying drugs or arms amid more than 200,000 sacks of Cuban brown sugar.
It ended with a five-day, eventually violent standoff between Panamanian marines and 35 North Korean crew members, armed largely with sticks, who were subdued and arrested while their captain, claiming he was having a heart attack, tried to commit suicide. Underneath all that sugar, it turned out, were parts for what appeared to be elements of an antiquated Soviet-era missile radar system that was headed, evidently, to North Korea -- a country that usually exports missile technology around the world, rather than bringing it in.
Late Tuesday night, Cuba's Ministry of Foreign Affairs issued a statement saying the cargo stashed in the vessel, the Chong Chon Gang, consisted of ''240 metric tons of obsolete defensive weapons'' bound for North Korea, where it was to be repaired and then sent back to Cuba. 
But American and Panamanian officials were still trying to understand why the ship's crew had fought so hard to repel a boarding party as the ship tried to traverse the Panama Canal. After all, the equipment they were protecting would make a nice exhibit in a museum of cold war military artifacts. ''We're talking old,'' one official briefed on the episode said. ''When this stuff was new, Castro was plotting revolutions.''
The Cuban Ministry did not seem to be offended, describing the equipment to be repaired as ''two anti-aircraft missile complexes Volga and Pechora, nine missiles in parts and spares, two Mig-21 Bis and 15 motors for this type of airplane, all of it manufactured in the mid-twentieth century''
The episode also offered a window on the desperate measures North Korea is taking to keep hard currency and goods flowing at a time when its ships are tracked everywhere, old customers like Syria and Iran are facing sanctions and scrutiny of their own, and its partners have dwindled to a few outliers.
Still, Cuba's role was puzzling -- at a time when Washington has talked of relaxing restrictions and Cuba's leadership has seemed more eager to improve its ties with the West than to strengthen relations with cold war-era partners.
Even by the measure of bizarre stories about North Korea's black-market dealings, the events of the past five days in Panama set some records. In recent times North Korean shipments to Myanmar and the Middle East have been tracked and in some cases intercepted, a testament to how closely American spy satellites follow the country's aging cargo fleet.
''What I can say for sure is that looking at illicit North Korea trade, their ships in particular, these guys are stumped for money, they are incredibly poor,'' said Hugh Griffiths, an arms trafficking specialist at the Stockholm International Peace Research Institute. ''Business deals that might look silly to us don't look ridiculous to them.''
Panama's president, Ricardo Martinelli announced the discovery in a radio broadcast on Monday night, making it clear that the North Korean ship was in blatant violation of numerous United Nations sanctions. He even posted a photograph of the contraband on his Twitter account.
Based on that picture, IHS Jane's Intelligence, a defense consultancy, identified it as an SNR-75 ''Fan Song'' fire control radar for the SA-2 family of surface-to-air missiles. The component is important for guiding a missile to its target; the Soviets began building similar systems in the mid-1950s, well ahead of the Cuban missile crisis.
In a statement, IHS Jane's speculated that the system might be headed to North Korea for an upgrade, and that ''the cargo of sugar could be a payment for the services.''
But it also said the radar equipment could have been en route to North Korea to augment that country's air defense network, which it said was based on obsolete weapons, missiles and radars.
That raised the possibility that other elements of the shipment were aboard, or on other ships.
''We're going to keep unloading the ship and figure out exactly what was inside,'' Mr. Martinelli said. ''You cannot go around shipping undeclared weapons of war through the Panama Canal.''
There was no comment on Tuesday from North Korea on the vessel's seizure.
The Chong Chon Gang, a 36-year-old freighter, had its own peculiar history, and this was not the first time the vessel had encountered run-ins with maritime authorities. It had been stopped in 2010 for carrying narcotics and ammunition, Mr. Griffiths said. He also said it had been attacked by Somali pirates.
According to IHS Fairplay, a London-based vessel monitoring service, the freighter had not traveled the Western Hemisphere in at least four years. The monitoring data shows it visited Panama in 2008 and Brazil in 2009.
Mr. Griffiths noted that its reappearance, even with the cover of a Cuban cargo of sugar, was bound to attract attention. He said interest in the vessel's itinerary in recent weeks, which included a stopover in Havana, might have been heightened because of the July 3 visit to Cuba of North Korea's top military commander, who conferred with President Raúl Castro. Cuban and North Korean news media publicized the trip.
''There are very few states where the North Korean chief of staff is welcomed for a high-level meeting,'' Mr. Griffiths said.
American spy satellites regularly track North Korean vessels -- but usually to stop weapons proliferation, not drugs. And as the intelligence agencies discovered several years ago, failure to monitor can lead to other lapses: the United States missed the construction of a North Korean nuclear reactor in Syria until Israeli officials brought evidence of it to Washington in 2007. Israel destroyed the reactor later that year.
Matthew Godsey, editor of the Risk Report, a publication of the Wisconsin Project on Nuclear Arms Control, a proliferation research group in Washington that follows North Korean behavior, said the Chong Chon Gang may also have traveled in the region undetected previously by turning off its satellite transponder, used by tracking services to monitor vessels for their own safety.
''I think North Korean vessels have been known to do that,'' he said. ''It's dangerous, but when you're carrying dangerous stuff it can happen. When you have a captain willing to kill himself, it wouldn't surprise me.''
Mr. Martinelli and other Panamanian officials said the vessel's 35 crew members were taken into custody on Sunday after they violently resisted efforts to redirect the vessel to the Panamanian port of Manzanillo, at the Atlantic end of the canal. He did not explain how the captain sought to commit suicide, and the captain's condition was unknown.
José Raúl Mulino, Panama's minister of security, said in a telephone interview that the entire crew had been detained at a naval base after committing what he called an act of ''rebellion and sabotage'' in trying to resist the boarding of the vessel. It was unclear whether they would face criminal prosecution or be sent back to North Korea.
Mr. Mulino said that the suspect cargo was hidden in two containers behind the sugar, and that all 220,000 to 230,000 sugar sacks aboard would be removed before the ship could be completely investigated. The process could take a while, he said, because the crew had disabled the unloading cranes, forcing the Panamanians to remove the bags by hand.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Sugar sacks in the hold of the North Korean freighter Chong Chon Gang, held in the Panamanian port of Manzanillo on Tuesday. (PHOTOGRAPH BY RODRIGO ARANGUA/AGENCE FRANCE-PRESSE -- GETTY IMAGES) (A3) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MILITARY WEAPONS (89%); MISSILE SYSTEMS (89%); COLD WAR (89%); MILITARY SURVEILLANCE (75%); RADAR SYSTEMS (75%); DEFENSE INDUSTRY (75%); STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (74%); EXPORT TRADE (74%); EMBARGOES & SANCTIONS (74%); SUICIDE (71%); ANTIAIRCRAFT WEAPONS (70%); MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (70%); SATELLITE TECHNOLOGY (68%); CANALS & WATERWAYS (66%); CURRENCIES (61%); UNOFFICIAL ECONOMY (61%)

GEOGRAPHIC: KOREA, DEMOCRATIC PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF (99%); PANAMA (95%); CUBA (94%); UNITED STATES (93%); CARIBBEAN ISLANDS (92%); MYANMAR (79%); SYRIA (79%); IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (79%); MIDDLE EAST (69%)

LOAD-DATE: July 17, 2013



502 of 937 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 17, 2013
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 22

LENGTH: 534 words

HEADLINE: Official Says He Is Leaving City's Economic Corporation

BYLINE: By CHARLES V. BAGLI

 BODY:
With the clock ticking down on Mayor Michael R. Bloomberg's time in office, the inevitable wave of departures from his administration may have begun.
Seth W. Pinsky, president of the city's Economic Development Corporation for the past five years and a key figure in development initiatives from Lower Manhattan to Coney Island, announced on Tuesday that he would leave office after Labor Day to join a real estate company, RXR Realty. 
Mr. Pinsky, who is 41 and lives in Park Slope, said that he would be looking for development opportunities for RXR in New York, New Jersey and Connecticut that traditional investors have ignored, ranging from air cargo facilities to projects near suburban transit hubs.
RXR is led by Scott Rechler, who was appointed by Gov. Andrew M. Cuomo to be vice chairman of the Port Authority of New York and New Jersey.
Mr. Bloomberg was profuse on Tuesday in his praise for Mr. Pinsky, who he said had ''made an enormous difference in this city.''
Most recently, Mr. Pinsky led the mayor's Special Initiative for Rebuilding and Resiliency, which devised a $20 billion plan to protect the city from rising sea levels and powerful storms.
He was also intimately involved in negotiations surrounding the new Yankee Stadium, the creation of the Cornell-Technion engineering campus being built on Roosevelt Island and the redevelopment of Willets Point.
He sometimes came in for criticism from community groups that he was too generous in his dealings with developers. But real estate executives also complained privately that Mr. Pinsky was too rough on them.
Kyle Kimball, Mr. Pinsky's deputy, will take over as president of the Economic Development Corporation. Mr. Kimball, who left Goldman Sachs to join the development corporation, worked on the relocation of JetBlue's headquarters to Long Island City, New York City's gaining sole control of Brooklyn Bridge Park and the restructuring of the agency's financial and reporting functions.
Mr. Kimball will have plenty to do, given that Mr. Bloomberg's term is coming to an end in December. His administration is rushing to get a number of projects ready for public conferences, groundbreakings or construction commencements before the end of the year. Those projects include Kingsbridge Armory, Willets Point and a professional soccer stadium in Flushing Meadows-Corona Park.
And many developers, uncertain as to the policies of the next mayor, are eager to gain public approvals for their projects before Mr. Bloomberg departs.
Under the city's ethics law, Mr. Pinsky is prohibited from appearing before his former agency on business for one year. He is also barred from working on a project in which he was directly involved while employed by the city, or divulging confidential city information that would benefit himself or his new employer.
Mr. Pinsky's predecessor, Josh Sirefman, ran afoul of the restrictions within the year after he left the agency in 2007 to work for one of the city's largest commercial landlords, Brookfield Properties. Mr. Sirefman was fined $1,500 after he represented Brookfield before the Hudson Yards Development Corporation, whose board members include the president of the Economic Development Corporation.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Seth W. Pinsky, president of the New York City Economic Development Corporation. (PHOTOGRAPH BY OZIER MUHAMMAD/THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: APPOINTMENTS (90%); REAL ESTATE (90%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (90%); STADIUMS & ARENAS (88%); REAL ESTATE AGENTS (76%); RELOCATIONS (73%); EXECUTIVES (72%); PORT AUTHORITIES (68%); ETHICS (64%); AIR FREIGHT (55%); SUBURBS (54%); SOCCER (50%)

COMPANY: PORT AUTHORITY OF NEW YORK & NEW JERSEY (69%); JETBLUE AIRWAYS CORP (57%); GOLDMAN SACHS GROUP INC (57%)

TICKER: JBLU (NASDAQ) (57%); GS (NYSE) (57%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS485999 ALL OTHER TRANSIT & GROUND PASSENGER TRANSPORTATION (69%); SIC4119 LOCAL PASSENGER TRANSPORTATION, NEC (69%); NAICS481111 SCHEDULED PASSENGER AIR TRANSPORTATION (57%); SIC4512 AIR TRANSPORTATION, SCHEDULED (57%); NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (57%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (57%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (57%); SIC6289 SERVICES ALLIED WITH THE EXCHANGE OF SECURITIES OR COMMODITIES, NEC (57%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (57%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (57%)

PERSON: MICHAEL BLOOMBERG (89%); ANDREW CUOMO (54%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%) NEW YORK, USA (94%); NEW JERSEY, USA (92%); CONNECTICUT, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: July 17, 2013



503 of 937 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 17, 2013
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1072 words

HEADLINE: As Spitzer Pursues a Comeback, His Wife Chooses to Stay Offstage

BYLINE: By MICHAEL M. GRYNBAUM; Reporting was contributed by Janon Fisher, Danny Hakim, Randy Leonard and Mei-Yu Liu.

 BODY:
Eliot Spitzer spent this past weekend hopping from coast to coast, flying to Los Angeles to appear on ''The Tonight Show,'' then catching a red-eye back to Manhattan where he huddled for strategy sessions and hit the Sunday morning talk-show circuit.
His wife, Silda Wall Spitzer, had quieter plans. She headed to the family's 160-acre country retreat in the Hudson Valley, where she likes to paint and has been tending to a newborn calf.
When he announced his unlikely return to political life, Mr. Spitzer said the approval of his wife, a stalwart presence in his previous campaigns, was essential before he chose to pursue a potentially career-salvaging run for New York City comptroller.
But so far Ms. Wall Spitzer has been all but invisible, issuing no statement of support and not once appearing at her husband's side. It is a stark contrast from her days trekking to Niagara Falls and Buffalo to rally voters to his cause. 
Mr. Spitzer's attempted comeback has coincided with a difficult time for his marriage -- the couple are currently living in separate apartments 18 blocks apart. Five years after Mr. Spitzer resigned as governor amid a prostitution scandal, friends say Ms. Wall Spitzer is deeply conflicted about her husband's candidacy, offering assent but privately preferring he had not chosen to run.
''To be honest, she'd probably rather he didn't do it,'' said Karen Finerman, a longtime friend of the couple whose new book was feted by Ms. Wall Spitzer at a party last month. ''It opens up a whole chapter that was a difficult chapter,'' Ms. Finerman added. ''But it is not in her nature to say to him, 'No, you can't.' ''
Besides inviting uncomfortable questions on the trail, Ms. Wall Spitzer's absence has deprived Mr. Spitzer, a Democrat, of the ally who could most potently make the case to voters that he has been rehabilitated: the woman whose ashen face at her husband's resignation announcement remains a searing symbol of his ignominious downfall.
Her silence is all the more striking when compared with Anthony D. Weiner's wife, Huma Abedin, who has taken a prominent role in her husband's mayoral bid, appearing in a campaign video and greeting voters in Harlem hand-in-hand with her spouse. Mr. Weiner resigned from Congress in 2011 after sending explicit messages to women he met over the Internet.
Asked about his wife's absence, Mr. Spitzer has offered explanations that range from awkward to evasive. In a televised interview over the weekend, he paused for a full two seconds when asked if his wife had forgiven him, before offering a halting reply.
''We have both been hurt by what I did,'' Mr. Spitzer said, spacing out the words. ''Damaged by what I did. That exacts a price, an emotional price, in any relationship, and that is painful.''
Neither Mr. Spitzer nor his wife would comment for this article.
Friends said Ms. Wall Spitzer only agreed to her husband's bid for comptroller over the July 4 holiday weekend, the same weekend Mr. Spitzer made his plans public.
They have been observed coming and going from their respective apartments over the past week: she is currently residing at the family's home on Fifth Avenue, while Mr. Spitzer is staying with his ailing parents, who live 18 blocks south. Mr. Spitzer has said that the couple is not separated and has indicated that his wife will join him on the trail. She, however, has not announced any plans to do so.
Much has changed for Ms. Wall Spitzer, a former corporate lawyer, since her husband resigned in 2008.
She has grown more independent, relishing a return to her corporate career and working 60-hour weeks at a private equity firm where she helps guide investments in clean energy. She oversees her children's charity, generationOn, which earlier this year honored Chelsea Clinton, and has pursued new business ventures, including an e-commerce Web site, New York States of Mind, that highlights products from businesses in the state.
Carter Bales, the chairman of NewWorld Capital Group, where Ms. Wall Spitzer works, said she had given no indication that she would be taking a hiatus to help her husband's campaign.
''She's here because she has a professional commitment to the work that we do, and I would expect that commitment to continue and to grow,'' Mr. Bales said.
Ms. Wall Spitzer has long been a somewhat reluctant participant in the political world, unlike Ms. Abedin, a top aide to Hillary Rodham Clinton and a veteran of highly personal campaigns of absolution. Ms. Wall Spitzer once asked her husband, in the early days of his rocky term as governor, why he did not simply pursue his family's real estate business.
And she has been circumspect about her personal life since Mr. Spitzer resigned, telling Vogue magazine in a 2009 profile: ''I value Eliot as a colleague. He is a wonderful human being.''
Despite her reservations, Ms. Wall Spitzer affixed her name last week to a nominating petition for her husband. One of the couple's daughters, Sarabeth, helped her father canvass for petitions ahead of a crucial filing deadline.
Asked if Ms. Wall Spitzer was excited about her husband's new candidacy, Nancy Lieberman, a close friend for 20 years, paused a moment.
''She's, you know, she is supportive of it,'' Ms. Lieberman said. ''You know, she's definitely there.''
Still, Ms. Wall Spitzer's unwillingness to play the public role of forgiving spouse has complicated her husband's message and added a dose of dissonance to a campaign that Mr. Spitzer had hoped would follow the familiar arc of political resurrection.
''She is going to be an important part of evaluating the credibility of his candidacy,'' said Matthew Hiltzik, a communications executive and former Democratic strategist. ''If she even provides minimal public support, that could go a long way.''
Some friends of the couple say Mr. Spitzer will have to address the issue as the campaign rolls on.
There is little doubt that Ms. Wall Spitzer, a North Carolina native with an easy charm, would make a compelling advocate for her husband on the trail. She has not lost the sense of humor that helped sustain her after her husband's resignation.
When she was hired by Ms. Finerman at a hedge fund in 2008, just as the economy was collapsing, her new colleagues often wrung their hands about the upheaval in the stock market.
Ms. Wall Spitzer, months removed from her husband's scandal, would laugh.
''Ah, this is nothing!'' she told them, according to Ms. Finerman.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Silda Wall Spitzer has not been at her husband's side. (PHOTOGRAPH BY GARY GERSHOFF/WIREIMAGE)(A1)
Silda Wall Spitzer with her husband when he ran for governor in 2006, above, and when he quit amid a sex scandal in 2008, left. She is absent from his bid for comptroller. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY RICHARD PERRY / THE NEW YORK TIMES
 HIROKO MASUIKE FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) (A23) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: INTERVIEWS (89%); TELEVISION TALK SHOWS (78%); MARRIAGE (77%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (75%); CITY GOVERNMENT (74%); RESIGNATIONS (71%); ANTHONY WEINER SCANDAL (70%); SEX SCANDALS (65%); SCANDALS (51%)

PERSON: ELIOT SPITZER (92%); RICK PERRY (55%); ANTHONY D WEINER (55%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (93%); BUFFALO, NY, USA (79%) NEW YORK, USA (93%); CALIFORNIA, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: July 17, 2013



504 of 937 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 17, 2013
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 476 words

HEADLINE: Gas Raises Consumer Prices, but Inflation Remains Tame

BYLINE: By THE ASSOCIATED PRESS

 BODY:
WASHINGTON -- Higher gasoline costs helped raise a measure of consumer prices in June. But the overall trend in inflation stayed tame.
The Labor Department reported on Tuesday that its Consumer Price Index increased 0.5 percent in June from May. Two-thirds of the gain came from a 6.3 percent jump in gas prices, the largest since February. 
Excluding volatile food and energy costs, so-called core prices rose just 0.2 percent.
Consumer prices have been stable this year, giving the Federal Reserve room to continue efforts to stimulate the economy.
Over all, prices rose just 1.8 percent in the last 12 months. And core prices rose just 1.6 percent in that period -- the smallest 12-month change in two years. Each measure was below 2 percent, the Fed's inflation target.
Slow economic growth and high unemployment have kept wages from rising quickly. That has made it harder for retailers and other businesses to increase prices.
In June, prices for all energy products rose 3.4 percent, mostly because of the surge in gas costs. Other prices changed little.
The gas price surge was caused by a jump in global oil prices, which was influenced by the political turmoil in Egypt. Chris G. Christopher Jr., director of consumer economics at IHS Global Insight, predicted prices at the pump would fall once conditions stabilized in Egypt.
Food prices edged up 0.2 percent. New-car prices increased 0.3 percent but were up just 1.3 percent over the last year. Clothing prices rose 0.9 percent in June but were up just 0.8 percent over the last 12 months. Prices for used cars fell 0.4 percent and were down 2.3 percent over the last year.
The Federal Reserve reported on Tuesday that manufacturing production rose 0.3 percent in June from May, as factories made more business equipment, home electronics and cars. That followed a 0.2 percent gain in May. Still, the two consecutive gains barely offset declines in March and April.
Overall industrial production, which includes factories, mines and utilities, also rose 0.3 percent in June. Mining output increased 0.8 percent and utility output slid 0.1 percent.
Manufacturing is the most critical component of industrial production. The recent gains are a hopeful sign that factories could help the economy grow in the second half of the year.
The ''report confirms the picture of a moderate recovery in the manufacturing sector,'' Annalisa Piazza, senior economist at Newedge Strategy, wrote in a research note.
Manufacturers have struggled this year, providing little support to the economy. Their output was up just 1.8 percent in the last 12 months. And factories cut jobs in each of the last four months, shedding 24,000 since February.
Slower global growth has cut demand for American exports. Europe is still in a recession and China's economy grew from April through June at the slowest pace in more than two decades.

GRAPHIC: CHARTS: Consumer Prices: Percent change, month to month, seasonally adjusted. (Source: Bureau of Labor Statistics)
Industrial Production: Index of total industrial production, 2007 = 100, seasonally adjusted.
 Capacity Utilization: Total industrial output as a percentage of capacity, seasonally adjusted. (Source: Federal Reserve) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PRICE INCREASES (95%); OIL & GAS PRICES (94%); CONSUMER PRICE INDEX (91%); TRENDS (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); GASOLINE (90%); PRICE CHANGES (90%); GASOLINE PRICES (90%); MANUFACTURING OUTPUT (89%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (89%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (89%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (78%); LABOR DEPARTMENTS (78%); RECESSION (78%); LABOR SECTOR PERFORMANCE (78%); FOOD PRICES (78%); MINING & EXTRACTION SECTOR PERFORMANCE (77%); MANUFACTURING SECTOR PERFORMANCE (77%); MINING OUTPUT (77%); FOOD & BEVERAGE (76%); EMERGING MARKETS (75%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (75%); LAYOFFS (73%); CONSUMER ELECTRONICS (73%); RETAILERS (73%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (68%); CONSUMER ELECTRONICS MFG (67%); EXPORT TRADE (50%)

COMPANY: NEWEDGE GROUP (51%)

ORGANIZATION: BUREAU OF LABOR STATISTICS (59%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS523140 COMMODITY CONTRACTS BROKERAGE (51%); NAICS523130 COMMODITY CONTRACTS DEALING (51%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (51%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%); EGYPT (92%); CHINA (79%)

LOAD-DATE: July 17, 2013



505 of 937 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 17, 2013
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; ABOUT NEW YORK; Pg. 19

LENGTH: 720 words

HEADLINE: A Parade of Advertising, Starring Ballplayers

BYLINE: By JIM DWYER; Matt Flegenheimer contributed reporting.. 
E-mail: dwyer@nytimes.com Twitter: @jimdwyernyt

 BODY:
Barricades were set up in Midtown to keep hordes of people from surging onto the street as the Major League Baseball All-Star Parade of Pickup Trucks and Ballplayers moved at a stately pace toward 42nd Street.
And the fans were lined up one-deep along the route, enduring the blazing heat to see their heroes.
Well, not really. In some places, a few more people were standing. Elsewhere, fewer. 
Here for the parade?
''Hell no,'' said Alan Maine, at the corner of 41st Street and Avenue of the Americas. ''I'm just trying to get back from lunch.''
Eric Beek looked longingly across the avenue to Bryant Park, a bowl of green coolness and shade.
''Thought it might be nice to have a stroll around the park before I go back to the office,'' said Mr. Beek, who works for Bank of America.
Surely, that could not be as much fun as a chance to wave at the greats of Major League Baseball?
''I'm Dutch,'' he said. ''This is not my sport.''
A colleague from the bank, Jose Ferrer, added: ''I'm Brazilian. I only follow soccer.''
In truth, the people in the pickup trucks might as well have been soccer players, because it was hard to identify them, since they were dressed in ordinary clothes, without numbers on their backs. As a visual aid, each truck had the name of the player posted on the side.
In an excellent prank, the magnificent Mets pitcher, Matt Harvey, was dispatched by ''Late Night With Jimmy Fallon'' to Bryant Park earlier in the week and sent to interview fans about the game and, well, Matt Harvey. Even people who, somehow, were wearing Matt Harvey jerseys did not realize he was the one asking the questions. A number of them, however, mentioned Mr. Harvey's pretty-close-to-naked photo spread in ESPN The Magazine. Apparently, he looked much different with his clothes on, throwing off the interviewees.
It has been five years since baseball's All-Star Game was last played in New York City, during the final season of the old Yankee Stadium. That, too, was the occasion of a bewildering parade, moving up Avenue of the Americas, roughly in the direction of the Bronx. Tuesday's event moved up the same avenue, then turned east along 42nd Street, roughly toward Flushing, Queens, where this year's game was to be played, at Citi Field. A red carpet stretched three blocks.
The parade is essentially a television commercial for pickup trucks, with ballplayers serving as ornaments.
Since the one in 2008, the city has started charging groups that hold parades. For example, depending on how many officers and traffic agents are needed to control traffic, the events graded by the city as ''medium'' in size must pay up to $1 million. ''Extra-large'' goes for $2 million or more.
Although parts of Midtown Manhattan were paralyzed for stretches of the day, Major League Baseball got the ''small'' event rate -- $100,000.
Just on one block, 41st Street, from Broadway to Avenue of the Americas, a half-dozen police vans were at the curb, their occupants out keeping order. On the same block, a Fire Department mobile command center was parked fender-to-fender with the Police Department's mobile command center. The two of them next to each other formed a small skyscraper, lying on its side.
The city believes that it gets tremendous value in free television coverage of events like the parade, and Frank Barry, a spokesman for Mayor Michael R. Bloomberg, estimates that the economic impact of the All-Star events is $191.5 million.
One of the events was at a chain sandwich shop in the Flatiron district. Jared Fogle, who reported that he had lost a lot of weight by eating mostly the sandwiches sold by the chain, and Willie Randolph, the former Yankee All-Star second baseman, were handing out sandwiches and bags.
A few people waiting had no idea why.
''It's a kickoff to the game tonight,'' a man reported to a woman behind him in the line.
''I heard there was a baseball game,'' the woman, Keysha Lloyd, said. ''Traffic is crazy.''
Mr. Fogle had been in Kansas City last year to give away sandwiches when the All-Star Game was held there.
''In Kansas City, it was an event for the ages,'' Mr. Fogle said.
Things were a bit different in New York. ''It's the mecca of the world,'' Mr. Fogle said. ''You guys are used to doing it all the time.''
He resumed handing out sandwiches to a public blissfully unaware of the day's grandeur.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: People watched from the Chanin Building at East 42nd Street and Lexington Avenue. The red carpet was three blocks long. (PHOTOGRAPH BY DEMETRIUS FREEMAN/THE NEW YORK TIMES)
 Baseball players rode along 42nd Street in the ninth annual Major League Baseball All-Star Red Carpet Show. (PHOTOGRAPH BY JABIN BOTSFORD/THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BASEBALL (92%); ATHLETES (91%); STADIUMS & ARENAS (89%); MOTOR VEHICLES (89%); SPORTS FANS (78%); SOCCER (78%); INTERVIEWS (78%); SPORTS & RECREATION EVENTS (78%); SPORTS & RECREATION (78%); SPORTS (78%); LATE NIGHT TELEVISION (68%); TELEVISION ADVERTISING (66%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING (64%)

COMPANY: CITIGROUP INC (56%); BANK OF AMERICA CORP (56%)

ORGANIZATION: MAJOR LEAGUE BASEBALL (93%)

TICKER: C (NYSE) (56%); C (BMV) (56%); 8710 (TSE) (56%); BAC (NYSE) (56%); BAC (LSE) (56%); 8648 (TSE) (56%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (56%); NAICS522210 CREDIT CARD ISSUING (56%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (56%); NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (56%); SIC6712 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (56%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (91%) NEW YORK, USA (91%) UNITED STATES (91%)

LOAD-DATE: July 18, 2013



506 of 937 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 17, 2013
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 16

LENGTH: 1112 words

HEADLINE: White House Focuses on Reaching Latino Viewers

BYLINE: By MICHAEL D. SHEAR

 BODY:
WASHINGTON -- On Tuesday it was ''En vivo desde la Casa Blanca'' -- ''Live from the White House'' -- as four local anchors from America's biggest Spanish-language television networks roamed America's most famous address.
They interviewed President Obama in the Blue Room, called it ''surreal'' to see the portrait of George Washington in the East Room and got briefings on immigration and health care from senior staff members in the West Wing.
''They want to make sure they reach this part of the population in their own language,'' Maria Rozman, the news director for the Telemundo station in Denver, KDEN, told her viewers in Spanish during her stand-up on the South Lawn, as the White House gleamed photogenically behind her. 
The White House is reaching beyond the Beltway's traditional media and tapping into a huge and politically powerful audience: the millions of viewers who watch Univision and Telemundo. They easily surpass the audiences of cable news programs and, in some demographics, the broadcast networks themselves. In February, Univision beat out NBC as the third-most-watched network among adults 18 to 49 years old.
Much as he did in his presidential campaigns, Mr. Obama has assembled a growing but still-stealthy operation inside the White House to speak directly to Latinos. A multimedia public relations campaign pushing for an overhaul of the nation's immigration system -- delivered in Spanish and in English on a daily basis -- is reaching millions of Hispanics across the country, even as it goes largely unnoticed in official Washington.
Ms. Rozman of Telemundo was flanked on the sweltering White House lawn by three colleagues -- from stations in New York, Los Angeles and Dallas -- who had been invited by White House officials pushing hard for the immigration overhaul. Mr. Obama did his part: In an interview on Tuesday with one of the anchors, Leon Krauze of KMEX Univision 34 in Los Angeles, he said emphatically that he would not compromise on his position that the legislation include a path to citizenship for illegal immigrants.
''It makes no sense to me for us to say that we're going to take a once-in-a-lifetime opportunity to fix our immigration system and leave the status of millions unresolved,'' the president said. ''If we're going to do this right,'' he added, ''it does not make sense for us not to resolve that situation.''
Tuesday's events followed six lengthy sit-down interviews by Mr. Obama on Telemundo and Univision in January, March and May, along with months of regular appearances by Cecilia Muñoz, the director of the White House domestic policy council. Online, the White House office of Hispanic media posts messages on Twitter in both English and Spanish from @lacasablanca, which has more than 40,000 followers.
Mr. Obama's weekly Internet address is matched each Saturday by a corresponding one in Spanish by an administration official, which last week was given by Jose W. Fernandez, the assistant secretary of state for economic energy and business affairs. In his ''Mensaje de la Casa Blanca'' -- ''White House Message'' -- Mr. Fernandez argued the administration's economic case for the immigration overhaul.
The Latino outreach effort is an essential one, according to the president's aides, who said that delivering their immigration message on a program like ''Noticiero Univision,'' Univision's prime-time news program, reaches more than two million people. That is about equal to Fox News's cable prime time average and almost triple the number of viewers watching CNN at the same time. The average nightly audience for ''NBC Nightly News'' was about 7.8 million earlier this month.
''We are making the case for why it should happen and making sure everyone knows we are fighting for it,'' said Dan Pfeiffer, a senior adviser to Mr. Obama. ''We will continue to use that megaphone.''
Mr. Obama is not the first president to focus on Spanish-language media. Members of President George W. Bush's cabinet sometimes spoke Spanish on television networks or wrote op-ed articles in Spanish. Mr. Bush himself occasionally managed a few Spanish phrases for Latino audiences. But Mr. Obama has greatly expanded the effort.
Mr. Pfeiffer said that any politician who pays attention only to ''Meet the Press'' on NBC and dismisses Jorge Ramos, the host of Univision's ''Al Punto'' program on Sunday morning, has ''a fatal flaw'' in communications strategy.
Although the White House sees Hispanics as natural supporters, the anchors do not always fall in line. Anchors on both Univision and Telemundo have been aggressive in pushing the president to demonstrate his commitment to an immigration overhaul, and have grilled him on the high number of deportations during his first term.
In an interview on ''Noticias Telemundo'' last March, Lori Montenegro repeatedly pressed Mr. Obama on immigration. ''What more are you willing to do to make sure that you can fulfill your promise?'' she asked at one point. When Ms. Montenegro asked the president what would happen to the Democratic Party if the immigration overhaul did not happen, he appeared perturbed.
''Lori, I'm not going to presuppose failure,'' Mr. Obama said. ''I don't know why you keep on asking about failure, because I think this is going to succeed.''
On Tuesday, in addition to briefings on immigration, the four local anchors had interviews with top White House health care officials. Under white tents on the South Lawn, they spoke to Ms. Muñoz and other administration officials in Spanish.
But for the journalists, the main event was their interview with the president, a rare opportunity for their viewers to see the president questioned by anchors they see every day. Norma Garcia, the news anchor for KXTX Telemundo 39 in Dallas, used her five minutes with Mr. Obama in the Blue Room to press him on the fate of the immigration legislation, which faces a difficult fight for passage in the Republican-controlled House.
The four anchors waited their turns in the East Room, with the Gilbert Stuart portrait of Washington looming on the wall above. ''It was surreal,'' Mr. Krauze said. ''And so much fun.''
Mr. Krauze recalled being at the Democratic National Convention in 2004 when Mr. Obama delivered the convention's keynote address. ''Today, I got to meet him nine years later, like a proper journalist,'' Mr. Krauze said. It was good for me.''
His colleagues at the other stations were equally enthusiastic -- but drew a line.
''Maybe we are more sympathetic to the issue because we live it; we are immigrants,'' said Ms. Garcia, an immigrant from Juárez, Mexico. ''But we ask the president tough questions because that's what our viewers want us to ask.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Top, Adriana Vargas of Univision Communications, gesturing, and Maria Rozman of the Telemundo station in Denver, second from left, at a White House briefing on Tuesday. Above, reporters interview Cecilia Muñoz, the director of the White House domestic policy council. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY DOUG MILLS/THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: NETWORK TELEVISION (90%); HISPANIC AMERICANS (90%); TELEVISION INDUSTRY (90%); INTERVIEWS (89%); IMMIGRATION (89%); US PRESIDENTS (78%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (78%); TELEVISION RATINGS & SHARES (77%); TELEVISION NEWS SHOWS (77%); LANGUAGE & LANGUAGES (77%); BROADCASTING INDUSTRY (77%); CITIZENSHIP LAW (75%); IMMIGRATION LAW (75%); MARKET DEMOGRAPHICS (74%); DEMOGRAPHIC GROUPS (74%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (72%); ILLEGAL IMMIGRANTS (70%); PUBLIC RELATIONS (50%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (89%)

GEOGRAPHIC: LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (90%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (73%) CALIFORNIA, USA (90%); NEW YORK, USA (73%) UNITED STATES (99%)

LOAD-DATE: July 18, 2013



507 of 937 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(Economix)

PUB-DATE: July 17, 2013

SECTION: BUSINESS; economy

LENGTH: 513 words

HEADLINE: Policy Impact and Red Herrings

BYLINE: CASEY B. MULLIGAN


HIGHLIGHT: Assessing government policy before and after changes are put into effect is the best way to assess that policy&#8217;s impact, an economist writes. 

 BODY:
Casey B. Mulligan is an economics professor at the University of Chicago. He is the author of "The Redistribution Recession: How Labor Market Distortions Contracted the Economy." 
Red herrings are frequently inserted into policy discussions but can be readily identified as long as we remember a simple truth about public policy impact.
The impact of public policy on an economic outcome like employment is, by definition, the difference between employment with the policy in place and what employment would have been under an alternative "baseline" policy. Policy impact quantifies how things are different as a consequence of the policy.
Consider these statements:
"The Affordable Care Act will not reduce full-time employment because workers understand that full-time employment is the path to career advancement" (see my previous post).
"Unemployment insurance does not reduce employment because Americans fundamentally want to work and provide for themselves" (see, for example, this commentary on gawker.com)
These are all examples of red herrings, irrelevant statements that are attached to hypotheses.
Take the full-time employment example. It may be true that full-time employment is the path to career advancement, but that is hardly relevant to the Affordable Care Act as long as we assume that full-time employment would be that path regardless of whether we have that law.
That is, lots of people will choose full-time employment because of the career opportunities it provides, but they are counted as full-time employed under the policy and as full-time employed under the baseline policy (say, continuing as if the act had never become law). A policy impact estimate, by definition, counts only those for whom career advancement does not trump their decision to be in a full-time position.
As I explained in that an earlier post, the Affordable Care Act introduces funds and insurance opportunities for part-time employees that will be unavailable to most full-time employees. As long as there are more than zero people whose full-time vs. part-time work decision depends on funds or insurance, there is the potential for policy impact.
In my second example, it may be true that most people want to work and provide for themselves. But I assume motivation to work is the same regardless of whether unemployment benefits are paid for, say, 99 nine weeks or 26. What's different between the 99-week policy and the 26-week baseline are the circumstances in which people find themselves.
As long as motivation is not the sole factor determining employment, there is the potential for unemployment insurance to have a policy impact, even in a country in which the people are fundamentally hard-working.
Nobody expects a government program to make everything different. So policy analysis is particularly useful in subtracting out the outcomes that would occur regardless of policy measures.

        
Yes, the Sequester Is Affecting the Job Market
        
Behind the Disappointing Jobs Report
        
Working Parents, Wanting Fewer Hours
        
How One Month's Jobless Fare a Month Later
        
Implications for Monetary Policy

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: FULL TIME EMPLOYMENT (92%); PUBLIC POLICY (91%); RECESSION (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); BUSINESS EDUCATION (90%); UNEMPLOYMENT INSURANCE (89%); PART TIME EMPLOYMENT (89%); WRITERS (78%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (73%); LEGISLATION (69%) Part-Time Employment; Unemployment; Today's Economist

GEOGRAPHIC: CHICAGO, IL, USA (88%) ILLINOIS, USA (88%) UNITED STATES (88%)

LOAD-DATE: July 17, 2013



508 of 937 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(DealBook)

PUB-DATE: July 17, 2013

SECTION: BUSINESS

LENGTH: 528 words

HEADLINE: Barclays Vows to Fight Energy Trading Fine

BYLINE: MARK SCOTT


HIGHLIGHT: United States regulators have demanded that Barclays pay a record $470 million penalty for suspected manipulation by some traders of energy markets in California and other Western states. 

 BODY:
LONDON - Barclays vowed on Wednesday to fight a demand by United States regulators that it pay a record $470 million penalty for suspected manipulation of energy markets in California and other Western states by some of its traders. 
The action, announced late on Tuesday by the Federal Energy Regulatory Commission, the government watchdog that oversees the oil, natural gas and electricity industries, comes after months of wrangling with the bank.
The ruling also comes a year after Barclays was required to pay about $450 million for its role in a rate-rigging scandal after some of its traders tried to manipulate the London interbank offered rate, or Libor, for their own financial gain.
In its ruling, the commission said Barclays employees made trades from 2006 to 2008 that were intended to alter electricity prices to benefit their own trading positions.
It included several extracts from internal e-mails that outlined the activities of some of the bank's traders, who openly discussed how they could lower prices in one electricity market by weighing down another. Barclays employees also discussed how to prop up certain indexes by taking short-term losses in other power markets, according to the ruling.
''F.E.R.C. finds that their actions demonstrate an affirmative, coordinated and intentional effort to carry out a manipulative scheme,'' the commission said in a statement.
The agency said Barclays must pay a $435 million fine and forfeit $35 million in profit gained from the illegal activity. The combined penalty dwarfs the commission's previous record fine of $135 million against Constellation Energy last year.
Four former Barclays traders will also have to pay a combined $18 million for their roles in the wrongdoing, according to the statement from the commission.
The commission initially brought the case against Barclays in October. The bank said at the time that it would contest the accusations.
Barclays said it still disagreed with the regulator's ruling and would continue to fight it. Barclays has 30 days to pay the total penalty or must defend itself against the ruling in Federal District Court.
"We believe that our trading was legitimate and in compliance with applicable law," the bank said in a statement on Tuesday. "We intend to vigorously defend this matter."
Barclays is the latest bank to experience the growing assertiveness of the commission, which has the authority to seek a penalty of up to $1 million for each day in which there is a violation of the rules intended to prevent manipulation of the energy market.
In January, Deutsche Bank agreed to pay a $1.5 million fine and surrender about $170,000 in profit related to charges that it manipulated California's energy markets in 2010. JPMorgan Chase is also under investigation by the regulator for potential wrongdoing in certain U.S. power markets.
The commission has gained increasing power since a law was passed in the aftermath of the Enron scandal that created an enforcement branch at the agency with the authority to impose large fines.
The agency has turned its sights on Wall Street after several large banks created energy trading desks to fill the void left by Enron.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: ENERGY & UTILITY TRADE (91%); ENERGY DEPARTMENTS (90%); ELECTRICITY MARKETS (90%); ENERGY & UTILITY SECTOR PERFORMANCE (90%); ELECTRICITY TRANSMISSION & DISTRIBUTION (90%); NATURAL GAS MARKETS (90%); ENERGY MARKETS (90%); INVESTIGATIONS (89%); FINES & PENALTIES (89%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (78%); BANKING & FINANCE REGULATION (78%); ENERGY REGULATION (78%); UTILITY RATES (78%); ENERGY & UTILITY LAW (78%); NATURAL GAS (78%); NATURAL GAS PRODUCTS (78%); UTILITIES INDUSTRY (78%); LEGISLATION (77%); ELECTRIC POWER INDUSTRY (77%); LONDON INTERBANK OFFERED RATES (76%); INTEREST RATES (75%); ECONOMIC NEWS (75%); INVESTMENT BANKING (71%); SCANDALS (70%); INTERBANK LENDING (55%) Energy; Financial Services; Investment Banking; Legal/Regulatory

COMPANY: BARCLAYS PLC (92%); JPMORGAN CHASE & CO (84%); DEUTSCHE BANK AG (57%)

TICKER: BCS (NYSE) (92%); BARC (LSE) (92%); JPM (NYSE) (84%); JPM (LSE) (84%); 8634 (TSE) (84%); DEUT (JSE) (57%); DBK (FRA) (57%); DBK (BIT) (57%); DBETN (JSE) (57%); DBA (ASX) (57%); DB (NYSE) (57%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (92%); SIC6029 COMMERCIAL BANKS, NEC (92%); NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (84%); NAICS523999 MISCELLANEOUS FINANCIAL INVESTMENT ACTIVITIES (84%); SIC6022 STATE COMMERCIAL BANKS (84%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (57%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (57%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (57%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (57%); SIC6081 BRANCHES & AGENCIES OF FOREIGN BANKS (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: CALIFORNIA, USA (94%); WEST USA (93%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: July 17, 2013



509 of 937 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(DealBook)

PUB-DATE: July 17, 2013

SECTION: BUSINESS

LENGTH: 486 words

HEADLINE: In Audience at Tourre Trial, a Familiar Face

BYLINE: BEN PROTESS


HIGHLIGHT: Brian Stoker, a former midlevel Citigroup executive who beat a government fraud case, has joined the spectators at the trial of Fabrice Tourre. 

 BODY:
Fabrice P. Tourre and Brian Stoker share a bond: The Securities and Exchange Commission accused both men of fraud. 
Now, as Mr. Tourre's civil trial opened this week, a year after a jury cleared Mr. Stoker, they are sharing a courtroom. 
 In an unexpected cameo at the federal courthouse in Lower Manhattan, Mr. Stoker joined the horde of spectators swarming Mr. Tourre's trial. Mr. Stoker even paid a visit to the defense table, onlookers say, introducing himself during a break in the action.
It is unclear what the two discussed, though Mr. Stoker appeared to lend moral support to Mr. Tourre. One might imagine a kinship forming over, say, a common distaste for the S.E.C. And while he is not advising Mr. Tourre in any formal way, Mr. Stoker could offer a pointer or two on how to beat a government case. 
Until the S.E.C. charged Mr. Stoker and Mr. Tourre, they would have been rivals. Mr. Stoker was a midlevel Citigroup executive and Mr. Tourre was a trader at Goldman Sachs. (Mr. Tourre is now an economics doctoral student at the University of Chicago, while Mr. Stoker went on to work for StormHarbour, a financial advisory firm.)
The S.E.C. cases linked them, however, as two of only a few employees at big Wall Street firms to land in court over the crisis.
The cases, arguably the most prominent actions stemming from the financial crisis, are alike in many ways. Both stem from accusations that the men misled investors about troubled mortgage securities. 
And in both cases, the banks settled accusations while the employees decided to fight. Goldman paid a $550 million penalty without admitting or denying guilt. Citigroup agreed to a $285 million fine, though a judge has balked at the settlement, calling it "pocket change."
In the case of Mr. Tourre, the S.E.C. contends that he and Goldman sold investors a synthetic collateralized debt obligation, a deal linked to the performance of mortgage-backed bonds, without disclosing the role a hedge fund played in creating the deal. The hedge fund, run by the billionaire John A. Paulson, was also betting against the deal. When it soured, Mr. Paulson reaped $1 billion at investors' expense. 
In turn, Mr. Tourre's lawyers argue that synthetic C.D.O.'s. are structured such that someone needs to bet against the deals, a fact well known to the sophisticated investors who lost money. One investor bets the bonds will fail; another bets they will pay out. Goldman, the lawyers will argue, sought input from both sides when creating the deal. 
In the opening arguments on Monday, Mr. Tourre's lawyers also painted him as a scapegoat for a deal that was approved at higher rungs of Goldman.
That argument played well at Mr. Stoker's trial. After finding him not liable, the foreman of the jury asked, "Why didn't they go after the higher-ups rather than a fall guy?"

        
S.E.C. Hopes for Validation in Goldman Sachs Trader Case
        
In Goldman Case, Re-examining Foreign Sales

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: BANKING & FINANCE AGENCIES (90%); JURY TRIALS (90%); SECURITIES LAW (90%); BONDS (90%); LAWYERS (89%); CORPORATE WRONGDOING (78%); COLLATERALIZED DEBT OBLIGATIONS (78%); BANKING & FINANCE REGULATION (78%); MORTGAGE BACKED SECURITIES (78%); CORPORATE DEBT (78%); BANKING & FINANCE (78%); INVESTMENT BANKING (78%); MORTGAGE INVESTMENTS (78%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (77%); APPROVALS (73%); SETTLEMENT & COMPROMISE (73%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (71%); FINANCIAL PLANNING (66%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (63%); HEDGE FUNDS (61%) Banking and Financial Institutions; Citigroup Inc; Goldman Sachs Group Inc; Securities and Commodities Violations; Securities and Exchange Commission; Stoker, Brian H; Tourre, Fabrice P; Financial Services; Investment Banking; Legal/Regulatory; Top Headline 2

COMPANY: CITIGROUP INC (91%); GOLDMAN SACHS GROUP INC (90%)

ORGANIZATION: Citigroup Inc; Goldman Sachs Group Inc; Securities and Exchange Commission

TICKER: C (NYSE) (91%); C (BMV) (91%); 8710 (TSE) (91%); GS (NYSE) (90%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (91%); NAICS522210 CREDIT CARD ISSUING (91%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (91%); NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (90%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (90%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (90%); SIC6289 SERVICES ALLIED WITH THE EXCHANGE OF SECURITIES OR COMMODITIES, NEC (90%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (90%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (90%)

PERSON: FABRICE P TOURRE (94%) Stoker, Brian H; Tourre, Fabrice P

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%); CHICAGO, IL, USA (55%) NEW YORK, USA (92%); ILLINOIS, USA (55%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: July 17, 2013



510 of 937 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(City Room)

PUB-DATE: July 17, 2013

SECTION: NYREGION

LENGTH: 700 words

HEADLINE: July 17: Where the Candidates Are Today

BYLINE: ALISON LEIGH COWAN


HIGHLIGHT: The candidates&#8217; daily campaign schedule at a glance. 

 BODY:
Planned events for the mayoral candidates, according to the campaigns and organizations they are affiliated with. Times are listed as scheduled but frequently change.
Joseph Burgess and Nicholas Wells contributed reporting.
Event information is listed as provided at the time of publication. Details for many of Ms. Quinn events are not released for publication.
 John A. Catsimatidis 
Republican 
6:45 p.m.
Participates in a mayoral forum on the Future of Food in N.Y.C., at the New School's Tishman Auditorium, on West 12th Street.
7:45 p.m.
Meets with the Council of Young Jewish Presidents, in a closed session, at Sidley Austin law firm in Midtown.
 Bill de Blasio 
Democrat
8:30 a.m.
Discusses the future of economic development in downtown Manhattan with the board of the Downtown-Lower Manhattan Association, at the group's offices on 120 Broadway.
1:30 p.m.
Visits with seniors at the Hamilton George Senior Center, in Upper Manhattan.
2:15 p.m.
Greets shoppers at the Harlem Pathmark, on West 145th Street.
6 p.m.
Participates in a mayoral forum on the Future of Food in N.Y.C., at the New School's Tishman Auditorium, on West 12th Street.
 John C. Liu 
Democrat
12:30 p.m.
Visits with seniors at the Albany Senior Center in Crown Heights, Brooklyn.
5:30 p.m.
In a meeting rescheduled from July 15, huddles with the Village Independent Democrats, a political club whose endorsement he gained in a May 9 runoff against Christine Quinn, at Second Avenue and 12th Street in Manhattan.
7:15 p.m.
Participates in a mayoral forum on the Future of Food in N.Y.C., at the New School's Tishman Auditorium, on West 12th Street.
8 p.m.
Roughly a half-hour after Sal Albanese has dropped by, Mr. Liu also attends the Muslim Consultative Network's fourth annual Iftar, the traditional evening meal that Muslims partake in during Ramadan to break their fasts, at Turkuaz Restaurant in Upper Manhattan.
8:45 p.m.
Attends the Bronx Democratic County Committee's annual dinner, at Marina del Rey.
 Joseph J. Lhota 
Republican
6:45 a.m.
Greets morning commuters at the Long Island Rail Road's Bayside station, in Queens.
1:15 p.m.
Greets shoppers and tours the Gourmet Glatt Supermarket in Borough Park.
3:30 p.m.
Visits Sephardic Bikur Holim, a nonprofit mental health and social service agency in the Gravesend section of Brooklyn.
8:30 p.m.
Meets with the Council of Young Jewish Presidents, in a closed session, at Sidley Austin law firm in Midtown.
 Christine C. Quinn 
Democrat
12:30 p.m.
Announces funding for adult education classes and legal services for young immigrants to help them qualify for federal deferrals available to some people who came to the United States illegally as children, in Council Chambers at City Hall.
7 p.m.
Participates in a mayoral forum on the Future of Food in N.Y.C., at the New School's Tishman Auditorium, on West 12th Street.
 Some of Ms. Quinn's events may not be shown because the campaign declines to release her advance schedule for publication. 
 William C. Thompson Jr. 
Democrat
1:30 p.m.
Outlines new steps to end excessive fines and fees on small-business owners, with State Senator Joes Peralta, at Pimpollo Colombian Restaurant, in Queens.
7:30 p.m.
Participates in a mayoral forum on the Future of Food in N.Y.C., at the New School's Tishman Auditorium, on West 12th Street.
 Anthony D. Weiner 
Democrat
6 p.m.
Participates in a mayoral forum on the Future of Food in N.Y.C., at the New School's Tishman Auditorium, on West 12th Street.
7:15 p.m.
Attends a Harlem community meeting, at the Renaissance Fine Art Gallery on Adam Clayton Powell Boulevard.
 Sal F. Albanese 
Democrat
12:55 p.m.
Addresses the crowd at the Music Brings Life summer concert, at Brooklyn Borough Hall.
6:30 p.m.
Participates in a mayoral forum on the Future of Food in N.Y.C., at the New School's Tishman Auditorium, on West 12th Street.
7:30 p.m.
Attends the Muslim Consultative Network's fourth annual Iftar, the traditional evening meal that Muslims partake in during Ramadan to break their fasts, at Turkuaz Restaurant in Upper Manhattan.

        
July 16: Where the Candidates Are Today
        
July 15: Where the Candidates Are Today
        
July 14: Where the Candidates Are Today
        
July 12: Where the Candidates Are Today
        
July 11: Where the Candidates Are Today

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: TALKS & MEETINGS (91%); MAYORS (91%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (90%); CITY GOVERNMENT (90%); JEWS & JUDAISM (89%); MAJOR US LAW FIRMS (89%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (89%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (89%); SENIOR CENTERS & CLUBS (88%); ELECTIONS (78%); RUNOFF ELECTIONS (78%); POLITICAL PARTIES (78%); NONPROFIT ORGANIZATIONS (78%); POLITICAL ORGANIZATIONS (78%); RESTAURANTS (76%); CONTINUING EDUCATION (70%); EDUCATION FUNDING (70%); RELIGION (70%); URBAN RAIL SYSTEMS (69%); GROCERY STORES & SUPERMARKETS (69%); MUSLIMS & ISLAM (67%); RAMADAN (67%); PARKS & PLAYGROUNDS (50%) Elections, Mayors; New York City; NYC 2013; NYC 2013 Events

COMPANY: SIDLEY AUSTIN LLP (57%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS541110 OFFICES OF LAWYERS (57%)

PERSON: JOHN CATSIMATIDIS (56%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (99%); ALBANY, NY, USA (79%) NEW YORK, USA (99%) UNITED STATES (99%) New York City

LOAD-DATE: July 17, 2013



511 of 937 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(Economix)

PUB-DATE: July 17, 2013

SECTION: BUSINESS; economy

LENGTH: 1130 words

HEADLINE: Further Progress on Housing Finance

BYLINE: PHILLIP SWAGEL


HIGHLIGHT: As proposals to replace taxpayer support for home mortgages with private finance move through Congress, it&#8217;s time for the Obama administration to take a position in this debate, an economist writes. 

 BODY:
Phillip Swagel is a professor at the School of Public Policy at the University of Maryland and was assistant secretary for economic policy at the Treasury Department from 2006 to 2009. 
The House Financial on Services Committee will hold a hearing on Thursday to consider draft legislation for housing finance reform put forward by its chairman, Jeb Hensarling, Republican of Texas, that would end the taxpayer backstop on mortgages now provided through Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac and wind down the two companies over five years. Under the proposal, private investors rather than taxpayers would fund mortgages and take on the risks and rewards of housing investments. 
New rules would foster increased use of covered bonds, under which a pool of private assets rather than a government guarantee protects investors against losses. The legislation further seeks to ensure that smaller banks continue to play a role in housing finance. The Hensarling approach thus has the desirable features of moving to a housing finance system driven by private incentives while protecting taxpayers and ensuring the participation of banks of all sizes. 
The government role in the new system would be sharply defined, with regulators focused on oversight and setting standards rather than providing insurance. The Federal Housing Administration would continue to guarantee mortgages under the Hensarling proposal but would focus on first-time home buyers with moderate incomes. 
Currently, the Federal Housing Administration is involved with loans of up to $729,750, which is difficult to square with the agency's mission to expand sustainable homeownership. As documented by Joseph Gyourko, a professor of at the Wharton School of the University of Pennsylvania, the agency has financial troubles of its own. (I testified about the need for its reform at a hearing in February of the Senate Banking committee). The Hensarling bill includes changes that would address this situation.

Mortgage interest rates will rise with any overhaul that brings in private capital, but this reflects that the system is now undercapitalized with taxpayers at risk. Before the financial crisis, private-label mortgages bundled into securities without a then-implicit guarantee provided by Fannie and Freddie had interest rates from 0.5 to 1 percentage point higher than loans backed by the two government-sponsored enterprises.
It is hard to know quite how much rates would rise without a government backstop, but the housing market is in an upswing and affordability remains high, so it seems likely that the housing sector would continue to recover even with higher rates from both changes in housing finance and the Federal Reserve's eventual normalization of monetary policy. 
The proposal for a fully private system contrasts with the bipartisan legislation introduced a few weeks ago by Senators Bob Corker, Republican of Tennessee, and Mark Warner, Democrat of Virginia, in which a government guarantee would kick in on covered mortgage-backed securities after private investors have first taken losses equal to 10 percent of the value of mortgages receiving the guarantee.
The Corker-Warner approach involves charging insurance premiums for the government guarantee, so the interest rate difference between the two systems ultimately depends on the insurance pricing. In general, though, a fully private system would be expected to involve greater changes in interest rates and the availability of mortgages with long-term fixed interest rates.
Note that the Corker-Warner proposal's 10 percent first-loss private capital is much closer to the House bill than it would seem just from comparing the required private capital shares of zero (the situation now) to 10 percent (Corker-Warner) and 100 percent (Hensarling). The total losses of Fannie and Freddie in the financial crisis were about 4 percent of their assets, so the 10 percent capital level in the Corker-Warner proposal makes the government guarantee very far back; this is an immense amount protecting taxpayers. The proposals are different, but they share the common ground of seeking to put substantial private capital ahead of taxpayers.
One might expect considerable pressure for Congressional action in the event of a future housing crisis in which private investors hesitate to take on housing risk and American families find it costly to obtain financing. In the Hensarling approach, Congress could always enact legislation that provides a guarantee on new mortgages but not on old ones. 
This would be along the lines of a proposal by Harvard professors David S. Scharfstein and Adi Sunderam (though they would have the government offer insurance on a modest share of mortgages even in normal times, to maintain the capacity to scale up when needed). This implies that the proposed new housing system would not be resilient to future crises; the Corker-Warner approach explicitly takes into account the inevitability of future financial market convulsions.
A further challenge for the House approach to housing finance reform is to avoid inadvertently recreating the implicit guarantee of the previous system, under which policy makers provided a retroactive guarantee when the crisis hit. Securities backed by Fannie and Freddie were about $7.5 trillion of the $57 trillion in total credit market debt in the United States in early 2013, with another $2.5 trillion in home mortgages not tied to government enterprises. 
The Treasury and the Federal Reserve both intervened to stabilize money market mutual funds in fall 2008, when those funds were less than $4 trillion of the then $51.8 trillion in credit market debt. Policy makers judged that a lockup of this aspect of United States financial markets would have an untenable negative impact on the economy. Given the considerably larger size of the mortgage market, one might reasonably expect a similar intervention in a future housing crisis. In this case, government intervention could be seen as latent and unpriced.
Even with these challenges, the draft legislation from the House Financial Services Committee represents an important step toward an eventual reform of housing finance that better protects taxpayers and the economy from the misguided incentives and risks of the previous system. The Hensarling bill provides a comprehensive and thoughtful proposal for a fully private system that serves as a benchmark in the policy debate. 
The Obama administration has not yet weighed in with its preferences for reform. Engagement from the administration would be the natural next step.

        
Progress on Housing Finance Reform
        
Another Asterisk for Asset Purchases
        
The Fed's Advice on the Housing Crisis
        
The Path to Complexity on the Health Care Act
        
Positive News Muddles Political Talking Points

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (96%); HOUSING AUTHORITIES (91%); PUBLIC POLICY (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (90%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (89%); ECONOMIC POLICY (89%); INTEREST RATES (89%); LEGISLATION (89%); RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (89%); MORTGAGE BACKED SECURITIES (89%); SECONDARY MORTGAGE MARKET (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (89%); REAL ESTATE (89%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (78%); BUSINESS EDUCATION (78%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (78%); AGENCY RULEMAKING (78%); HOUSING MARKET (77%); MORTGAGE RATES (76%); POLITICS (76%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (73%); MONETARY POLICY (67%); MORTGAGE LOANS (57%); PRIVATE LABELS (50%) Corker, Robert Phillips Jr; Federal Home Loan Mortgage Corp (Freddie Mac); Federal Housing Administration; Federal National Mortgage Assn (Fannie Mae); Hensarling, Jeb; Mortgage-Backed Securities; Mortgages; United States Politics and Government; Warner, Mark R; Federal Home Loan Mortgage Corp (Freddie Mac)|FMCC|OTCBB; Federal National Mortgage Assn (Fannie Mae)|FNMA|OTCBB; Today's Economist

COMPANY: FEDERAL HOME LOAN MORTGAGE CORP (FREDDIE MAC) (84%); FEDERAL NATIONAL MORTGAGE ASSOCIATION (FANNIE MAE) (72%)

ORGANIZATION: Federal Home Loan Mortgage Corp (Freddie Mac); Federal Housing Administration; Federal National Mortgage Assn (Fannie Mae)

TICKER: Federal Home Loan Mortgage Corp (Freddie Mac); FMCC; OTCBB; Federal Home Loan Mortgage Corp (Freddie Mac); FMCC; OTCBB; Federal National Mortgage Assn (Fannie Mae); FNMA; OTCBB

INDUSTRY: NAICS522292 REAL ESTATE CREDIT (84%); SIC6162 MORTGAGE BANKERS & LOAN CORRESPONDENTS (84%); SIC6111 FEDERAL & FEDERALLY-SPONSORED CREDIT AGENCIES (84%)

PERSON: JEB HENSARLING (90%); MARK WARNER (78%); BOB CORKER (77%); BARACK OBAMA (58%) Corker, Robert Phillips Jr; Hensarling, Jeb; Warner, Mark R

GEOGRAPHIC: MARYLAND, USA (92%); VIRGINIA, USA (79%); PENNSYLVANIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: July 17, 2013



512 of 937 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(DealBook)

PUB-DATE: July 17, 2013

SECTION: BUSINESS

LENGTH: 1049 words

HEADLINE: Heartening Moves Toward Real Progress in Bank Regulation

BYLINE: JESSE EISINGER


HIGHLIGHT: A look at promising proposals to strengthen capital ratios and regulate the derivatives market. 

 BODY:
 With their simultaneous display of hubris, remorselessness, incompetence and corruption, the banks have finally ignited a modicum of courage in banking regulators.
The postcrisis bad behavior - reckless trading at a JPMorgan Chase unit in London, the rampant mortgage modification and foreclosure abuses, manipulation of the key global interest rate benchmark - went just a tad too far. For the first time since the financial crisis, the banks are losing some battles on tougher regulation.
Last week, banking regulators, led by the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation, but including the Federal Reserve and the Office of the Comptroller of the Currency, proposed a rule to raise the capital at the largest, most dangerous banks. 
Separately, Gary Gensler, the head of the Commodity Futures Trading Commission, who has been waging an underfunded and lonely fight to tighten the markets for those side bets called derivatives, managed to push forward a rule to regulate the complex markets. Banks and his fellow commissioners had resisted, pushing for more delay and more study. Nothing is ever killed in Washington; it's just studied into a perpetual coma.
These moves are heartening, if only because financial regulation has been so parched in the years since the financial crisis. There are many caveats, and I will get to them. But it's worth enumerating and celebrating some of the positives because reform advocates have been wandering this desert, searching futilely for honest regulators.
For the bank safety rules, regulators are going to require a higher capital ratio. Basel III, the international agreement on bank rules, put the rate at $3 for every $100 in assets. The new rules would raise it to $5 for the holding company, and $6 at its banking subsidiaries.
The measure is a victory for reality-based thinking in an important respect: how banks measure their assets. Under current accounting rules, assets are disclosed so poorly that banks are allowed to keep mysterious exposures out of view. Banks own pieces of businesses that reside off the balance sheet. They also make commitments using derivatives, creating obligations that are complex and difficult to quantify. The specifics of these vulnerabilities are poorly understood by everyone, including bankers themselves, but we know for sure that they can cause implosions.
Now regulators are making clear that they know what they don't know. So in addition to traditional measures, they are also going to emphasize the "leverage ratio." That's good news, because the leverage ratio doesn't allow for such accounting sleights-of-hand as adjusting the value of assets for their perceived riskiness. In that game, some investments - say, picking purely randomly, top-rated mortgage securities or Greek government debt - could be judged less risky than other assets.
The new rules' effect will be straightforward: banks will have to raise the amount of assets they report and sell more shares or retain more earnings based on that larger number. Analysts from Credit Suisse estimate that the average increase among the biggest banks will be 36 percent.
Banks will resist these measures, crying that they make our banks less competitive globally. And there's still plenty of time for the regulators to back away, as they so often have. That's why reformers and some voices in Congress - the senators Sherrod Brown, Democrat of Ohio; David Vitter, Republican of Louisiana; and Elizabeth Warren, Democrat of Massachusetts, mainly - have done much good. By pushing for more extreme overhauls, such as much higher capital requirements or the return of Glass-Steagall, they have both pressured regulators and provided them cover.
There are caveats: the capital measures are probably not high enough. The derivatives compromise allows foreign countries to substitute their own rules if they are "comparable," raising the fear that banks will circumvent the rules by harboring activities in the most lenient country. And finally, we still have the essential cancer of a "too big to fail" banking system that takes up too great a share of the economy and dominates our political system.
Still, it's important to recognize incremental victories where we have them. The message from these moves is that the United States is taking the lead in global change, at long last. It may sound like a jingoistic declaration, but the United States is the most important voice on banking regulation. Just as Congressional pressure creates safety for regulators, an American push for stronger regulation might help bring the world around.
And if it doesn't, American banks will be at a competitive advantage, the exact opposite of what bankers argue. Jamie Dimon, the chief executive of JPMorgan, raised the ominous specter that global rules are out of "harmonization" and that United States banks are now held to a higher standard.
"We have one part of the world at two times what the other part of the world is talking about," he said. "And I don't think there's any industry out there that would be comfortable with something like that in a long run."
To rebut that, I bring in a banking expert: Jamie Dimon. This side of Mr. Dimon's mouth has repeatedly boasted about what a competitive advantage JPMorgan's "fortress balance sheet" is, how the bank was a port in the 2008 storm. He's not the only one; Warren E. Buffett regularly makes the same argument about Berkshire Hathaway. Higher capital allows a company to be aggressive when others are weak.
Yes, American banks will be subject to American regulations. But the United States may well bring the rest of the world along. Small financial centers from Iceland to Ireland to Cyprus and even Switzerland have all seen how vulnerable they are to financial beasts that dwarf their economies.
If they don't come around, so be it. Let other countries race to the bottom on regulation, setting themselves up for financial crises. By raising capital standards and installing tougher derivatives rules, regulators are helping banks that are too foolish (or rather, the top executives who are too narrowly self-interested in increasing their own compensation in the short term) to recognize their own interests. 

        
Deadline on Trading Rules Abroad Splits an Agency
        
Regulators Overhaul Derivatives Market, but With a Caveat

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: BANKING & FINANCE REGULATION (93%); BANKING & FINANCE AGENCIES (93%); FUTURES (91%); BANKING LAW (90%); REGULATORY COMPLIANCE (90%); SECURITIES TRADING (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (90%); ACCOUNTING (89%); AGENCY RULEMAKING (89%); FORECLOSURE (78%); BANK DEPOSIT INSURANCE (78%); GREEK DEBT CRISIS (78%); INVESTMENT BANKING (78%); DEREGULATION (78%); BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (78%); ECONOMIC NEWS (77%); INTEREST RATES (77%); MORTGAGE BACKED SECURITIES (77%); MORTGAGE INVESTMENTS (77%); PUBLIC FINANCE (77%); ACCOUNTING STANDARDS (76%); RECESSION (76%); DELAYS & POSTPONEMENTS (76%); COMPANY EARNINGS (76%); HOLDING COMPANIES (75%); GOVERNMENT CONTROLLERS & AUDITORS (75%); ECONOMIC DEPRESSION (72%); PUBLIC DEBT (70%) Banking and Financial Institutions; Basel Committee on Banking Supervision; Commodity Futures Trading Commission; Dimon, James; Gensler, Gary S; Recession and Depression; Regulation and Deregulation of Industry; Financial Services; Investment Banking; Legal/Regulatory; The Trade; Top Headline 1

COMPANY: JPMORGAN CHASE & CO (93%); FEDERAL DEPOSIT INSURANCE CORP (71%); COMMODITY FUTURES TRADING COMMISSION (56%)

ORGANIZATION: Basel Committee on Banking Supervision; Commodity Futures Trading Commission

TICKER: JPM (NYSE) (93%); JPM (LSE) (93%); 8634 (TSE) (93%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (93%); NAICS523999 MISCELLANEOUS FINANCIAL INVESTMENT ACTIVITIES (93%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (93%); SIC6022 STATE COMMERCIAL BANKS (93%); NAICS524128 OTHER DIRECT INSURANCE (EXCEPT LIFE, HEALTH & MEDICAL) CARRIERS (71%); SIC6399 INSURANCE CARRIERS, NEC (71%)

PERSON: JAMES DIMON (72%) Dimon, James; Gensler, Gary S

GEOGRAPHIC: LONDON, ENGLAND (88%) UNITED STATES (79%); GREECE (50%)

LOAD-DATE: July 18, 2013



513 of 937 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(Wheels)

PUB-DATE: July 17, 2013

SECTION: AUTOMOBILES

LENGTH: 451 words

HEADLINE: Wheelies: Mini's Vanishing Van Edition

BYLINE: BENJAMIN PRESTON


HIGHLIGHT: Mini quietly kills the Clubvan after selling only 50, and Volkswagen may bring back the high-price Phaeton. 

 BODY:
In which we bring you motoring news from around the Web:
 Not long after last year's debut, Mini has discontinued its Clubvan, which is essentially a Mini Cooper Clubman with sheet metal in place of rear windows. Introduced last year as a future concept that would become available in the North American market, Mini pulled out after selling 50 of the miniature sedans. The automaker cited low demand and the 25 percent "Chicken Tax" tariff on foreign commercial vehicles as reasons for its decision. (Green Car Reports) 
 Facing multiple lawsuits over hybrid vehicle fuel-efficiency claims, the Ford Motor Company announced that it would update software on 77,000 Ford Fusion, C-Max and Lincoln MKZ hybrid vehicles to increase fuel economy. Midwestern customers, whose vehicles face colder temperatures and higher speed limits than average, have posed a particular problem for Ford, which told hybrid owners that they would update the software by the end of July. (The Detroit News)
http://www.youtube.com/watch?feature=player_embedded&v=mDTxqQQvSUI
 The 2013 Ram 1500 pickup has lumbered to the top of the Consumer Reports full-size pickup heap, according to Consumer Reports' latest ranking. The redesigned model, introduced last summer, received a number of modifications including weight reductions and high-tech fuel saving measures like grille shutters and a variable demand fuel pump. In its report, Consumer Reports points out that rankings in the highly competitive pickup truck market are likely to shift, but for now the publication lauds the truck's simultaneous refinement and capability. (Consumer Reports)
 Diamond Electric, a Japanese company that manufactures ignition coils for Ford, Toyota and Subaru, has plead guilty to the Justice Department charges on price fixing and conspiracy charges. The company agreed to pay a $19 million fine for its role in the conspiracy. This is the latest in a two year antitrust investigation, which has led to 15 executives and 10 automotive parts suppliers pleading guilty to price-fixing charges and has generated a number of fines that have reached $828 million. (Automotive News)
 With sales of the Volkswagen Passat on the wane, Volkswagen AG has decided to bring the Phaeton back to the North American market. VW had pulled the Phaeton - Volkswagen's most expensive model - out of the American lineup seven years ago, after weak sales. According to a report from Bloomberg, the new Phaeton may make an appearance at the Detroit auto show in January. (Bloomberg)

        
Wheelies: The Smoky Hot Hatch Edition
        
Wheelies: The End of an Era Edition
        
Wheelies: The Rent-a-Lambo Edition
        
G.M. and BMW Adopt D.C. Electric Car Charging
        
Wheelies: The Happy German Worker Edition

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: ANTITRUST & TRADE LAW (91%); AUTOMOTIVE INDUSTRY & ENVIRONMENT (90%); RESTRAINT OF TRADE (90%); PRODUCT REVIEWS (90%); RANKINGS (90%); HYBRID VEHICLES (90%); MOTOR VEHICLES (90%); AUTOMOTIVE TECHNOLOGY (90%); BUSINESS TORTS (89%); PRICE FIXING (89%); CARTELS (89%); PICKUP TRUCKS (89%); ELECTRIC VEHICLES (89%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (86%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (86%); CONSPIRACY (86%); COMPUTER SOFTWARE (78%); NEW CAR MODELS (78%); ENERGY EFFICIENCY & CONSERVATION (77%); SEDANS (76%); MOTOR VEHICLE PARTS MFG (76%); AUTOMOBILE MFG (76%); INVESTIGATIONS (75%); INTERNET SOCIAL NETWORKING (73%); AUTOMOTIVE MFG (71%); AUTOMAKERS (71%); TARIFFS & DUTIES (71%); SPEED LIMITS (70%); LITIGATION (70%); SUITS & CLAIMS (70%); GUILTY PLEAS (68%); FINES & PENALTIES (68%); AUTOMOTIVE SUPPLIERS (50%) Antitrust Laws and Competition Issues; automobiles; Consumer Reports; Electric and Hybrid Vehicles; Japan; Justice Department; North America; Volkswagen AG; Automobiles

COMPANY: FORD MOTOR CO (94%); VOLKSWAGEN AG (84%)

ORGANIZATION: Consumer Reports; Justice Department; Volkswagen AG

TICKER: FORDP (PAR) (94%); F (NYSE) (94%); VOW (FRA) (84%); VKW (LSE) (84%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS336111 AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING (94%); NAICS336112 LIGHT TRUCK & UTILITY VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (94%); SIC3711 MOTOR VEHICLES & PASSENGER CAR BODIES (94%)

GEOGRAPHIC: DETROIT, MI, USA (79%) MIDWEST USA (79%); MICHIGAN, USA (79%) NORTH AMERICA (94%); UNITED STATES (79%) Japan; North America

LOAD-DATE: July 17, 2013



514 of 937 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(Opinionator)

PUB-DATE: July 17, 2013

SECTION: OPINION

LENGTH: 1225 words

HEADLINE: The Filibuster Lives

BYLINE: DAVID BROOKS and GAIL COLLINS


HIGHLIGHT: Brooks and Collins discuss the return of the maverick John McCain and the inner lives of politicians, such as they are. 

 BODY:
Gail Collins: David, I just realized something - what with vacations and your upcoming book leave, this will be our last public conversation until January. I hate to think of all the fiscal cliffs I'll have to negotiate without you.
David Brooks: Sometimes when I'm in the middle of covering a sequestration battle, or any fiscal matter, and I'm feeling lonely and afraid, when I'm suffering through a deep dark night of the soul, I call the 24-hour Congressional Budget Office Emotional Support and Deficit Projection Hotline. The counselors there are wonderfully compassionate, offering spiritual sustenance and even interest payment projections in the out-years.
Gail: Thanks for the tip. I'm excited about reading your next book, which is about how to develop a rich inner life, right?
David: Exactly. I've always wanted to find a project I could work on with Donald Trump, so here it is. 
Gail: Well, my inner life can't wait. For this going-away conversation, let's hop around the political scenery a bit. What did you think about the filibuster agreement in the Senate?
David: I'm for it. Anything that will basically preserve Senate rules. Some people love the House. I love the Senate and not only for the 100-egos-in-a-fishbowl aspect of it. I love the way the rules weaken the leaders and strengthen any member who is creative and enterprising. Also, our founders really did not believe in simple majoritarianism. I'm afraid if they take away the filibuster even on presidential appointments, then pretty soon whatever party is in power will want to gradually erode minority rights on everything.
Gail: John McCain appears to have been the hero. You were a big McCain fan in days of yore. Are you pleased to see him re-evolve from cranky, disgruntled loser back to freewheeling, bipartisan maverick?
David: We have been seeing more of the old McCain. I thought he was outstanding on immigration too. I wonder if the maverick is returning or the issues just happen to be ones that bring out his independent side. He never was a pure party loyalist. He's generally worked most effectively as a member of a gang or something outside the traditional partisan structure.
Gail: I still nurture the theory that the transformation was set off by the arrival of those fun-loving pranksters, Rand Paul and Ted Cruz. McCain's bitterness about being beaten for president by an inexperienced newbie like Barack Obama paled when he had to share his Senate space with kids who have been in town six months and are already sniffing around Iowa and New Hampshire.
But about the filibuster - I know the deal is progress, but to me it looks as if they've only moved things forward about a 10th of an inch. The Senate Republicans will no longer block executive nominations just because they don't like the agency in question. Whoop-de-do.
David: "A 10th of an inch." The official Senate motto.
Gail: However, I was inspired by the way the Senators worked things out in that long evening meeting in the old Senate chambers. That was, of course, the place where Representative Preston Brooks beat Senator Charles Sumner with his walking stick in 1856. Which allows us to say, whenever our current Congress appears to be running amok: "Well, at least nobody got beaten to a pulp with a cane."
David: Actually I think we're overdue for another melee. I'm picturing it like the gang warfare scene in that Will Ferrell movie, "Anchorman." I'm picturing Chuck Schumer's legs wrapped around Ted Cruz's neck.
Gail: You've written a lot about the immigration bill. Do you think there's any chance the House will ever pass a serious reform?
David: It's possible but there are just too many ways that they could fritter away this thing into nothing. Among other things, there's no event that will force them to act by a certain date so the tendency to drag their feet will be overwhelming. This is another reason I prefer the Senate. That body is just better at crafting majorities that work across ideological lines.
Gail: How about my favorite, the farm bill? I did find it shocking that the House would pass the agriculture part - much of which is a giveaway to wealthy corporations - and leave out the food stamps for poor people.
David: Ross Douthat had a very good take on this. A few weeks ago I got myself all wound up to write a column on the ridiculous expansion of the food stamp program. I saw how fast the number of enrollees in the program has exploded and I figured the standards for inclusion must have totally been eviscerated, bringing in many people who don't deserve to be on federal support.
This is the sort of column that is sort of fun to do because it will drive some share of our audience crazy. But when I did some research and got a look at the demographics of the people who are on the newly expanded rolls, I realized that even today most people who receive food stamps deserve to be in the program. The program has expanded not because the rules have been erased but because the structure of poverty has changed.
Gail: There's nothing more tragic for people in our business than discovering a government program works just fine.
David: Another perfectly good column idea down the tubes.
Gail: How do you feel about the future of the Republican Party? I think the Republicans' problems with the much-discussed Hispanic population go way beyond the immigration reform bill. Hispanic voters want more than just a path to citizenship for their illegal friends and relatives. They also want affordable health care, which huge proportions of them don't have now. And a higher minimum wage.
Over the next 10 years, if the Democrats follow through on their voter registration efforts, Texas is going to go from red to purple. And that would be the beginning of the end for the Republicans.
David: I wouldn't be surprised if the Republicans did decently in the upcoming midterms, especially on the Senate side, which will reinforce all the unfortunate tendencies that will lead to another national defeat in 2016. I say that as one who generally thinks it is hard for one party to win three presidential elections in a row. But I basically buy the demographic argument now, and there is no real hunger for change in the G.O.P. Every national election defeat gets softened by a midterm pickup.
Gail: One last question before you go back to working on your book. I know we've agreed that politicians don't generally seem to have a rich inner life. Any exceptions?
David: Anthony Weiner? I'm trying to think. Obama does have a lot going on inside. Jim Cooper, a Blue Dog Democrat from Tennessee, is very reflective, not always to his political benefit. I guess I'd give Jerry Brown the benefit of the doubt too.
I find you can usually count on the ones in Bible study groups, whether they manage to live up to their own creed, to have at least applied a set of standards to evaluate their own behavior, however unambitiously.
Gail: O.K., one more last question. When we come back to conversing in January, I suspect we'll still be fighting about the same things we're fighting about now. Any exceptions? I challenge you to give me one positive prediction to bring into the New Year.
David: The Middle East. That whole situation will definitely have resolved itself by then.

        
E Pluribus Me
        
The New Economic Risk: Complacency
        
Welfare for the Wealthy
        
An Ethnic Map
        
Days of the Jackals

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: FILIBUSTER (91%); POLITICS (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (89%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (77%); BUDGETS (77%); BUDGET FORECASTS (75%); APPOINTMENTS (66%); IMMIGRATION (50%) Anchorman (Movie); Cooper, Jim (1954- ); Cruz, Ted; Farm Bill (US); Filibusters and Debate Curbs; McCain, John; Paul, Rand; Senate; United States Politics and Government; Weiner, Anthony D; The Conversation

ORGANIZATION: Senate

PERSON: JOHN MCCAIN (89%); TED CRUZ (74%); ANTHONY D WEINER (69%); JIM COOPER (69%); BARACK OBAMA (55%); DONALD TRUMP (52%); RAND PAUL (50%) Cooper, Jim (1954- ); Cruz, Ted; McCain, John; Paul, Rand; Weiner, Anthony D

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW HAMPSHIRE, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: July 17, 2013



515 of 937 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(FiveThirtyEight)

PUB-DATE: July 17, 2013

SECTION: US; politics

LENGTH: 945 words

HEADLINE: In Public Opinion on Abortion, Few Absolutes

BYLINE: DAVID LEONHARDT


HIGHLIGHT: If you were going to craft a law based strictly on public opinion, abortions would be widely available in the first trimester and substantially restricted afterward. 

 BODY:
For decades, both sides in the abortion debate have tried to say that public opinion was already on their side and only becoming more so.
Advocates for abortion rights have pointed to polls showing that a majority of Americans support Roe v. Wade, the 1973 Supreme Court decision establishing a constitutional right to abortion. Abortion opponents have cited polls showing that a majority considers life to begin at conception - and opposes abortion access in many cases.
As with so many other areas this blog covers, abortion is one in which selective readings of the polls can seem to prove opposite conclusions. After writing about abortion and public opinion in Sunday's Times - arguing that the issue does not benefit Democrats as much as other high-profile subjects, like immigration, guns, taxes and same-sex marriage - I wanted to dig more deeply into the polls and their trend lines. For all the assertions that advocates make about public opinion, I think that a few consistent messages emerge. 
The main one is that most Americans support abortion access with some significant restrictions. If you were going to craft a law based strictly on public opinion, it would permit abortion in the first trimester (first 12 weeks) of pregnancy and in cases involving rape, incest or threats to the mother's health. The law, however, would substantially restrict abortion after the first trimester in many other cases.
Intriguingly, such a policy would be similar to the laws in several European countries, like France, where abortions are widely available in the first trimester and restricted afterward. It would also be consistent with much of Roe v Wade.
In perhaps its most famous decision of the last 50 years, the court overturned a Texas law criminalizing abortion, by a 7-2 vote. The justices found that the right to privacy required women to have access to abortions but that the state also had an interest in restricting abortion, to protect "both the pregnant woman's health and the potentiality of human life." The decision tried to balance these interests by allowing different restrictions depending on trimester. (A later Supreme Court decision changed the standard to emphasize viability.)
When arguing that public opinion supports broad abortion rights, advocates often point to polls showing strong support for Roe. And they are right about that polling. A January 2013 poll by Gallup was typical: 53 percent of respondents said they did not want the court to overturn "its 1973 Roe versus Wade decision concerning abortion," and only 29 percent did want it overturned.
I don't imagine that most people who receive a phone call asking their opinion about Roe know the fine details of the decision when they answer the question. But it is worth noting that the strong support for Roe does not necessarily conflict with the strong reservations Americans express about unrestricted abortion access. Roe distinguished among the different stages of pregnancy and different developmental stages of fetuses.
About one in four Americans says they support abortion without restrictions, most polls show. Somewhat fewer Americans - typically about one in five, though it ranges from one in four to one in eight, depending on the poll - oppose abortion in nearly all cases. The rest of the country - roughly 50 percent of it - supports abortion in some circumstances and not others.
Pew's polls (PDF), including this one from October 2012, show this pattern:
The New York Times/CBS Poll uses a different framework, but the results are consistent. These results are from February 2013:
The Gallup results are also consistent:
As Gallup's historical chart shows, opinion on abortion has not shifted in a major way over the years. (It also does not vary much by sex, with women as divided as men on the issue.) But if one side has any slight sway on the trends, it is the anti-abortion campaigners' side. Twenty years ago, the share of Americans saying abortion should always be legal was more than twice as high as the share saying it should never be legal. Since the mid-1990s, the share of Americans who consider themselves as abortion rights advocates (or "pro-choice" in the poll's available answers) has also declined:
On abortion, as with almost any issue, short poll questions and answers do not capture the full complexity of people's views. The standard Gallup questions about trimesters do not mention exceptions, for instance. And although a recent National Journal poll may seem on the surface to suggest that a plurality of Americans support the restrictions that the Texas Legislature passed last weekend, the bill includes details - no exceptions for rape or incest, the effective closing of most of the state's clinics - that most Americans would quite likely oppose. On the flip side, some people who oppose a broad abortion ban after 20 weeks of pregnancy also oppose abortion access in some instances, like, for example, for economic reasons or in cases when prenatal screening shows the fetus to have a nonfatal condition.
But be wary of analysts who try to take this complexity argument too far. It's true that any snapshot of public opinion from a poll is imperfect. It is not true that if you scratch only under poll results deeply enough, you will discover the American people actually take a clear side on abortion. By any objective measure, the country is conflicted.

        
As Texas G.O.P. Revives Abortion Ban, a Look at Public Opinion
        
Public Opinion Shifts on Security-Liberty Balance
        
Rubio Is Losing Support Among Republican Voters
        
Is Democratic Criticism on N.S.A. Hurting Obama's Approval Rating?
        
Polls Show Chemical Weapons Affect Public's View on Syria

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: ABORTION (97%); SUPREME COURTS (89%); DECISIONS & RULINGS (89%); SETTLEMENTS & DECISIONS (89%); PREGNANCY & CHILDBIRTH (89%); POLLS & SURVEYS (78%); TRENDS (77%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (77%); APPEALS (77%); VOTERS & VOTING (77%); PRIVACY RIGHTS (77%); WOMEN'S HEALTH (73%); GAYS & LESBIANS (73%); SAME SEX MARRIAGE & UNIONS (54%); MARRIAGE (54%); IMMIGRATION (54%) 20-week ban; abortion; polls; Texas; Polling

GEOGRAPHIC: TEXAS, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (94%); EUROPE (54%)

LOAD-DATE: July 17, 2013



516 of 937 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(The Caucus)

PUB-DATE: July 17, 2013

SECTION: US; politics

LENGTH: 609 words

HEADLINE: E.P.A. Building Re-named for Clinton

BYLINE: MATT WALD


HIGHLIGHT: The Environmental Protection Agency headquarters building was renamed for President Bill Clinton. 

 BODY:
WASHINGTON - Ronald Reagan and Bill Clinton are now neighbors, more or less.
On Wednesday, Mr. Clinton and various officials past and present gathered for the renaming of the Environmental Protection Agency headquarters in the former president's honor, the William Jefferson Clinton Federal Building. The building, a 79-year-old neoclassical landmark, is across a pedestrian mall from the Ronald Reagan Building and International Trade Center, which is also neoclassical in style. But the Reagan building, finished in 1998, lacks the heroic-style murals, bas-relief sculptures and other Depression-era touches of the E.P.A. building. Its centerpiece is a seven-story spiral staircase made of marble, surrounding a chandelier with lights at every floor.
The ceremony was something of a reunion, and a pep rally for Gina McCarthy, whom President Obama has nominated to lead the E.P.A., but whose confirmation has been held up in the Senate. 
Carol Browner, who was Mr. Clinton's E.P.A. administrator, pointed to several milestones during that era, including the first legal analysis to conclude that existing law gave the administration the ability to regulate carbon dioxide, an authority the Obama administration is seeking to exercise. 
The Clinton administration also created an office within the E.P.A. to focus on children's health, vastly sped the cleanup of Superfund sites and decreased soot and smog in the air. Mr. Clinton is also popular for having greatly expanded national parks and other protected areas. And he raised the agency to the status of a cabinet department.
None of the advances were easy, Ms. Browner said in a speech. "During your tenure, we faced an intransigent Congress, a fierce, well-funded and active opposition," she said. "Glad to see so much has changed in Washington."
When it was Mr. Clinton's turn to speak, he first said he did not have his notes, then said that was O.K. because as a former president, "you can say whatever the heck you want." Then he said he had found his notes but that, as a former president, "If you can't read your own handwriting, you're really in trouble. "
He spoke animatedly for more than 20 minutes, mostly without looking at his notes.
Among the points he made, "You can have a growing economy with more jobs and rising incomes, and a sustainable environmental policy.''
"You can protect our precious natural resources, and you can promote the public health, and you can fight climate change," he said. "In fact, from now on that's going to be the only way to have a sustainable economy."
Besides, he said, "The old economic model is not too hot anywhere.''
The building, at 1200 Pennsylvania Avenue, was completed in 1934 and was occupied by the Post Office until that became the Postal Service in 1971. In 1985 it was named for Ariel Rios, an undercover agent at the Bureau of Alcohol, Tobacco and Firearms who was killed in the line of duty in 1982. Congress voted last December to rename the building in honor of Mr. Clinton. The change technically took effect in May. 
Senator Barbara Boxer of California, the Senate sponsor of the bill that renamed the building, said, "This is a very strong building, and Bill Clinton was a very strong president."
In the midst of a traditional Washington summer - temperatures in the 90s and a heat index over 100 degrees - the dedication ceremony was held in a conference room named for Rachel Carson, an early marine biologist and environmental pioneer. 
A choir, with middle school, high school and college students, performed a jazz/gospel rendition of "America the Beautiful."
Outside, the air was "code orange," unhealthy for sensitive groups.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: US PRESIDENTS (92%); ENVIRONMENTAL DEPARTMENTS (91%); ENVIRONMENT & NATURAL RESOURCES (90%); AIR QUALITY REGULATION (90%); SUPERFUND (77%); NATIONAL PARKS (77%); NATURAL RESOURCES (77%); POLITICS (77%); PUBLIC POLICY (77%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (77%); CLIMATE CHANGE (77%); US ENVIRONMENTAL LAW (75%); ECONOMIC POLICY (75%); ECONOMIC NEWS (75%); ECONOMIC DEPRESSION (75%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (75%); CAUCUSES (73%); SMOG (72%); SCULPTURE (70%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (60%) The Caucus

PERSON: BILL CLINTON (95%); RONALD REAGAN (91%); BARACK OBAMA (73%); CAROL BROWNER (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: July 17, 2013



517 of 937 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(DealBook)

PUB-DATE: July 17, 2013

SECTION: BUSINESS

LENGTH: 990 words

HEADLINE: How to Make Poison Pills Palatable

BYLINE: ERIC POSNER and GLEN WEYL


HIGHLIGHT: Under the authors&#8217; proposed method, when an outside shareholder starts a takeover attempt, existing shareholders would have the right to buy votes for or against the takeover. 

 BODY:
 Eric Posner and Glen Weyl are professors at the University of Chicago, Mr. Posner in the law school and Mr. Weyl in the department of economics.
Last month, Rupert Murdoch's News Corporation divided into two entities and inserted shareholder rights plans, or "poison pills," in their charters to shield them from hostile takeovers. 
Shareholder activists are up in arms. The poison pill "is one more tool to entrench management," one activist told The Financial Times when News Corp. first announced its plan. The problem, however, is not the existence of poison pills but their design: a more carefully designed poison pill would address activists' concerns while preventing abusive takeovers. 
A poison pill deters takeovers typically by giving existing shareholders (including management) the right to buy and vote additional shares at reduced price when a takeover is initiated. It was invented in the 1980s in reaction to a wave of corporate takeovers. Managers disliked takeovers because they frequently lost their jobs in the resulting reorganization, and argued that takeovers disrupted a firm's operations, caused layoffs, and destroyed shareholder value. Shareholder activists replied that managers used poison pills to entrench their positions at shareholders' expense.
Because of widespread fears of "barbarians at the gates," managers ultimately had their way. But given that both sides have advanced reasonable arguments, reform should aim not to eliminate poison pills but to redesign them to address both sets of concerns.
We propose a device that will advance just this goal. In our academic work, we have argued that a voting procedure called "quadratic vote buying" should be used to improve corporate governance. Under this procedure, shareholders pay for their votes, and can cast as many votes as they want at a price equal to the square of the number of votes they cast. The proposal is fairly radical and may take some time to implement. But a more modest version could be applied just to poison pills.
Under our approach, the corporate charter of a firm would provide that when an outside shareholder starts a takeover attempt, existing shareholders would have the right to buy votes for or against the takeover. The price that shareholders must pay is the square of the number of votes they cast, so one vote costs $1, two votes cost $4, and so on. Votes would be aggregated and then resolved by majority rule. 
For example, if one shareholder buys four votes in favor of a takeover at cost of $16, and another buys five votes against the takeover at cost of $25, the takeover would be voted down (5-4). The funds would be paid into the corporate treasury, and hence ultimately distributed back to the shareholders albeit on a per-share basis, so if the shareholders each own one share, they receive $20.50 each.
Quadratic vote buying, or Q.V.B., aggregates shareholders' independent judgments as to the advisability of the merger, taking into account the level of intensity with which they care about the outcome. As a result, the takeover can take place only if it maximizes shareholder value.
Why does this work so well? The answer, as one of us (Glen) has proven in an academic paper, is that Q.V.B. forces the voter to pay a price per vote equal to the number of votes she buys, and therefore gives her an incentive to buy votes in proportion to her marginal benefit from influencing the takeover decision. This is economics jargon but the underlying intuition is easy to understand. Q.V.B., unlike ordinary voting, forces people to pay a lot if they care a lot about the takeover decision, and a little if they care only a little. This enables people with strong views to exert more influence on the outcome than people with weak views, but only if they compensate others at an increasingly high price that is commensurate with their greater influence over the outcome of the vote.
By contrast, if a takeover is put to a regular vote, outsiders can exploit the passivity of most shareholders to obtain a controlling stake and thereby to transfer resources from remaining shareholders to themselves. 
Q.V.B. differs in detail rather than in kind from standard poison pills. Under News Corp.'s poison pill, when someone buys 15 percent of the company's voting shares, existing shareholders have the right to buy stock at half its existing price. Beyond the obvious arbitrariness of a 15 rather than 10 or 20 percent threshold, and half rather than a quarter or two-thirds price, this system has the unfortunate side effect of allowing existing managers to buy shares, and thus votes, more cheaply than the acquirers, and thereby block a takeover that benefits most shareholders. 
This is why shareholder activists oppose poison pills. Under Q.V.B., such exploitation would be impossible because the managers would be forced to pay the same quadratic price as anyone else. And yet in the context of poison pills, where voting rules are already adjusted according to the corporate charter in order to fend off takeovers, Q.V.B. seems like a difference in degree rather than kind, and thus ought to be taken seriously by corporate boards.
An even simpler version of could also be used. Under what we have called "square root voting," or S.R.V., every shareholder may cast a number of votes equal to the square root of the number of shares she owns. S.R.V. is functionally nearly identical to Q.V.B., but avoids the need to redistribute funds, and so is a less radical departure from ordinary corporate governance norms.
Q.V.B. and S.R.V. remove the toxins in poison pills without giving immunity to incompetent management. If management is good for the company, takeovers will be voted down. If not, takeovers will be approved. These devices would be an antidote to many of the woes of corporate governance.

        
Report Identifies Companies Vulnerable to Activist Takeovers
        
Re-examining Board Priorities in an Era of Activism

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: TAKEOVERS (93%); SHAREHOLDERS (93%); LAYOFFS (90%); LAW SCHOOLS (90%); SHAREHOLDER RIGHTS (90%); STOCK PURCHASE RIGHTS (90%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (78%); LAWYERS (78%); GRADUATE & PROFESSIONAL SCHOOLS (78%); CORPORATE GOVERNANCE (77%); BOARDS OF DIRECTORS (77%); DISMISSALS (72%); BONDS (64%) Boards of Directors; News Corporation; Shareholder Rights and Activism; Stocks and Bonds; News Corporation|NWSA|NASDAQ; Another View

COMPANY: NEWS CORP (94%); FINANCIAL TIMES GROUP (72%)

ORGANIZATION: News Corporation

TICKER: NWS (NASDAQ) (94%); NWS (ASX) (94%) News Corporation; NWSA; NASDAQ

INDUSTRY: NAICS515120 TELEVISION BROADCASTING (94%); NAICS511130 BOOK PUBLISHERS (94%); NAICS511110 NEWSPAPER PUBLISHERS (94%); SIC2711 NEWSPAPERS: PUBLISHING, OR PUBLISHING & PRINTING (72%)

PERSON: KEITH RUPERT MURDOCH (72%)

GEOGRAPHIC: CHICAGO, IL, USA (73%) ILLINOIS, USA (73%) UNITED STATES (73%)

LOAD-DATE: July 17, 2013



518 of 937 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(Ross Douthat)

PUB-DATE: July 17, 2013

SECTION: OPINION

LENGTH: 967 words

HEADLINE: Health Care, Welfare, Workfare, Jobs

BYLINE: ROSS DOUTHAT


HIGHLIGHT: Is there a conservative case for employer-provided health insurance? 

 BODY:
Let me return for a moment to two familiar topics in this space: Employer-provided health insurance and declining workforce participation. (Try to contain your excitement!) Earlier this week, A.E.I.'s James Pethokoukis highlighted a new study exploring the potential downsides that Obamacare's expansion of a non-employer-based insurance market might have for the workforce participation rate:
Our results suggest a significant degree of "employment lock" - workers employed primarily in order to secure private health insurance coverage. The results also suggest that the Affordable Care Act - which similarly affects adults not traditionally eligible for public health insurance - may cause large reductions in the labor supply of low-income adults. 
Those "large reductions," the authors estimate, might cash out to somewhere between 530,00 and 940,000 Americans leaving the workforce altogether. They base this estimate on what happened in 2005 when Tennessee discontinued an expansion of TennCare, the state health care program: The discontinuation caused "an immediate increase in job search behavior and a steady rise in both employment and health insurance coverage," the authors write, suggesting a strong link - which they use to model the impact of Obamacare - between the need for health coverage and the choice to join, stay in, or rejoin the workforce.
A similar impact on employment and job-seeking has been predicted by previous analyses of the health care law, as Reihan Salam points out. Now of course to many liberals this just strengthens the case for Obamacare: Here you have hundreds of thousands people working jobs they hate and would love to quit just to have some medical security, when our society is rich enough that they shouldn't have to work a lousy, low-wage, labor-intensive 9-5 (or worse) just to have health insurance within their reach. As I wrote earlier this year, from a certain perspective the entire recent decline in labor force participation could be seen as an unlooked-for, bottom-up fulfillment of the Marxist dream of a world rich enough to make leisure available to the masses as well as the elite. But one need not go that far left to be untroubled by Obamacare's impact on workforce participation: One could just assume (with Ezra Klein, for instance, and most of the center-left) that many of the people dropping out of the workforce would be near-retirees or people dealing with severe family health issues, rather than the kind of able-bodied workers whose declining workforce participation we should actually be worried about.
From a more conservative perspective, though, the possibility that, as Salam puts it, "the expansion of subsidized coverage might prompt other workers with less compelling personal stories to retire or reduce their work hours," does suggest one of the more plausible right-of-center cases in favor of employer-provided health insurance: Namely, the fact that a link between subsidized health insurance and steady work fits with the general conservative preference for tying welfare spending to employment, family and personal responsibility. From this point of view, the tax code provision linking insurance to employment is of a piece with work requirements in welfare programs, or the way the earned-income tax credit tries to reward low-wage workers for actually sticking with a job, or the way the child tax credit is only available to parents who actually pay taxes, and so on down a longer list of policies that tend to find favor on the right of center.
As my prior philippics against employer-provided insurance suggest, I think this case ultimately fails. First, because the subsidy for employer-provided insurance, at least as currently designed, is not actually a work-based welfare program: It's a work-based middle-class entitlement whose real economic impact is ultimately regressive. Second, because health insurance (and especially health insurance as conservatives would design it) is fundamentally different from other means-tested subsidies: It's a hedge against catastrophe rather than a subsidy for daily life, which makes it most valuable in precisely the contexts where you might be least able to find or keep a job. Third, because employer-provided insurance creates work incentives with one hand but takes from workers with the other - because it first masks the true price of insurance, driving up the cost of health care overall, and then as those costs eat up wage increases it makes paychecks seem stagnant even when compensation is technically increasing. And then finally, because all employers don't offer insurance, so an employer-based system necessarily discriminates against many low-wage workers, who can't take advantage of the subsidy through no fault of their own - and the only way to rectify that problem is to create a universal employer mandate that would discourage business owners from hiring the very workers who most need both jobs and assistance.
But if the work disincentives created by a shift toward a subsidized individual market aren't sufficient to rescue the case for employer-provided insurance, neither should they just be dismissed or ignored. Rather, they tend to buttress Ramesh Ponnuru's argument that we should be slow-walking that shift rather than trying to make it happen all at once, the better to deal with unexpected consequences as they arrive. And they also tend to buttress the broader point that however we design our health insurance system, we need other policies that make the choice to work seem more rewarding, attractive and sustainable for Americans on the bottom looking up.

        
The Republican Health Policy Trainwreck
        
The Old Regime and the Health Care Revolution
        
Why Rate Shock Might Matter
        
What Is Reform Conservatism?
        
Conservatives and Health Care Costs

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: HEALTH INSURANCE (95%); LABOR FORCE (92%); EMPLOYEE HEALTH PLANS (92%); HEALTH CARE (90%); OBAMA HEALTH CARE REFORM (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); CONSERVATISM (89%); EMPLOYMENT (89%); INSURANCE COVERAGE (89%); WRITERS (88%); WAGES & SALARIES (78%); GOVERNMENT HEALTH INSURANCE (78%); HEALTH CARE POLICY (78%); MANAGED CARE ORGANIZATIONS (78%); US PATIENT PROTECTION & AFFORDABLE CARE ACT (78%); LABOR SECTOR PERFORMANCE (76%); HEALTH CARE LAW (73%); INSURANCE (73%); EMPLOYMENT SEARCH (73%); NATIONAL HEALTH INSURANCE (73%); LOW INCOME PERSONS (70%); LIBERALISM (69%) Health Insurance and Managed Care; Labor and Jobs; Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act (2010); United States; Welfare (US)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%) United States

LOAD-DATE: July 17, 2013



519 of 937 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(Opinionator)

PUB-DATE: July 17, 2013

SECTION: OPINION

LENGTH: 1730 words

HEADLINE: Has the G.O.P. Gone Off the Deep End?

BYLINE: THOMAS B. EDSALL


HIGHLIGHT: Disaffected conservatives are increasingly anxious about the ideological intransigence of Republican legislators. 

 BODY:
Thomas Doherty, patronage czar and political enforcer for the former New York governor George Pataki, reached the breaking point last week when he read that House Republicans were preparing to "slow walk" the Senate immigration bill to death.
Doherty turned to Twitter:
If Senate Immigration bill gets ripped apart and ultimately defeated by House #GOP I've decided to leave my political home of 32 yrs #sad.
Doherty told me that he has 
come to the conclusion that my party has elements within it that dislike homosexuals and think America is still in the 1940s. And while we talk about freedom and liberty, that liberty and freedom only seem to be acceptable for some. 
Doherty, no liberal, is representative of the growing strength on the right of the view that the Republican Party has gone off the deep end.
"Their rigidity is killing them. It's either holy purity, or you are anathema," Tom Korologos, a premier Republican lobbyist and the ambassador to Belgium under George W. Bush, said in a phone interview. "Too many ideologues have come in. You don't win by what they are doing."
A number of prominent figures in the Republican Party share this harsh view. Jeb Bush warned last year that both Ronald Reagan and his own father would have a "hard time" fitting into the contemporary Republican Party, which he described as dominated by "an orthodoxy that doesn't allow for disagreement."
A few months ago, Bush, who is expected to run for the party's nomination in 2016, took it up a notch. At the annual Conservative Political Action Conference in March, Bush declared:
All too often we're associated with being anti-everything. Way too many people believe Republicans are anti-immigrant, anti-woman, anti-science, anti-gay, anti-worker, and the list goes on and on and on. Many voters are simply unwilling to choose our candidates, even though they share our core beliefs, because those voters feel unloved, unwanted and unwelcome in our party.
Two months later, Bob Dole - the Republican presidential nominee in 1996 and a 35-year veteran of the House and Senate - was asked on "Fox News Sunday": "Could people like Bob Dole, even Ronald Reagan, make it in today's Republican Party?"
I doubt it. Reagan wouldn't have made it. Certainly Nixon wouldn't have made it - because he had ideas.
Dole added, "They ought to put a sign on the national committee door that says, 'Closed for repairs.' "
As early as September 2011, Mike Lofgren, a staff member for 16 years on the Republican side of both the House and Senate Budget Committees, wrote on the liberal Web site TruthOut:
The Republican Party is becoming less and less like a traditional political party in a representative democracy and becoming more like an apocalyptic cult, or one of the intensely ideological authoritarian parties of 20th century Europe.
Bill Kristol, the editor of The Weekly Standard and one of the original architects of the bomb-throwing right, jumped ship seven months ago:
The conservative movement - a bulwark of American strength for the last several decades - is in deep disarray. Reading about some conservative organizations and Republican campaigns these days, one is reminded of Eric Hoffer's remark, "Every great cause begins as a movement, becomes a business, and eventually degenerates into a racket." It may be that major parts of American conservatism have become such a racket that a kind of refounding of the movement as a cause is necessary.
Needless to say, there are many on the left who share these negative assessments.
My colleague Paul Krugman has made the caserepeatedly and eloquently. Jonathan Chait, a New York Magazine columnist, has beenno slouchin this regard either.
Norman Ornstein and Tom Mann, scholars at the American Enterprise Institute and the Brookings Institution respectively, leveled the most detailed charges against the Republican Party in their book "It's Even Worse Than It Looks: How the American Constitutional System Collided With the New Politics of Extremism" and in their Washington Post essay "Let's just say it: The Republicans are the problem."
How far has self-flagellation spread among Republicans? To see, I surveyed a number of strategists, lobbyists, pollsters and think-tank types.
Ed Rogers, the chairman of the BGR Group (formerly Barbour Griffith & Rogers) and a top aide to both Ronald Reagan and George H. W. Bush, wrote in an e-mail:
The G.O.P. House has between 20 and 30 members who are ideological purists who think every issue and vote is black or white. Combine that with the members who fear a primary from the right, and you have maybe 60 votes that are hard to get. We have lost the art of governing in Washington. In the Congress no one is able to make and execute long-term plans.
There is a striking correlation between the rise of conservative talk radio and the difficulties of the Republican Party in presidential elections. In an April Reuters essay, "Right Wing Talk Shows Turned White House Blue," Mark Rozell, the acting dean of the George Mason University School of Public Policy, and Paul Goldman, a former chairman of Virginia's Democratic Party, wrote:
Since Rush Limbaugh's 1992 bestseller "The Way Things Ought to Be," his conservative talk show politics have dominated G.O.P. presidential discourse - and the Republicans' White House fortunes have plummeted. But when the mainstream media reigned supreme, between 1952 and 1988, Republicans won seven out of the 10 presidential elections.
The authors continue: "The rise of the conservative-dominated media defines the era when the fortunes of G.O.P. presidential hopefuls dropped to the worst levels since the party's founding in 1856."
John Feehery, the president of Quinn Gillespie Communications and a former aide to Tom DeLay, a former House majority leader, and Dennis Hastert, a former speaker of the House, wrote in an e-mail:
Talk radio has been very destructive when it comes to coming up with new ideas to solve current problems. Talk radio is very good at attack. It is not particularly good at thinking deeply about public policy problems and coming up with effective solutions.
Peter Wehner, a senior fellow at the Ethics and Public Policy Center, raised similar questions:
It seems to me that some on the right, at least in their rhetoric, don't have a proper appreciation for prudence. There's a tendency among some to elevate every political skirmish into a clash of first principles. And some on the right seem eager to go over a cliff with their flag waving.
But Bill McInturff, a founder of the Republican polling firm Public Opinion Strategies, argued in a phone interview that at least for members of the House, the Republican strategy of relentless opposition to Democratic initiatives has paid off:
Look at the quotes from 1993 and 1994 when Republicans were blocking Clinton's health care bill, and again in 2009 with Obamacare. The exact same stuff, the same handwringing, the same, except one led to a 50-plus gain and the other a 60-plus seat gain in the House.
McInturff sees presidential politics as relatively insignificant to most Republican congressmen: 
There are very few Republican Congressional incumbents who wake up and have that concern. At an individual level, they are acting as rational actors, on the basis of their own perceived political interests.
Noting that only 16 current Republican members of the House represent districts carried by Obama, McInturff observes that "the rational political incentive for most elected Republicans is to be sure they don't lose to a primary challenger."
McInturff put his finger on the problem: House Republicans are invested in their own re-election and not in the long-term viability of their party. Those who put the lowest priority on presidential politics are those most worried about a primary challenge from the right, and it is this cohort that forms the backbone of the Tea Party faction in the House - the cohort most wedded to nativism, intolerance and hostility to the poor. These are the members nudging the Republican Party over the cliff.
A part of the Republican problem lies in the party's disproportionate dependence on white Southern voters. These voters are well to the right of the rest of the nation, and they elect the dominant block of hard-right conservatives in the House. Of the 234 Republican members of the House, 97 - two-fifths - come from the 11 Confederate states, and these 97 are almost uniformly opposed to negotiation of any kind with Democrats.
It is the Southern conservatives who, along with their Northern Tea Party colleagues, seek to kill immigration reform and who insisted on removing the food stamp program from the recently passed Farm Bill.
These members of the House are what Feehery describes as "nostalgia" Republicans who define conservatism as "the ability to fight progress." They produce a flood of statements and declarations that Bobby Jindal, the governor of Louisiana, calls "offensive and bizarre" and that he claims are turning his party into "the stupid party."
It is these politicians whom the opinion writers of The Wall Street Journal had in mind when they wrote
The dumbest strategy is to follow the Steve King anti-immigration caucus and simply let the Senate [Immigration] bill die while further militarizing the border. This may please the loudest voices on talk radio, but it ignores the millions of evangelical Christians, Catholic conservatives, business owners and free-marketers who support reform. The G.O.P. can support a true conservative opportunity society or become a party of closed minds and borders.
The Republican Party is struggling to resolve the conflict between its pragmatic establishment wing and its ideological-suicidal wing. Speaking right after President Obama's re-election, Haley Barbour, a former governor of Mississippi and a former chairman of the Republican National Committee, summarized the party's problem succinctly. At a meeting in Las Vegas of the Republican Governors Association, Barbour said: "We've got to give our political organizational activity a very serious proctology exam. We need to look everywhere."
An earlier version of this column misstated the given name of a former chairman of Virginia's Democratic Party; he is Paul Goodman, not John Paul Goodman.

        
An Ethnic Map
        
A Republican Left Turn?
        
The Decline of Black Power in the South
        
You Say You Want a Revolution
        
The New Economic Risk: Complacency

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: POLITICAL PARTIES (94%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (91%); CONSERVATISM (90%); POLITICS (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2012 (89%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (89%); LIBERALISM (89%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (89%); IMMIGRATION (89%); ELECTIONS (78%); INTERVIEWS (78%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (78%); TEA PARTY MOVEMENT (78%); LIBERAL MEDIA (74%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (73%); LOBBYING (73%) Conservatism (US Politics); Immigration and Emigration; Presidential Elections (US); Republican Party; Tea Party Movement; United States Politics and Government; Thomas B. Edsall

COMPANY: FOX ENTERTAINMENT GROUP INC (63%)

ORGANIZATION: Republican Party

INDUSTRY: NAICS515120 TELEVISION BROADCASTING (63%); SIC4833 TELEVISION BROADCASTING STATIONS (63%)

PERSON: RONALD REAGAN (89%); GEORGE W BUSH (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (92%); BELGIUM (58%)

LOAD-DATE: July 19, 2013



520 of 937 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 18, 2013
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; BUILDING BLOCKS; Pg. 20

LENGTH: 799 words

HEADLINE: A Transit Hub in the Making May Prove to Be the Grandest

BYLINE: By DAVID W. DUNLAP

 BODY:
How much did it cost to build Grand Central Terminal?
Most people cannot answer that question ($80 million, as it happens), in part because it no longer seems very salient. Whatever the price, New York received an enduring landmark in exchange, a portal to the city that has never lost its power to inspire awe.
If the World Trade Center Transportation Hub is ever to emerge from under the shadow of its $3.94 billion price tag (double Grand Central's, adjusted for inflation), it will have to do more than move PATH commuters efficiently. It will have to lift hearts. 
Perhaps it can.
A visit to the monumental station on Wednesday left the impression that its main transit hall may be the most hopeful element at the trade center complex when it opens in 2015.
Now full of light and air, it will one day be full of people, movement and life, as well. It could become a destination in its own right, even for those who are not among the 200,000 or so commuters traveling daily to and from New Jersey.
The transportation hub and retail concourses will be ''the only facilities on site that are completely accessible to the public,'' said a report by the Port Authority of New York and New Jersey, which is building the hub. By contrast, visitors to the office towers, the National September 11 Memorial Museum and the 1 World Trade Center observatory will be subject to tight scrutiny.
In the end, that may be the most astonishing feature of the hub; that a structure of such colossal proportions should be devoted to unobstructed public use. The main transit hall is 365 feet long -- a block and a half -- making it 90 feet longer than the main concourse of Grand Central Terminal. It is 115 feet wide, or just 5 feet narrower than the Grand Central concourse. It takes a half minute to walk from one side to the other.
The transit hall will soar 160 feet, from the floor to the apogee of its arched, ribbed steel-and-glass canopy. That is 35 feet higher than the ceiling at Grand Central.
The architect of the hub, Santiago Calatrava of Spain, came to New Yorkers' attention in 1992. He proposed completing the unfinished transept of the Cathedral Church of St. John the Divine with bold, branching forms that conjured the work of Antonio Gaudí, the Catalan architect whose exuberant designs transformed Barcelona, Spain.
For the PATH terminal, Mr. Calatrava has fashioned a sinuously organic space that looks more and more like a modernist version of Gaudí as it takes form.
And like Gaudí's Expiatory Temple of the Holy Family, the transportation hub has left a lot of people wondering when construction would ever be finished, and at what cost.
When the original design was unveiled in 2004, the project was supposed to cost $2 billion and take five years to finish. The canopy was given two counterposed structural wings that reminded many viewers of a bird in flight, as Mr. Calatrava intended. The sides of the canopy were to be retractable, so the roof could open in fine weather.
The underground mezzanine leading to the passenger platforms was to be a column-free expanse, naturally illuminated by skylights set into the memorial plaza above.
In 2005, Mr. Calatrava's ethereal bird put on weight, after the Port Authority insisted on reinforcing the canopy with twice as many ribs as originally planned. By 2006, it was clear that officials of the memorial foundation, Mayor Michael R. Bloomberg among them, regarded Mr. Calatrava's mezzanine skylights as an intrusion on their plaza.
As the cost of material and labor rose, the Port Authority conceded in 2007 that the hub's price tag might reach $3.4 billion. The operable wings were eliminated as a cost-cutting measure, as was the plan for a column-free mezzanine. But added expenses and difficulties were imposed by the use of custom steel elements made by Urssa and Horta Coslada, Spanish fabricators with experience working on Mr. Calatrava's projects.
The authority said in its 2012 annual report that the hub may end up costing as much as $3.995 billion. This does not include the price of recovering from Hurricane Sandy.
Surge waters during the storm reached knee level on the PATH passenger platforms, said Steven Plate, the director of World Trade Center construction at the Port Authority. The entire trade center site was flooded with about 125 million gallons of water. Newly installed emergency electrical equipment was damaged beyond repair. Tracks were washed out. Four or five new escalators were ruined. Ductwork had to be replaced.
All told, an estimated $300 million to $400 million in damage was done to the hub. But this is not calculated as a construction expense, Mr. Plate said, because it is being covered by insurance and by federal grants.
''The dollar amount was neutral,'' Mr. Plate added, undoubtedly glad that he could.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: The PATH station designed by the Spanish architect Santiago Calatrava is becoming visible from the street. The main transit hall will be expansive and accessible.
 The World Trade Center Transportation Hub, with a $3.94 billion price tag, is to open in 2015. It originally was to cost $2 billion. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY FRED R. CONRAD/THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: URBAN TRANSIT SYSTEMS (90%); PUBLIC TRANSPORTATION (89%); MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (86%); PORT AUTHORITIES (73%); OFFICE PROPERTY (65%)

COMPANY: PORT AUTHORITY OF NEW YORK & NEW JERSEY (67%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS485999 ALL OTHER TRANSIT & GROUND PASSENGER TRANSPORTATION (67%); SIC4119 LOCAL PASSENGER TRANSPORTATION, NEC (67%)

GEOGRAPHIC: BARCELONA, SPAIN (79%) NEW YORK, USA (94%); NEW JERSEY, USA (92%); CATALONIA, SPAIN (90%) UNITED STATES (94%); SPAIN (85%)

LOAD-DATE: July 18, 2013



521 of 937 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 18, 2013
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 899 words

HEADLINE: Conviction of Chevron Worker Spurs Oil Industry Concerns in Indonesia

BYLINE: By JOE COCHRANE

 BODY:
JAKARTA, Indonesia -- An Indonesian court convicted a local employee of the American energy company Chevron of corruption on Wednesday in a case that has escalated uncertainties for foreign investors in the nation.
In a 2-to-1 decision, a three-judge panel at an anticorruption court here sentenced Kukuh Kertasafari, 36, an environmental manager for Chevron Pacific Indonesia, to two years in prison for abuse of authority in connection with a soil cleanup program. Two other employees are to receive verdicts this week.
The case centers on a so-called bioremediation program at Chevron's drilling facilities on the island of Sumatra. 
Chevron Pacific Indonesia appointed two Indonesian contractors, Green Planet and Sumigita, to do the work, which entails removing or neutralizing contaminants in soil or water. Prosecutors said the companies were not qualified and did not have the proper permits, and that the cleanup was unnecessary because the area was not sufficiently contaminated.
In May, the anti-corruption court convicted the two directors of Green Planet and Sumigita of corruption and sentenced them to five and six years in prison, respectively.
During the Chevron trial, prosecutors contended that the employees had violated Indonesian corruption laws by prompting the state to incur a $9.9 million loss. The loss is tied to a reimbursement that the state paid for the cleanup as part of its contract with Chevron.
Defense lawyers for Chevron Pacific Indonesia rejected the prosecution's claims because Chevron did not receive reimbursement for the project. The defense also said that its scientific analysis had confirmed that the soil was sufficiently contaminated to warrant bioremediation.
''No actual evidence of any state loss or any illegal activity by Chevron Pacific Indonesia employees has been presented in court,'' the company said in a statement. ''Our thoughts are with our colleague and his family during this difficult time.''
The employee plans to appeal the verdict.
''The court did not consider the opinion from experts,'' said Maqdir Ismail, a trial lawyer for Chevron Pacific Indonesia. ''It's not fair.''
The Indonesian attorney general, Basrief Arief, did not respond to a written request for an interview. The three state prosecutors at the courthouse would not take questions after the verdict.
The criminal prosecution of local Chevron employees has sent a wave of fear through Indonesia's oil and natural gas sector, which is increasingly reliant on the technical expertise and investment of multinational energy companies.
Oil and gas account for about 8 percent of the country's gross domestic product and 28 percent of state budget revenue, according to the Indonesian Petroleum Association. But production has dropped steadily during the last decade.
''There is a need to find more reserves, otherwise production will continue to decline,'' said Dipnala Tamzil, the executive director of the petroleum association. ''There's a lot of capital needed, and not many companies can afford it. So criminalization is a very worrying trend.''
The Chevron case drew an unusual amount of attention in Indonesia, partly because multiple Indonesian government agencies, as well as the country's independent Supreme Audit Agency, had gone on record saying that no laws were broken.
The National Commission on Human Rights also accused prosecutors of professional misconduct and violating the defendants' human rights in a scathing 400-page investigation report submitted in May to President Susilo Bambang Yudhoyono. The report detailed how Chevron employees had been arrested last year and held for 62 days without being informed of the charges against them.
One official with the Indonesian Ministry of Energy and Mineral Resources, who spoke on the condition of anonymity because, as a regulator, he was not allowed to speak publicly about the case, questioned why one of the defendants, who had joined Chevron Pacific Indonesia only six months before the official investigation began, was being prosecuted for a project from seven years earlier.
During the trial, defense lawyers called into question the credibility of the state's expert witness on bioremediation. The witness worked for a company that had failed to win the deal to conduct the cleanup project for Chevron.
The prosecutors had ''a clear conflict of interest with their witness,'' said T. Mulya Lubis, a defense lawyer for Chevron Pacific Indonesia. ''If there was any violating, it should be a civil case that would be dealt with through mediation and arbitration, not criminalization.''
Officials from the Indonesian Ministry of Environment and the Special Task Force for Upstream Oil and Gas Business Activities, which regulates exploration and production, testified that Chevron Pacific Indonesia's staff had not violated any laws.
Reading out the majority opinion in the ruling Wednesday, the head judge, Sudharmawatiningsih, who goes by one name, said, ''The crime has been proven, because the defendant's actions caused an unlawful monetary gain through the cost recovery process.''
Judge Slamet Subagyo, the sole dissenting member of the panel, said Mr. Kertasafari was not guilty because ''any intentional actions or intentions cannot be proven.''
''As team leader in the project, the defendant had no intention to work with the contractors with the intent to commit corruption,'' he said in his opinion.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CRIMINAL CONVICTIONS (92%); SENTENCING (90%); CORRUPTION (90%); ENVIRONMENTAL CLEANUP (90%); OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (90%); VERDICTS (89%); LAWYERS (89%); SOIL CONTAMINATION (89%); BIOREMEDIATION (89%); OIL & GAS EXTRACTION (89%); CRUDE OIL & NATURAL GAS EXTRACTION (89%); PETROLEUM PRODUCTS (89%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (78%); ATTORNEYS GENERAL (78%); NATURAL GAS (78%); NATURAL GAS PRODUCTS (78%); JAIL SENTENCING (78%); ECONOMIC NEWS (77%); GROSS DOMESTIC PRODUCT (77%); FOREIGN INVESTMENT (77%); DEFENSE CONTRACTING (74%); JUDGES (73%); MULTINATIONAL CORPORATIONS (72%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (71%); ISLANDS & REEFS (71%); EXECUTIVES (71%); BUDGETS (70%); INTERVIEWS (65%)

COMPANY: CHEVRON CORP (93%)

TICKER: CVX (NYSE) (93%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS324110 PETROLEUM REFINERIES (93%); NAICS211111 CRUDE PETROLEUM & NATURAL GAS EXTRACTION (93%); SIC2911 PETROLEUM REFINERIES (93%); SIC1311 CRUDE PETROLEUM & NATURAL GAS (93%)

GEOGRAPHIC: JAKARTA, INDONESIA (73%) SUMATRA, INDONESIA (79%) INDONESIA (99%); UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: July 18, 2013



522 of 937 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 18, 2013
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Foreign Desk; Pg. 10

LENGTH: 1169 words

HEADLINE: In China and U.S., Mutual Distrust Grows, Study Finds

BYLINE: By JANE PERLEZ

 BODY:
BEIJING -- Americans view China in a markedly less favorable light than two years ago, and Chinese attitudes toward the United States have also soured, a sign that the two countries are drifting apart at the level of public opinion, according to a Pew Global Survey to be released on Thursday.
The survey showed that since 2011, China's approval rating in the United States has dropped 14 percentage points to 37 percent, the lowest rating for China in any region in the world. Negative attitudes toward the United States among the Chinese rose to 53 percent, a nine-point increase.
The deep skepticism toward China in the United States reflected the persistent worry that China's fast-growing economy, even though it is slowing, threatens jobs in a weak American economy, said Bruce Stokes, the director of Pew Global Economic Attitudes, in Washington. 
But opinion makers in China, and Chinese people familiar with the United States, gave far broader reasons than pure economics for China's sinking image.
They cited China's portrayal of itself as a newly confident and rich power on the world stage, a posture that seems threatening to Americans and Europeans. Some Chinese pointed to what they regarded as consistently negative coverage of China in the American news media. China's suddenly testy relations with some of its neighbors, including Japan, probably contributed to the unease, they said.
In the United States, in particular, Chinese personal wealth has been on conspicuous display, generating bitterness, they said. And Chinese corporations -- most recently Shuanghui International, which made a $4.7 billion bid for the United States' biggest pork producer, Smithfield Foods -- are causing consternation about Chinese ownership of brand-name American assets, they said.
Another development that is breeding American resentment, they said, is the Chinese elite's practice of sending its children to top American schools and universities, in some cases crowding out American applicants with fewer resources.
''It is understandable that Americans and others are nervous about China when it talks about itself as a great power or a major power,'' said Rui Chenggang, a prominent interviewer of world leaders on CCTV, China's state-run television. ''It's understandable that when people see what is happening between China and Japan and neighboring countries, and they see military exercises, that they are nervous.''
Mr. Rui said he believed that concern was misplaced. ''All the world thinkers who have decades of experience in China, from Henry Kissinger to Robert Zoellick, say China will be preoccupied by its domestic challenges, like environmental pollution, unemployment among college students and nonperforming loans,'' he said.
The Pew results arrive as already bumpy economic and military relations between Washington and Beijing have been damaged further by the revelations of Edward J. Snowden, the former intelligence contractor who last month leaked details of the National Security Agency's sweeping surveillance of foreigners and Americans.
The survey was conducted in March and April in 39 countries, well before the impact of Mr. Snowden's actions could be measured. The disclosures about the extent of American cyberespionage have received scornful coverage in China's state-run news media and have fanned distrust of the United States on China's Weibo, a popular microblogging platform.
In the United States, Pew interviewed 1,002 people by phone from March 4 to March 18. In China, Horizonkey conducted the survey from March 4 to April 6, with personal interviews of 3,226 people in 12 cities. Pew later bought those results. Both surveys had a margin of sampling error of plus or minus four percentage points.
With a focus on the intensifying rivalry between the United States and China, the results have piqued widespread interest within the American government. This week, in advance of the survey's release, Pew briefed State Department officials.
Over all, the United States was regarded more favorably in the world than China, with a median 63 percent to 50 percent. America was believed to respect the personal freedoms of its people far more than China, with large majorities in Germany, France and Spain saying individual freedoms were ignored in China, the poll said.
China was viewed most favorably in Africa, with a 72 percent approval rating, followed by Asia and Latin America, at 58 percent. China's approval rating in Europe was 43 percent.
China's low approval rating in the West correlated with the recent findings of Tao Xie, a professor of political science at Beijing Foreign Studies University.
In a paper in the current issue of The Journal of Contemporary China, published by a British company, Professor Tao wrote that people in poor countries admired China's economic success, while those in the West had negative feelings about China's political system that trumped its economic achievements.
''In developed, Western countries, people care more about values and political rights,'' Professor Tao said in an interview. ''Regardless of how cozy a relationship the German leader, Chancellor Merkel, has with the Chinese leaders, at the popular level in Germany attitudes to China are not going to change.''
Professor Tao's article, ''What Affects China's National Image? A Cross-National Study of Public Opinion,'' was rejected by Chinese academic publications because it criticized the Confucius Institutes that the Chinese government has opened in many countries, he said. The article said the institutes, designed to project soft power, had failed to reverse China's ''rather negative image'' in most of the countries where they operated.
China's image abroad, particularly in the United States, faces two major hurdles, said Hung Huang, a prominent media commentator in Beijing.
First, the American news media have given unfair coverage of China, said Ms. Hung, who has lived in the United States and is now an American citizen. Second, she said, the Chinese government bungled its efforts to present China to the world, even as billions were spent on language-training institutes and electronic billboards in Times Square.
''The Chinese government is probably the worst government at PR,'' she said. ''I don't think the Ugandan government can do any worse.''
A Chinese businessman, Victor Gao, who is director of the China National Association of International Studies, a group affiliated with China's Foreign Ministry, said China presented itself in ways that were hard to understand. ''The government calls itself Marxist, but that doesn't match the definition in the dictionary,'' he said.
The survey results that showed the United States was losing favor in China were not persuasive, Mr. Gao said. ''Many Chinese don't like the policies of the United States government, but they don't equate the policies of the government with the people.''
For example, he said, Chinese parents like to send their children to American schools. ''They know America is innovative,'' he said.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (78%); COLLEGE STUDENTS (77%); POLLS & SURVEYS (77%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (77%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (75%); PUBLIC TELEVISION (72%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (71%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (67%); PORK (63%); MILITARY OPERATIONS (60%)

COMPANY: SMITHFIELD FOODS INC (53%)

TICKER: SFD (NYSE) (53%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS311612 MEAT PROCESSED FROM CARCASSES (53%); NAICS311611 ANIMAL (EXCEPT POULTRY) SLAUGHTERING (53%); NAICS112210 HOG & PIG FARMING (53%)

PERSON: EDWARD SNOWDEN (64%); ROBERT ZOELLICK (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: BEIJING, CHINA (89%) NORTH CENTRAL CHINA (93%) CHINA (99%); UNITED STATES (99%); JAPAN (92%)

LOAD-DATE: July 18, 2013



523 of 937 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 18, 2013
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 18

LENGTH: 774 words

HEADLINE: City to Help Immigrants Seeking Deportation Reprieves

BYLINE: By KIRK SEMPLE

 BODY:
New York City plans to spend $18 million over the next two years to help young unauthorized immigrants qualify for a federal program that grants a temporary reprieve from deportation, officials announced on Wednesday.
The money will add 16,000 seats to adult education classes throughout the city, and priority for those slots will be given to immigrants who might qualify for the reprieve.
While more than 20,500 immigrants in New York State have already been granted the reprieve, known as deferred action, city officials have estimated that about 16,000 others in New York City alone would satisfy all the conditions save for the requirement that they have a high school diploma or General Educational Development certificate, or be currently enrolled in school. 
The project -- the largest investment made by any municipality in the nation to help immigrants obtain the deferral, city officials said -- is one of two new immigrant-assistance initiatives that will receive significant injections of public money in the current fiscal year, which began July 1.
The other budget allocation, which the city plans to announce formally on Friday, will pay for a pilot program that will create what immigrants' advocates say will be the nation's first public defender system for immigrants facing deportation.
Together, the two programs further cement New York's reputation as one of the most immigrant-friendly cities in the nation. They also come at a time when a push for comprehensive immigration reform that would include a path to citizenship for unauthorized immigrants has met stiff resistance among Republicans in the House of Representatives.
In a news conference in City Hall on Wednesday, Christine C. Quinn, the City Council speaker, seemed to allude to sclerotic politics on Capitol Hill, saying the Council's budget decisions send a message to the rest of the nation ''that local government can take action while we wait for comprehensive immigration reform.''
The federal deportation reprieve was announced by the Obama administration in June 2012. To qualify, an applicant must have arrived in the United States before reaching his or her 16th birthday and been younger than 31 as of June 15, 2012, among other requirements. Recipients of the reprieve, which is subject to renewal after two years, are legally allowed to work and, in many states, obtain a driver's license.
More than 400,500 people across the nation have been granted the deferral; for many others, the educational requirement has been a major hurdle.
For years, adult education programs in the city have been swamped by huge demand yet been hamstrung by financial shortfalls.
Of the $18 million allocation, $13.7 million will be provided to community-based organizations through the Youth and Community Development Department and used for outreach and the increase in seats. The remaining $4.3 million will help expand related education programs offered through the City University of New York, like English for Speakers of Other Languages and General Educational Development.
In recent days, immigrants' advocates have also been celebrating the City Council's decision to help pay for another initiative: the allocation of $500,000 in its current budget for a network of legal service providers to represent immigrants facing deportation.
Defendants in immigration court, unlike those in criminal court, have no constitutional right to a court-appointed lawyer. Hampered by language barriers, lack of money or ignorance, most end up trying to fight their deportation alone -- almost always with poor outcomes.
According to a recent study, 60 percent of detained immigrants in the New York region did not have counsel at the time their cases were completed. Of those without counsel, only 3 percent won their cases, compared with 18 percent of those with counsel.
Proponents of the program, called the New York Immigrant Family Unity Project, said it would cost about $8.7 million to provide legal representation for the 2,800 or so immigrants living in New York State who are detained and face deportation every year. The city allocation, however, will help cover the cost of a pilot program to represent just 135 immigrants. Advocates said that despite its limited reach, the pilot program would give them a chance to test their theories and demonstrate the potential impact of a broader plan.
The program will not only help keep families together, argued Andrew Friedman, executive director of the Center for Popular Democracy, an advocacy group that helped to lobby for the financing, but will also create ''an innovative model program'' for other municipalities to replicate.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: DEPORTATION (91%); CITY GOVERNMENT (90%); IMMIGRATION (90%); ILLEGAL IMMIGRANTS (89%); CITIES (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); BUDGETS (89%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (89%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (79%); IMMIGRATION LAW (78%); PUBLIC FINANCE (78%); HIGH SCHOOL EQUIVALENCY (77%); CONTINUING EDUCATION (77%); URBAN DEVELOPMENT (75%); ECONOMIC NEWS (75%); SCHOOL BUDGETS (74%); HIGH SCHOOLS (72%); PRESS CONFERENCES (72%); POLITICS (69%); PUBLIC DEFENDERS (51%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (93%) NEW YORK, USA (95%) UNITED STATES (95%)

LOAD-DATE: July 18, 2013



524 of 937 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 18, 2013
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 9

LENGTH: 365 words

HEADLINE: Fed Survey Shows Growth Mostly Modest Across U.S.

BYLINE: By THE ASSOCIATED PRESS

 BODY:
WASHINGTON -- The American economy grew throughout the country from late May through early July, bolstered by the housing recovery, consumers and more factory output.
A Federal Reserve survey released on Wednesday showed that 11 of the Fed banking districts reported ''modest to moderate'' growth, while Dallas reported ''strong'' growth for the second straight survey. 
Housing construction and home prices improved, while consumer spending increased in most districts, fueled by rising car and truck sales. The housing recovery is also driving more production of lumber, materials and construction equipment.
A separate report on Wednesday showed that builders started work on fewer homes in June. But applications for permits to build single-family houses rose to the highest level in five years, suggesting the housing recovery will continue.
The Fed's Beige Book survey showed that hiring held steady or increased in most districts. But employers in some districts were reluctant to hire permanent or full-time workers.
Five districts reported strong auto sales, up from just three in the previous report. Retail sales rose in nearly all districts except for New York.
The Beige Book survey is based on anecdotal reports from businesses. The latest report painted an optimistic picture of an economy growing at a steady pace. Job gains have picked up this year, bolstering incomes and enabling consumers to spend more.
Employers have added an average of 202,000 jobs a month so far this year, up from about 180,000 a month in the previous six months.
The Commerce Department reported that builders began construction on new homes at a seasonally adjusted annual rate of 836,000 homes in June. That was nearly 10 percent below May's total of 928,000.
Most of the drop occurred in apartments, where housing starts fell almost 27 percent in June from May. Apartment construction is volatile from month to month.
Applications for permits to build single-family homes rose for the third straight month to 624,000, the highest since May 2008. That suggests home construction should rebound in the coming months. Overall permits fell to 911,000 in June, from 985,000 in May, which was also revised higher.

GRAPHIC: CHART: Housing Construction: New private housing starts and permits authorized during the month, at a seasonally adjusted annual pace. (Source: Commerce Department) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: POLLS & SURVEYS (92%); CONSTRUCTION (91%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); ECONOMIC SURVEYS (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (90%); MANUFACTURING OUTPUT (90%); RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (90%); AUTOMOTIVE SALES (90%); SALES FIGURES (90%); REAL ESTATE (90%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (90%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (90%); BUILDING PERMITS (89%); RESIDENTIAL CONSTRUCTION (89%); MULTIFAMILY REAL ESTATE (78%); HOUSING MARKET (78%); HOUSING STARTS (78%); RETAIL SALES (75%); CONSUMER SPENDING (73%); CONSUMER SPENDING & CREDIT (73%); WOOD PRODUCTS MFG (73%); RETAIL SECTOR PERFORMANCE (73%); HOME PRICES (73%); COMMERCE DEPARTMENTS (73%); FULL TIME EMPLOYMENT (69%); WOOD CONSTRUCTION MATERIALS (55%)

ORGANIZATION: US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (59%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: July 18, 2013



525 of 937 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 18, 2013
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; DEALBOOK; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 1048 words

HEADLINE: Heartening Moves Toward Progress in Bank Regulation

BYLINE: By JESSE EISINGER. 
Jesse Eisinger is a reporter for ProPublica, an independent, nonprofit newsroom that produces investigative journalism in the public interest. E-mail: jesse@propublica.org Twitter: @eisingerj.

 BODY:
With their simultaneous display of hubris, remorselessness, incompetence and corruption, the banks have finally ignited a modicum of courage in banking regulators.
The postcrisis bad behavior -- reckless trading at a JPMorgan Chase unit in London, the rampant mortgage modification and foreclosure abuses, manipulation of the key global interest rate benchmark -- went just a tad too far. For the first time since the financial crisis, the banks are losing some battles on tougher regulation.
Last week, banking regulators, led by the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation, but including the Federal Reserve and the Office of the Comptroller of the Currency, proposed a rule to raise the capital at the largest, most dangerous banks. 
Separately, Gary Gensler, the head of the Commodity Futures Trading Commission, who has been waging an underfunded and lonely fight to tighten the markets for those side bets called derivatives, managed to push forward a rule to regulate the complex markets. Banks and his fellow commissioners had resisted, pushing for more delay and more study. Nothing is ever killed in Washington; it's just studied into a perpetual coma.
These moves are heartening, if only because financial regulation has been so parched in the years since the financial crisis. There are many caveats, and I will get to them. But it's worth enumerating and celebrating some of the positives because reform advocates have been wandering this desert, searching futilely for honest regulators.
For the bank safety rules, regulators are going to require a higher capital ratio. Basel III, the international agreement on bank rules, put the rate at $3 for every $100 in assets. The new rules would raise it to $5 for the holding company, and $6 at its banking subsidiaries.
The measure is a victory for reality-based thinking in an important respect: how banks measure their assets. Under current accounting rules, assets are disclosed so poorly that banks are allowed to keep mysterious exposures out of view. Banks own pieces of businesses that reside off the balance sheet. They also make commitments using derivatives, creating obligations that are complex and difficult to quantify. The specifics of these vulnerabilities are poorly understood by everyone, including bankers themselves, but we know for sure that they can cause implosions.
Now regulators are making clear that they know what they don't know. So in addition to traditional measures, they are also going to emphasize the ''leverage ratio.'' That's good news, because the leverage ratio doesn't allow for such accounting sleights-of-hand as adjusting the value of assets for their perceived riskiness. In that game, some investments -- say, picking purely randomly, top-rated mortgage securities or Greek government debt -- could be judged less risky than other assets.
The new rules' effect will be straightforward: banks will have to raise the amount of assets they report and sell more shares or retain more earnings based on that larger number. Analysts from Credit Suisse estimate that the average increase among the biggest banks will be 36 percent.
Banks will resist these measures, crying that they make our banks less competitive globally. And there's still plenty of time for the regulators to back away, as they so often have. That's why reformers and some voices in Congress -- the senators Sherrod Brown, Democrat of Ohio; David Vitter, Republican of Louisiana; and Elizabeth Warren, Democrat of Massachusetts, mainly -- have done much good. By pushing for more extreme overhauls, such as much higher capital requirements or the return of Glass-Steagall, they have both pressured regulators and provided them cover.
There are caveats: the capital measures are probably not high enough. The derivatives compromise allows foreign countries to substitute their own rules if they are ''comparable,'' raising the fear that banks will circumvent the rules by harboring activities in the most lenient country. And finally, we still have the essential cancer of a ''too big to fail'' banking system that takes up too great a share of the economy and dominates our political system.
Still, it's important to recognize incremental victories where we have them. The message from these moves is that the United States is taking the lead in global change, at long last. It may sound like a jingoistic declaration, but the United States is the most important voice on banking regulation. Just as Congressional pressure creates safety for regulators, an American push for stronger regulation might help bring the world around.
And if it doesn't, American banks will be at a competitive advantage, the exact opposite of what bankers argue. Jamie Dimon, the chief executive of JPMorgan, raised the ominous specter that global rules are out of ''harmonization'' and that United States banks are now held to a higher standard.
''We have one part of the world at two times what the other part of the world is talking about,'' he said. ''And I don't think there's any industry out there that would be comfortable with something like that in a long run.''
To rebut that, I bring in a banking expert: Jamie Dimon. This side of Mr. Dimon's mouth has repeatedly boasted about what a competitive advantage JPMorgan's ''fortress balance sheet'' is, how the bank was a port in the 2008 storm. He's not the only one; Warren E. Buffett regularly makes the same argument about Berkshire Hathaway. Higher capital allows a company to be aggressive when others are weak.
Yes, American banks will be subject to American regulations. But the United States may well bring the rest of the world along. Small financial centers from Iceland to Ireland to Cyprus and even Switzerland have all seen how vulnerable they are to financial beasts that dwarf their economies.
If they don't come around, so be it. Let other countries race to the bottom on regulation, setting themselves up for financial crises. By raising capital standards and installing tougher derivatives rules, regulators are helping banks that are too foolish (or rather, the top executives who are too narrowly self-interested in increasing their own compensation in the short term) to recognize their own interests.
This is a more complete version of the story than the one that appeared in print.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Senators Sherrod Brown, left, an Ohio Democrat, and David Vitter, a Louisiana Republican, are among the lawmakers who are pushing for tougher rules on banks, like higher capital requirements. (PHOTOGRAPH BY MICHAEL REYNOLDS/EUROPEAN PRESSPHOTO AGENCY) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BANKING & FINANCE REGULATION (93%); BANKING & FINANCE AGENCIES (91%); BANKING LAW (90%); REGULATORY COMPLIANCE (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); ACCOUNTING (89%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (89%); AGENCY RULEMAKING (89%); FORECLOSURE (78%); BANK DEPOSIT INSURANCE (78%); GREEK DEBT CRISIS (78%); FUTURES (78%); BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (78%); INTEREST RATES (77%); ECONOMIC NEWS (77%); SECURITIES TRADING (77%); MORTGAGE BACKED SECURITIES (77%); MORTGAGE INVESTMENTS (77%); PUBLIC FINANCE (77%); ACCOUNTING STANDARDS (76%); DELAYS & POSTPONEMENTS (76%); HOLDING COMPANIES (75%); GOVERNMENT CONTROLLERS & AUDITORS (75%); PUBLIC DEBT (70%)

COMPANY: JPMORGAN CHASE & CO (93%); FEDERAL DEPOSIT INSURANCE CORP (71%); COMMODITY FUTURES TRADING COMMISSION (56%)

ORGANIZATION: OFFICE OF THE COMPTROLLER OF THE CURRENCY (57%); COMMODITY FUTURES TRADING COMMISSION (56%)

TICKER: JPM (NYSE) (93%); JPM (LSE) (93%); 8634 (TSE) (93%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (93%); NAICS523999 MISCELLANEOUS FINANCIAL INVESTMENT ACTIVITIES (93%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (93%); SIC6022 STATE COMMERCIAL BANKS (93%); NAICS524128 OTHER DIRECT INSURANCE (EXCEPT LIFE, HEALTH & MEDICAL) CARRIERS (71%); SIC6399 INSURANCE CARRIERS, NEC (71%)

PERSON: DAVID VITTER (59%); SHERROD BROWN (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: LONDON, ENGLAND (88%) LOUISIANA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%); GREECE (50%)

LOAD-DATE: July 18, 2013



526 of 937 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 18, 2013
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1194 words

HEADLINE: Fed Chief Reaffirms Fervor for Stimulus

BYLINE: By BINYAMIN APPELBAUM

 BODY:
WASHINGTON -- The Federal Reserve's chairman, Ben S. Bernanke, emphasized on Wednesday that the central bank remains committed to bolstering the economy, insisting that any deceleration in the Fed's stimulus campaign will happen because it is achieving its goals, not because it has lowered its sights.
Mr. Bernanke said he still expected to reach that point in the coming months but, in what may have been his final appearance before the House Financial Services Committee, he cautioned that Congress itself posed the greatest risk to growth.
''The risks remain that tight federal fiscal policy will restrain economic growth over the next few quarters by more than we currently expect, or that the debate concerning other fiscal policy issues, such as the status of the debt ceiling, will evolve in a way that could hamper the recovery,'' he told the committee. 
The sluggish economy has been a constant background for Mr. Bernanke's biannual testimony. Unemployment, at 7.6 percent, remains stubbornly above the Fed's goals. Inflation has sagged to the lowest pace on record. Growth continues at a ''modest to moderate pace,'' the Fed said Wednesday in its monthly beige book survey of economic conditions across the country, released separately from Mr. Bernanke's testimony.
Mr. Bernanke's message on Wednesday was that the Fed would cut back on its monthly asset purchases -- $85 billion of mortgage-backed securities and Treasury securities -- only if conditions were improving. If unemployment instead stays high and growth rates do not improve, the Fed will keep buying bonds. If inflation stays low, the Fed will keep buying bonds. If longer- term interest rates go up, the Fed will keep buying bonds.
Mr. Bernanke revived a talking point from earlier this year, insisting the Fed was willing to buy more than $85 billion a month. ''Because our asset purchases depend on economic and financial developments, they are by no means on a preset course,'' Mr. Bernanke told the committee.
Even as Mr. Bernanke said that the Fed would keep its options open, he continued to suggest that the Fed would like to start reducing its asset purchases this year and then end them as soon as possible. If the economy needs more stimulus, the Fed would prefer to extend its policy of holding short-term interest rates near zero. Mr. Bernanke, who refers to this shift as ''a change in the mix of tools,'' has not explained the rationale and was not asked to do so.
The Fed's course will not be determined by Mr. Bernanke much longer. He is widely expected to step down as Fed chairman at the end of his second term in January. Members of both parties took the opportunity to praise him, although Republicans generally added that they opposed the Fed's recent efforts. No one paid much attention to the finger Mr. Bernanke had pointed at them.
''You acted boldly and decisively and creatively -- very creatively, I might add,'' said the committee's chairman, Jeb Hensarling, Republican from Texas.
''You've had a lot of compliments today. In my business it's called a eulogy,'' said Emanuel Cleaver, a Missouri Democrat, who is an ordained minister.
''You have never been boring,'' said Carolyn Maloney, a New York Democrat.
Mr. Bernanke then did his best to be boring, sending the message to markets roiled by his comments last month that it was much ado about nothing.
Markets purred. The yield on the benchmark 10-year Treasury bond sank slightly, falling below 2.5 percent, while stock markets posted modest gains.
The announcement last month that the Fed expected to reduce its asset purchases later this year drove up interest rates on mortgages and other loans. Some investors concluded that the Fed was curtailing its ambitions for the recovery, while others saw evidence that the Fed was overly optimistic in its forecasts.
Mr. Bernanke described that response as ''unwelcome,'' but he said it had probably reduced some ''excessively risky or leveraged positions'' -- easing concerns among some Fed officials that its efforts are pumping up new bubbles.
He added that initial confusion about the Fed's plans appeared to have been replaced by a new equilibrium of slightly higher interest rates. ''I think the markets are beginning to understand our message,'' Mr. Bernanke said.
And he downplayed concerns that the recent rate increases had undermined economic activity. ''Housing activity and prices seem likely to continue to recover, notwithstanding the recent increases in mortgage rates,'' he said.
Analysts said that the strongest new signal Mr. Bernanke delivered in recent weeks concerned the sluggish pace of inflation. Prices rose just 1 percent during the 12 months ending in May, well below the 2 percent pace that the Fed considers healthy. Fed officials insisted for much of the year that inflation would rebound from the lowest pace on record. In recent weeks, the Fed has emphasized that it will take action if inflation does not. On Wednesday, Mr. Bernanke put inflation alongside unemployment as the justification for the Fed's continuing efforts.
''Our intention is to keep monetary policy highly accommodative for the foreseeable future, and the reason that's necessary is because inflation is below our target and unemployment is still quite high,'' Mr. Bernanke told the committee.
Michael Feroli, chief United States economist at JPMorgan Chase, noted that Mr. Bernanke also cited the risk of deflation, something he had not done for several years. ''The mention of deflation risks, rather than just low inflation, is a fairly strong statement coming from a sitting central bank chief,'' Mr. Feroli wrote.
Mr. Bernanke also emphasized that the Fed would not be satisfied with a decline in the unemployment rate if it was driven by people giving up the search for work rather than people finding new jobs. Importantly, he described this as a reason the Fed might extend its policy of low interest rates but not asset purchases.
The Fed has said that it plans to hold short-term rates near zero at least as long as the unemployment rate remains above 6.5 percent, but Mr. Bernanke has made clear in recent weeks that the Fed is likely to maintain the policy well beyond that threshold so long as inflation remains under control. He said on Wednesday that he believed that the unemployment rate could be cut to around 5.6 percent without causing prices to rise outside the Fed's preferred range.
His likely departure, however, means that his credibility increasingly depends on convincing investors that the rest of the Fed's policy-making committee shares his views and is committed to maintaining the same policies. That task has been complicated by the fragmentation of the committee's views about asset purchases. About half of the 19 officials who participate in meetings of the Fed's policy-making committee indicated before the committee's most recent meeting last month that they expected asset purchases to end later this year, while the rest -- including Mr. Bernanke -- saw a need for purchases into 2014.
Mr. Bernanke said Wednesday that his preferred timetable enjoyed ''good support'' from the committee, but it has not been codified in a policy statement.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Ben S. Bernanke testified before a House panel Wednesday. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY SHAWN THEW/EUROPEAN PRESSPHOTO AGENCY) (B1)
 Ben S. Bernanke, above, was praised Wednesday by Jeb Hensarling, the House Financial Services Committee chairman. (PHOTOGRAPH BY CHIP SOMODEVILLA/GETTY IMAGES) (B9) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (92%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); ECONOMIC POLICY (90%); PUBLIC POLICY (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); CENTRAL BANKS (90%); PUBLIC FINANCE (90%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (90%); INTEREST RATES (86%); SECURITIES TRADING (86%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (79%); ECONOMIC SURVEYS (78%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (78%); TREASURY SECURITIES (78%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (78%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (75%); DEBT CEILING (70%); MORTGAGE BACKED SECURITIES (64%)

PERSON: BEN BERNANKE (91%); JEB HENSARLING (55%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: July 18, 2013



527 of 937 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 18, 2013
The New York Times on the Web

SECTION: Section ; Column 0; Real Estate Desk; INTERNATIONAL REAL ESTATE; Pg. 

LENGTH: 655 words

HEADLINE: House Hunting in ... Jamaica

BYLINE: By VIRGINIA C. McGUIRE

 BODY:
A THREE-BEDROOM WATERFRONT VILLA IN NORTHEASTERN JAMAICA
$1,160,000
This three-bedroom oceanfront villa was built in the 1970s in the San San Strip, part of Portland Parish. It's a typical island house, with a white stucco exterior and a wood shingle roof. The tiled ground floor was designed for easy flow between the indoor and outdoor living spaces. French doors connect the living room with a covered patio and a dock that extends out over the water. The living room has a window seat set into a rounded alcove with views of the water.
The kitchen has a double stainless-steel sink, a double refrigerator, a center island and cabinets painted white, with glass panes in the upper doors. The white tile backsplash is decorated with sea creatures. 
One of the bedrooms is on the ground floor. The other two share the upstairs space with a family room, a wet bar and a covered balcony. All three bedrooms have en-suite baths.
Portland Parish's principal town, Port Antonio, is about 10 minutes drive from the house; it is a popular tropical resort. A coral reef protects the shore from big waves, making for ideal swimming and kayaking conditions. The famous Blue Lagoon is within walking distance of the house, and the jerk-pork vendors at Boston Beach are about 20 minutes away by car. The international airport in Montego Bay is a three-hour drive, but there are hopper flights to Boscobel, an hour and a half from the house.
MARKET OVERVIEW
Some segments of the market in Jamaica are moving briskly after a long period of stagnancy, said Deborah Cumming, the managing director of Century 21 Heave-Ho Properties in Kingston. A government stimulus plan is making it easier for local buyers to qualify for loans, which is having a positive impact on sales. But Ms. Cumming said the luxury market was still struggling. ''Higher-end properties are taking a long time to sell,'' she said. Prices at the upper end have fallen as much as 50 percent from their peak in 2008.
Beachfront villas in resort areas like St. Ann, Negril or Port Antonio are usually listed in the $1.4 million-to-$2.4 million range, Ms. Cumming said. But at these prices, many take months to find a buyer. This house is priced to sell quickly, at $1.16 million, said Gina Foote of Coldwell Banker Jamaica, which has the listing.
WHO BUYS IN JAMAICA
Historically, buyers have come from Britain and the United States, but Canadian buyers are more prevalent right now as their economy is strong. ''They have the money,'' Ms. Cumming said.
For buyers with cash in hand, Jamaica is attractively priced in relation to other Caribbean islands. ''You can get a villa for the same price you can get a condo in Cayman or the Bahamas,'' said Anya Levy, a broker associate with Re/Max Elite, based in Kingston.
BUYING BASICS
Transaction costs usually run 4 to 5 percent of the purchase price, Ms. Cumming said. That covers the buyer's half of the stamp duty, 2 percent. Legal fees range from 1 to 3 percent, and there are a few small administrative costs like deed registration fees.
''The Jamaican dollar has devalued almost 10 percent since the beginning of the year,'' Ms. Cumming said. For this reason, some sellers price their properties in American dollars. ''Nobody's going to sell in Jamaican because of our devalued dollar,'' Ms. Levy agreed.
Foreigners face no restrictions, but Ms. Cumming says mortgages are hard to come by and have steep interest levels. Current rates are 9 or 10 percent -- which Ms. Cumming describes as the lowest they've been in 50 years. ''To us,'' she said, ''that's low.''
WEB SITES
Jamaica Tourist Board: visitjamaica.com
Jamaica Travel and Culture: jamaicatravelandculture.com
Jamaican Real Estate Board: reb.gov.jm
LANGUAGES AND CURRENCY
English, Jamaican patois; Jamaican dollar (1 JMD=$0.01)
TAXES AND FEES
Property taxes are a minimal $37 a year, according to the listing agent.
CONTACT
Gina Foote, Coldwell Banker Jamaica, 011-876-381-4134, cbjamaica.com

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: REAL ESTATE (90%); ISLANDS & REEFS (89%); CONDOMINIUMS (78%); RESORTS (77%); HOME PRICES (77%); ROOFING MATERIALS (77%); US ECONOMIC STIMULUS PLAN 2008-2009 (68%); AIRPORTS (64%)

GEOGRAPHIC: JAMAICA (94%); CAYMAN ISLANDS (79%); CARIBBEAN ISLANDS (79%); UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: July 18, 2013



528 of 937 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 18, 2013
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1103 words

HEADLINE: In European Antitrust Fight, Google Needs to Appease Competitors

BYLINE: By JAMES KANTER and CLAIRE CAIN MILLER; James Kanter reported from Brussels, and Claire Cain Miller from San Francisco.

 BODY:
BRUSSELS -- Google has so far emerged from its tangles with antitrust authorities virtually unscathed. But in Europe, regulators said on Wednesday, Google will not have it as easy.
The European Commission on Wednesday formally said for the first time that Google's proposal for addressing antitrust concerns did not go far enough, and demanded that it come up with more far-reaching remedies or potentially face a fine of up to $5 billion.
It was a significant setback for Google, which in April struck a deal with the commission to settle its three-year antitrust investigation by making certain changes in the way it displays answers to search inquiries. But the deal was contingent on feedback from Google's rivals. The commission determined that the proposal was inadequate, and said the company needed to do more to address rivals' concerns. 
The about-face followed an outcry from Google competitors during the market testing phase of the inquiry, in which the commission asked for feedback on the proposal.
''What they discovered in the market test was that overwhelmingly, everyone said the settlement was inadequate and doesn't solve the problem,'' said a person with knowledge about the feedback competitors gave the commission, but who spoke anonymously because the filings were not public.
Joaquín Almunia, the European Union competition commissioner, said at a news conference, ''I concluded that the proposals that Google sent to us months ago are not enough to overcome our concerns.'' He said he had written to Eric E. Schmidt, Google's executive chairman, ''asking Google to present better proposals.''
A Google spokesman, Al Verney, said on Wednesday that it would ''continue to work'' with the commission to settle the case. He added that Google was confident that its earlier proposal ''clearly addresses'' the commission's concerns.
Mr. Almunia did not give Google a deadline for presenting a new set of concessions, according to a person with direct knowledge of Mr. Almunia's letter who spoke anonymously. So the case, which both sides had hoped to close this year, could continue for several months or more.
The main issue is the way Google, which, according to comScore, handles 86 percent of Web searches in Europe, orders its search results. Regulators have been investigating whether Google favors its own services -- like travel, local business, mapping and shopping -- over those of competitors. Regulators have also examined whether it disadvantaged competitors by including material from other Web sites in search results and whether its advertising business complied with European antitrust law.
Google managed to avoid antitrust charges in the United States, where it has two-thirds market share, after a two-year investigation of similar issues. Google has faced a more hard-line approach in Europe, where critics have accused the antitrust authorities of relying too much on outside complaints from competitors rather than on evidence of consumer harm. That is somewhat of a sore point for European officials, who insist they share the same goals as the Americans when it comes to consumers.
In April, Google proposed to change its search results to clearly label results from some of its own properties, like Google Plus Local, and in some cases to show links from rival search engines. It also proposed giving competitors more control over how it used information from their sites in its vertical search results and making it easier for small businesses to transport their ad campaigns to other search engines.
The proposal was the first time Google had agreed to legally binding changes to its search results, and went much further than the minor concessions it made to the Federal Trade Commission in its inquiry.
Still, the proposal would not have required Google to change the algorithm that produces its search results. Also, if it had been accepted, Google would have escaped a possible fine of about 10 percent of its annual global revenue of about $50 billion and a formal finding of wrongdoing that could limit its ability to expand in Europe.
That was not enough for Google's competitors, they told the commission during market testing. In May, as Mr. Almunia came under increasing pressure to give Google a tougher punishment, he hinted that it would need to improve its proposals.
The main complaint issued by rivals was that the most prominent changes, labeling Google's own services and showing links to rivals, would have had minimal effect on traffic to competitors and would continue to favor Google properties. Google could use prime placement and rich graphics to attract viewers to Google products, and the problem would be worse on mobile devices, competitors told the commission.
''Google's proposed commitments intended to resolve the search bias concerns are ineffective by design, and we have asked the commission to reject them in their entirety,'' Thomas Vinje, a spokesman for FairSearch Europe, said in a statement on Wednesday. FairSearch includes Google competitors like Microsoft, Expedia, Nokia, Oracle and Foundem, a European comparison-shopping site. ''They are worse than nothing,'' he added of Google's proposals.
Some rivals have suggested that regulators force Google to sometimes place their sites at the top of its search results, since consumers most often click on the highest results.
''In Europe, they think that consumers need to be more than told what the situation is, they need to be steered in a different way so that they'll make a different set of choices,'' said Herbert Hovenkamp, a professor of antitrust law at the University of Iowa. ''Simply telling people that YouTube is owned by Google might enable the customers to make informed choices, but informed choices won't necessarily help out competitors if customers have a favorable view of Google to begin with.'' (Mr. Hovenkamp did a project for Google several years ago but has not worked for the company since.)
The case has high stakes for the commission, where efforts to find a solution that appeases both sides have faltered. If a settlement fails to placate Google's competitors, they could try to unwind the deal by suing the European Commission at the General Court of the European Court of Justice in Luxembourg.
''There is the danger for the commission that Google's rivals will appeal and that would be a serious headache for Mr. Almunia's successor,'' said Nicolas Petit, a professor of competition law and economics at the University of Liège in Belgium. ''But appealing could still be a long shot for the rivals because judges generally look favorably on antitrust settlements.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Joaquín Almunia, European Union commissioner for competition. (PHOTOGRAPH BY THIERRY CHARLIER/ A.F.P. -- GETTY IMAGES) (B1)
 A Google employee sets up a camera to take panoramic pictures inside the Eiffel Tower. (PHOTOGRAPH BY THOMAS SAMSON/AGENCE FRANCE-PRESSE -- GETTY IMAGES) (B4) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ANTITRUST & TRADE LAW (95%); EUROPEAN UNION INSTITUTIONS (90%); INVESTIGATIONS (89%); SETTLEMENT & COMPROMISE (89%); TEST MARKETING (88%); MARKET SHARE (73%); EUROPEAN UNION (73%); MARKET RESEARCH (72%); CRIMINAL INVESTIGATIONS (70%); SETTLEMENTS & DECISIONS (68%); EXECUTIVES (64%); PRESS CONFERENCES (50%)

COMPANY: GOOGLE INC (98%)

ORGANIZATION: EUROPEAN COMMISSION (84%); EUROPEAN UNION (82%)

TICKER: GOOG (NASDAQ) (98%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS519130 INTERNET PUBLISHING & BROADCASTING & WEB SEARCH PORTALS (98%)

PERSON: JOAQUIN ALMUNIA (89%); ERIC E SCHMIDT (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: BRUSSELS, BELGIUM (74%) EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (94%); EUROPE (93%); BELGIUM (92%); UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: July 18, 2013



529 of 937 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 18, 2013
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 9

LENGTH: 840 words

HEADLINE: Revenue Falls, but Profit Tops Forecast at I.B.M.

BYLINE: By STEVE LOHR

 BODY:
I.B.M. on Wednesday reported second-quarter operating earnings that surpassed Wall Street's expectations, providing some reassurance to investors after a stumble in the first quarter. But revenue was weak, down 3 percent, and below analysts' forecasts. That suggests that even I.B.M., a powerhouse in recent years, is grappling with the challenges of a soft global economy and fast-changing technology.
The company's software delivered a strong performance, profit margins rose, and new contract signings in its major services like data analysis rose sharply -- an encouraging sign of future business. But its hardware business continues to struggle. 
''The results are positive compared to earnings expectations,'' said A. M. Sacconaghi, an analyst at Sanford C. Bernstein. ''But it's mixed.''
I.B.M. and investors focused on the positive side. The company raised guidance for earnings per share for the year by 20 cents to ''at least $16.90 a share.''
In after-hours trading, I.B.M. shares rose 2.6 percent, or more than $5. The stock closed the regular trading session up 70 cents at $194.55.
The company's net income fell 17 percent, to $3.2 billion, or $2.91 a share, compared with nearly $3.9 billion in the year-ago period. That includes a charge of about $1 billion for trimming its work force. I.B.M. announced in April that it would take that charge this quarter and that most of the affected workers would be outside the United States.
In recent years, I.B.M. has taken annual charges that average several hundred million dollars for what it calls ''work force rebalancing.'' The company sheds workers in higher-cost nations and in businesses that are being trimmed, and it adds employees elsewhere, especially in India.
I.B.M. says the process reflects both financial discipline and globalization as it hires and invests in faster-growing markets. The net effect has been an expansion of its global work force to more than 430,000.
What is mainly different this time, analysts say, is that the work force charge is being taken in a single quarter rather than being spread across an entire year. The company's operating earnings, which exclude the charge for work force cuts, rose 3 percent, to $4.3 billion, or $3.91 a share. The result was well above the average analyst estimate of $3.77 a share, according to Thomson Reuters.
Operating earnings per share rose 8 percent, reflecting fewer shares outstanding, because I.B.M. steadily buys back its own shares. Revenue fell 3 percent, to $24.9 billion, below the Wall Street forecast of $25.4 billion.
I.B.M. is the largest supplier of information technology -- hardware, software and services -- to corporations and government agencies worldwide, and its results are watched as a guide to broader trends in business technology spending.
Globally, the growth in technology spending has softened, as once-hot markets like China and Brazil cool and Europe remains in an economic slump. For I.B.M., the China business was soft, but Brazil did well, Mark Loughridge, I.B.M.'s chief financial officer, said in a conference call.
I.B.M. has met the challenge of economic turmoil and new waves of technology more nimbly than most of its established rivals. It moved quickly to expand in emerging markets, shift to higher-profit products and services, and cut costs.
But in the first quarter of this year, I.B.M. reported disappointing earnings, below analysts' forecast for the first time since early 2005.
Businesses that I.B.M. has earmarked for growth are thriving. One of these is software and services for mining vast amounts of data from the Web, sensors and smartphones, to be used to find ways to increase sales or cut costs.
But the question for established companies like I.B.M. is whether newer, more profitable businesses can grow fast enough to offset the competition from emerging rivals and new technology.
A prime example is cloud computing, a fast-growing market for computing sold to businesses as a service over the Internet. The low-cost cloud model threatens traditional technology suppliers. Amazon is the early leader in the cloud business.
I.B.M. is investing in cloud computing. Last month, it announced plans to buy SoftLayer Technologies, a cloud computing company, in a deal valued at about $2 billion.
''I.B.M. is making strong plays in new technologies like cloud, but the question is whether it is moving fast enough,'' said Frank Gens, chief analyst at the International Data Corporation, a research group.
In the past, I.B.M. has also aggressively pulled out of areas with declining margins, like its personal computer business, which it sold to Lenovo in 2005.
Recently, I.B.M. has talked to Lenovo about a deal for I.B.M.'s unit that sells so called industry-standard data center computers, typically powered by Intel chips, analysts say. Talks apparently broke off in May, when the two sides could not agree on a price. But Mr. Loughridge said I.B.M. was in ''active discussions.'' That business represents about $5 billion in sales for I.B.M., but competition is fierce.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: I.B.M. designed this data center in Rio de Janeiro. I.B.M's China business was soft in the second quarter, but it did well in Brazil. (PHOTOGRAPH BY ANDRE VIEIRA FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (90%); BUSINESS FORECASTS (90%); COMPANY EARNINGS (90%); LABOR FORCE (89%); EARNINGS PER SHARE (89%); COMPANY REVENUES (89%); FINANCIAL RESULTS (89%); EARNINGS PREANNOUNCEMENTS (78%); COMPANY PROFITS (78%); COMPUTING & INFORMATION TECHNOLOGY (76%); GLOBALIZATION (76%); COMPANY LOSSES (73%); SECURITIES TRADING (72%); HARDWARE STORES (70%)

GEOGRAPHIC: RIO DE JANEIRO, BRAZIL (79%) BRAZIL (92%); INDIA (79%); UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: July 18, 2013



530 of 937 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 18, 2013
The International Herald Tribune

SECTION: Section ; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 

LENGTH: 416 words

HEADLINE: Strong Growth in Foreign Investment in China

BYLINE: By REUTERS

 BODY:
BEIJING -- Foreign direct investment in China in June jumped 20.12 percent from the same period a year earlier, the Commerce Ministry said Wednesday, the quickest gain since March 2011. 
China drew $14.4 billion in foreign direct investment in June, the ministry said, while in the first half, that investment totaled $62 billion, up 4.9 percent from the same period of 2012.
Foreign direct investment, or F.D.I., is an important gauge of the health of the external economy, toward which China's vast factory sector is oriented, but it is a small contributor to overall capital flows compared with exports, which were worth about $2 trillion in 2012.
The June investment data show that ''overseas investors are still optimistic on the outlook of China's economy in the medium and long term thanks to China's recent efforts to move the economy up the value chain and its strong domestic consumption,'' said Li Wei, China economist at Standard Chartered Bank in Shanghai. ''We expect stronger F.D.I. in the second half compared to the first, as we believe China can achieve a 7.5 percent'' target for gross domestic product growth for 2013 based on recent messages from policy makers.
Shen Danyang, a Commerce Ministry spokesman, said Wednesday that investment inflows reflected a gradual rebound in the first half of this year, even though a single month's figure would not signal a recovery in foreign investment.
''We believe the F.D.I. inflows will still keep relatively stable in the second half of this year,'' Mr. Shen told reporters.
The ministry's data also showed that investment from the United States had risen 12.3 percent, to $1.8 billion, in the first half from the same period a year earlier, while investment from Europe rose 14.7 percent.
Investment from Japan was up 14.4 percent in the first six months from the same period a year earlier, to $4.7 billion, while inflows from 10 Asian nations rose 5.3 percent in the first half from the same period a year earlier, to $53.8 billion, including $39.7 billion from Hong Kong.
The foreign investment figures followed economic growth data released Monday that showed that annual growth in G.D.P. had slowed to 7.5 percent in the period from April to June, the 9th quarter in the last 10 in which expansion has weakened.
Doubts over whether China can still meet its full-year economic growth target have increased. But the Chinese prime minister, Li Keqiang, said Tuesday that the annual economic growth target of 7.5 percent remained achievable.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: FOREIGN INVESTMENT (93%); INWARD INVESTMENT (90%); COMMERCE DEPARTMENTS (90%); EMERGING MARKETS (89%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (89%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (89%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (89%); CAPITAL MOVEMENTS (78%); PUBLIC POLICY (78%); ECONOMIC NEWS (75%); GROSS DOMESTIC PRODUCT (75%); MANUFACTURING SECTOR PERFORMANCE (75%); CONSUMPTION (73%); PRIME MINISTERS (50%)

COMPANY: STANDARD CHARTERED AUSTRALIA LTD (55%); STANDARD CHARTERED BANK ZIMBABWE LTD (55%); STANDARD CHARTERED BANK (THAI) PCL (55%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (55%); SIC6029 COMMERCIAL BANKS, NEC (55%); NAICS522293 INTERNATIONAL TRADE FINANCING (55%); SIC6082 FOREIGN TRADE & INTERNATIONAL BANKING INSTITUTIONS (55%); SIC6021 NATIONAL COMMERCIAL BANKS (55%)

PERSON: LI KEQIANG (79%)

GEOGRAPHIC: SHANGHAI, CHINA (79%); BEIJING, CHINA (74%) NORTH CENTRAL CHINA (89%); EAST CHINA (74%) CHINA (99%); HONG KONG (79%); ASIA (79%); UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: July 18, 2013



531 of 937 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 18, 2013
National

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; OP-ED COLUMNIST; Pg. 23

LENGTH: 763 words

HEADLINE: Was Blind, But Now She Sees

BYLINE: By NICHOLAS D. KRISTOF

 BODY:
BAMAKO, Mali -- When you begin to go blind from trachoma, the first thing you feel is an eyelash scraping your eye.
As for the horror of leprosy, it often begins with a puzzling rash. Among the first signs of polio are fatigue, vomiting and back pain.
Yet these diseases are on their way out. We in journalism mostly focus on problems, but one of the remarkable changes in the developing world has been the decline of these ancient scourges. 
When I first traveled through West Africa, as a student backpacker more than 30 years ago, I was haunted by the beggars disabled by blindness, leprosy and polio. Now I'm on my annual win-a-trip journey with a university student, Erin Luhmann of the University of Wisconsin, and she is encountering a fundamentally improved landscape than the one I saw when I was her age.
Take blindness. It has many causes, but one of the most painful is trachoma, which turns the eyelid inward. The lashes then continuously scrape the cornea.
''My eyes felt as if someone had thrown a handful of sand in them,'' Nawara Souko, who suffered from trachoma for years, told us. Her husband is dead, and, without sight, she found it difficult to farm or care for her five children. Three died.
Then Nawara received a 15-minute surgery from a public nurse trained by Helen Keller International, an American aid group. Sometimes the surgery, which straightens the eyelid, comes too late to restore vision. In Nawara's case, the operation ended the pain -- and she could see again.
Erin and I watched trachoma surgeries in a village 100 miles west of the Malian capital of Bamako. Villagers who for years had endured agony -- one woman compared it to childbirth, except that it goes on for years -- had their lives transformed.
Yagare Traoré said she had spent years in her hut, unable to farm or care for her 11 children, six of whom died. Then she received the surgery, and, after the bandage was removed, a boy stepped forward to guide her home.
''Get out of my way!'' she recalled telling him. ''I can see! I can walk by myself!''
The cost of this surgery here in Mali is less than $40 per person, according to Shawn Baker of Helen Keller International. So the next time you hear that humanitarian aid is ''money down a rat hole,'' well, think of Yagare Traoré.
Prevention of trachoma is even cheaper. Train villagers in improving hygiene and distribute antibiotics at a cost of less than $1 per person, and trachoma disappears so that people don't even need surgery.
Then there's polio: Only 223 cases were reported last year, down from 350,000 in 1988. Islamist extremists in Nigeria and Pakistan have murdered vaccination workers, but the disease is still inching toward eradication.
A third triumph is leprosy. It can cause hideous disfigurement, including the loss of fingers, toes, ears and the nose, as well as blindness.
Yet a cheap three-drug therapy cures leprosy easily, and a new blood test simplifies diagnosis. The progress is stunning. In 1985, there were 5.2 million people worldwide with leprosy, and now there are fewer than 200,000.
Unfortunately, not everyone gets treated in time. One of our saddest encounters on this win-a-trip journey with Erin was with a 10-year-old boy named Muhammad Bako who had already lost toes and fingers to leprosy.
''I'm fine,'' Muhammad told us, but he didn't look it. He walks awkwardly with crutches, and his eyes burn with fear and the unfairness of it all.
Muhammad is being treated at a 57-year-old leprosy hospital in Niger run by SIM, a Christian missionary organization. The hospital receives about one new leprosy case a month, down from more than 500 a quarter-century ago.
The progress goes far beyond these three ailments. The number of children dying worldwide before the age of 5 has plunged from 12 million in 1990 to 6.9 million in 2011.
As the disease burden declines, the economy surges. Africa is now booming economically, and six of the 10 fastest-growing economies in the world are on the continent. Don't think of Africa as a place to pity, but as a place to invest.
Journalists and humanitarians understandably focus on unmet needs, and that can leave the impression that the story of global health is a depressing one of failure. In fact, it's an inspiring story of progress. We need to do more, especially against AIDS, malaria and tuberculosis, but one of the great achievements of humanity in recent decades has been the marginalization of ancient and dreaded diseases.
That's why it's possible for me to travel with Erin in some of the most impoverished countries in the world, and feel a glow of hope.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: EYE DISORDERS & INJURIES (91%); BLINDNESS (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); CORNEA & RETINA DISORDERS & INJURIES (78%); DISEASES & DISORDERS (77%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (75%); VACCINES (72%); ANTIBIOTICS (72%); BACK DISORDERS & INJURIES (72%); MURDER (71%); BACKPACKING (70%); INTERNATIONAL ASSISTANCE (69%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (66%); PREGNANCY & CHILDBIRTH (65%); MUSLIMS & ISLAM (60%)

ORGANIZATION: UNIVERSITY OF WISCONSIN (56%); HELEN KELLER INTERNATIONAL (54%)

GEOGRAPHIC: MALI (94%); UNITED STATES (79%); WESTERN AFRICA (79%); PAKISTAN (79%); NIGERIA (79%); AFRICA (58%)

LOAD-DATE: July 18, 2013



532 of 937 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 18, 2013
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 14

LENGTH: 323 words

HEADLINE: Senate Reaches Deal to End Fight Over Student Loan Interest Rates

BYLINE: By JEREMY W. PETERS

 BODY:
WASHINGTON -- Senators negotiating a bipartisan deal to keep student loan rates low reached a deal on Wednesday night that could end the partisan feud on Capitol Hill that has threatened to permanently double interest rates. 
Two Senate aides said that the new proposal, which had been the subject of tense negotiations since the rates doubled on July 1, would include both a cap on federal Stafford and PLUS loans and a relatively low interest rate pegged to Treasury notes. Undergraduates would pay the 10-year Treasury note rate, 2.49 percent on Wednesday, plus 2.05 percent, with a cap of 8.25 percent, to protect them from inflation. Graduate students would pay the 10-year Treasury rate plus 3.6 percent, with a cap of 9.5 percent.
Loans to parents of students would be given a rate of 4.6 percent plus the 10-year Treasury rate, with a cap of 10.5 percent.
Because the Senate proposal hews closely to the one the House approved in May, the chances for a deal that can become law have greatly improved. That may not happen until after Congress returns from its summer recess after Labor Day, and House and Senate negotiators have an opportunity to reconcile their plans.
The issue has been a problem for Democrats and Republicans in both houses of Congress. Without a deal, rates would double permanently. Congress now sets student loan rates, which were fixed at 3.4 percent in 2011. When Republicans took over the House, they vowed to get the government out of the business of playing banker to students and their families.
But in June 2012, just two days before the expiration date, Republicans buckled under pressure and extended the fixed rate for one year. This year, President Obama and both parties put forward their own plans.
House Republicans passed their plan in May and then went on the offensive against Democrats, who control the Senate. Senators of both parties have tried to reach a deal for weeks but fought over the cost.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: INTEREST RATES (94%); ECONOMIC NEWS (94%); STUDENT LOANS (94%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (91%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); STUDENT FINANCIAL AID (90%); TREASURY SECURITIES (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (89%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (89%); COLLEGE STUDENTS (75%); GRADUATE & PROFESSIONAL SCHOOLS (73%); LEGISLATION (73%); US LABOR DAY (66%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: July 18, 2013



533 of 937 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 18, 2013
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 17

LENGTH: 1356 words

HEADLINE: Voters Approve of City's Progress, Poll Finds, but Seek Empathetic Mayor

BYLINE: By DAVID W. CHEN and MEGAN THEE-BRENAN; Allison Kopicki, Marina Stefan, and Dalia Sussman contributed reporting.

 BODY:
After 12 years with a peevish and pragmatic billionaire running the city, New Yorkers are eager for a mayor with heart.
By a clear majority, the city's voters say empathy is the most important trait in the next mayor, far more important than temperament, management experience, or the ability to recruit new businesses, according to a new poll by The New York Times and Siena College.
Sixty-five percent of voters said that they wanted the next mayor to move the city in a new direction, even though a plurality approved of Mayor Michael R. Bloomberg's job performance, and, for the first time since 2005, a majority of voters said they believed the city's economy was in good condition. The desire for change comes as the city's four million voters prepare for the first mayoral election without an incumbent since 2001.
The race to succeed Mr. Bloomberg is contentious and colorful, with dozens of Democrats, Republicans and minor-party candidates seeking to convince voters that they have the experience, wisdom and character to lead the nation's largest city. But Mr. Bloomberg's ability to influence the race appears to be limited: 53 percent of voters said support from Mr. Bloomberg would not affect their vote, and another 28 percent said support from him would make them less likely to support a candidate. 
The poll found that among Democratic voters, Christine C. Quinn, the City Council speaker, is leading the field, with support from 27 percent, followed by Anthony D. Weiner, a former congressman, who was supported by 18 percent. Bill de Blasio, the public advocate, and William C. Thompson Jr., a former comptroller, were each backed by 11 percent of Democratic voters, while John C. Liu, the current comptroller, had support from 7 percent.
Ms. Quinn may be benefiting from the desire among voters for a more empathetic leader.
Over all, 61 percent of voters said a candidate's ability to understand the needs and problems of ordinary New Yorkers was the most important factor.
''I feel over all she will be fairly similar to Bloomberg, but that she's willing to go further in terms of making the city better for middle- and lower-class people, especially in terms of child care and education,'' Alison Shurman, a 32-year-old freelance film editor from Fort Greene, Brooklyn, said in a follow-up interview. ''She thinks more compassionately than the other candidates,'' Ms. Shurman said, ''and will govern more compassionately.''
Asked what problems the next mayor should prioritize, the most frequently cited were the economy and jobs, followed by education, crime and housing. A majority of voters said that they are not satisfied with the quality of the public schools. And Mr. Bloomberg's policies received mixed reviews. While voters overwhelmingly supported his plan to spend nearly $20 billion to fortify the city's defenses against future storms in the wake of Hurricane Sandy, they were divided over the Police Department's stop-and-frisk policy, which 50 percent deemed too excessive and 45 percent deemed acceptable.
John Prestia, a 52-year-old school bus driver from Bensonhurst, Brooklyn, suggested that Mr. Bloomberg's wealth impaired his ability to empathize with regular New Yorkers.
''Someone with a few billion dollars looks at life a little differently than the common man,'' he said. ''The middle class is going down the tubes. Without the wealthy there is no city, but you need some sort of justice.''
This year's political season in New York has been jolted by the late entry into the race of two candidates who resigned from their last positions over tawdry scandals -- Mr. Weiner, who left Congress after acknowledging that he had exchanged sexually explicit messages and images with multiple women he knew only online, and Eliot Spitzer, who resigned as governor after his patronage of prostitutes became public, and who is now a candidate for comptroller.
The Times/Siena poll found most voters willing to give Mr. Weiner and Mr. Spitzer a second chance. But the two remain polarizing. Only 24 percent of Democrats said they viewed Mr. Weiner favorably, while 36 percent saw him unfavorably; for Mr. Spitzer, 30 percent viewed him favorably, and 33 percent unfavorably. But at least voters know who they are; Mr. Spitzer's opponent, Scott M. Stringer, the Manhattan borough president, remains largely unknown, with only 19 percent of Democrats saying that they have a favorable impression of him, and 5 percent saying they do not.
The citywide poll was conducted on landlines and cellphones July 9-15 with 1,010 registered voters, of whom 610 are registered Democrats and 125 are registered Republicans. The margin of sampling error is plus or minus three percentage points for all voters, four percentage points for registered Democrats and nine percentage points for registered Republicans.
The poll suggests that the race is fluid. Twenty-two percent of Democratic voters are undecided, and 3 in 10 Democrats, and 2 in 10 Republicans, say they are certain they will vote for the candidate they currently prefer.
The Times/Siena Poll results differ slightly from those of other recent public polls, which have suggested that Mr. Weiner is running even with, or ahead of, Ms. Quinn. But all of the recent polls suggest that Ms. Quinn and Mr. Weiner are at the front of the Democratic pack, with Mr. Thompson and Mr. de Blasio lagging behind.
The race for the Republican nomination remains characterized by uncertainty, because most voters say they do not know the candidates. The poll found that the difference between Joseph J. Lhota, a former chairman of the Metropolitan Transportation Authority, and John A. Catsimatidis, a billionaire businessman, was within the margin of sampling error. But, 65 percent of Republicans said they did not have an opinion of Mr. Lhota, and 70 percent said the same about Mr. Catsimatidis.
There is no consensus among voters about whether any of the current candidates have a larger-than-life personality, like that of many previous mayors. Forty-three percent of voters said none of the current candidates had such a personality; 12 percent said Mr. Weiner did, and 11 percent mentioned Ms. Quinn.
''Bloomberg had a great vision for the city, and I haven't seen that from any of these candidates so far,'' said Gail Pecheur, 71, who lives on the Upper West Side and worked in architecture and interior design. ''Although I'm a Democrat, I would vote for a Republican or independent who has a great vision for the city.''
Mr. Weiner's backers are ardent: 41 percent said they were ''absolutely certain'' they would vote for him, in contrast to 21 percent of Ms. Quinn's backers who said they were certain they would vote for her. He is running about even with Ms. Quinn among Brooklyn residents, parents, union households, and voters 65 and older.
''I like Anthony Weiner,'' Judith Mehlman, a 62-year-old retired dietitian from Rego Park, Queens, said. ''I think he's really smart and concerned about helping put together things for the city.''
But Ms. Quinn has significant support from Manhattanites, women, young voters, whites, Hispanics, and college-educated Democratic voters. She is also the clear choice of people who are feeling positive about the city, which could be a key factor in September, since the poll found that, for the first time since 2005, most voters believed the city was generally on the right track.
''Among the quarter of registered Democrats who have the most positive views toward life in the city -- safety, the economy, schools and its general direction -- Quinn's lead over Weiner jumps to 15 points,'' according to Don Levy, director of Siena College Research Institute.
Over all, most voters are satisfied with the crop of contenders -- though most Republicans are not -- potentially undercutting the arguments of candidates seeking to run on minor-party lines, including Adolfo Carrión Jr., a former Bronx borough president who plans to run in the general election as the nominee of the Independence Party, and Jack Hidary, a wealthy technology executive, who says he will seek to establish another minor-party line to run in the general election.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: The poll found Christine C. Quinn leading among Democratic voters by nine percentage points. (PHOTOGRAPH BY KARSTEN MORAN FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES)
Of Anthony D. Weiner's backers, 41 percent were ''absolutely certain'' they would vote for him. (PHOTOGRAPH BY TODD HEISLER/THE NEW YORK TIMES) (A21) CHARTS: New York City Voters on the Mayor's Race
Views of the Candidates
 The City's Economy, Schools and Housing (A21) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: VOTERS & VOTING (91%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); MAYORS (90%); POLLS & SURVEYS (90%); CITY GOVERNMENT (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); ELECTIONS (78%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (78%); CITY LIFE (78%); CITIES (78%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (78%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (77%); INTERVIEWS (76%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (76%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (76%); EDUCATION SYSTEMS & INSTITUTIONS (76%); FREELANCE EMPLOYMENT (75%); APPROVALS (75%)

PERSON: MICHAEL BLOOMBERG (79%); ANTHONY D WEINER (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%) NEW YORK, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: July 18, 2013



534 of 937 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 18, 2013
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 19

LENGTH: 713 words

HEADLINE: Next Steps in Bloomberg's Obesity Fight: Up the Stairs

BYLINE: By MONA EL-NAGGAR

 BODY:
Under his watch, New York City has required food chains to post calorie counts, eliminated trans fats from restaurants and fought unsuccessfully to limit the size of a soda. Still, even as his days in office are numbered, Mayor Michael R. Bloomberg continues his campaign against obesity, this time by urging New Yorkers to take the stairs.
Mr. Bloomberg said on Wednesday that he had issued an executive order requiring city agencies to promote the use of stairways and use smart design strategies for all new construction and major renovations. Mr. Bloomberg has also proposed two bills that would increase visibility and access to at least one staircase in all new buildings around the city. This would include putting up signs on the walls, especially near elevators, with one central injunction: take the stairs. 
''I'm not here to tell you how to live,'' Mr. Bloomberg said at a news conference, adding that New Yorkers live close to three years more than the national average and three years longer than they did a dozen years ago. ''But we must be doing something right.''
The effort to bring attention back to the stairs follows a series of steps by Mr. Bloomberg to improve the general health of New Yorkers, a defining feature of his 12-year tenure. It started as far back as 2003, when Mr. Bloomberg outlawed smoking in bars and restaurants, and eventually at parks and public beaches. Then he banned the use of trans fats in restaurants and forced food chains to publish the calorie count for their standard menu items. This was coupled with pushes to lower sodium consumption, reduce the din of the city and encourage alternative forms of transportation like biking.
Now, the mayor is charting a comprehensive approach to city planning and design that could tackle chronic disease and make New York a more livable city.
Mr. Bloomberg said a new nonprofit organization, the Center for Active Design, would promote and advise on strategies that encourage daily physical activity and access to healthy food. One such strategy has to do with making the staircase a more prominent part in the design of a new building or retrofitting an old staircase to ensure that it stays open, clean and well lighted.
''We want people to move, we want people to choose this option,'' said Joanna Frank, executive director of the new center. ''The elevator is there, but it doesn't have to be the first thing you meet.''
Open staircases, however, pose problems as well, especially in buildings in which stair doors are kept closed as a safety measure against fires. Mr. Bloomberg is trying to circumvent this legal challenge by passing a bill that would permit the use of ''hold-open devices'' to keep the doors open while allowing them to shut automatically in the case of fire.
Speaking at the New School, just across from its new landmark building on Fifth Avenue that features an expansive staircase as the centerpiece of its architectural design, Mr. Bloomberg cited health research as the basis for several of the recommendations. Obesity, he said, is the second leading cause of preventable death in New York City -- just after smoking. According to the health department, more than half of adult New Yorkers are overweight or obese, and close to 40 percent of New York City's public school students, from kindergarten to eighth grade, are also overweight or obese. Obesity is estimated to cost the city $4 billion a year in health care costs.
''The economic benefit is you will live longer,'' Mr. Bloomberg said. ''The whole idea here is not to change what you have to do, but to give you the idea or the impetus to do something that is in your own interest.''
This very notion of guiding New Yorkers' decision making, however, has generated resentment of many of the mayor's initiatives.
''It's a good idea, but he shouldn't try to impose his rules, and he does that a lot,'' said Shawn McCray, 24, while smoking a cigarette outside his office in Midtown. Mr. McCray said he already opted to take the stairs at home most of the time. But, he said, everyone is entitled to make bad choices. ''It's a free country. I smoke. I know it's not right, but it's my choice.''
On Wednesday, Mr. Bloomberg shrugged off this line of reasoning with a simple thought. ''Exercise is good for you,'' he said.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Mayor Michael R. Bloomberg before announcing a new nonprofit organization, the Center for Active Design, that would promote and advise on strategies that encourage healthy living. (PHOTOGRAPH BY JABIN BOTSFORD/THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: RESTAURANTS (90%); OBESITY (90%); OILS & FATS (89%); CITY GOVERNMENT (89%); NUTRITION (78%); FOOD SECURITY (78%); CITIES (78%); EXECUTIVE ORDERS (77%); BUILDING RENOVATION (75%); CONSTRUCTION (75%); CHRONIC DISEASES (72%); NONPROFIT ORGANIZATIONS (71%); EXECUTIVES (71%); EXERCISE & FITNESS (65%); SMOKING (65%); PRESS CONFERENCES (53%); BEACHES (50%)

PERSON: MICHAEL BLOOMBERG (92%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%) NEW YORK, USA (96%) UNITED STATES (96%)

LOAD-DATE: July 18, 2013



535 of 937 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 18, 2013
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Sports Desk; Pg. 11

LENGTH: 1099 words

HEADLINE: Rich Man Frayed City

BYLINE: By SCOTT CACCIOLA

 BODY:
READING, Pa. -- Alex Rodriguez spent the final hours of his three-day sojourn to Berks County taking cuts in the batting cage and fielding ground balls Wednesday morning before the Trenton Thunder faced the Reading Fightin Phils at FirstEnergy Stadium. The bleachers were empty for Rodriguez's workout, though dozens of fans had congregated along the ballpark's padlocked perimeter, hoping for a glimpse or an autograph before Rodriguez left, most likely for good.
His appearance was a spectacle in Reading, a rough-hewed factory city that Rodriguez said he visited several times to see extended family as a young boy. While he recalled trips to nearby Hershey, he could not remember much about Reading, other than that it was a whole lot different from Miami, where he grew up.
''I never thought I would be coming back to Reading,'' Rodriguez said. ''It's been a long time.'' 
His stint for the Thunder, the Yankees' Class AA affiliate, was the latest step in his minor league rehabilitation assignment. The visit was happenstance, a quirk of the schedule, as Rodriguez continued to hone his skills after off-season hip surgery. After he spends the next few days playing with the Yankees' Class AAA team in Scranton/Wilkes-Barre, he hopes to rejoin the Yankees on Monday when they play the Rangers in Texas. For the moment at least, the Yankees seem in accordance with that timetable.
So his trip to Reading will almost certainly become an afterthought, an asterisk, but while he was here it made for an unusual pairing. Rodriguez, armed with the richest contract in baseball history, found himself plying his trade in one of the poorest cities in the country. Reading has a median household income of $27,416, far below the statewide median of $51,651, according to Census Bureau data.
''It's always been a hardworking town, but it's not what it used to be,'' said Alex Casantini, 37, a chef who cited a rash of factory closings in the 1970s and '80s. ''High crime moved in, and a lot of drugs. It really ruined the city. It's a big shame.''
Casantini, who has season tickets to the Fightin Phils, arrived hours before Wednesday's game with his 6-year-old son, Dante. As fans crowded the railings along the third-base line, it was difficult to get close to Rodriguez, who was flanked on his short trips from the field to the clubhouse by a security detail that included a former professional wrestler. But as Rodriguez made his way down a tunnel (he did not play in Wednesday's game), he stopped to sign a baseball for Dante, who was wearing Yankee gear.
''Finally got one!'' said his father, who had traveled with his son to the ballpark for a third straight day.
Casantini said his Yankee fandom stemmed from his grandfather, who was enamored with Joe DiMaggio. But Reading is a baseball town -- signs at the stadium celebrate the city as ''Baseballtown'' -- and many residents say the Fightin Phils are a source of civic pride.
Casantini, who grew up and still lives in West Reading, a leafy suburb across the Schuylkill from downtown, named several of the players who had appeared here: Rocky Colavito, Roger Maris, Mike Schmidt. Carl Furillo, the great Brooklyn Dodgers outfielder, was born near here and was nicknamed the Reading Rifle. The minor league team's relationship with the Philadelphia Phillies dates to 1967.
Back then, Reading was a vibrant city, teeming with manufacturing plants and jobs. Downtown, known as Center City, was thick with movie theaters, restaurants and entertainment. Reading was known, in the best possible sense, Casantini said, as ''sin city'' -- a sort of antecedent to latter-day Atlantic City.
Now Center City is pockmarked by empty storefronts. Chris Ray, 49, who identified himself as homeless, sat in the shade Tuesday morning near Penn Street with his friend Charles Young, 52. Ray motioned at an office building behind him, which occupied a block where there once was a popular department store called Pomeroy's.
''When you see how this town was 20 years ago and you see how it is now,'' Ray said, trailing off.
''It used to be known for factories,'' he added. ''There's none left.''
Ray said he tried to stay occupied by doing odd jobs, although he has not always had terrific luck when he has found employment. He said he lost his right index finger to a lion when he was working with a circus about 10 years ago. He also said he survived a stabbing in 2002.
''I was afraid to be out here by myself for months,'' he said.
Ray and Young planned to spend the afternoon at the Reading Public Library, a century-old building financed by Andrew Carnegie. For all of Reading's faults, Young said, it has dependable social services, particularly for the homeless. The city has as many churches as bars, he said, and there are a lot of bars.
''They try to help people as much as they can here,'' Young said. ''It's not all negative. It's a pretty good town, actually. A lot of good people.''
Ricky Moran, 43, said he learned of Rodriguez's childhood link to Reading from the local television news. It was nice for the city to be in the spotlight for something positive, Moran said. Rodriguez's visit this week also qualified as a buzzworthy break from the humdrum of daily life.
''We don't get that much excitement, like people in New York do,'' said Moran, who grew up in Queens, not far from Shea Stadium. ''I'm actually a Mets fan,'' he added.
Moran said he moved to Reading four years ago because it was an affordable place for his family. He has a home in Sinking Spring, a borough outside of Reading, but he owns a sandwich shop, La Reyna Mini Market, on North Ninth Street, amid blocks of row houses -- some freshly painted, some crumbling and vacant.
''People are really struggling to survive with this economy,'' Moran said. ''There are neighborhoods that are like ghost towns.''
Francis Acosta, the City Council president, said Reading had ''touched bottom'' after laboring to transition from a manufacturing-based economy to one dominated by small businesses, but he said the city was building itself back up. Reading has assets, Acosta said, including its diversity and its proximity to Philadelphia.
''Rest assured, we're getting there,'' he said.
Acosta said he was able to stop by FirstEnergy Stadium this week to watch Rodriguez, who seemed unaffected by baseball's continuing investigation into allegations that he used performance-enhancing drugs. Acosta said he was pleased with how fans received Rodriguez. Perhaps the game was an escape for all parties involved.
''For those two or three hours,'' Acosta said, ''it was about baseball and it was about success.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Alex Rodriguez after a game with the Class AA Trenton Thunder in Reading, Pa. Below, La Reyna Mini Market. ''People are really struggling to survive with this economy,'' the store's owner said.
Reading, one of the nation's poorest cities, has a median household income of $27,416. (B11)
 Reading, Pa., once a vibrant factory city, has many empty storefronts. The City Council president says, ''We're getting there.'' Left, a shopper at La Reyna Mini Market. Above, a fan of Philadelphia teams waiting to enter FirstEnergy Stadium. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY MARK MAKELA FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) (B17) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: STADIUMS & ARENAS (90%); BASEBALL (89%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (86%); SPORTS FANS (77%); SPORTS & RECREATION FACILITIES & VENUES (77%); FAMILY (75%); PLANT CLOSINGS (70%); CENSUS (65%); CLOSINGS (60%)

COMPANY: FIRSTENERGY CORP (58%)

ORGANIZATION: NEW YORK YANKEES (84%); NEW YORK RANGERS (54%); TEXAS RANGERS (54%)

TICKER: FE (NYSE) (58%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS221111 HYDROELECTRIC POWER GENERATION (58%); SIC4911 ELECTRIC SERVICES (58%)

PERSON: ALEX RODRIGUEZ (93%)

GEOGRAPHIC: READING, PA, USA (93%); SCRANTON, PA, USA (79%) PENNSYLVANIA, USA (94%); TEXAS, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: July 18, 2013



536 of 937 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 18, 2013
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 986 words

HEADLINE: SoftBank Forms a Fuel Cell Venture With a Silicon Valley Start-Up

BYLINE: By HIROKO TABUCHI

 BODY:
TOKYO -- When Masayoshi Son, SoftBank's chief executive, first visited the Silicon Valley fuel cell start-up Bloom Energy late last year, one word came to his mind: crazy.
But the fuel cell technology -- which promised efficient, cleaner and increasingly inexpensive ''energy in a box'' -- intrigued him. After several more visits, Mr. Son was convinced that Bloom's sleek fuel cells were a perfect fit for Japan, energy-poor and made even more so by an almost complete shutdown of its nuclear energy program after the 2011 Fukushima disaster.
Now, SoftBank, the $70 billion Japanese technology investment company that completed its $21.6 billion acquisition of Sprint Nextel this month, is setting up a joint venture with Bloom to bring what it calls ''energy servers'' to Japan, helping the start-up break into its first overseas market. 
The deal adds yet another piece to SoftBank's fast-growing Internet, mobile communications and technology empire, which increasingly straddles Japan and the United States. It also adds fuel cell technology to SoftBank's alternative energy portfolio, which already includes solar and wind projects, bolstering its position as an emerging player in electricity generation in Japan.
''He is a crazy guy, but in a good way. As Steve was a crazy guy, which I respect a lot. Crazy enough to want to completely change the way people live,'' Mr. Son said of Bloom's co-founder and chief executive, KR Sridhar. He was comparing Mr. Sridhar to Apple's founder, Steve Jobs, known to have been a confidant of Mr. Son.
''I'm not looking to get into the electricity business with traditional technology,'' he said in a joint phone interview with Mr. Sridhar from California early Wednesday.
The two companies said they would initially invest $10 million each in a joint venture that would sell Japanese corporations electricity generated by fuel cells, a substantially cleaner and more efficient source of energy than coal or other fossil fuels. Though the venture will focus on Japan for now, it could eventually look farther afield to markets like China, Mr. Son said.
The venture's biggest selling point is that its fuel cells, placed within a corporation's own grounds, offer an alternative to using the national power grid. In Japan, that would help companies avoid rising electricity bills. Power companies here have been raising prices to pay for increased fuel imports to make up for their shuttered reactors. Nuclear power generated almost a third of Japan's electricity before the 2011 tsunami put a major reactor out of commission and caused the Japanese to reconsider running other reactors.
Fuel cell technology complements SoftBank's other renewable energy projects, Mr. Son said, because it would provide a stable level of electricity to help offset fluctuating power output from solar or wind. SoftBank turned its attention to clean energy after the Fukushima crisis, and has been investing heavily in solar power farms across Japan.
Mr. Sridhar said Japan would be able to better buttress itself against natural calamities by replacing centralized power generation with local fuel cells. They are unlikely to be all wiped out at once, and are more rapidly and easily replaceable, he said.
''When you have centralized infrastructure, and a major event like a tsunami happens and the infrastructure happens to be hit, it affects the whole region, the whole country,'' Mr. Sridhar said.
''But when you distribute the power, you distribute the risk, too,'' he said. ''And electricity becomes personal.''
For Bloom, which has spent over a decade developing a new variety of fuel cell, the new foreign venture comes as a welcome validation of its technological potential. The Sunnyvale, Calif., company has raised more than $1 billion in venture capital financing, including early investments from Silicon Valley powerhouses like Kleiner Perkins Caufield & Byers, and produces power for a range of companies, including Apple, Google, Walmart and Coca-Cola.
The venture could also open up lucrative new markets, just as falling natural gas prices make fuel cells more economically competitive with grid power.
Fuel cells, which convert natural gas, hydrogen or another fuel into electricity with no burning or combustion, have long offered the promise of cleaner, more plentiful energy. But the need for expensive materials like platinum in fuel cells kept costs high and shortened their longevity.
Mr. Sridhar, a former NASA scientist, learned to make the devices from common materials that will last longer. For example, Bloom's fuel cells use a thin ceramic wafer made from sand.
Still, Bloom and SoftBank face increasing competition in their quest to take the technology global. In Japan, a handful of companies have also invested heavily in fuel cell technology and now provide smaller-scale fuel cell batteries for homes. Mitsubishi Heavy Industries, the industrial giant, is in the early stages of a government-sponsored project to develop large-scale fuel cell power plants.
The joint venture would seem to fill a gap between those scales of generation in Japan, said Kazunari Sasaki, a fuel cell specialist who heads the Next-Generation Fuel Cell Research Center at Kyushu University. And globally, an increasingly crowded field of fuel cell makers are set to compete along efficiency, cost and durability lines, he said.
Bloom appeared to have the edge, for now, in conversion efficiency, or how efficiently it converts fuel to electricity. The company said its systems provided over 60 percent efficiency at the beginning of their lives, declining to the mid-50s as they mature. Mr. Sasaki said that Japanese fuel cell makers tended to offer about 40 percent fuel efficiency.
''Bloom's entry into Japan will certainly have a big impact on the industry here,'' Mr. Sasaki said. ''Over all, I see it as a positive that will spur more competition, investment and technological development.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Bloom Energy fuel cells at eBay headquarters in San Jose, Calif. A venture with SoftBank is to introduce Bloom's devices in Japan. (PHOTOGRAPH BY ROBERT GALBRAITH/REUTERS) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: FUEL CELL TECHNOLOGY (93%); STARTUPS (90%); NATURAL GAS & ELECTRIC UTILITIES (89%); NUCLEAR POWER PLANTS (89%); ELECTRIC POWER PLANTS (89%); RENEWABLE ENERGY (89%); ELECTRICITY TRANSMISSION & DISTRIBUTION (89%); ELECTRIC POWER INDUSTRY (88%); FOSSIL FUEL POWER PLANTS (87%); ENERGY DEPARTMENTS (78%); INTERVIEWS (78%); ENERGY DEVELOPMENT PROGRAMS (78%); MOBILE & CELLULAR COMMUNICATIONS (78%); NUCLEAR ENERGY (78%); AUTOMOTIVE FUELS (78%); WIND ENERGY (78%); EXECUTIVES (78%); JOINT VENTURES (74%); MARCH 2011 JAPAN NUCLEAR DISASTER (70%); PRICE INCREASES (60%); UTILITIES INDUSTRY (58%)

COMPANY: SOFTBANK CORP (92%); SOFTBANK TECHNOLOGY CORP (91%); SPRINT CORP (84%); APPLE INC (83%)

TICKER: 9984 (TSE) (92%); 4726 (TSE) (91%); S (NYSE) (84%); AAPL (NASDAQ) (83%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS551112 OFFICES OF OTHER HOLDING COMPANIES (92%); SIC6719 OFFICES OF HOLDING COMPANIES, NEC (92%); NAICS541512 COMPUTER SYSTEMS DESIGN SERVICES (91%); SIC7373 COMPUTER INTEGRATED SYSTEMS DESIGN (91%); NAICS517110 WIRED TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (84%); NAICS423430 COMPUTER & COMPUTER PERIPHERAL EQUIPMENT & SOFTWARE MERCHANT WHOLESALERS (83%); NAICS334112 COMPUTER STORAGE DEVICE MANUFACTURING (83%); NAICS334111 ELECTRONIC COMPUTER MANUFACTURING (83%); SIC5045 COMPUTERS & COMPUTER PERIPHERAL EQUIPMENT & SOFTWARE (83%); SIC3572 COMPUTER STORAGE DEVICES (83%); SIC3571 ELECTRONIC COMPUTERS (83%)

PERSON: STEVEN JOBS (78%)

GEOGRAPHIC: SILICON VALLEY, CA, USA (94%); SAN FRANCISCO BAY AREA, CA, USA (91%); TOKYO, JAPAN (90%); SAN JOSE, CA, USA (73%) CALIFORNIA, USA (94%); TOHOKU, JAPAN (79%) JAPAN (96%); UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: July 18, 2013



537 of 937 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 18, 2013
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; EDITORIAL; Pg. 22

LENGTH: 403 words

HEADLINE: Halfhearted Labor Reform in Bangladesh

BYLINE: By THE EDITORIAL BOARD

 BODY:
Under increasing international pressure to address problems in its clothing industry, legislators in Bangladesh this week changed the country's labor law to make it easier for workers to form unions. But the changes fall far short of what is needed and are unlikely to do much to prevent the fires, building collapses and other tragedies that have claimed hundreds of lives in recent years. 
Since the collapse of a factory building killed more than 1,100 workers in April, the Bangladeshi government led by Prime Minister Sheikh Hasina has been trying to show that it is cracking down on lax safety standards that plague its garment industry, which is a major supplier to Western retailers like Wal-Mart, Gap and H&M. More unionized workers can bring greater pressure on factory owners to improve safety.
The new law denies factory owners the ability to veto unions -- an important and positive change. But it also sets ridiculously high hurdles for workers who want to unionize. For instance, the law requires that the union's leadership be drawn from the workers' ranks -- a union cannot, in other words, hire outside leaders -- which means that owners can weaken their opponents simply by firing people they don't like. It also says that the government will not recognize a union unless 30 percent of a company's total workers vote for one. A company may have plants many miles apart, so rounding up that many votes could be hard. (In the United States, 30 percent of workers at an individual factory can petition to establish a union.)
The laws are restrictive in other ways, too. Unions will not be permitted in factories in special export zones, where many plants that cater to Western companies are based. More than two-thirds of union members would have to authorize a strike (in the United States, a simple majority usually suffices). The government would also have the right to stop any strike it determines to be a ''serious hardship to the community'' or is ''prejudicial to the national interest,'' according to Human Rights Watch.
Government officials say the law should be enough to dissuade the Obama administration and the European Union from suspending trade preferences for Bangladesh. But, on close inspection, the law provides little comfort that the four million people employed in Bangladeshi clothing factories will be protected from dangerous working conditions. America and Europe must press for more.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Editorial

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: GARMENT WORKERS (90%); LABOR UNIONS (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); APPAREL MFG (89%); LEGISLATION (78%); LABOR & EMPLOYMENT LAW (78%); EXPORT TRADE (78%); VETO (78%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (78%); DISMISSALS (77%); WORKPLACE HEALTH & SAFETY (77%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (75%); PRIME MINISTERS (75%); EUROPEAN UNION (75%); RETAILERS (73%); FIRE PREVENTION & SAFETY (72%); SPECIAL ECONOMIC ZONES (71%); PETITIONS (66%); HUMAN RIGHTS (50%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (52%)

GEOGRAPHIC: BANGLADESH (96%); UNITED STATES (93%); EUROPE (92%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (76%)

LOAD-DATE: July 18, 2013



538 of 937 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 18, 2013
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 1131 words

HEADLINE: I.M.F. Warns of Threats To the Chinese Economy

BYLINE: By ANNIE LOWREY; Bettina Wassener contributed reporting from Hong Kong.

 BODY:
WASHINGTON -- China's growth has slowed significantly in recent months. But even its current pace of expansion may not be sustainable, the International Monetary Fund warned on Wednesday, unless China starts making significant and systemic economic changes -- and soon.
''Since the global crisis, a mix of investment, credit and fiscal stimulus has underpinned activity,'' the I.M.F. said in a major annual assessment of the Chinese economy. ''This pattern of growth is not sustainable and is raising vulnerabilities. While China still has significant buffers to weather shocks, the margins of safety are diminishing.''
The report emphasized increasing risks to the Chinese economy, touching on familiar themes though with more urgency than previous reports.
China still has large foreign currency reserves and plenty of room for new government spending to buffer any unexpected shocks, Markus Rodlauer, the I.M.F.'s China mission chief, said in an interview. But he said the Chinese economy was becoming more vulnerable and change was becoming more difficult to make as time passes. 
The I.M.F. -- with a variety of international economic officials, research groups, academics and financial market participants -- has raised concern that money is pouring into mispriced real estate and infrastructure investments in China that are increasing growth in the short term but might do little for the Chinese economy later.
For decades, a cheap currency, cheap labor and huge infrastructure investment fueled enormous growth. China has made ''substantial'' progress on rebalancing its trade deficits with the rest of the world, the I.M.F. said, and its current-account balance as a share of its total economy is less than a quarter of its precrisis peak.
The fund described the Chinese currency as ''moderately'' undervalued, as it has for about a year after a long stretch of calling it ''significantly'' undervalued -- a policy maneuver that helped increase China's exports but angered many countries whose goods became relatively less competitive.
But imbalances in China's domestic economy ''remain large,'' the I.M.F. warned, as Chinese consumers have not replaced consumers from the United States, Germany and other countries who helped stoke China's growth for years. Consumption rates have barely budged from last year. But net purchases of physical assets like roads, hospitals and commercial buildings grew further as a share of the economy.
''A decisive shift toward a more consumption-based growth path has yet to occur,'' the I.M.F. said. ''Accelerating the transformation of the growth model remains the main priority.''
The fund focused on a few areas of acute risk.
One is the financial system. China has had a huge boom in lending through ''less regulated'' parts of its financial system, the fund said. It raised concerns about the adequacy of China's regulatory controls, the quality of underwriting and the pricing of risk.
The formal banking sector might not be as strong as it looks, either, the I.M.F. warned. ''Based on reported data, bank balance sheets appear healthy and loan books show only a modest deterioration in asset quality,'' the report said. ''However, banks remain vulnerable to a sharper worsening of corporate sector financial performance.''
Another issue is a proliferation of debt-financed spending by local governments without adequate tax bases, often through ''local government financing vehicles'' that have long been regarded as a weak spot in China's markets. ''Further rapid growth of debts would raise the risk of a disorderly adjustment in local government spending,'' the I.M.F. warned.
Finally, it cautioned of the possibility of plummeting prices in real estate markets. It said real estate remained ''prone to bubbles'' in no small part because many Chinese savers do not earn interest on their deposits and, as a result, push money into housing markets.
Making adjustments to the financial markets and correcting the pace of infrastructure spending might mean slower growth in the near term, the I.M.F. has said. But it might mean more sustainable growth in the long term, with substantial benefits not just for China but also for global growth.
That message was delivered as the Chinese economy is already slowing considerably; growth has fallen to an annual pace of about 7.5 percent, down from a peak of more than 14 percent in 2007, before the global financial crisis.
More broadly, the emerging market economies that helped pull the world out of the global recession have cooled, dragging the global growth rate down with them. Growth remains sluggish in the United States, and much of Europe is mired in a recession.
''Growth in emerging market economies will remain high, much higher than in the advanced economies, but may be substantially lower than it was before the crisis,'' Olivier Blanchard, the chief economist for the I.M.F., said at a news briefing this month.
Top Chinese policy makers are aware of the issues that the I.M.F. and other analysts have raised, and they generally agree. They have in part engineered the recent economic slowdown and have shown a willingness to make changes. But few details are available about how the new Chinese government might move to revamp the economy. More information is expected after a major Communist Party meeting this fall.
The fact that China's population is aging -- and its labor force gradually shrinking -- adds to the pressure for a structural overhaul.
The authorities say they aim to raise domestic consumption and productivity, reduce China's reliance on exports and construction investment, and rein in financial risks flagged in the I.M.F. report. But many entrenched interest groups, including state-owned enterprises, public banks and midlevel officials who run huge sections of the economy, are more comfortable with the status quo.
In recent weeks, China's government has made it increasingly clear that it is prepared to tolerate slower growth and that it will not repeat the aggressive stimulus that followed the global financial crisis.
Prime Minister Li Keqiang reiterated that message in comments reported by the official Xinhua news agency on Wednesday. Although he acknowledged that the economy faced risks and challenges, Mr. Li said it remained ''generally stable.''
While the authorities must work to ''keep economic growth within a reasonable range,'' they will aim to deploy ''targeted'' policies and ''not change the direction of policies based only on temporary changes in economic barometers,'' he said, according to Xinhua.
In a note referring to Mr. Li's comments, Qu Hongbin, chief China economist at HSBC in Hong Kong, wrote, ''Beijing is trying to boost public confidence and emphasize the seriousness of its intention by reiterating the need to stabilize growth.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: China says it hopes to reduce reliance on investment in construction, like this project in Qingdao. (PHOTOGRAPH BY WU HONG/EUROPEAN PRESSPHOTO AGENCY) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); TRANSPORTATION INFRASTRUCTURE (89%); CURRENCIES (88%); CONSUMPTION (78%); EXPORT TRADE (78%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (78%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (78%); ECONOMIC POLICY (77%); PUBLIC FINANCE (77%); INTERVIEWS (73%); GOLD & FOREIGN EXCHANGE RESERVES (73%); BANKING & FINANCE (72%); REAL ESTATE INVESTING (71%); CURRENT ACCOUNT BALANCE (69%); GOODS & SERVICES TRADE BALANCE (69%)

ORGANIZATION: INTERNATIONAL MONETARY FUND (84%)

GEOGRAPHIC: SHANDONG, CHINA (58%) CHINA (99%); UNITED STATES (93%); GERMANY (79%)

LOAD-DATE: July 18, 2013



539 of 937 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 18, 2013
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; OP-ED COLUMNIST; Pg. 23

LENGTH: 763 words

HEADLINE: Was Blind, But Now She Sees

BYLINE: By NICHOLAS D. KRISTOF

 BODY:
BAMAKO, Mali -- When you begin to go blind from trachoma, the first thing you feel is an eyelash scraping your eye.
As for the horror of leprosy, it often begins with a puzzling rash. Among the first signs of polio are fatigue, vomiting and back pain.
Yet these diseases are on their way out. We in journalism mostly focus on problems, but one of the remarkable changes in the developing world has been the decline of these ancient scourges. 
When I first traveled through West Africa, as a student backpacker more than 30 years ago, I was haunted by the beggars disabled by blindness, leprosy and polio. Now I'm on my annual win-a-trip journey with a university student, Erin Luhmann of the University of Wisconsin, and she is encountering a fundamentally improved landscape than the one I saw when I was her age.
Take blindness. It has many causes, but one of the most painful is trachoma, which turns the eyelid inward. The lashes then continuously scrape the cornea.
''My eyes felt as if someone had thrown a handful of sand in them,'' Nawara Souko, who suffered from trachoma for years, told us. Her husband is dead, and, without sight, she found it difficult to farm or care for her five children. Three died.
Then Nawara received a 15-minute surgery from a public nurse trained by Helen Keller International, an American aid group. Sometimes the surgery, which straightens the eyelid, comes too late to restore vision. In Nawara's case, the operation ended the pain -- and she could see again.
Erin and I watched trachoma surgeries in a village 100 miles west of the Malian capital of Bamako. Villagers who for years had endured agony -- one woman compared it to childbirth, except that it goes on for years -- had their lives transformed.
Yagare Traoré said she had spent years in her hut, unable to farm or care for her 11 children, six of whom died. Then she received the surgery, and, after the bandage was removed, a boy stepped forward to guide her home.
''Get out of my way!'' she recalled telling him. ''I can see! I can walk by myself!''
The cost of this surgery here in Mali is less than $40 per person, according to Shawn Baker of Helen Keller International. So the next time you hear that humanitarian aid is ''money down a rat hole,'' well, think of Yagare Traoré.
Prevention of trachoma is even cheaper. Train villagers in improving hygiene and distribute antibiotics at a cost of less than $1 per person, and trachoma disappears so that people don't even need surgery.
Then there's polio: Only 223 cases were reported last year, down from 350,000 in 1988. Islamist extremists in Nigeria and Pakistan have murdered vaccination workers, but the disease is still inching toward eradication.
A third triumph is leprosy. It can cause hideous disfigurement, including the loss of fingers, toes, ears and the nose, as well as blindness.
Yet a cheap three-drug therapy cures leprosy easily, and a new blood test simplifies diagnosis. The progress is stunning. In 1985, there were 5.2 million people worldwide with leprosy, and now there are fewer than 200,000.
Unfortunately, not everyone gets treated in time. One of our saddest encounters on this win-a-trip journey with Erin was with a 10-year-old boy named Muhammad Bako who had already lost toes and fingers to leprosy.
''I'm fine,'' Muhammad told us, but he didn't look it. He walks awkwardly with crutches, and his eyes burn with fear and the unfairness of it all.
Muhammad is being treated at a 57-year-old leprosy hospital in Niger run by SIM, a Christian missionary organization. The hospital receives about one new leprosy case a month, down from more than 500 a quarter-century ago.
The progress goes far beyond these three ailments. The number of children dying worldwide before the age of 5 has plunged from 12 million in 1990 to 6.9 million in 2011.
As the disease burden declines, the economy surges. Africa is now booming economically, and six of the 10 fastest-growing economies in the world are on the continent. Don't think of Africa as a place to pity, but as a place to invest.
Journalists and humanitarians understandably focus on unmet needs, and that can leave the impression that the story of global health is a depressing one of failure. In fact, it's an inspiring story of progress. We need to do more, especially against AIDS, malaria and tuberculosis, but one of the great achievements of humanity in recent decades has been the marginalization of ancient and dreaded diseases.
That's why it's possible for me to travel with Erin in some of the most impoverished countries in the world, and feel a glow of hope.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: EYE DISORDERS & INJURIES (91%); BLINDNESS (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); CORNEA & RETINA DISORDERS & INJURIES (78%); DISEASES & DISORDERS (77%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (75%); VACCINES (72%); ANTIBIOTICS (72%); BACK DISORDERS & INJURIES (72%); MURDER (71%); BACKPACKING (70%); INTERNATIONAL ASSISTANCE (69%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (66%); PREGNANCY & CHILDBIRTH (65%); MUSLIMS & ISLAM (60%)

ORGANIZATION: UNIVERSITY OF WISCONSIN (56%); HELEN KELLER INTERNATIONAL (54%)

GEOGRAPHIC: MALI (94%); UNITED STATES (79%); WESTERN AFRICA (79%); PAKISTAN (79%); NIGERIA (79%); AFRICA (58%)

LOAD-DATE: July 18, 2013



540 of 937 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(Economix)

PUB-DATE: July 18, 2013

SECTION: BUSINESS; economy

LENGTH: 1063 words

HEADLINE: High Profits Signal Danger for Big Banks

BYLINE: SIMON JOHNSON


HIGHLIGHT: The strong profits of the biggest banks may be painting them into a political corner, an economist writes. 

 BODY:
Simon Johnson, former chief economist of the International Monetary Fund, is the Ronald A. Kurtz Professor of Entrepreneurship at the M.I.T. Sloan School of Management and co-author of "White House Burning: The Founding Fathers, Our National Debt, and Why It Matters to You." 
In their latest earnings reports, the biggest banks in the United States are reporting eye-popping levels of profitability that surprise even Wall Street analysts. Goldman Sachs's profit doubled in the second quarter of this year from the comparable quarter a year ago. JPMorgan Chase could make $25 billion for the whole year. Bank of America reported that net income rose 63 percent. Even Citigroup, so often the sick man of American megabanks, managed its best results since 2007, with $4.2 billion in net income in the quarter. 
These results create a major political problem for the big banks, a point that Tom Braithwaite has made in The Financial Times (subscription required). Executives at these companies have spent most of the last four years asserting that stronger regulation in the United States, including higher capital requirements, will result in lower profits, a reduced ability to lend and a slower economic recovery for the nation.
Yet higher capital requirements are already in place, with further steps in the works, including a tougher leverage ratio at the initiative of the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation (so the country's biggest banks would need to finance themselves with relatively more equity and relatively less debt). And regulation has tightened to some degree. There is also more political scrutiny - hence executive compensation is being held below the levels that were previously associated with this much profit.
In Europe, regulation remains weak, and the banks are floundering. In the United States, the rules are tightening, and the big banks are doing great. Once American politicians and regulators reflect further on exactly why the banks have become so profitable, this will only reinforce the latest push for more reform.

The banks have easy funding. The very largest banks can borrow cheaply - this is, in fact, a key part of the unconventional loose monetary policies being pursued by the Federal Reserve. To be fair, the Fed wants lower interest rates for everyone, but the biggest banks benefit the most.
As Senator Sherrod Brown, Democrat of Ohio, emphasized at a recent hearing, there is also an implicit government guarantee for these banks, a point now acknowledged by Treasury Secretary Jacob J. Lew.
Despite everything that has happened in the last half decade, the very largest banks, including JPMorgan Chase, Goldman Sachs and Citigroup, can engage in some very risky business.
This is a great deal - a government backstop for your cheap funding combined with the ability to take a lot of risk (e.g., metal warehouses, where JPMorgan Chase and Goldman Sachs are big investors, or emerging markets, where Citigroup has a great deal of exposure.)
These very large banks do not have much equity in their businesses; it is all about the leverage (meaning they fund their loans and other asset holdings mostly with debt). For example, at the end of the second quarter, JPMorgan Chase had shareholder equity of just over $200 billion and a total balance sheet of around $2.5 trillion (under the generally accepted accounting principles used in the United States ) or closer to $4 trillion (using international accounting standards, which treat derivatives exposure in a different way). So JPMorgan Chase had from 5 to 8 percent of its balance sheet, depending on which accounting measure you prefer, funded with equity and the rest with debt (read the long version of its earnings release to see this clearly).
JPMorgan Chase is a very highly leveraged business, and the same is true of other megabanks. When things go well, such highly leveraged companies make high returns - measured in terms of return on equity (unadjusted for risk). For example, trading securities can sometimes help increase profits; this was the experience of Citigroup in the latest quarter and before 2007 (and also for JPMorgan Chase and Goldman Sachs).
Charles Prince, the former chief executive of Citigroup, famously remarked, "But as long as the music is playing, you've got to get up and dance. We're still dancing." This was in July 2007 when, really, the music had already stopped (the subject of a commentary from Yves Smith at nakedcapitalism.com at the time).
The banks are lifted now by the (partial) economic recovery. But what happens when the economy weakens in the United States or somewhere else in the world? What happens also when money is lost on securities trading or on loans to emerging markets or on complex derivatives that no one in management fully understands? More highly leveraged businesses go up faster and come down further.
At the same time, a deeper political shift is under way, with a big step toward bipartisan agreement that structural change is needed in our largest banks. Specifically, Senator John McCain has joined forces with Senators Elizabeth Warren, Maria Cantwell and Angus King to push for a 21st century Glass-Steagall Act.
Speaking with Yahoo Finance this week, Senator King, an independent from Maine, made a common-sense and compelling case that the United States needs to limit reckless gambling using insured deposits - and the only way to do this is with structural change, separating out boring banking from high-risk trading activities (see also this interview with Elizabeth Warren on CNBC).
Thomas Hoenig, vice chairman of the F.D.I.C., also explains clearly that breaking up the banks along functional lines would be helpful - we should aim to separate relatively risky "broker-dealer activities from the federal safety net." (I have also contributed to this debate in recent days, including in a column for Bloomberg News, in my baselinescenario blog and an NPR interview.)
Whenever global megabanks report huge profits, think about the risks they are not reporting and who will bear the costs. The good news is that leading senators are starting to think along exactly these lines. Regulators will take note.

        
A Call to Battle on Bank Leverage
        
Multinational Corporations' Support for Big Banks Is Not Persuasive
        
Mortgaged Diplomas
        
Choosing the Next Head of the Federal Reserve
        
The Treasury's Mistaken View on Too Big to Fail

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: ENTREPRENEURSHIP (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); BUSINESS EDUCATION (90%); COMPANY PROFITS (90%); COMPANY EARNINGS (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (89%); DEREGULATION (86%); EXECUTIVE COMPENSATION (78%); ECONOMIC RECOVERY (78%); PUBLIC DEBT (78%); EXECUTIVES (78%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (78%); EMERGING MARKETS (77%); LEGISLATION (77%); NATIONAL DEBT (77%); PUBLIC POLICY (77%); WRITERS (77%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (77%); PUBLIC FINANCE (76%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (73%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (72%); ECONOMIC POLICY (71%); ECONOMIC NEWS (71%); WAGES & SALARIES (71%); BANK DEPOSIT INSURANCE (71%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (71%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (71%); MONETARY POLICY (65%); INTEREST RATES (50%) Banking and Financial Institutions; Law and Legislation; Regulation and Deregulation of Industry; Today's Economist

COMPANY: CITIGROUP INC (92%); JPMORGAN CHASE & CO (86%); BANK OF NEW YORK MELLON CORP (85%); GOLDMAN SACHS GROUP INC (85%); FINANCIAL TIMES GROUP (69%); FEDERAL DEPOSIT INSURANCE CORP (67%); BANK OF AMERICA CORP (58%)

TICKER: C (NYSE) (92%); C (BMV) (92%); 8710 (TSE) (92%); JPM (NYSE) (86%); JPM (LSE) (86%); 8634 (TSE) (86%); BK (NYSE) (85%); GS (NYSE) (85%); BAC (NYSE) (58%); BAC (LSE) (58%); 8648 (TSE) (58%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (92%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (92%); NAICS522210 CREDIT CARD ISSUING (92%); NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (86%); NAICS523999 MISCELLANEOUS FINANCIAL INVESTMENT ACTIVITIES (86%); SIC6022 STATE COMMERCIAL BANKS (86%); SIC6712 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (85%); NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (85%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (85%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (85%); SIC6289 SERVICES ALLIED WITH THE EXCHANGE OF SECURITIES OR COMMODITIES, NEC (85%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (85%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (85%); NAICS511110 NEWSPAPER PUBLISHERS (69%); SIC2711 NEWSPAPERS: PUBLISHING, OR PUBLISHING & PRINTING (69%); NAICS524128 OTHER DIRECT INSURANCE (EXCEPT LIFE, HEALTH & MEDICAL) CARRIERS (67%); SIC6399 INSURANCE CARRIERS, NEC (67%)

PERSON: JACK LEW (73%); SHERROD BROWN (56%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (95%); EUROPE (79%)

LOAD-DATE: July 18, 2013



541 of 937 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(DealBook)

PUB-DATE: July 18, 2013

SECTION: BUSINESS

LENGTH: 1768 words

HEADLINE: Morning Agenda: Morgan Stanley Beats Estimates

BYLINE: WILLIAM ALDEN


HIGHLIGHT: Morgan Stanley&#8217;s adjusted second-quarter earnings narrowly beat analysts&#8217; estimates. | A special committee of Dell&#8217;s directors may delay a vote on the company&#8217;s proposed sale. | JPMorgan Chase is trying to avoid a showdown over accusations that it manipulated energy prices. | Nelson Peltz urges a merger of PepsiCo and Mondelez International. 

 BODY:
Morgan Stanley reported adjusted second-quarter earnings on Thursday that narrowly beat analysts' estimates, driven by strength in its wealth management unit and equity sales and trading. Including charges, profit rose to $802 million, or 41 cents a share, from $564 million, or 29 cents a share, in the period a year earlier. But the results were affected by two big charges, one related to credit spreads and the other to Morgan Stanley's recent purchase of the remaining stake of its wealth management business. Excluding those charges, the profit was $872 million, or 45 cents a share. That beat the 43-cents-a-share average estimate of analysts polled by Thomson Reuters. A conference call to discuss the results is scheduled at 10 a.m. 
SUPPORT WEAKENS FOR DELL FOUNDER'S OFFER | A special committee of Dell's directors is likely to delay a vote on the computer company's proposed $24.4 billion sale to its founder, which is scheduled for Thursday morning, amid stronger signs of rejection by shareholders, DealBook's Michael J. de la Merced reports. "Shareholders representing roughly 30 percent of Dell shares were arrayed against the leveraged buyout as of Wednesday evening, a person briefed on the matter said. They include money management firms like BlackRock, the State Street Corporation and the Vanguard Group." That number could rise even higher. To succeed, the deal must receive support from 42 percent of shares.
The dissent extends far beyond Carl C. Icahn and the asset management firm Southeastern Asset Management, which together own about 12.7 percent of Dell's shares, Mr. de la Merced says. "That level of opposition makes it likely that the Dell board committee will postpone the vote by several days, people briefed on the matter said. Other related matters, including the record date by which shareholders must have owned shares to participate in the vote, have not yet been settled, one of these people said."
On Wednesday, Mr. Icahn criticized the Dell directors who refused to endorse his proposal. "I think most of these boards are completely dysfunctional," he said at the Delivering Alpha conference sponsored by CNBC and Institutional Investor in Manhattan. "But I've never seen one as bad as this. I really mean it - where they actually go out and scare their own shareholders."
JPMORGAN SEEKS TO SETTLE ENERGY CASE FOR $500 MILLION | JPMorgan Chase is trying to avoid a showdown over accusations that it manipulated energy prices, Ben Protess and Jessica Silver-Greenberg report in DealBook. The bank is seeking to settle with the Federal Energy Regulatory Commission, the agency that oversees the energy markets, according to people briefed on the matter. The regulator found that JPMorgan devised "manipulative schemes" that transformed "money-losing power plants into powerful profit centers," a commission document said.
The potential deal is expected to cost the bank about $500 million, DealBook reports. That would be a record for the agency, which has adopted a harder line with Wall Street. But for JPMorgan, the fine would barely dent its bottom line. The accusations against the bank surfaced in a confidential document reviewed by The New York Times that also claimed a senior JPMorgan executive, Blythe Masters, gave "false and misleading statements" under oath. "It is unclear whether Ms. Masters would be included in the potential settlement, but people close to her said that the regulator was unlikely to file a separate action against her," DealBook reports. The bank still disputes the accusations.
ON THE AGENDA | The Blackstone Group and BlackRock report earnings this morning. Microsoft, Google and Chipotle Mexican Grill report results after the market closes. Ben S. Bernanke, the Federal Reserve chairman, testifies before the Senate Banking Committee in Washington. James P. Gorman, the chief of Morgan Stanley, is on Bloomberg TV at 11:30 a.m. Laurence D. Fink of BlackRock is on CNBC at 4:10 p.m.
PELTZ URGES MERGER OF PEPSICO AND MONDELEZ | The activist investor Nelson Peltz said on Wednesday that he would seek a merger of PepsiCo and Mondelez International, going public with his plans after months of speculation. Mr. Peltz, whose Trian Fund Management has quietly amassed a stake of more than $2.7 billion in the two companies, urged Pepsi to merge with Mondelez and then spin off its beverage business, creating a new snack food giant that would combine the Frito-Lay brands with Cadbury, Oreo and Nabisco. Investors appeared receptive to the plan, which Mr. Peltz announced on Wednesday at the Delivering Alpha conference in Manhattan. "Pepsi is at a crossroads at this point in time," Mr. Peltz said. "They've got a cash business, and they've got a growth business."
The conference on Wednesday also included appearances by the short-seller James S. Chanos, who announced a bet against Caterpillar, and Preet Bharara, the United States attorney for the Southern District of New York, who reminded those in attendance that the statute of limitations for securities fraud cases had been extended.
 | Contact: @williamalden | E-mail
Sign up for the DealBook Newsletter, delivered every morning and afternoon.
Mergers & Acquisitions »
How to Make Poison Pills Palatable | Under a method proposed by professors Eric Posner and Glen Weyl of the University of Chicago, when an outside shareholder starts a takeover attempt, existing shareholders would have the right to buy votes for or against the takeover. DealBook »
J.C. Flowers Said to Be in Talks for Northern Rock Loans | The private equity firm J.C. Flowers is in advanced talks to buy £450 million ($684.8 million) of Northern Rock loans from the British government, the Times reported in London. THE TIMES
A Lifeline to a Brazilian Billionaire Would Be Risky | Christopher Swann of Reuters Breakingviews asks: Is the state development bank throwing good money after bad in reportedly easing debt terms for Eike Batista? REUTERS BREAKINGVIEWS
Shoemaker Allen Edmonds Said to Consider Sale | 
REUTERS
INVESTMENT BANKING »
Gupta Barred From Serving on Public Company Boards | Rajat K. Gupta, the former Goldman Sachs director convicted of passing secret information to a trader, was ordered to pay $13.9 million to settle a regulatory lawsuit and has been permanently barred from being an officer or director of a public company, the Securities and Exchange Commission said. BLOOMBERG NEWS
Hear That? It's Your Financial Adviser Tweeting. | Raymond James plans to announce an extensive effort to help its thousands of financial advisers harness social media when contacting clients. DealBook »
Entertaining Clients at the Gym | Bloomberg News writes: "Wall Street's salesmen and deal makers, whose expense accounts help fill downtown chophouses and box seats at ballparks, are now treating clients to a different kind of entertainment: high-end workouts." BLOOMBERG NEWS
Bank of America Reports 63% Gain in Net Income | In the bank's second-quarter financial report, net income rose 63 percent and while revenue rose, it received a lift from much lower expenses. DealBook »
PRIVATE EQUITY »
Billabong Creditors Revise Refinancing Proposal | The creditors, Centerbridge Partners and Oaktree Capital Management, are trying to persuade Billabong to abandon a rival refinancing agreement with a group including Altamont Capital Partners, The Wall Street Journal reports. WALL STREET JOURNAL
HEDGE FUNDS »
Hedge Funds Commit to Bets on a Weaker Yen | Despite volatility in the yen, many hedge funds focused on foreign exchange continue to bet that the Bank of Japan will succeed in weakening the yen over time, Reuters writes. REUTERS
Former Soros Employee Starts Firm in Hong Kong | 
BLOOMBERG NEWS
I.P.O./OFFERINGS »
London Stock Exchange Reports Gain in Revenue | The results, which beat analysts' forecasts, were helped by an increase in companies being listed, Reuters reports. REUTERS
Alibaba Builds Momentum for a Possible I.P.O. | 
BLOOMBERG NEWS
VENTURE CAPITAL »
SoftBank Forms Fuel-Cell Venture With Start-Up | SoftBank of Japan is setting up a joint venture with a Silicon Valley start-up, Bloom Energy, to bring what it calls "energy servers" to Japan, helping the start-up break into its first overseas market, The New York Times reports. NEW YORK TIMES
New Venture Capital Perk: Image Buffing | Several former journalists have recently joined venture capital firms, and each is "expected to spend part of their time helping their firm's entrepreneurs be viewed as thought leaders," Fortune's Dan Primack writes. FORTUNE
LEGAL/REGULATORY »
In Tourre Trial, S.E.C. Wages Battle Against Its Own Witness | The S.E.C.'s plan in its lawsuit against a former Goldman Sachs trader was thrown into disarray in several hours of combative testimony on Wednesday. DealBook »
In Audience at Tourre Trial, a Familiar Face | Brian Stoker, a former midlevel Citigroup executive who beat a government fraud case, has joined the spectators at the trial of Fabrice Tourre. DealBook »
Judge Rejects S.&P.'s Defense in Civil Case | A judge, allowing the Justice Department's lawsuit against Standard & Poor's Ratings Services to proceed, said the company's defense that its statements were "puffery" was "deeply and unavoidably troubling," The Wall Street Journal reports. WALL STREET JOURNAL
Setback for Google in Europe | The European Commission said on Wednesday for the first time that Google's proposal for addressing antitrust concerns did not go far enough, The New York Times reports. NEW YORK TIMES
Bernanke Reaffirms Fervor for Stimulus | The chairman of the Federal Reserve, Ben S. Bernanke, said on Wednesday that the central bank remained committed to supporting the economy. NEW YORK TIMES
Barclays Vows to Fight Energy Trading Fine | United States regulators have demanded that Barclays pay a record $470 million penalty for suspected manipulation by some traders of energy markets in California and other Western states. DealBook »
Heartening Moves Toward Real Progress in Bank Regulation | From Jesse Eisinger of ProPublica, a look at promising proposals to strengthen capital ratios and regulate the derivatives market. The Trade »
China Bars Glaxo Executive From Leaving During Bribery Inquiry | The New York Times reports: "Chinese authorities have barred a British finance executive at the pharmaceutical giant GlaxoSmithKline from leaving the country while they carry out an investigation into bribery and corruption at the British company, the company confirmed on Wednesday." NEW YORK TIMES
Sign up for the DealBook Newsletter, delivered every morning and afternoon.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: COMPANY EARNINGS (91%); WEALTH MANAGEMENT (90%); INTERIM FINANCIAL RESULTS (90%); MERGERS (90%); COMPANY PROFITS (90%); SHAREHOLDERS (90%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (90%); ENERGY & UTILITY SECTOR PERFORMANCE (89%); INVESTMENT MANAGEMENT (89%); BUYINS & BUYOUTS (78%); ENERGY & UTILITY TRADE (77%); DELAYS & POSTPONEMENTS (74%); ENERGY REGULATION (73%); POLLS & SURVEYS (72%); LEVERAGED BUYOUTS (71%); CONFERENCE CALLS (69%); SPONSORSHIP (69%); ENERGY DEPARTMENTS (68%); ENERGY & UTILITY LAW (68%); ENERGY & UTILITY POLICY (66%); ELECTRIC POWER PLANTS (63%); SETTLEMENT & COMPROMISE (61%); POWER PLANTS (60%) Morning Agenda

COMPANY: MORGAN STANLEY (92%); STATE STREET CORP (67%); SOUTHEASTERN ASSET MANAGEMENT INC (54%); VANGUARD GROUP INC (54%)

TICKER: MS (NYSE) (92%); STT (NYSE) (67%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (92%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (92%); NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (67%); NAICS525910 OPEN-END INVESTMENT FUNDS (67%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (67%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (54%); NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (54%)

PERSON: CARL ICAHN (74%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (52%) NEW YORK, USA (52%) UNITED STATES (52%)

LOAD-DATE: July 18, 2013



542 of 937 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(DealBook)

PUB-DATE: July 18, 2013

SECTION: BUSINESS

LENGTH: 1768 words

HEADLINE: Morning Agenda: Morgan Stanley Beats Estimates

BYLINE: WILLIAM ALDEN


HIGHLIGHT: Morgan Stanley&#8217;s adjusted second-quarter earnings narrowly beat analysts&#8217; estimates. | A special committee of Dell&#8217;s directors may delay a vote on the company&#8217;s proposed sale. | JPMorgan Chase is trying to avoid a showdown over accusations that it manipulated energy prices. | Nelson Peltz urges a merger of PepsiCo and Mondelez International. 

 BODY:
Morgan Stanley reported adjusted second-quarter earnings on Thursday that narrowly beat analysts' estimates, driven by strength in its wealth management unit and equity sales and trading. Including charges, profit rose to $802 million, or 41 cents a share, from $564 million, or 29 cents a share, in the period a year earlier. But the results were affected by two big charges, one related to credit spreads and the other to Morgan Stanley's recent purchase of the remaining stake of its wealth management business. Excluding those charges, the profit was $872 million, or 45 cents a share. That beat the 43-cents-a-share average estimate of analysts polled by Thomson Reuters. A conference call to discuss the results is scheduled at 10 a.m. 
SUPPORT WEAKENS FOR DELL FOUNDER'S OFFER | A special committee of Dell's directors is likely to delay a vote on the computer company's proposed $24.4 billion sale to its founder, which is scheduled for Thursday morning, amid stronger signs of rejection by shareholders, DealBook's Michael J. de la Merced reports. "Shareholders representing roughly 30 percent of Dell shares were arrayed against the leveraged buyout as of Wednesday evening, a person briefed on the matter said. They include money management firms like BlackRock, the State Street Corporation and the Vanguard Group." That number could rise even higher. To succeed, the deal must receive support from 42 percent of shares.
The dissent extends far beyond Carl C. Icahn and the asset management firm Southeastern Asset Management, which together own about 12.7 percent of Dell's shares, Mr. de la Merced says. "That level of opposition makes it likely that the Dell board committee will postpone the vote by several days, people briefed on the matter said. Other related matters, including the record date by which shareholders must have owned shares to participate in the vote, have not yet been settled, one of these people said."
On Wednesday, Mr. Icahn criticized the Dell directors who refused to endorse his proposal. "I think most of these boards are completely dysfunctional," he said at the Delivering Alpha conference sponsored by CNBC and Institutional Investor in Manhattan. "But I've never seen one as bad as this. I really mean it - where they actually go out and scare their own shareholders."
JPMORGAN SEEKS TO SETTLE ENERGY CASE FOR $500 MILLION | JPMorgan Chase is trying to avoid a showdown over accusations that it manipulated energy prices, Ben Protess and Jessica Silver-Greenberg report in DealBook. The bank is seeking to settle with the Federal Energy Regulatory Commission, the agency that oversees the energy markets, according to people briefed on the matter. The regulator found that JPMorgan devised "manipulative schemes" that transformed "money-losing power plants into powerful profit centers," a commission document said.
The potential deal is expected to cost the bank about $500 million, DealBook reports. That would be a record for the agency, which has adopted a harder line with Wall Street. But for JPMorgan, the fine would barely dent its bottom line. The accusations against the bank surfaced in a confidential document reviewed by The New York Times that also claimed a senior JPMorgan executive, Blythe Masters, gave "false and misleading statements" under oath. "It is unclear whether Ms. Masters would be included in the potential settlement, but people close to her said that the regulator was unlikely to file a separate action against her," DealBook reports. The bank still disputes the accusations.
ON THE AGENDA | The Blackstone Group and BlackRock report earnings this morning. Microsoft, Google and Chipotle Mexican Grill report results after the market closes. Ben S. Bernanke, the Federal Reserve chairman, testifies before the Senate Banking Committee in Washington. James P. Gorman, the chief of Morgan Stanley, is on Bloomberg TV at 11:30 a.m. Laurence D. Fink of BlackRock is on CNBC at 4:10 p.m.
PELTZ URGES MERGER OF PEPSICO AND MONDELEZ | The activist investor Nelson Peltz said on Wednesday that he would seek a merger of PepsiCo and Mondelez International, going public with his plans after months of speculation. Mr. Peltz, whose Trian Fund Management has quietly amassed a stake of more than $2.7 billion in the two companies, urged Pepsi to merge with Mondelez and then spin off its beverage business, creating a new snack food giant that would combine the Frito-Lay brands with Cadbury, Oreo and Nabisco. Investors appeared receptive to the plan, which Mr. Peltz announced on Wednesday at the Delivering Alpha conference in Manhattan. "Pepsi is at a crossroads at this point in time," Mr. Peltz said. "They've got a cash business, and they've got a growth business."
The conference on Wednesday also included appearances by the short-seller James S. Chanos, who announced a bet against Caterpillar, and Preet Bharara, the United States attorney for the Southern District of New York, who reminded those in attendance that the statute of limitations for securities fraud cases had been extended.
 | Contact: @williamalden | E-mail
Sign up for the DealBook Newsletter, delivered every morning and afternoon.
Mergers & Acquisitions »
How to Make Poison Pills Palatable | Under a method proposed by professors Eric Posner and Glen Weyl of the University of Chicago, when an outside shareholder starts a takeover attempt, existing shareholders would have the right to buy votes for or against the takeover. DealBook »
J.C. Flowers Said to Be in Talks for Northern Rock Loans | The private equity firm J.C. Flowers is in advanced talks to buy £450 million ($684.8 million) of Northern Rock loans from the British government, the Times reported in London. THE TIMES
A Lifeline to a Brazilian Billionaire Would Be Risky | Christopher Swann of Reuters Breakingviews asks: Is the state development bank throwing good money after bad in reportedly easing debt terms for Eike Batista? REUTERS BREAKINGVIEWS
Shoemaker Allen Edmonds Said to Consider Sale | 
REUTERS
INVESTMENT BANKING »
Gupta Barred From Serving on Public Company Boards | Rajat K. Gupta, the former Goldman Sachs director convicted of passing secret information to a trader, was ordered to pay $13.9 million to settle a regulatory lawsuit and has been permanently barred from being an officer or director of a public company, the Securities and Exchange Commission said. BLOOMBERG NEWS
Hear That? It's Your Financial Adviser Tweeting. | Raymond James plans to announce an extensive effort to help its thousands of financial advisers harness social media when contacting clients. DealBook »
Entertaining Clients at the Gym | Bloomberg News writes: "Wall Street's salesmen and deal makers, whose expense accounts help fill downtown chophouses and box seats at ballparks, are now treating clients to a different kind of entertainment: high-end workouts." BLOOMBERG NEWS
Bank of America Reports 63% Gain in Net Income | In the bank's second-quarter financial report, net income rose 63 percent and while revenue rose, it received a lift from much lower expenses. DealBook »
PRIVATE EQUITY »
Billabong Creditors Revise Refinancing Proposal | The creditors, Centerbridge Partners and Oaktree Capital Management, are trying to persuade Billabong to abandon a rival refinancing agreement with a group including Altamont Capital Partners, The Wall Street Journal reports. WALL STREET JOURNAL
HEDGE FUNDS »
Hedge Funds Commit to Bets on a Weaker Yen | Despite volatility in the yen, many hedge funds focused on foreign exchange continue to bet that the Bank of Japan will succeed in weakening the yen over time, Reuters writes. REUTERS
Former Soros Employee Starts Firm in Hong Kong | 
BLOOMBERG NEWS
I.P.O./OFFERINGS »
London Stock Exchange Reports Gain in Revenue | The results, which beat analysts' forecasts, were helped by an increase in companies being listed, Reuters reports. REUTERS
Alibaba Builds Momentum for a Possible I.P.O. | 
BLOOMBERG NEWS
VENTURE CAPITAL »
SoftBank Forms Fuel-Cell Venture With Start-Up | SoftBank of Japan is setting up a joint venture with a Silicon Valley start-up, Bloom Energy, to bring what it calls "energy servers" to Japan, helping the start-up break into its first overseas market, The New York Times reports. NEW YORK TIMES
New Venture Capital Perk: Image Buffing | Several former journalists have recently joined venture capital firms, and each is "expected to spend part of their time helping their firm's entrepreneurs be viewed as thought leaders," Fortune's Dan Primack writes. FORTUNE
LEGAL/REGULATORY »
In Tourre Trial, S.E.C. Wages Battle Against Its Own Witness | The S.E.C.'s plan in its lawsuit against a former Goldman Sachs trader was thrown into disarray in several hours of combative testimony on Wednesday. DealBook »
In Audience at Tourre Trial, a Familiar Face | Brian Stoker, a former midlevel Citigroup executive who beat a government fraud case, has joined the spectators at the trial of Fabrice Tourre. DealBook »
Judge Rejects S.&P.'s Defense in Civil Case | A judge, allowing the Justice Department's lawsuit against Standard & Poor's Ratings Services to proceed, said the company's defense that its statements were "puffery" was "deeply and unavoidably troubling," The Wall Street Journal reports. WALL STREET JOURNAL
Setback for Google in Europe | The European Commission said on Wednesday for the first time that Google's proposal for addressing antitrust concerns did not go far enough, The New York Times reports. NEW YORK TIMES
Bernanke Reaffirms Fervor for Stimulus | The chairman of the Federal Reserve, Ben S. Bernanke, said on Wednesday that the central bank remained committed to supporting the economy. NEW YORK TIMES
Barclays Vows to Fight Energy Trading Fine | United States regulators have demanded that Barclays pay a record $470 million penalty for suspected manipulation by some traders of energy markets in California and other Western states. DealBook »
Heartening Moves Toward Real Progress in Bank Regulation | From Jesse Eisinger of ProPublica, a look at promising proposals to strengthen capital ratios and regulate the derivatives market. The Trade »
China Bars Glaxo Executive From Leaving During Bribery Inquiry | The New York Times reports: "Chinese authorities have barred a British finance executive at the pharmaceutical giant GlaxoSmithKline from leaving the country while they carry out an investigation into bribery and corruption at the British company, the company confirmed on Wednesday." NEW YORK TIMES
Sign up for the DealBook Newsletter, delivered every morning and afternoon.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: COMPANY EARNINGS (91%); WEALTH MANAGEMENT (90%); INTERIM FINANCIAL RESULTS (90%); MERGERS (90%); COMPANY PROFITS (90%); SHAREHOLDERS (90%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (90%); ENERGY & UTILITY SECTOR PERFORMANCE (89%); INVESTMENT MANAGEMENT (89%); BUYINS & BUYOUTS (78%); ENERGY & UTILITY TRADE (77%); DELAYS & POSTPONEMENTS (74%); ENERGY REGULATION (73%); POLLS & SURVEYS (72%); LEVERAGED BUYOUTS (71%); CONFERENCE CALLS (69%); SPONSORSHIP (69%); ENERGY DEPARTMENTS (68%); ENERGY & UTILITY LAW (68%); ENERGY & UTILITY POLICY (66%); ELECTRIC POWER PLANTS (63%); SETTLEMENT & COMPROMISE (61%); POWER PLANTS (60%) Morning Agenda

COMPANY: MORGAN STANLEY (92%); STATE STREET CORP (67%); SOUTHEASTERN ASSET MANAGEMENT INC (54%); VANGUARD GROUP INC (54%)

TICKER: MS (NYSE) (92%); STT (NYSE) (67%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (92%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (92%); NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (67%); NAICS525910 OPEN-END INVESTMENT FUNDS (67%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (67%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (54%); NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (54%)

PERSON: CARL ICAHN (74%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (52%) NEW YORK, USA (52%) UNITED STATES (52%)

LOAD-DATE: July 18, 2013



543 of 937 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(Bits)

PUB-DATE: July 18, 2013

SECTION: TECHNOLOGY

LENGTH: 786 words

HEADLINE: Amazon Rejected as Domain Name After South American Objections

BYLINE: ERIC PFANNER


HIGHLIGHT: A group of Latin American countries succeeded in blocking Amazon.com&#8217;s request to use the domain name .amazon, citing its importance to the identity of the Amazon basin. 

 BODY:
A group of Latin American countries appears to have succeeded in an effort to block Amazon, the online retailer, from using. amazon as a new suffix for Internet addresses.
A committee of the Internet Corporation for Assigned Names and Numbers, an international governance group for the Internet, recommended this week that. amazon not be approved for use as a so-called global top-level domain - the letters that follow the dot in Internet addresses.
At a meeting in Durban, South Africa, Icann reviewed applications for new domain suffixes like these in what has been billed as the biggest expansion of Internet addresses. Scores of companies, countries and organizations have applied to use their names or other terms as global top-level domains, alongside the handful of existing ones like .com and .org. 
While Icann has approved several new dot-terms, including the Chinese word for game and the Russian word for network, English-language brand names derived from geographical locations have proved to be more complicated.
In the run-up to the Durban meeting, a group of Latin American countries, including Brazil, Argentina, Chile, Peru and Uruguay, sent a letter to Icann, in which they argued that. amazon should be rejected because a river runs through it.
"In particular '. amazon' is a geographic name that represents important territories of some of our countries, which have relevant communities, with their own culture and identity directly connected with the name," the letter said. "Beyond the specifics, this should also be understood as a matter of principle."
The group had also objected to another application, from the outdoor clothier Patagonia, to use its name as an address suffix. That application was withdrawn before the Durban meeting.
The decision on. amazon, by the Governmental Advisory Committee of Icann, is not necessarily final. The Icann board could overrule the committee, though in practice it rarely does so.
"We're reviewing the G.A.C. advice and we look forward to working with Icann and other stakeholders to resolve these issues as the process moves forward," Amazon said in a statement.
One thing that remains unclear is why the United States government, represented in the Government Advisory Committee by the National Telecommunications and Information Administration, an arm of the Commerce Department, went along with the decision.
The administration did not immediately respond to a request for comment. Before the meeting, it sent a letter to Icann in which it outlined its support for the use of names like. amazon as Internet suffixes, but added that it would stand aside if other governments objected.
"The United States affirms our support for the free flow of information and freedom of expression and does not view sovereignty as a valid basis for objecting to the use of terms, and we have concerns about the effect of such claims on the integrity of the process," the administration said in the letter. "However, in the event the parties cannot reach agreement by the time this matter comes up for decision in the G.A.C., the United States is willing in Durban to abstain and remain neutral."
One analyst said that while the specific reasons the United States government went along with the rejection were unclear, its position on Internet governance issues had been weakened by the recent leaks of information about a vast digital surveillance program by the National Security Agency. Several countries in South America - though not those in the Amazon basin or the Patagonian region - have offered the leaker, Edward J. Snowden, asylum.
"It is clear that the leaks of sensitive national security information have severely weakened the U.S. government's ability to fight for our economic interests and have left the U.S. isolated in the G.A.C.," said Nao Matsukata, chief executive of FairWinds Partners, a Washington-based consulting firm that specializes in domain name strategy.
Milton Mueller, a professor at the Syracuse University School of Information Studies, said there might have been an element of horse-trading. By yielding to a broader consensus on the advisory committee, Washington could have been seeking to shore up broader support for Icann, whose control over the Internet address system has long irked the governments of countries like Russia and China.
"My hypothesis is that the U.S. government has been scared to death for some time that if G.A.C. doesn't get enough of what it wants, governments will give up on the whole Icann regime," Mr. Mueller said.

        
Google Wants Love and 100 Other Things
        
Daily Report: Apple Ruling Strengthens Amazon's Powerful Hand
        
The Price of Amazon
        
Technology Workers Are Young (Really Young)
        
Apple and Netflix Dominate Online Video

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: DOMAIN NAMES (91%); INTERNET & WWW (90%); INTERNET RETAILING (78%); TALKS & MEETINGS (78%); LANGUAGE & LANGUAGES (78%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS (77%); COMMUNICATIONS REGULATION & POLICY (77%); APPROVALS (76%); CLOTHING & ACCESSORIES STORES (73%); FREEDOM OF SPEECH (65%); FREEDOM OF EXPRESSION (50%); COMMERCE DEPARTMENTS (50%) Amazon.com Inc; Domain Names (Internet); Internet Corp for Assigned Names and Numbers; Latin America; Names, Geographical; Amazon.com Inc|AMZN|NASDAQ; Internet; Policy

COMPANY: AMAZON.COM INC (94%); INTERNET CORP FOR ASSIGNED NAMES & NUMBERS (91%)

ORGANIZATION: Amazon.com Inc; Internet Corp for Assigned Names and Numbers

TICKER: AMZN (NASDAQ) (94%) Amazon.com Inc; AMZN; NASDAQ

INDUSTRY: NAICS454111 ELECTRONIC SHOPPING (94%); SIC5961 CATALOG & MAIL-ORDER HOUSES (94%)

GEOGRAPHIC: LATIN AMERICA (93%); SOUTH AMERICA (92%); UNITED STATES (92%); URUGUAY (79%); SOUTH AFRICA (79%); CHILE (79%); ARGENTINA (79%) Latin America

LOAD-DATE: July 19, 2013



544 of 937 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(DealBook)

PUB-DATE: July 18, 2013

SECTION: BUSINESS

LENGTH: 668 words

HEADLINE: Bank in Madoff Settles With Some Plaintiffs and Gets Favorable Jury Ruling

BYLINE: SUSAN ANTILLA


HIGHLIGHT: Westport National Bank and its parent company, Connecticut Community Bank, were not liable for the losses of investors in Bernard Madoff&#8217;s vast Ponzi scheme in its role as a custodial bank, a jury found on Wednesday. Separately, the bank agreed to pay $7.5 million to 240 investors in a related case, a lawyer for the bank said. 

 BODY:
 6:19 p.m. | Updated 
Westport National Bank and its parent company, Connecticut Community Bank, were not liable for the losses of investors in Bernard Madoff's vast Ponzi scheme in its role as a custodial bank, a jury found on Wednesday. Separately, the bank agreed to pay $7.5 million to 240 investors in a related case, a lawyer for the bank said.
A federal jury in Hartford had finished hearing eight days of evidence last month in a case before Judge Vanessa L. Bryant of the United States District Court for the District of Connecticut. The case had consolidated three similar lawsuits against the bank. Two of those cases settled before the jury began its deliberations. 
After the other cases settled, the jury did evaluate the bank's custodial duties in a case brought by two Florida investors, but sent a mixed message.
After 14 hours of deliberation, the jury said that the bank was not a fiduciary, and thus owed no fiduciary duty to two elderly Florida investors, Audrey Short and Faye Albert.
The jury ruled that the bank breached its custodian agreements when it calculated its fees based on the Madoff firm's reports instead of on the actual assets it held. It also said that the two plaintiffs had proved that the bank breached its agreements when it failed to issue accurate annual statements and failed to audit or verify the existence and value of the assets.
But the six jurors determined that neither plaintiff had proved that she suffered any economic loss as a result of the actions.
"They found we failed to maintain accurate records, but they found that nothing the bank did caused any harm," Tracy A. Miner, one of the bank's lawyers, said in a telephone interview. Ms. Miner said that the bank's liabilities involving the accounts that were settled could have reached $70 million to $80 million.
Steve Gard, a lawyer for Mrs. Short and Mrs. Albert, said that he planned to file a motion within two weeks asking for a judgment in the investors' favor because the jurors findings "are inconsistent."
Mr. Gard said that the jurors determined that his clients had not suffered a loss as a result of the bank's inadequate recordkeeping before getting a chance to hear all the evidence.
During the trial, the bank stressed that its contracts with the plaintiffs only obligated it to perform ministerial duties. Lawyers for the bank also made much of the fact that financial regulators, including the Securities and Exchange Commission, had not been able to catch Mr. Madoff, so it would be unrealistic to expect a small Connecticut bank to be able to do so.
For their part, the plaintiffs emphasized that there were cautious investors who stayed away from Mr. Madoff's firm because of the lack of transparency in his operation.
The case had been watched for its implications on the duties of custodial banks. Investors sometimes assume that a custodian actually takes custody of their assets, but the bank's obligations can vary widely depending upon how its contract is worded.
Custodial relationships become problematic "when there is ambiguity about the bank's duties and the customer expects more than the bank thought it had agreed to" said Kathy Bazoian Phelps, a Los Angeles-based lawyer and co-author of "The Ponzi Book: A Legal Resource for Unraveling Ponzi Schemes."
The interpretation of contractual obligations was "exactly where the trouble lies" in the Connecticut Community Bank case, she said.
Disputes over the obligations of custodians will only get more frequent and more heated, said Edward Siedle, a former S.E.C. lawyer who investigates pension fund abuses.
Investors are increasingly setting up so-called self-directed I.R.A.'s that invest in hedge funds and real estate, Mr. Siedle said. Each of those accounts must be kept with a custodian, which may have no obligation to do more than keep records that it never verifies.
"The risks are getting greater than ever," he said.

        
Madoff Case Puts Focus on Duties of Custodial Banks
        
S.E.C. Hopes for Validation in Goldman Sachs Trader Case

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: JURY TRIALS (93%); DEPOSITORY SERVICES (91%); PARENT COMPANIES (91%); PONZI SCHEMES (91%); COMMUNITY BANKS (90%); VERDICTS (90%); LAWYERS (90%); LITIGATION (90%); HOLDING COMPANIES (90%); BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (90%); EVIDENCE (89%); BANKING & FINANCE AGENCIES (89%); BANKING & FINANCE REGULATION (78%); SECURITIES LAW (78%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (77%); FRAUD & FINANCIAL CRIME (77%); SUITS & CLAIMS (77%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (76%); CONTRACTS LAW (75%); REGULATORY COMPLIANCE (72%); PYRAMID SCHEMES (72%); JUDGES (71%); INTERVIEWS (63%) Connecticut; Madoff, Bernard L, Investment Securities; Ponzi and Pyramid Schemes; Securities and Commodities Violations; Suits and Litigation (Civil); Westport National Bank; Financial Services; Legal/Regulatory; Top Headline 1

COMPANY: CONNECTICUT COMMUNITY BANK NA (58%)

ORGANIZATION: Madoff, Bernard L, Investment Securities; Westport National Bank

INDUSTRY: SIC6021 NATIONAL COMMERCIAL BANKS (58%)

PERSON: BERNARD MADOFF (93%)

GEOGRAPHIC: HARTFORD, CT, USA (90%) CONNECTICUT, USA (93%) UNITED STATES (93%) Connecticut

LOAD-DATE: July 19, 2013



545 of 937 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(Economix)

PUB-DATE: July 18, 2013

SECTION: BUSINESS; economy

LENGTH: 504 words

HEADLINE: Labor Force Participation Is Not Coming Back

BYLINE: BINYAMIN APPELBAUM


HIGHLIGHT: A new piece of economic modeling suggests that the United States will have less unemployment and also less employment. 

 BODY:
Don't worry about labor force participation. It's not coming back.
That's the conclusion of a new piece of economic modeling by the respected St. Louis firm Macroeconomic Advisers. And, if true, it has important implications for the Federal Reserve's conduct of monetary policy over the next few years. Specifically, it means the monthly pace of job creation so far this year is ample to push the unemployment rate below 6.5 percent by mid-2015. 
Let's take a step back. Lots of people lost jobs during the Great Recession. In the aftermath, the great surprise has been how few are looking for new jobs. Labor force participation, the share of adults working or trying to find work, has stagnated at about 63.5 percent, almost three percentage points below the pre-recession level.
The unemployment rate has dropped almost entirely because of this decline in labor force participation. In other words, it has not fallen because people are finding jobs. It has fallen because fewer people are looking for jobs.

The question is whether that's a permanent condition. Some economists say that people who have stopped looking for jobs will start looking again as economic conditions improve. If that's true, it probably means that the Fed should be trying harder to stimulate the economy, because the current pace of job growth would not suffice to return unemployment to normal levels any time soon. As people finding jobs poured out of the unemployment pool, others would be pouring into the pool, keeping the level of unemployment unacceptably high.
Macroeconomic Advisers says, however, that participation is unlikely to increase. Yes, some people will start looking for jobs. But it predicts that will be offset by other trends, like the aging of the population into retirement. 
It also points to the growing popularity of federal disability benefits, a program many researchers say is functioning as a safety net for people who can't find jobs - except that it tends to remove them from the workforce on a permanent basis.
In effect, the model suggests that the Fed is right to focus on the unemployment rate as it decides how long to pursue its various stimulus campaigns.
If the model is right, further declines in unemployment will reflect job growth, not declines in participation. It will mean that things are actually getting better. 
At the same time, if the model is right, the recovery will only go so far. Participation is in long-term decline, and the Fed can do nothing about it.
If the economy adds an average of 170,000 jobs a month over the next two years - well below the 200,000 per month pace so far this year - the unemployment rate will fall to 6.5 percent by mid-2015. The Fed's chairman, Ben S. Bernanke, said yesterday that he thought the rate should end up around 5.6 percent.
We'll have less unemployment, and less employment, and that will be that.

        
Implications for Monetary Policy
        
Wall Street's Ideal Jobs Gain: Middling
        
Bernanke: By Unemployment, Not So Good
        
Policy Impact and Red Herrings
        
Inflationphobia, Part I

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: LABOR FORCE (93%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); EMPLOYMENT (90%); ECONOMIC POLICY (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (90%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (90%); RECESSION (90%); LABOR SECTOR PERFORMANCE (90%); EMPLOYMENT SEARCH (90%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (89%); PUBLIC POLICY (78%); JOB CREATION (78%); ECONOMIC RECOVERY (78%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (78%); AGING TRENDS (76%); TRENDS (73%); BANKING & FINANCE (72%); MONETARY POLICY (72%); PUBLIC FINANCE (72%) Bernanke, Ben S; Macroeconomic Advisers; Unemployment; Economix

ORGANIZATION: Macroeconomic Advisers

PERSON: BEN BERNANKE (77%) Bernanke, Ben S

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: July 18, 2013



546 of 937 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(DealBook)

PUB-DATE: July 18, 2013

SECTION: BUSINESS

LENGTH: 1192 words

HEADLINE: JPMorgan Executive May Escape Penalty

BYLINE: JESSICA SILVER-GREENBERG


HIGHLIGHT: While the Federal Energy Regulatory Commission and JPMorgan are negotiating a settlement, Blythe Masters, a top bank executive, is not expected to face a separate action, people briefed on the matter said. 

 BODY:
Even as the nation's top energy regulator is poised to extract a record settlement from JPMorgan Chase over accusations that it manipulated power markets, the agency is expected to spare a top bank lieutenant who federal investigators initially contended made "false and misleading statements under oath," according to people briefed on the matter.
Blythe Masters, a seminal Wall Street figure who is known for developing exotic financial instruments, emerged this spring at the center of an investigation by the Federal Energy Regulatory Commission into accusations of illegal trading in the California and Michigan electricity markets. 
 The regulator found that JPMorgan designed trading "schemes" that converted "money-losing power plants into powerful profit centers," a commission document said.
While the commission and JPMorgan are negotiating a settlement for about $500 million, the people briefed on the matter said, Ms. Masters is not expected to face a separate action. The move signals a pivot for the agency, which has been increasingly flexing its enforcement muscle, according to the people briefed on the matter, who spoke on the condition they not be named.
Months earlier, investigators planned to recommend that the regulator find Ms. Masters, who holds a powerful position within JPMorgan as the head of its commodities business, "individually liable." But as the investigation progressed, these people said, top energy regulatory officials have been leaning toward not pursuing any civil charges against Ms. Masters.
The decision - which could change, according to the people briefed on the matter - would mean that Ms. Masters would escape the agency's sweeping crackdown against big banks. After gaining enforcement authority because of a change in 2005 that allowed it to impose fines of $1 million a day for each violation, the energy regulator has taken a tougher stance with Wall Street.
Still, the regulator's claims against JPMorgan, which came to light this spring in a confidential commission document reviewed by The New York Times, have turned a harsh spotlight on Ms. Masters. In the 70-page document, sent to JPMorgan in March, the regulator's enforcement staff said it intended to recommend that the commission pursue a civil case against JPMorgan in connection with the trading in California and Michigan. Since the regulator's findings surfaced, JPMorgan has defended Ms. Masters and the traders, disputing that "Blythe Masters or any employee lied or acted inappropriately in this matter."
As JPMorgan began to negotiate a settlement with the regulator in recent weeks, Ms. Masters, too, vociferously defended the trading activity, asserting that the bank did nothing wrong, according to three people briefed on the matter. That position, the people said, has been echoed throughout JPMorgan.
Within Wall Street, Ms. Masters is widely considered a pioneer for her use of credit derivatives, the complex financial products that played a central role in the 2008 financial crisis. Rising through the ranks of JPMorgan - she was the youngest managing director at 28 - Ms. Masters became one of the most powerful executives on Wall Street, propelled by a vision that the products could radically remake the banking industry.
Ms. Masters formed close ties with Jamie Dimon, the bank's chief executive, who has moved to shore up support for her, according to people close to the bank. The two were bound by their belief that the commodities business was critical to JPMorgan's growth.
In her role as commodities chief, according to the March document, Ms. Masters oversaw traders in Houston who were in a vexing position: selling electricity from power plants in California and Michigan was a losing endeavor. The rights to sell the energy, which JPMorgan inherited after its 2008 takeover of Bear Stearns, relied on "inefficient," antiquated technology. Simply put, the document said, it was an "unprofitable asset." Particularly troubling, the document said, was a string of Southern California power plants that were built in the 1950s and 1960s, ultimately making them "less efficient than most of their competitors" because they siphoned more fuel for the energy they produced.
Known for her "highly detail-oriented" style, Ms. Masters "kept close tabs on the California and Michigan power plants," asking that she be directly briefed by her employees about "many of the bidding schemes under investigation," agency investigators found in the March document. From September 2010 to June 2011, those traders devised eight separate "schemes" to sell energy at prices "calculated to falsely appear attractive" to state energy authorities.
As the bidding was under way, the investigators found, Ms. Masters received regular PowerPoint presentations and e-mails that referred to the strategies. In one January 2011 PowerPoint reviewed by Ms. Masters, the strategy, which promised to transform the plants losing money into profitable operations, appeared 51 times, according to the March regulatory document.
JPMorgan has argued that its trading was legal. In an earlier statement, a bank spokeswoman said the "bidding strategies were in full compliance with applicable rules."
But the energy investigators disagreed, the document shows. Duped by the manipulation, the investigators said, authorities in California and Michigan gave roughly $83 million in "excessive" payments to JPMorgan.
When JPMorgan traders worked to systemically "cover up" the strategy, investigators initially found, Ms. Masters aided the obfuscation. Ms. Masters "personally participated in JPMorgan's efforts to block" the state authorities "from understanding the reasons behind JPMorgan's bidding schemes," the document said.
After California authorities began to raise objections to the bank's trading strategy, the investigators found, JPMorgan worked to cloak the trading from authorities by excluding critical profit and loss statements.
In April 2011, Ms. Masters initiated a conference call with top JPMorgan executives to brief them on "a reputational risk we are running in California," according to the document.
The investigators also cited an April 2011 e-mail in which Ms. Masters, overriding the bank's compliance department, ordered a "rewrite" of an internal document that questioned whether JPMorgan ran afoul of the law. The revised wording, referring to the commission, said that "JPMorgan does not believe that it violated FERC's policies."
One of the central disputes between the regulator and Ms. Masters was the extent to which she knew about the bidding strategies. Initially, the regulators took aim at Ms. Masters, whom they described as highly intelligent. While Ms. Masters "saw many presentations" about the strategies, she "falsely testified that she did not understand how the scheme made money, beyond a generic understanding that it was designed to maximize all sources of revenue," investigators found.
JPMorgan's response to the March document, which exceeded 100 pages, could ultimately modulate the regulator's decision.

        
Scrutiny Falls on a Pioneer at JPMorgan
        
JPMorgan in Talks to Settle Energy Manipulation Case for $500 Million

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: ENERGY & UTILITY LAW (95%); ENERGY DEPARTMENTS (94%); ENERGY REGULATION (92%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (90%); ELECTRIC POWER PLANTS (90%); ENERGY & UTILITY POLICY (90%); ELECTRICITY TRANSMISSION & DISTRIBUTION (90%); UTILITIES INDUSTRY (90%); SETTLEMENT & COMPROMISE (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (89%); INVESTIGATIONS (89%); EXECUTIVES (79%); BANKING & FINANCE REGULATION (78%); PUBLIC UTILITIES COMMISSIONS (78%); DEREGULATION (78%); FINES & PENALTIES (78%); ENERGY & UTILITY DEREGULATION (78%); SPECIAL INVESTIGATIVE FORCES (77%); COMPANY PROFITS (76%); DERIVATIVE INSTRUMENTS (76%); POWER PLANTS (73%); INVESTMENT BANKING (73%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (72%) Banking and Financial Institutions; Bear Stearns Cos; California; Dimon, James; Electric Light and Power; Federal Energy Regulatory Commission; JPMorgan Chase & Company; Masters, Blythe; Michigan; Regulation and Deregulation of Industry; Financial Services; Investment Banking; Legal/Regulatory

COMPANY: JPMORGAN CHASE & CO (96%)

ORGANIZATION: Bear Stearns Cos; Federal Energy Regulatory Commission; JPMorgan Chase &amp; Company

TICKER: JPM (NYSE) (96%); JPM (LSE) (96%); 8634 (TSE) (96%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (96%); NAICS523999 MISCELLANEOUS FINANCIAL INVESTMENT ACTIVITIES (96%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (96%); SIC6022 STATE COMMERCIAL BANKS (96%)

PERSON: JAMES DIMON (73%) Dimon, James; Masters, Blythe

GEOGRAPHIC: MICHIGAN, USA (94%); CALIFORNIA, USA (90%) UNITED STATES (94%) California; Michigan

LOAD-DATE: July 19, 2013



547 of 937 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(DealBook)

PUB-DATE: July 18, 2013

SECTION: BUSINESS

LENGTH: 1072 words

HEADLINE: Big Banks, Flooded in Profits, Fear Flurry of New Safeguards

BYLINE: PETER EAVIS


HIGHLIGHT: Wall Street&#8217;s big banks have reported giant profits, but they are still opposing aspects of the Dodd-Frank financial reform law and do not like a proposal to set aside more capital to cover future losses. 

 BODY:
The nation's six largest banks reported $23 billion in profits in the second quarter, but they could end up victims of their own success.
In recent weeks, the Treasury Department, senior regulators and members of Congress have stepped up efforts intended to make the largest banks safer. The banks have warned that more regulation could undermine their ability to compete and curtail the amount of money they have to lend, but the strong earnings that came out over the last week could undercut their argument.
 The most pressing concern for banks is a relatively tough new rule that regulators proposed last week that could force banks to build up more capital, the financial buffer they maintain to absorb losses. But the banks did not demonstrate any difficulty in meeting the proposed rules, and the banks now appear to have fewer allies in Washington than at any time since the financial crisis. 
This was highlighted on Wednesday when the Treasury secretary, Jacob J. Lew, effectively issued an ultimatum to Wall Street, calling for the swift adoption of rules introduced through the Dodd-Frank financial overhaul law, which Congress passed in 2010. Mr. Lew also said that he might be open to stricter measures if enough had not been done to remove the threat that big banks can pose to the wider economy.
"If we get to the end of this year, and cannot, with an honest, straight face, say that we've ended 'too big to fail,' we're going to have to look at other options because the policy of Dodd-Frank and the policy of the administration is to end 'too big to fail,' " Mr. Lew said.
"This is maybe the strongest admission I've heard from the administration that we must act further to end 'too big to fail,' " Senator David Vitter, Republican of Louisiana, said in a statement. Along with Senator Sherrod Brown, Democrat of Ohio, Senator Vitter introduced a bill earlier this year that would sharply increase capital levels at the biggest banks. In Congress on Thursday, Ben S. Bernanke, the Federal Reserve chairman, echoed Mr. Lew's remarks. He said that if the measures already planned did not remove the risks posed by large banks, "additional steps would be appropriate."
Still, some analysts remain skeptical that the Fed and the Treasury would really lend their weight to the sort of aggressive measures some lawmakers are contemplating. The recent comments may be an attempt to gain some political benefit from looking tough on the banks. And the remarks may be aimed at reducing any momentum that the more draconian pieces of bank legislation are gaining in the Senate. 
"I wonder how much of this is a serious policy change and how much is positioning by the administration to take on a more populist mode going into 2014," Nolan McCarty, a professor of politics and public affairs at Princeton University, said. "It's a little bit surprising that, three years after Dodd-Frank and five years after the financial crisis, people are concerned not enough has been done."
Still, the stronger words from government officials could shift the balance of power away from the banking industry.
"I sense a sea change in this," Sheila C. Bair, a former chairwoman of the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation, a primary bank regulator, said. "It's not moving with the banks, it's moving against them."
The resurgence in bank profits appears to have been an important factor in persuading regulators to do more. The earnings revival did not take place just at the banks that emerged from the crisis in a position of relative strength, like JPMorgan Chase and Wells Fargo. This week, both Bank of America and Citigroup, which faltered badly after the financial crisis, reported healthy profits. The stocks of both banks have nearly doubled over the last 12 months, highlighting that investors' faith in the behemoths is also returning.
"The regulators are doing this because they can," Michael Mayo, a banking analyst at CLSA, said. "And they can at this time of relative stability."
The six largest banks now dominate the industry, accounting for more than half the sector's assets. Since the crisis, this has helped them make profit from mortgages and credit card loans, as well as Wall Street activities, like trading securities and underwriting deals. Their second-quarter profits were up 40 percent compared with those in the period a year earlier. Over the last 12 months, their combined profits were more than $70 billion. Over that period, Morgan Stanley, Goldman Sachs and JPMorgan's investment bank, all big presences on Wall Street, paid compensation of $41 billion.
Regulations planned or put in place in the crisis may also have helped banks by making them more resilient to shocks. The banks have less risky assets on their balance sheets, which helped them get through the recent rout in the bond market without big losses.
"You had major dislocations in currencies, commodities and interest rates and so far the industry has passed with flying colors," Mr. Mayo said.
Still, Mr. Mayo and others question how healthy the banks are. While profits are up, and trading profits are buoyant, the pace of lending is not picking up. "Loans are down year to date. That's the issue at the moment," he said. "This is not the stuff robust recoveries are made of."
The industry contends that, with economic growth still relatively weak, more regulation of banks would be wrong.
"You have to be cautious about what layering on additional things can do to our prospects for economic growth, job creation and credit availability, in light of this economic fragility," said Robert S. Nichols, president of the Financial Services Forum, an industry group that represents large banks. "We have to have more robust growth to get Americans back to work."
While banks have made big profits under stiffer rules since the crisis, some analysts warn that adding more to the overhaul could really start to hurt.
"We've reached a point now where we have a balance," John R. Dearie, who oversees policy at the Financial Services Forum, said. "We have a fortress balance sheet banking system. Our concern is that we don't overdo it."
Still, some banking experts think the banks are bluffing when they say more regulation could hamper lending. "They can't see that it is in their long-term interests to have a credible regulatory process," Ms. Bair said.

        
Money Market Fund Overhaul Is Early Test for Dodd-Frank
        
Rebutting the Contention That Small Is Better for Banks

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: 2010 WALL STREET & BANKING REFORM (91%); BANKING & FINANCE (91%); US DODD FRANK ACT (91%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (91%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); COMPANY PROFITS (90%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (90%); AGENCY RULEMAKING (90%); COMPANY EARNINGS (90%); LEGISLATION (89%); BANKING & FINANCE REGULATION (78%); BANKING LAW (78%); PUBLIC POLICY (78%); PUBLIC FINANCE (78%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (77%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (77%); BANK DEPOSIT INSURANCE (73%); INVESTMENT BANKING (73%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (73%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (73%); CONSUMER LAW (72%); POLITICAL SCIENCE (72%); CONSUMER PROTECTION (72%); POLITICS (67%) Banking and Financial Institutions; Deposit Insurance; Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act (2010); Lew, Jacob J; Treasury Department; Financial Services; Investment Banking; Legal/Regulatory; Wall Street Earnings

ORGANIZATION: Treasury Department

PERSON: JACK LEW (93%); BEN BERNANKE (58%); DAVID VITTER (57%); SHERROD BROWN (57%) Lew, Jacob J

GEOGRAPHIC: OHIO, USA (79%); LOUISIANA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: July 29, 2013



548 of 937 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(FiveThirtyEight)

PUB-DATE: July 18, 2013

SECTION: US; politics

LENGTH: 1734 words

HEADLINE: The White House Is Not a Metronome

BYLINE: NATE SILVER


HIGHLIGHT: The writer Megan McArdle asserts that Republicans have about a 75 percent chance of winning the White House in 2016, because &#8220;voters just get tired after eight years.&#8221; 

 BODY:
In a series of articles last week, the writer Megan McArdle asserted that Republicans have about a 75 percent chance of winning the White House in 2016. "Mostly, the White House flips back and forth like a metronome," she wrote. "Voters just get tired after eight years."
As other commentators, like Henry Farrell, have pointed out, one can find almost any pattern in presidential results if one looks hard enough. By manipulating the definition of incumbency, the time frame that one examines or the measure of success (e.g., the popular vote or the Electoral College), or by selectively excluding "outliers" or exceptional cases, the potential for cherry-picking and overfitting is high. (In layman's terms, an overfit statistical model is one that is engineered to match idiosyncratic circumstances in past data, but which is not an accurate picture and makes poor predictions as a result.)
But let's evaluate a relatively simple version of Ms. McArdle's claim. What has happened, historically, after the same party has controlled the White House for exactly eight consecutive years? 
Since the Republican Party first nominated a presidential candidate in the election of 1856, ushering in the modern two-party system, this circumstance has occurred either 11 or 12 times. The ambiguous case is in 1868. Abraham Lincoln, the great Republican president, had been assassinated and was succeeded by Andrew Johnson, his vice president, who is variously defined as a Democrat; as a member of the National Union Party, which Lincoln temporarily established in 1864; or as having no party affiliation.
Excluding 1868, the incumbent party has won the popular vote in 5 of these 11 cases, and the Electoral College in 4 of the 11 cases. Including 1868, when Ulysses S. Grant won a third consecutive election for Republicans but directly succeeded Johnson rather than Lincoln, the incumbent party's track record improves to 6-of-12 in the popular vote and 5-of-12 in the Electoral College.
Depending on your definition, then, the incumbent party's success rate in these elections has been anywhere from 36 percent (4 out of 11) to 50 percent (6 out of 12). Perhaps you could argue that Republicans' odds of winning in 2016 are slightly better than 50 percent on this basis, but claiming that their odds are as good as 75 percent, as Ms. McArdle does, doesn't seem to have any justification in this evidence.
However, as Jonathan Bernstein writes, looking at wins and losses in such a binary way is probably not the best way to evaluate the evidence. Many United States elections, as in 2000 and 1960, have essentially been ties, where the most minor variations in the flow of the campaign might have changed the winner of the Electoral College or popular vote. With this in mind, it is better to examine margins of victory.
Incidentally, this is close to a universal principle of statistical analysis. It's almost always more robust to evaluate the margin by which a given outcome occurs than to look at the variable as black or white, win or loss, hit or miss, on or off. 
If we look at these elections by the margin of victory in the popular vote, we see either four or five clear wins for the incumbent party (depending on whether 1868 is counted; the unambiguous cases are 1904, 1928, 1940 and 1988), three clear losses (1860, 1920 and 2008) and four elections (1960, 1968, 1976 and 2000) that were very close. On average, the incumbent party won the popular vote by 0.7 percentage points if 1868 is excluded or 1.1 percentage points if it is included.
Alternatively, we can measure the incumbent party's margin of victory in the Electoral College. On average, excluding 1868, the incumbent party has won the Electoral College by a margin of 3.8 percent (as a share of the available electors), which is the equivalent of winning today's Electoral College 279-259. If 1868 is included, the incumbent party's average Electoral College margin improves slightly to 7.3 percent, roughly the equivalent of a 289-249 win today.
My point is not that the incumbent party actually has an advantage after two consecutive terms in office. (Some statistical models assume that it does, which I regard as just as questionable a claim as Ms. McArdle's.) Instead, I'd make the more modest assertion that its odds of winning a third term are, on first approximation, 50-50.
This contrasts with cases in which the incumbent party has won just one consecutive term in office. In those cases, since 1856, the incumbent party has won the popular vote in 14 of 18 elections and the Electoral College in 13 of 18, and its average margin of victory in the popular vote has been 8.5 percentage points.
This helps to put President Obama's win last year into context. How did he manage to be re-elected despite a below-average economy? Well, Mr. Obama's margin of victory was also below average compared with the most similar incumbents in the past. If the average first-term incumbent wins by eight or nine percentage points, you can have quite a few things go wrong and still win by some margin.
What about when a party has won three or more consecutive elections and seeks yet another term? If Ms. McArdle's fatigue hypothesis is correct, we might expect the incumbent party to do exceptionally poorly in these cases. (If eight years are enough to tire out voters, then 12 or 16 or 20 certainly ought to be.) 
However, the incumbent party's track record in such cases is not all that bad, historically. Republicans won six consecutive elections from 1860 to 1880 (with some caveats: Lincoln's term was interrupted, and Rutherford B. Hayes won the Electoral College in 1876 despite losing the popular vote). Democrats won five consecutive elections from 1932 to 1948. On average, the incumbent party has lost the popular vote in these cases, but only by 1.3 percentage points - essentially a tossup.
On first approximation, then, presidential election results have resembled a random walk, with the important exception that an incumbent party has had a significant advantage when it has held exactly one term in office. I am suspicious of the patterns that people claim to identify beyond that, which may reflect the human bias toward detecting signal in random noise.
That's not to say there are no further complications. 
One major question, for instance, is whether the one-term incumbency advantage pertains to the president himself or to his party. The evidence in Congressional elections, for what it's worth, mostly points toward the incumbent himself mattering. When an elected incumbent retires from the Senate in a swing state, for instance, the odds of his party's winning the next election are roughly 50-50 - not much better (as would be the case if there were residual benefits for the incumbent's party even after the incumbent himself retired) and not much worse (as might be the case if voters were fatigued by having the same party in office). 
Also, appointed senators have a fairly poor track record compared with elected incumbents. Perhaps Congressional voting is not quite the same as presidential voting, but the data set is a lot more robust (with hundreds and hundreds of cases as opposed to a couple dozen), so it is worth some consideration - and it, too, points to 50-50 as the right baseline in an open-seat election. 
Thinking carefully about these baseline tendencies is important, because in some ways the 2016 election will be unprecedented. 
What do I mean? 
Presuming that Mr. Obama serves out the remaining three and a half years of his term, he will be only the fifth president prevented by the 22nd Amendment from seeking further terms in office. The other four cases were Dwight D. Eisenhower in 1960, Ronald Reagan in 1988, Bill Clinton in 2000 and George W. Bush in 2008. Those four elections resulted in one clear loss for the incumbent party (2008), one clear win (1988) and two very close elections. But these are only four cases and so do not tell us much one way or the other.
It might be said that there was a de facto two-term limit before there was a constitutional one - in other words, that presidents almost always respected the two-term precedent that George Washington established. In that case, we could also look to cases where a president voluntarily retired after two consecutive terms as precedents for 2016.
But this is not really true. From the late 19th century through the ratification of the 22nd Amendment in 1951, many presidents who were able to run for a third term showed some interest in one.
Franklin D. Roosevelt ran for and won third and fourth terms. Grant sought a third term (although not a third consecutive one) in 1880 and was nearly nominated before Republicans chose James A. Garfield instead on the 36th ballot. Woodrow Wilson, some historians now claim, was interested in a third term, but Democrats weren't interested in nominating him. Theodore Roosevelt ran for a third term in 1912, although as a member of the Progressive Party rather than the Republican Party. Harry Truman, who was exempt from the 22nd Amendment, initially sought a third term in 1952 but withdrew after the New Hampshire primary.
These distinctions matter because, unless a president is legally prevented from running for a third term, there are selection effects to which ones decide to do so. Popular presidents might seek and win another nomination, while unpopular ones might retire or be rejected by their party. It could be that voters react differently to parties seeking third terms in the era of the 22nd Amendment than they did in the years before it, and that the incumbent party's batting average will wind up being meaningfully higher or lower than 50 percent in the long run. But we have little empirical evidence for this yet.
Instead, some humility is called for when interpreting the evidence. On the eve of an election - when the polls have become very reliable, and we know the identities of the candidates and something about the state of the economy and the mood of the country - it is possible to make relatively bold and precise forecasts about the outcome. But none of this applies three and a half years in advance.

        
Auto Rescue and Low Home-State Bonus Keep Michigan Out of Play
        
How Immigration Reform and Demographics Could Change Presidential Math
        
In California, Growing Diversity First Made Its Mark
        
Sept. 26: Could 2012 Be Like 2008?
        
The Statistical State of the Presidential Race

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: WRITERS (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); US POLITICAL PARTIES (89%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (89%); ELECTIONS (89%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (78%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (78%); US PRESIDENTS (78%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (78%); POLITICS (77%); STATISTICAL METHOD (73%) Presidential Elections (US); Voting and Voters; Politics

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: August 23, 2013



549 of 937 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 19, 2013
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Classified; Pg. 23

LENGTH: 183 words

HEADLINE: Paid Notice: Deaths DONHAUSER, ROSINE LAMBIOTTE

 BODY:
DONHAUSER--Rosine Lambiotte, 88, died peacefully at her Manhattan home on July 14. Born in 1925, she grew up in the Nievre region of France, and in Brussels, Belgium, where she graduated from the Universite Libre de Bruxelles with a Master's degree in Economics. In 1958, she emigrated to the United States after marrying R. Paige Donhauser, her late beloved husband. Believing passionately in education as a source of empowerment, she first volunteered in New York public schools, later with the former Literacy Volunteers of America, and finally, with the English Speaking Union. For several years she taught French at the Nightingale-Bamford School. Those who knew her, will miss her kindness, fierce intelligence, profound love and understanding of literature, music, and art, and most of all, her warm and ready smile. She is survived by her brother Georges Lambiotte of Brussels, many nieces and nephews, and her children Caroline R. and Peter L. Donhauser, son-in-law Victor Barall, daughter-in-law Whitney W. Donhauser, and granddaughters, Amelia W. and Cecile L. Donhauser, all of New York. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Paid Death Notice

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: DEATHS & OBITUARIES (92%); CHILDREN (88%); EDUCATION SYSTEMS & INSTITUTIONS (88%); LITERACY & ILLITERACY (70%); GRANDCHILDREN (66%)

ORGANIZATION: LITERACY VOLUNTEERS OF AMERICA (55%)

GEOGRAPHIC: BRUSSELS, BELGIUM (93%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (90%) NEW YORK, USA (90%); BOURGOGNE, FRANCE (88%) BELGIUM (93%); UNITED STATES (91%); FRANCE (88%)

LOAD-DATE: July 19, 2013



550 of 937 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 19, 2013
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 18

LENGTH: 529 words

HEADLINE: Manhattan Leads in Increases in Life Span

BYLINE: By SAM ROBERTS

 BODY:
Since 1985, the life expectancy for Manhattan residents has increased more than that of any other county in the country, according to a new analysis, which attributed the increase to gentrification and to a healthier lifestyle. 
Brooklyn, the Bronx and Queens also were among the 12 counties where longevity increased the most.
In Manhattan, the average lifespan rose nearly 13 years for men and more than 8 years for women over the 25 years through 2010.
''Our researchers think it's more than economics,'' said William Heisel, communications director at the University of Washington's Institute for Health Metrics and Evaluation, which conducted the analysis based on census data and health statistics.
''When we have looked at changes in income to see how they line up to changes in life expectancy, sometimes the trend corresponds and sometimes it does not,'' he said. ''In Manhattan's case, we think that the drive to implement smoking bans, trans fat bans, and to make the city more amenable to physical activity and healthy food choices has had and will have an impact. The early and aggressive interventions into the AIDS epidemic are part of the story, too.''
''Manhattan stands out,'' said Dr. Christopher J. L. Murray, the director of the institute.
Though the statistical differences were infinitesimal, Brooklyn ranked third, with increases in life expectancy of 6 years for women and nearly 10 years for men. The Bronx ranked fourth for women (6 years) and fifth for men (nearly 10 years). Queens was 11th for women (6 years) and for men (nearly 9 years).
Marin, Calif., led in life expectancy among women, at 85 years. Manhattan was 15th (84 years), preceded by Bergen County, N.J., and followed by Westchester County, N.Y. No New York county was among the top 20 for men (Bergen was 12th).
Manhattan and Brooklyn, especially, have recorded an influx of wealthier white residents. The National Center for Health Statistics reported this week that while the gap in life expectancy between blacks and whites is lower than it has ever been, whites are still likely to live four years longer, on average.
''New Yorkers today are living longer and healthier than ever before, and substantially longer than people in the rest of the country, in part because of public health initiatives to combat H.I.V. infection, heart disease, cancer, smoking, unhealthy diet, and physical inactivity'' said Dr. Thomas Farley, the city's health commissioner. ''We intend to continue these public health efforts, with a particular focus on the city's twin epidemics of obesity and diabetes.''
Even a spokesman for the New York State Restaurant Association, which has resisted some of the city's initiatives, applauded the gains in life expectancy.
''It's reflective of the healthy food choices available in New York,'' said the spokesman, Andrew Moesel. ''It shows both the attitude of New Yorkers toward healthy living and the multitude of options. If you want to only drink papaya juice you have five places that serve different varieties.
''We have always applauded Mayor Bloomberg's intentions to make New York a healthier place,'' he said. ''Sometimes we disagree about the best method.''

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LIFE EXPECTANCY (90%); DISEASES & DISORDERS (89%); STATISTICS (89%); WOMEN (89%); EPIDEMICS (87%); TRENDS (78%); HEALTH STATISTICS AGENCIES (76%); SMOKING (75%); OBESITY (73%); NUTRITION (72%); SMOKING BANS (72%); OILS & FATS (72%); CANCER (71%); EXERCISE & FITNESS (70%); HEALTH DEPARTMENTS (70%); HEALTH CARE POLICY (70%); BUSINESS & PROFESSIONAL ASSOCIATIONS (70%); AIDS & HIV (68%); RESTAURANTS (67%); HEART DISEASE (60%); DIABETES (60%); CENSUS (56%)

ORGANIZATION: UNIVERSITY OF WASHINGTON (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (99%) NEW YORK, USA (99%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); NEW JERSEY, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (99%)

LOAD-DATE: July 19, 2013



551 of 937 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 19, 2013
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; Movies, Performing Arts/Weekend Desk; Pg. 19

LENGTH: 6178 words

HEADLINE: The Listings

 BODY:
Art
Museums and galleries are in Manhattan unless otherwise noted. Full reviews of recent art shows: nytimes.com/art. A searchable guide to these and many other art shows is at nytimes.com/events.
Museums
&#x2605; Bronx Museum of the Arts: 'State of Mind: New California Art Circa 1970' (through Sept. 8) California in the 1960s and '70s was one of the weirder places on the planet, home to radical strains of both right- and left-wing politics, a hub of the national defense industry and a breeding ground for alternative cultures from Beat to hippie. It also produced its own strain of Conceptualism, the international art style that valued ideas and actions over things. This Bronx Museum show gives a vivid sense of the West Coast version, with its gawky rawness, sense of moral purpose, humor, and dovetailing of braininess and zaniness. 1040 Grand Concourse, at 165th Street, Morrisania, the Bronx, (718) 681-6000, bronxmuseum.org. (Holland Cotter) 
Brooklyn Museum: 'The Bruce High Quality Foundation: Ode to Joy, 2001-2013' (through Sept. 22) The New York collective of anonymous young artists known as the Bruce High Quality Foundation has generated much buzz and some puzzlement since emerging in 2004. This messy retrospective answers few questions, but brings enough together for provisional assessment. Mostly there are not very provocative parodies of works by famous artists like Picasso and Warhol. The group's best efforts are videos, including a short zombie movie called ''Isle of the Dead'' that exudes an affecting, generational pathos. 200 Eastern Parkway, at Prospect Park, (718) 638-5000, brooklynmuseum.org. (Ken Johnson)
Brooklyn Museum: 'LaToya Ruby Frazier: A Haunted Capital' (through Aug. 11) This preternaturally mature body of work by a 31-year-old photographer connects bedrooms and streetscapes, the suffering of loved ones and the afflictions of a ''distressed municipality'' (the state's official term for Ms. Frazier's hometown, Braddock, Pa.). Simultaneously introspective and extroverted, it's composed of arresting black-and-white photographs that sometimes look like studio portraits or social documentaries but aren't fully at home in either category. 200 Eastern Parkway, at Prospect Park, Brooklyn, (718) 638-5000, brooklynmuseum.org. (Karen Rosenberg)
&#x2605; Brooklyn Museum: 'John Singer Sargent Watercolors' (through July 28) Sargent fans and watercolor hobbyists will be in heaven with this exhibition's more than 90 watercolors from the first decade of the 20th century, all from the collections of the Brooklyn Museum and the Museum of Fine Arts, Boston, and all representing picturesque scenes in Europe. Sargent pioneered the kind of loosely gestural yet clearly representational watercolor painting that today's popular culture adores. He has his detractors, though, who may profit from re-examining their prejudices in light of this beautiful show. 200 Eastern Parkway, at Prospect Park, Brooklyn, (718) 638-5000, brooklynmuseum.org. (Johnson)
&#x2605; Brooklyn Museum: 'Gravity and Grace: Monumental Works by El Anatsui' (through Aug. 4) Born in Ghana and long a resident of Nigeria, where he maintains a productive studio, El Anatsui has for the past decade been creating spectacularly large, fabriclike sculpture from countless numbers of liquor-bottle caps linked together with twists of copper. The work weaves together ideas about colonialism, politics and economics, and it is absolutely gorgeous. The Brooklyn show, which originated at the Akron Art Museum in Ohio, also includes a number of the artist's earlier and now-overlooked carved wood pieces, which are well worth studying. 200 Eastern Parkway, at Prospect Park, Brooklyn, (718) 638-5000, brooklynmuseum.org. (Cotter)
&#x2605; The Cloisters: 'Search for the Unicorn: An Exhibition in Honor of The Cloisters' 75th Anniversary' (through Aug. 18) The lonely subject of the ''Unicorn Tapestries'' is united with others of its species in ''Search for the Unicorn,'' honoring the 75th anniversary of the Cloisters. Drawn from the Met's holdings and from other public and private collections, it includes manuscripts, paintings, decorative objects and ''unicorn horns'' (actually the tapered, spiral-patterned tusks of the narwhal). The show is a gateway to various fantasy worlds, some of them beyond the scope of medieval Western Europe; a page from the ''Shahnama,'' the Persian ''Book of Kings,'' shows the monarch Iskandar (otherwise known as Alexander the Great) fighting off the one-horned, equine Monster of Habash. 99 Margaret Corbin Drive, Fort Tryon Park, Washington Heights, (212) 923-3700, metmuseum.org. (Rosenberg)
&#x2605; Guggenheim Museum: 'James Turrell' (through Sept. 25) At once ravishing and hokey, ''Aten Reign,'' the show's centerpiece, turns the museum's famed rotunda into the bliss-out environmental art hit of the summer: an immense, elliptical, nearly hallucinatory play of light and color achieved with elaborate scrims and computerized lighting that might oxymoronically be called a meditative spectacle. Four other installation works from the 1960s and '70s outline the single-minded trajectory of this leading proponent of the Light and Space movement and also provide a simpler, more direct, more mindful experience of, in his words, ''seeing yourself see.'' 1071 Fifth Avenue, at 89th Street, (212) 423-3500, guggenheim.org. (Roberta Smith)
&#x2605; International Center of Photography: 'A Different Kind of Order: The ICP Triennial' (through Sept. 22) The fourth, and best, edition of the International Center of Photography's triennial turns out to be that extremely rare thing in New York City these days, an exhibition of contemporary art for adults. The up-to-the-minute emphasis is on the continuing and enveloping impact of digital technology on photography. The results, as seen here, couldn't be more varied and gripping in content. This is a show that's in touch with the big, live, real world out there beyond Frieze New York. 1133 Avenue of the Americas, at 43rd Street, (212) 857-0000, icp.org. (Cotter)
&#x2605; Jewish Museum: 'Jack Goldstein x 10,000' (through Sept. 29) The first American museum retrospective of this brilliant but elusive artist, organized by the Orange County Museum of Art, is both a celebration and a cautionary tale. It revels in Goldstein's posthumous influence as it reveals the tragic disconnect of his life and his art, the desire to disappear complicated by an intense careerist drive. This exhibition offers (in addition to paintings, sculptures and Goldstein's signature films of the late 1970s) a rare look at the early, performance-based films: works like ''Milk,'' in which the persistent banging of a fist on a table finally topples a glass, or ''Spotlight,'' in which a beam chases the artist around an empty room. 1109 Fifth Avenue, at 92nd Street, (212) 423-3200, thejewishmuseum.org. (Rosenberg)
&#x2605; Jewish Museum: 'As it were ... So to speak: A Museum Collection in Dialogue With Barbara Bloom' (through Aug. 4) Ms. Bloom, invited to organize a show from elements of the museum's collection, has turned to the Talmud for inspiration. Weaving together real and fictional narratives, historical and literary sources, she creates new and often ambiguous contexts for ceremonial and decorative objects like Torah pointers, Kiddush cups and spice containers. Somehow she manages to quote Nietzsche, Freud, Leonard Cohen, Joan Didion, the Bible and various Wikipedia entries, all without losing her own probing, skeptical voice. 1109 Fifth Avenue, at 92nd Street, (212) 423-3200, thejewishmuseum.org. (Rosenberg)
&#x2605; Metropolitan Museum of Art: 'African Art, New York, and the Avant-Garde' (through Sept. 2) Timed to the centennial of the Armory Show of 1913, this exhibition tells the story of African art's debut in cutting-edge New York museums and galleries with exceptional candor. It makes clear that early-20th-century Americans received Modern art and African art as a single import, derived from French and Belgian colonies, distilled in Paris and presented on these shores by a few tastemaking dealers and collectors. (212) 535-7710, metmuseum.org. (Rosenberg)
&#x2605; Metropolitan Museum of Art: 'At War With the Obvious: Photographs by William Eggleston' (through July 28) In 36 transcendentally beautiful photographs shot in the Mississippi Delta region in the 1970s and early '80s, this pioneer of color photography captured those kinds of sacred moments when something you ordinarily would pass by without a thought -- a children's swing set overgrown by weeds, an abandoned gas station, a basket of fake flowers hanging on someone's front door -- suddenly takes your breath away. (212) 535-7710, metmuseum.org. (Johnson)
&#x2605; Metropolitan Museum of Art: 'The Civil War and American Art' (through Sept. 2) If you've seen ''Photography and the American Civil War'' at the Met, you might suppose that viewing another exhibition about the war would be redundant. It's not. With outstanding works by Frederic Edwin Church, Sanford Robinson Gifford and Winslow Homer, this gripping show sheds expansive light on the nation's experience of its own fratricidal conflict. (212) 535-7710, metmuseum.org. (Johnson)
&#x2605; Metropolitan Museum of Art: 'Photography and the American Civil War' (through Sept. 2) As intellectually fascinating as it is emotionally wrenching, this exhibition is sure to be remembered as one of the great museum photography shows ever. Its more than 200 photographs include expansive images of battlefields and war-ruined towns; wallet-size portraits of soldiers; preciously framed daguerreotypes; political campaign buttons; a doctor's documents of horrifically wounded soldiers; portraits of loved ones in lockets; and a series depicting the hanging of five co-conspirators in the assassination of President Abraham Lincoln by the photographer Alexander Gardner. (212) 535-7710, metmuseum.org. (Johnson)
&#x2605; Metropolitan Museum of Art: 'Ken Price: A Retrospective' (through Sept. 22) Tableware? Toys? Genetic accidents? Objets d'art? The ceramic sculptures of Ken Price suggest all these possibilities. To the market's old, divide-and-label query ''Is this art or craft?,'' Price offered one, finessing answer: ''Yes.'' And right he was. You see the rightness instantly in the Met retrospective, which is one of those ideal shows: perfect size, great design (by Frank Gehry), pretty near faultless art. (212) 535-7710, metmuseum.org. Ideal, too, in a plainer way, is a concurrent survey of the artist's works on paper, ''Ken Price: Slow and Steady Wins the Race,'' running through Aug. 18 at the Drawing Center, 35 Wooster Street, SoHo, (212) 219-2166, drawingcenter.org. (Cotter)
Metropolitan Museum of Art: 'Punk: Chaos to Couture' (through Aug. 14) This entertaining exhibition proves that high fashion rarely looks quite as frivolous and cluelessly 1 percent-ish as when it upgrades aspects of the obstreperous punk sartorial mode, adding gold-plated safety pins, careful rips and holes, and a feigned DIY look that can involve materials like garbage bags or cellophane. Cleverness abounds. A few designers absorb and transform punk attributes, but most garments simplistically scream punk. Not for nothing do they call the show's organizing department the Costume Institute. (212) 535-7710, metmuseum.org. (Smith)
&#x2605; Metropolitan Museum of Art: 'The Roof Garden Commission: Imran Qureshi' (through Nov. 3) Visitors to the Met's rooftop will discover something shocking: the stone terrace is splattered with paint the color of dried blood so that it resembles the scene of some terrible crime. Looking closer at the areas of spillage, viewers will find they have been delicately altered. With deft white and red brush strokes, the Pakistani artist Imran Qureshi has worked into the raw paint a pattern suggestive of leafy shrubbery and flower petals, turning the whole into a politically fraught, allegorical mix symbolizing dualities of life and death and hope and despair. (212) 535-7710, metmuseum.org. (Johnson)
&#x2605; MoMA PS1: 'Expo 1: New York' (through Sept. 2) A sprawling, multisite extravaganza including a multitude of installations, shows-within-shows and events, ''Expo 1: New York'' offers few answers but raises many provocative questions about the current and future state of our planet's unsettled human and natural ecology. Attractions at PS1 range from a beautiful show of pictures by the beloved nature photographer Ansel Adams to a refrigerated room containing chunks from an Icelandic glacier by Olafur Eliasson. On 53rd Street, next to the Museum of Modern Art, ''Rain Room'' invites viewers into a chamber where steady precipitation ceases wherever bodies are detected by high-tech hardware. 22-25 Jackson Avenue, at 46th Avenue, Long Island City, (718) 784-2084, ps1.org. (Johnson)
&#x2605; Morgan Library & Museum: 'Illuminating Faith: The Eucharist in Medieval Life and Art' (through Sept. 15) Spring-into-summer was the season for open-air processions in medieval Europe. The one staged annually for the feast of Corpus Christi, celebrating the bodily presence of Jesus Christ in the bread and wine of the Mass, was among the most ardent, elaborate and politically loaded of all. And it retains all those qualities in this ravishing, superbly documented survey of sacramental imagery, mostly in the form of exquisitely painted books. 225 Madison Avenue, at 36th Street, (212) 685-0008, themorgan.org. (Cotter)
Morgan Library & Museum: 'Old Masters, Newly Acquired' (through Oct. 6) This celebration of new acquisitions includes about a hundred pre-1900 drawings, all donated, bequeathed or purchased from 2009 to 2012. Dispensing with themes and chronology, the show groups works by patron: Astor, von Bülow and so on. The late-19th-century selections are especially strong; here are not one but two early Degas self-portraits in black chalk; prismatic watercolors by Cézanne and Renoir; a vibrant Gauguin pastel of two Breton girls; and a Seurat horse and landscape in his mossy shadings of conté. 225 Madison Avenue, at 36th Street; (212) 685-0008, themorgan.org. (Rosenberg)
&#x2605; Morgan Library & Museum: 'Subliming Vessel: The Drawings of Matthew Barney' (through Sept. 2) With its Gospels and reliquaries, the Morgan Library is at the right place for the first survey of graphic work by the most medievalizing of American contemporary artists. Encased in thick, pale, plastic frames, Mr. Barney's drawings of the past two decades have the look of precious pages from sacred books displayed on iPads. His images, with their emphasis on redemption through fleshly mortification, suggest sources in heroic epics and penitential religion, filtered through Sade and extreme sports. A display of collagelike storyboards for his films confirms the occult glamour of the personal cosmology he has developed, which feels as artificial and addictive as a video game. 225 Madison Avenue, at 36th Street, (212) 685-0008, themorgan.org. (Cotter)
&#x2605; El Museo del Barrio: 'La Bienal 2013: Here Is Where We Jump' (through Jan. 4) Much of the work by the 37 artists in the seventh edition of El Museo's Bienal is budget-conscious in its materials and modest in size, scaled to small studios. Maybe exactly because of such restrictions, the show is thoughtful and personal, uneven in parts, solid as a whole. It's also a product of that old-fashioned thing, the ethnically specific museum. Even with definitions of ethnicity stretched all kinds of ways -- what does ''Latino'' really mean anymore, anyway? -- the issue of identity remains at the core of such institutions and informs much of the work in this show. 1230 Fifth Avenue, at 104th Street, East Harlem, (212) 831-7272, elmuseo.org. (Cotter)
&#x2605; Museum of Arts and Design: 'Against the Grain: Wood in Contemporary Art, Craft and Design' (through Sept. 15) This sixth show in the museum's Materials and Process series is a big improvement on its predecessors, mostly because it feels more artist- and designer-driven. Representing the Chelsea gallery contingent are Alison Elizabeth Taylor, with marquetry installations; Phoebe Washburn and Leonardo Drew, with scrap-wood sculptures; and Roy McMakin, with slyly repurposed found furniture. From the design-fair circuit come functional works like Mark Moskovitz's ''Facecord,'' a sideboard that looks like a stack of firewood when the drawers are closed, and Maarten Baas's knife block in the shape of a head (which seems destined for the MoMA design store). 2 Columbus Circle, (212) 299-7777, madmuseum.org. (Rosenberg)
&#x2605; Museum of Modern Art: 'Ellsworth Kelly: Chatham Series' (through Sept. 8) Together again for the first time in 40 years, the 14 two-panel Chatham paintings from 1971 offer giddy instruction in the weights, measures and balances of strong color -- red, blue, green, yellow, black and white. The works -- abutting rectangles that form an inverted L -- seem to expand or contract as you move around the gallery. An adjoining display of 40 small collages from 1951 shows Mr. Kelly laying out some of the stringent abstract vocabulary that he has mined ever since. (212) 708-9400, moma.org. (Smith)
&#x2605; Museum of Modern Art: 'Claes Oldenburg: The Street and the Store' and 'Claes Oldenburg: Mouse Museum, Ray Gun Wing' (through Aug. 5) Pop Art is based on two things: ordinariness and eating. It's about daily consumption; the democratic appetite, ravenous for meat, sweets, life on the street, and getting more of everything, cheap. No artist cooked up a tastier version of the primal Pop recipe than Claes Oldenburg did in New York in the late 1950s and early '60s. The art he made in that brief, fecund time is the focus of a two-meals-for-the-price-of-one MoMA feast. (212) 708-9400, moma.org. (Cotter)
&#x2605; Museum of Modern Art: 'Bill Brandt: Shadow and Light' (through Aug. 12) With nearly 160 works ranging from photographs of London in the 1930s and during World War II to nearly abstract Surrealist nudes from the 1950s and '60s, this impeccable survey makes a strong if slightly over-edited argument for Brandt as one of the founders of modern photography. It sticks to vintage prints and brings a wonderful lucidity to a persistent balance of art and humanity that is, as it is frequently described: strange, mysterious and irresistible. (212) 708-9400, moma.org. (Smith)
Museum of Modern Art: 'Performing Histories (1)' (through Aug. 5) An awareness of the uprisings, protests, occupations and revolutions erupting around the globe is present in ''Performing Histories (1),'' a show of video, film and photographic work recently acquired by MoMA. Insurrection and resistance pervade the Romanian artist Ion Grigorescu's film ''Dialogue With Ceausescu'' (1978), while the feminist personal as political is employed in Martha Rosler's ''She Sees in Herself a New Woman Every Day'' (1976) and Sharon Hayes's four-channel video ''The Interpreter Project'' (2001). Andrea Fraser's two videos connect politics and the museum. In one she describes how scientific philanthropy in the 19th century directed wealth to museums and other public institutions rather than the poor, while another video delves into how MoMA itself interacted with revolutionaries and communists, like the Mexican muralist Diego Rivera. (212) 708-9400, moma.org. (Martha Schwendener)
National Academy Museum: 'Jeffrey Gibson: Said the Pigeon to the Squirrel' (through Sept. 8) The work of Mr. Gibson, an abstract painter who often works on animal hides in homage to his American Indian heritage (he is a member of the Mississippi Band of Choctaw Indians and is half Cherokee), embodies two sweeping trends in contemporary art: feverishly bright geometric abstraction and the creative reuse of found objects. The animal hides are stretched over antique mirrors and ironing boards, and even wrapped around fluorescent light tubes in a nod to Dan Flavin. His works have plenty of visual pizazz but can be weak conceptually; the better ones evoke performance of various kinds, from raves to traditional American Indian dances. 1083 Fifth Avenue, at 89th Street, (212) 369-4880, nationalacademy.org. (Rosenberg)
&#x2605; Neue Galerie: 'Koloman Moser: Designing Modern Vienna 1897-1907' (through Sept. 2) Along with his better-known colleague, Josef Hoffmann, Moser was a founder of the Wiener Werkstätte, the consortium of designers and artisans that produced some of the 20th century's most beautiful objects. Focusing on Moser's most productive years, this gorgeous exhibition presents more than 200 exquisitely elegant works, including books, glassware, metal pieces, ceramics, jewelry and furniture. 1048 Fifth Avenue at 86th Street, (212) 628-6200, neuegalerie.org. (Johnson)
New Museum: 'Ellen Gallagher: Don't Axe Me' (through Sept. 15) Ellen Gallagher emerged in the early 1990s with memorable paintings that yoked Minimalism to minstrelsy by scattering tiny caricatures of eyes and mouths across creamy expanses of paper and canvas. More recently she has branched out from painting and collage to film, and from pop-culture imagery to literary and science-fiction references. For ''Osedax'' (2010), made with her partner, Edgar Cleijne, visitors crouch to enter a black-box theater and settle in to view two simultaneous projections: one of glass slides hand-painted with watery abstractions, the other a 16-millimeter film incorporating footage of a shipwreck off Rhode Island. It's the most interesting part of a piecemeal, sometimes arbitrary-feeling show that coincides with a larger retrospective at Tate Modern. 235 Bowery, at Prince Street, Lower East Side, (212) 219-1222, newmuseum.org. (Rosenberg)
New Museum: 'Llyn Foulkes' (through Sept. 1) Although poorly organized, this exhibition devoted to a great American original contains several one-of-a-kind masterpieces. Displayed in a small, dark corner room where it glows uncannily, partly by virtue of real lights built into it, ''Pop'' (1985-1991) is a 10-foot-wide marvel of comic magic realism and meticulous craftsmanship. In a homey, wood-paneled living room, the main character, a portrait of the middle-aged artist, sits in a paisley-patterned armchair, staring with bugged-out eyes, evidently driven to catatonic paralysis by what he's seeing on the television. 235 Bowery, at Prince Street, Lower East Side, (212) 219-1222, newmuseum.org. (Johnson)
New-York Historical Society: 'Swing Time: Reginald Marsh and Thirties New York' (through Sept. 1) A Social Realist with satiric leanings, Marsh (1898-1954) painted the seamy side of life in New York during the Great Depression. Using egg tempera with a skittery touch, he made flickering, cartoonish images in a palette ranging from sooty to garishly bright; he painted burlesque performers, people on busy sidewalks and crowded subway stations, Coney Island amusement seekers and the homeless and destitute. His voyeuristic eye for fiercely self-assertive, full-figured young women adds an intriguing, creepy psychology. 170 Central Park West, at 77th Street, (212) 873-3400, nyhistory.org. (Johnson)
Rubin Museum of Art: 'Fiercely Modern: Art of the Naga Warrior' (through Sept. 16) The Naga were a diverse collection of peoples speaking similar languages and residing in a mountainous area in northeastern India. Headhunting was one of their most prized pursuits until they were almost entirely Christianized in the early 20th century. They also created extraordinarily beautiful textiles, jewelry and ceremonial objects, as this intriguing, introductory show demonstrates. 150 West 17th Street, Chelsea, (212) 620-5000, rmanyc.org. (Johnson)
&#x2605; Whitney Museum of American Art: 'Hopper Drawing' (through Oct. 6) With more than 200 drawings, two dozen sketchbook pages and an essential bonus of 21 paintings, this landmark exhibition takes us behind the curtain of stillness that makes Hopper's art so riveting to reveal as never before how he used preparatory studies to synthesize reality, memory and imagination. Some of his greatest paintings -- ''New York Movie,'' ''Nighthawks'' -- and other gems are here. An overview indicates how the young Hopper shaped and toughened his versatile gifts into a singular vision. (212) 570-3600, whitney.org. (Smith)
Whitney Museum of American Art: 'I, YOU, WE' (through Sept. 1) The Whitney's latest collection show (and the last one for the Breuer building before the museum decamps to the meatpacking district) finds artists reacting to AIDS, Reagan-era social policies, urban blight and gentrification, and a stock market boom and bust. Everything here dates from the 1980s and early '90s, otherwise known as the era of identity politics. Included are numerous self-portraits, a room of AIDS-related artworks, and Nan Goldin's 45-minute slide installation ''The Ballad of Sexual Dependency.'' (212) 570-3600, whitney.org. (Rosenberg)
Galleries: Uptown
&#x2605; 'Gardening by the Book: Celebrating 100 Years of the Garden Club of America' (through July 27) This wonderful show presents more than 125 illustrated tomes about flowers and gardening from four centuries. Loaded with marvels of acute observation and exacting draftsmanship, it begins with Emanuel Sweert's illustrated catalog of more than 500 bulbs and flowers thought to have ignited the Tulipmania craze and ends with first editions of books by the environmentalist Rachel Carson. It is altogether a terrific treat for minds and eyes. Grolier Club, 47 East 60th Street, (212) 838-6690, grolierclub.org. (Johnson)
&#x2605; Paul McCarthy: 'Life Cast' (through next Friday) One of the outstanding shows of the artist's career is best viewed as a single piece. Three fanatically realistic life-size sculptures of naked humans are paired with two video installations that reveal the meticulous casting process behind their ecstatic, mysterious exactitude. The piece is a homage to -- but also perhaps penance for -- Marcel Duchamp's ''Étant Donnés'' and its obsessive focus on the female sex. Hauser & Wirth, 32 East 69th Street, (212) 794-4970, hauserwirth.com. (Smith)
&#x2605; Paul McCarthy: 'WS' (through Aug. 4) Paul McCarthy's Swiftian film on (among many other things) Walt Disney's ''Snow White and the Seven Dwarfs'' and the American psyche is nasty, funny, X-rated and seven hours long. The jungle-and-ranch-house set in which it was shot is intact in the Armory's drill hall. No one under 18 will be admitted. At Hauser & Wirth, a second extravaganza by the artist, working in collaboration with his son Damon, is in the same politically incorrect, punch-drunk vein on a slightly less epic scale. Here the reference point is the 1955 film ''Rebel Without a Cause.'' Park Avenue Armory, 643 Park Avenue, at 67th Street, (212) 616-3930, armoryonpark.org. Also ''Paul McCarthy and Damon McCarthy: Rebel Dabble Babble'' (through next Friday) at Hauser & Wirth, 511 West 18th Street, Chelsea, (212) 790-3900, hauserwirth.com. (Cotter)
'Salvaging the Past: Georges Hoentschel and French Decorative Arts From the Metropolitan Museum of Art' (through Aug. 11) This sometimes arcane but highly effective assemblage of rare furnishings, artifacts and a smattering of art and printed matter resurrects a once-renowned French interior designer whose collections -- and displays -- of 18th-century French decorative material and medieval art were purchased en bloc by J.P. Morgan and given to the Met. They formed the nuclei of the museum's holdings in these areas, helped shape its departmental structure and influenced the arrangement of its galleries. Bard Graduate Center: Decorative Arts, Design History, Material Culture, 18 West 86th Street, (212) 501-3023, bgc.bard.edu. (Smith)
Galleries: 57th Street
'Ken Price: Zoo' (through next Friday) This small, quirky show of works on paper and ceramic cups mostly from the 1960s is the perfect introduction to the splendid survey of Price's radiantly colored ceramic sculpture at the Met and his efforts on paper at the Drawing Center. It zeros in on his keen attention to reptiles and other nonmammals as both subjects and inspiration while highlighting the currents of eroticism, procreation and plain-old sex that, however abstracted, vivify much of Price's work. Franklin Parrasch Gallery, 20 West 57th Street, Manhattan, (212) 246-5360, franklinparrasch.com. (Smith)
Galleries: Chelsea
Lawrence Campbell: A 15-Year Memorial Tribute (through July 27) During his nearly 50-year career, the art critic Lawrence Campbell (1914-98) was known for his ecumenical taste and insider knowledge of the New York art world. On the 15th anniversary of his death, this show brings together examples of his own art: 35 small, finely wrought landscapes in oil and watercolor. They are no less convincing for their debts to Bonnard, Vuillard, Cézanne and others, proving that originality begins in sincerity. Blue Mountain Gallery, 530 West 25th Street, (646) 486-4730, bluemountaingallery.org. (Smith)
Simon Denny: 'All you need is data: the DLD 2012 Conference REDUX rerun' (Saturday through July 27) In his impressive second show at the Petzel Gallery, this young Berlin artist retraces the events schedule of the 2012 DLD (Digital-Life-Design) conference in Munich with a labyrinthine installation of ink print-on-canvas paintings that presents speakers' photographs and sound bites bulletin-board style. The forced intimacy of the installation illuminates the achievements, personalities, possibilities and dangers encompassed by the digital world. The piece is both a new kind of late Conceptual art and a public service. Petzel Gallery, 456 West 18th Street, (212) 680-9467, petzel.com. (Smith)
Laddie John Dill: 'Elementary' (through next Friday) At the end of the 1960s the West Coast Light and Space artist Laddie John Dill began producing electric-light works out of blown glass tubes in a lush palette of jewel-bright colors. Here nine of these works, all from 1971, are installed in one room at regular intervals, creating a trippy visual chamber music. Elsewhere, glowing constructions of glass panes in geometric arrangements could be models for updates of Stonehenge, monuments for a new cosmic paganism. Nyehaus, 358 West 20th Street, (212) 366-4493, nyehaus.com. (Johnson)
'GO-SLOW: Diaries of Personal and Collective Stagnation in Lagos' (through July 31) No one views Africa more critically than Africans. The young curator Amber Croyle acknowledges this in taking Fela Anikulapo-Kuti's satirical 1978 song ''Go Slow,'' with its propulsive but not-going-anywhere rhythm, as a title for this show of work by 10 contemporary Nigerian photographers who respond to tensions of life in their country, where high energy and restraining impediments meet. Skoto Gallery, 529 West 20th Street, fifth floor, (212) 352-8058, skotogallery.com. (Cotter)
Takuma Nakahira: 'Circulation: Date, Place, Events' (through next Friday) Decades ago this Japanese photographer advocated a style known in his native tongue as ''are, bure, boke'' (rough, blurred and out of focus) and put it to use for 1,500 photographs he exhibited in -- and made during -- the Seventh Paris Biennale in 1971. A selection of 78 images from this marathon form his revelatory solo debut in the United States, introducing an artist ahead of his time in his emphasis on chance and of existing images and the determined ''de-skilling'' of his medium. Yossi Milo, 245 10th Avenue, near 24th Street, (212) 414-0370, yossimilo.com. (Smith)
'Reinventing Abstraction: New York Painting in the 1980s' (through Aug. 30) This worthy show reconsiders 15 painters who did not fit into fashionable categories in the 1980s. It includes humorously updated Surrealism by Carroll Dunham and Elizabeth Murray; canny play with Modernist devices by Thomas Nozkowski, Jonathan Lasker, Mary Heilmann and David Reed; botanical imagery by Bill Jensen and Terry Winters; gesture and process by Louise Fishman and Pat Steir; abstracted landscapes by Joan Snyder and Stanley Whitney; and enigmatic symbolism by Gary Stephan, Jack Whitten and Stephen Mueller. Cheim & Read, 547 West 25th Street, (212) 242-7727, cheimread.com. (Johnson)
Lucien Samaha: 'The Flight Attendant Years: 1978-1986' (through Aug. 2) Lucien Samaha is a founding member of the Arab Image Foundation, a vast photographic repository in Beirut, Lebanon, and the creator of his own one-man database of hundreds of thousands of pictures recording some 30 years of his own life. For his New York solo debut, he has skimmed off pictures from early years of that history when he was a flight attendant for Trans World Airlines. Specimens of social anthropology and period nostalgia, they are relics of an oddly innocent-looking pre-airport-security age. Lombard Freid Projects, 518 West 19th Street, (212) 967-8040, lombard-freid.com. (Cotter)
'Specific Objects' (through next Friday) The widely held misconception that Donald Judd's often-quoted 1965 article ''Specific Objects'' is a Minimal art manifesto is undermined by this smart show, but not completely dispersed. Its attempt to demonstrate that Judd had something considerably more robust and physically eccentric in mind than Minimalism is undercut by a lack of substantial and representative loans, as might be expected at a commercial gallery. But as a result, aspects of art that Judd excluded -- performance, postwar ready-mades and printed matter -- complicate things, which is almost as interesting. Susan Inglett Gallery, 522 West 24th Street, (212) 647-9111, inglettgallery.com. (Smith)
Galleries: SoHo
'Old Black' (through next Friday) This concise but powerful summer show is named for Neil Young's favorite ax (a customized 1953 Gibson Les Paul Goldtop), and finds much beauty in distortion. It includes a few striking large-scale works, foremost among them Banks Violette's untitled sculpture of powder-coated steel, which could be a crushed highway guardrail or, better yet, the neck of a smashed guitar. Team Gallery, 47 Wooster Street, between Broome and Grand Streets, SoHo, (212) 279-9219, teamgal.com. (Rosenberg)
Galleries: Other
Jane Alexander: 'Surveys (From the Cape of Good Hope)' (through July 29) The Cathedral Church of St. John the Divine is an occupied zone this summer, with a transient population of unearthly beings camped out in its chapels and aisles. Neither angels nor devils, though suggesting both, the figures in the sculptural tableaus and related photographs were all created by the South African artist Jane Alexander. And while haunted by her country's history of apartheid, the work has no single meaning, no sum-upable content. Instead, painstakingly calibrated ambiguity leaves this strange and wonderful show open to political speculation and spiritual interpretation. Cathedral Church of St. John the Divine, 1047 Amsterdam Avenue, at 112th Street, Morningside Heights, (212) 316-7490, stjohndivine.org. (Cotter)
Out of Town
&#x2605; Smithsonian American Art Museum: 'Nam June Paik: Global Visionary' (through Aug. 11) Including a large and fascinating trove of material from the Nam June Paik archive, acquired by the Smithsonian from the artist's estate in 2009, this survey of the avant-garde musician, multimedia wizard and video art pioneer (1932-2006) looks startlingly current despite the preponderance of analog televisions and other obsolete hardware. It makes clear that contemporary artists like Christian Marclay, Jon Kessler, Cory Arcangel, Ryan Trecartin and Haroon Mirza owe a great deal to Mr. Paik's tweaked TV sets and frenetic, technically innovative videos. Eighth and F Streets NW, Washington, (202) 633-1000, americanart.si.edu. (Rosenberg)
Last Chance
'I Am the Magic Hand' and Antony: 'The Cut' (closes on Friday) This New York debut, of an artist whose day job is leading the New York band Antony and the Johnsons, displays a remarkable personal confidence and an impressive fluency with current trends, both expressionist and minimal, that ranges restlessly across collage and abject abstraction. It is paired with a better-than-average group show of five artists working in, around and off painting, along with John Gutmann, whose 1937 photograph of anonymous graffiti provided the title. The hand, while very much in evidence, tends to be more promising than magical. Sikkema Jenkins, 530 West 22nd Street, Chelsea, (212) 929-2262, sikkemajenkinsco.com. (Smith)
'October 18, 1977' (closes on Friday) Taking Gerhard Richter's shadowy 15-painting cycle about the imprisonment and demise of the Baader-Meinhof gang -- a 1970s West German terrorist group -- as inspiration, this group show, organized by Birgit Rathsmann, stands out from the breezier summer fare elsewhere in Chelsea. Artists like Siebren Versteeg and Grayson Cox explore Mr. Richter's streaky, quasi-photographic brushwork, sensing its power to evoke selective or repressed memory; others address contemporary anxieties about terrorism in, for instance, David Lukowski's bulging backpack left in a corner of the gallery. Klemens Gasser & Tanja Grunert, 524 West 19th Street, Chelsea, (646) 944-6197, gassergrunert.net. (Rosenberg)

GRAPHIC: PHOTO (PHOTOGRAPH BY SUZANNE DeCHILLO/THE NEW YORK TIMES) (C18) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Schedule

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (95%); ARTS FESTIVALS & EXHIBITIONS (89%); ARTISTS & PERFORMERS (89%); PHOTOGRAPHY (79%); VISUAL ARTISTS (79%); VISUAL & PERFORMING ARTS (79%); EXHIBITIONS (78%); PHOTOGRAPHY SERVICES (66%); DOCUMENTARY FILMS (64%); DEFENSE INDUSTRY (55%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (93%); BOSTON, MA, USA (79%) CALIFORNIA, USA (94%); NEW YORK, USA (93%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%); WEST USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%); EUROPE (71%)

LOAD-DATE: July 19, 2013



552 of 937 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 19, 2013
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; DEALBOOK; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1073 words

HEADLINE: Big Banks, Flooded in Profits, Fear Flurry of New Safeguards

BYLINE: By PETER EAVIS

 BODY:
The nation's six largest banks reported $23 billion in profits in the second quarter, but they could end up victims of their own success.
In recent weeks, the Treasury Department, senior regulators and members of Congress have stepped up efforts intended to make the largest banks safer. The banks have warned that more regulation could undermine their ability to compete and curtail the amount of money they have to lend, but the strong earnings that came out over the last week could undercut their argument.
The most pressing concern for banks is a relatively tough new rule that regulators proposed last week that could force banks to build up more capital, the financial buffer they maintain to absorb losses. But the banks did not demonstrate any difficulty in meeting the proposed rules, and the banks now appear to have fewer allies in Washington than at any time since the financial crisis. 
This was highlighted on Wednesday when the Treasury secretary, Jacob J. Lew, effectively issued an ultimatum to Wall Street, calling for the swift adoption of rules introduced through the Dodd-Frank financial overhaul law, which Congress passed in 2010. Mr. Lew also said that he might be open to stricter measures if enough had not been done to remove the threat that big banks can pose to the wider economy.
''If we get to the end of this year, and cannot, with an honest, straight face, say that we've ended 'too big to fail,' we're going to have to look at other options because the policy of Dodd-Frank and the policy of the administration is to end 'too big to fail,' '' Mr. Lew said.
''This is maybe the strongest admission I've heard from the administration that we must act further to end 'too big to fail,' '' Senator David Vitter, Republican of Louisiana, said in a statement. Along with Senator Sherrod Brown, Democrat of Ohio, Senator Vitter introduced a bill earlier this year that would sharply increase capital levels at the biggest banks. In Congress on Thursday, Ben S. Bernanke, the Federal Reserve chairman, echoed Mr. Lew's remarks. He said that if the measures already planned did not remove the risks posed by large banks, ''additional steps would be appropriate.''
Still, some analysts remain skeptical that the Fed and the Treasury would really lend their weight to the sort of aggressive measures some lawmakers are contemplating. The recent comments may be an attempt to gain some political benefit from looking tough on the banks. And the remarks may be aimed at reducing any momentum that the more draconian pieces of bank legislation are gaining in the Senate.
''I wonder how much of this is a serious policy change and how much is positioning by the administration to take on a more populist mode going into 2014,'' Nolan McCarty, a professor of politics and public affairs at Princeton University, said. ''It's a little bit surprising that, three years after Dodd-Frank and five years after the financial crisis, people are concerned not enough has been done.''
Still, the stronger words from government officials could shift the balance of power away from the banking industry.
''I sense a sea change in this,'' Sheila C. Bair, a former chairwoman of the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation, a primary bank regulator, said. ''It's not moving with the banks, it's moving against them.''
The resurgence in bank profits appears to have been an important factor in persuading regulators to do more. The earnings revival did not take place just at the banks that emerged from the crisis in a position of relative strength, like JPMorgan Chase and Wells Fargo. This week, both Bank of America and Citigroup, which faltered badly after the financial crisis, reported healthy profits. The stocks of both banks have nearly doubled over the last 12 months, highlighting that investors' faith in the behemoths is also returning.
''The regulators are doing this because they can,'' Michael Mayo, a banking analyst at CLSA, said. ''And they can at this time of relative stability.''
The six largest banks now dominate the industry, accounting for more than half the sector's assets. Since the crisis, this has helped them make profit from mortgages and credit card loans, as well as Wall Street activities, like trading securities and underwriting deals. Their second-quarter profits were up 40 percent compared with those in the period a year earlier. Over the last 12 months, their combined profits were more than $70 billion. Over that period, Morgan Stanley, Goldman Sachs and JPMorgan's investment bank, all big presences on Wall Street, paid compensation of $41 billion.
Regulations planned or put in place in the crisis may also have helped banks by making them more resilient to shocks. The banks have less risky assets on their balance sheets, which helped them get through the recent rout in the bond market without big losses.
''You had major dislocations in currencies, commodities and interest rates and so far the industry has passed with flying colors,'' Mr. Mayo said.
Still, Mr. Mayo and others question how healthy the banks are. While profits are up, and trading profits are buoyant, the pace of lending is not picking up. ''Loans are down year to date. That's the issue at the moment,'' he said. ''This is not the stuff robust recoveries are made of.''
The industry contends that, with economic growth still relatively weak, more regulation of banks would be wrong.
''You have to be cautious about what layering on additional things can do to our prospects for economic growth, job creation and credit availability, in light of this economic fragility,'' said Robert S. Nichols, president of the Financial Services Forum, an industry group that represents large banks. ''We have to have more robust growth to get Americans back to work.''
While banks have made big profits under stiffer rules since the crisis, some analysts warn that adding more to the overhaul could really start to hurt.
''We've reached a point now where we have a balance,'' John R. Dearie, who oversees policy at the Financial Services Forum, said. ''We have a fortress balance sheet banking system. Our concern is that we don't overdo it.''
Still, some banking experts think the banks are bluffing when they say more regulation could hamper lending. ''They can't see that it is in their long-term interests to have a credible regulatory process,'' Ms. Bair said.
This is a more complete version of the story than the one that appeared in print.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Jacob Lew, the Treasury secretary, has told Wall Street to accept the rules in the Dodd-Frank financial law or face tougher ones. (PHOTOGRAPH BY SAUL LOEB/AGENCE FRANCE-PRESSE -- GETTY IMAGES) (B8) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BANKING & FINANCE (90%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (90%); COMPANY PROFITS (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (90%); AGENCY RULEMAKING (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (89%); LEGISLATION (89%); 2010 WALL STREET & BANKING REFORM (89%); US DODD FRANK ACT (89%); BANKING LAW (78%); PUBLIC POLICY (78%); COMPANY EARNINGS (78%); PUBLIC FINANCE (78%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (77%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (73%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (73%)

PERSON: JACK LEW (92%); BEN BERNANKE (58%); SHERROD BROWN (57%); DAVID VITTER (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: OHIO, USA (79%); LOUISIANA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: July 19, 2013



553 of 937 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 19, 2013
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; DEALBOOK; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1196 words

HEADLINE: JPMorgan Executive May Escape Penalty

BYLINE: By JESSICA SILVER-GREENBERG

 BODY:
Even as the nation's top energy regulator is poised to extract a record settlement from JPMorgan Chase over accusations that it manipulated power markets, the agency is expected to spare a top bank lieutenant who federal investigators initially contended made ''false and misleading statements under oath,'' according to people briefed on the matter.
Blythe Masters, a seminal Wall Street figure who is known for developing exotic financial instruments, emerged this spring at the center of an investigation by the Federal Energy Regulatory Commission into accusations of illegal trading in the California and Michigan electricity markets.
The regulator found that JPMorgan designed trading ''schemes'' that converted ''money-losing power plants into powerful profit centers,'' a commission document said. 
While the commission and JPMorgan are negotiating a settlement for about $500 million, the people briefed on the matter said, Ms. Masters is not expected to face a separate action. The move signals a pivot for the agency, which has been increasingly flexing its enforcement muscle, according to the people briefed on the matter, who spoke on the condition they not be named.
Months earlier, investigators planned to recommend that the regulator find Ms. Masters, who holds a powerful position within JPMorgan as the head of its commodities business, ''individually liable.'' But as the investigation progressed, these people said, top energy regulatory officials have been leaning toward not pursuing any civil charges against Ms. Masters.
The decision -- which could change, according to the people briefed on the matter -- would mean that Ms. Masters would escape the agency's sweeping crackdown against big banks. After gaining enforcement authority because of a change in 2005 that allowed it to impose fines of $1 million a day for each violation, the energy regulator has taken a tougher stance with Wall Street.
Still, the regulator's claims against JPMorgan, which came to light this spring in a confidential commission document reviewed by The New York Times, have turned a harsh spotlight on Ms. Masters. In the 70-page document, sent to JPMorgan in March, the regulator's enforcement staff said it intended to recommend that the commission pursue a civil case against JPMorgan in connection with the trading in California and Michigan. Since the regulator's findings surfaced, JPMorgan has defended Ms. Masters and the traders, disputing that ''Blythe Masters or any employee lied or acted inappropriately in this matter.''
As JPMorgan began to negotiate a settlement with the regulator in recent weeks, Ms. Masters, too, vociferously defended the trading activity, asserting that the bank did nothing wrong, according to three people briefed on the matter. That position, the people said, has been echoed throughout JPMorgan.
Within Wall Street, Ms. Masters is widely considered a pioneer for her use of credit derivatives, the complex financial products that played a central role in the 2008 financial crisis. Rising through the ranks of JPMorgan -- she was the youngest managing director at 28 -- Ms. Masters became one of the most powerful executives on Wall Street, propelled by a vision that the products could radically remake the banking industry.
Ms. Masters formed close ties with Jamie Dimon, the bank's chief executive, who has moved to shore up support for her, according to people close to the bank. The two were bound by their belief that the commodities business was critical to JPMorgan's growth.
In her role as commodities chief, according to the March document, Ms. Masters oversaw traders in Houston who were in a vexing position: selling electricity from power plants in California and Michigan was a losing endeavor. The rights to sell the energy, which JPMorgan inherited after its 2008 takeover of Bear Stearns, relied on ''inefficient,'' antiquated technology. Simply put, the document said, it was an ''unprofitable asset.'' Particularly troubling, the document said, was a string of Southern California power plants that were built in the 1950s and 1960s, ultimately making them ''less efficient than most of their competitors'' because they siphoned more fuel for the energy they produced.
Known for her ''highly detail-oriented'' style, Ms. Masters ''kept close tabs on the California and Michigan power plants,'' asking that she be directly briefed by her employees about ''many of the bidding schemes under investigation,'' agency investigators found in the March document. From September 2010 to June 2011, those traders devised eight separate ''schemes'' to sell energy at prices ''calculated to falsely appear attractive'' to state energy authorities.
As the bidding was under way, the investigators found, Ms. Masters received regular PowerPoint presentations and e-mails that referred to the strategies. In one January 2011 PowerPoint reviewed by Ms. Masters, the strategy, which promised to transform the plants losing money into profitable operations, appeared 51 times, according to the March regulatory document.
JPMorgan has argued that its trading was legal. In an earlier statement, a bank spokeswoman said the ''bidding strategies were in full compliance with applicable rules.''
But the energy investigators disagreed, the document shows. Duped by the manipulation, the investigators said, authorities in California and Michigan gave roughly $83 million in ''excessive'' payments to JPMorgan.
When JPMorgan traders worked to systemically ''cover up'' the strategy, investigators initially found, Ms. Masters aided the obfuscation. Ms. Masters ''personally participated in JPMorgan's efforts to block'' the state authorities ''from understanding the reasons behind JPMorgan's bidding schemes,'' the document said.
After California authorities began to raise objections to the bank's trading strategy, the investigators found, JPMorgan worked to cloak the trading from authorities by excluding critical profit and loss statements.
In April 2011, Ms. Masters initiated a conference call with top JPMorgan executives to brief them on ''a reputational risk we are running in California,'' according to the document.
The investigators also cited an April 2011 e-mail in which Ms. Masters, overriding the bank's compliance department, ordered a ''rewrite'' of an internal document that questioned whether JPMorgan ran afoul of the law. The revised wording, referring to the commission, said that ''JPMorgan does not believe that it violated FERC's policies.''
One of the central disputes between the regulator and Ms. Masters was the extent to which she knew about the bidding strategies. Initially, the regulators took aim at Ms. Masters, whom they described as highly intelligent. While Ms. Masters ''saw many presentations'' about the strategies, she ''falsely testified that she did not understand how the scheme made money, beyond a generic understanding that it was designed to maximize all sources of revenue,'' investigators found.
JPMorgan's response to the March document, which exceeded 100 pages, could ultimately modulate the regulator's decision.
This is a more complete version of the story than the one that appeared in print.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Blythe Masters of JPMorgan. Regulators initially said she lied to them under oath about the bank's energy trading tactics. (PHOTOGRAPH BY MANUEL BALCE CENETA/ASSOCIATED PRESS) (B1)
 Jamie Dimon, the bank's chairman and chief executive, has moved to shore up support for Blythe Masters. (PHOTOGRAPH BY RICHARD DREW/ASSOCIATED PRESS) (B7) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ENERGY REGULATION (91%); ENERGY & UTILITY LAW (91%); ENERGY DEPARTMENTS (90%); ELECTRICITY TRANSMISSION & DISTRIBUTION (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (89%); INVESTIGATIONS (89%); SETTLEMENT & COMPROMISE (89%); ELECTRIC POWER PLANTS (78%); PUBLIC UTILITIES COMMISSIONS (78%); FINES & PENALTIES (78%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (77%); SPECIAL INVESTIGATIVE FORCES (77%); COMPANY PROFITS (76%); DERIVATIVE INSTRUMENTS (76%); POWER PLANTS (73%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (72%)

COMPANY: JPMORGAN CHASE & CO (96%)

ORGANIZATION: FEDERAL ENERGY REGULATORY COMMISSION (57%)

TICKER: JPM (NYSE) (96%); JPM (LSE) (96%); 8634 (TSE) (96%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (96%); NAICS523999 MISCELLANEOUS FINANCIAL INVESTMENT ACTIVITIES (96%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (96%); SIC6022 STATE COMMERCIAL BANKS (96%)

PERSON: JAMES DIMON (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: MICHIGAN, USA (92%); CALIFORNIA, USA (88%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: July 19, 2013



554 of 937 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 19, 2013
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; Movies, Performing Arts/Weekend Desk; MOVIE REVIEW; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 991 words

HEADLINE: Homeownership Has Its Perils

BYLINE: By MANOHLA DARGIS

 BODY:
The dread gathers and surges while the blood scarcely trickles in ''The Conjuring,'' a fantastically effective haunted-house movie. Set largely in 1971, it purports to tell a story based on ''true case files'' about a family of seven whose pastoral dream became a nightmare soon after they moved into a Rhode Island farmhouse. One day, Mom, Dad and the girls are settling into their conveniently sprawling, creaking, squeaking two-story house -- the rooms quickly become a disorienting maze -- and the next, they're playing hide and creep with a mysterious, increasingly malevolent force. 
The director James Wan plays much the same game with you. Written by the brothers Chad Hayes and Carey W. Hayes, the movie opens with a jittery, funny prologue involving a couple of pretty nurses right out of a Roger Corman quickie, a devil doll named Annabelle (shades of Rod Serling and Chucky) and a pair of married paranormal experts, Ed and Lorraine Warren (Patrick Wilson and Vera Farmiga). The Warrens quickly take care of business, and Mr. Wan does the same. With shock cuts, gliding camera movements, muted colors that evoke David Fincher's ''Zodiac'' and tricks learned from ''The Twilight Zone,'' Mr. Wan -- whose first sly shot is of a cracked, smiling face -- sets a relentlessly uneasy tone that imperceptively shifts between intense seriousness and lightly mocking.
The real Ed and Lorraine Warren, lifelong investigators of the paranormal -- their Web site calls him a demonologist and her a trance medium -- established the grandly named New England Society for Psychic Research in 1952 but are most famous for their exploits in another house, in Amityville, on Long Island. (Mr. Warren died in 2006; Ms. Warren was a consultant on ''The Conjuring.'') The Warrens declared that Dutch Colonial demonic, a diagnosis that led to more than a dozen ''Amityville'' movies and stoked the market for haunted-house tales. What happened when the Warrens entered the Rhode Island home in ''The Conjuring'' hasn't received the same attention, although one of the daughters, Andrea Perron, has published a memoir.
The movie takes off with Carolyn (an excellent Lili Taylor) and Roger (Ron Livingston, very good), moving their family into their new home. He's a truck driver, while she runs the house and five girls ranging from preschool age to high school. They're appealingly real, with an easy intimacy that's strikingly different from the canned version briefly seen in a clip from ''The Brady Bunch.'' The only perceptible crack in the facade is that they're struggling financially, a fissure suggested by Carolyn's quietly tense demeanor, Roger's knotted forehead and the house's smudged, unpainted walls. Once they move in, they can't move out, a bad situation that speaks as much to today as to the story's inflation-plagued period. Things are rocky even before they go bump in the night.
When Mr. Wan lingers on Carolyn's crumbling smile it's obvious that it isn't only the Perron house that's troubled. It's been estimated that 75 percent of Americans believe in the paranormal, while only 54 percent believe global warming has begun. Evidently it's easier to believe in the terrors that can't hurt us than to believe in those that can, which may partly account for why so many vampires, zombies and their paranormal ilk are running amok in the popular imagination. Each era brings its own allegorical terrors, and in the 1970s, a golden age of horror cinema, the aftershocks of the 1960s found expression in stories about diabolically terrifying spawn who, with their swiveling heads and annihilating violence, were grotesque embodiments of a generational anxiety.
''The Conjuring'' isn't just primarily set in the 1970s, it also taps into the paranoia that is both an evergreen American trait and a crucial characteristic of films of that era, horror and otherwise. With amusing self-awareness, Mr. Wan (his earlier movies include ''Saw'' and ''Insidious'') leans on the usual genre tricks throughout, making you jump with hard edits and doors being squeaked open by unseen hands. But he also makes intelligent use of narrative delay and ellipses that help build suspense and suspicion. The script generally doesn't overexplain, and neither does he. When things start going wrong at the Perrons' -- a bird crashes into the house, bruises bloom on Carolyn's body -- the family knows something's amiss but can't read the signs. The deeply religious Warrens (Lorraine wraps rosary beads around one hand) think that they can, and do.
Mr. Wilson makes Ed an appealing, somewhat ridiculous square, which fits nicely with Ms. Farmiga's unsmiling intensity and undercurrents of fragility. Their characters are as appealing as the Perrons, but Mr. Wan smartly keeps enough distance from the Warrens that you can see that these true believers are also hovering at the edge of dangerous fanaticism. That gives the movie a shiver of political currency even if a greater, more sustaining pleasure of this particular haunted-house fantasy is how it works as a metaphor for moviegoing itself. When the Perrons first settle into their house, they're facing the future with bright, anxious smiles that aren't much different from those of the horror-film faithful who are waiting nervously, hopefully, to be jolted by the next great shocker. It's here.
''The Conjuring'' is rated R (Under 17 requires accompanying parent or adult guardian). Haunted-house terror.
The Conjuring
Opens on Friday.
Directed by James Wan; written by Chad Hayes and Carey W. Hayes; director of photography, John R. Leonetti; edited by Kirk Morri; music by Joseph Bishara; production design by Julie Berghoff; costumes by Kristin M. Burke; produced by Tony DeRosa-Grund, Peter Safran and Rob Cowan; released by Warner Brothers Pictures. Running time: 1 hour 51 minutes.
WITH: Vera Farmiga (Lorraine Warren), Patrick Wilson (Ed Warren), Ron Livingston (Roger Perron) and Lili Taylor (Carolyn Perron).

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Lili Taylor, trapped in a haunted house in ''The Conjuring.'' (PHOTOGRAPH BY MICHAEL TACKETT/ WARNER BROTHERS PICTURES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Review

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MOVIE INDUSTRY (90%); APPOINTMENTS (78%); VISUAL & PERFORMING ARTS (73%); BIOGRAPHICAL LITERATURE (69%); BIOGRAPHY PUBLISHING (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: RHODE ISLAND, USA (88%); NORTHEAST USA (57%) UNITED STATES (88%)

LOAD-DATE: July 19, 2013



555 of 937 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 19, 2013
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; DEALBOOK; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 665 words

HEADLINE: Madoff Case

BYLINE: By SUSAN ANTILLA

 BODY:
6:19 p.m. | Updated
Westport National Bank and its parent company, Connecticut Community Bank, were not liable for the losses of investors in Bernard Madoff's vast Ponzi scheme in its role as a custodial bank, a jury found on Wednesday. Separately, the bank agreed to pay $7.5 million to 240 investors in a related case, a lawyer for the bank said.
A federal jury in Hartford had finished hearing eight days of evidence last month in a case before Judge Vanessa L. Bryant of the United States District Court for the District of Connecticut. The case had consolidated three similar lawsuits against the bank. Two of those cases settled before the jury began its deliberations. 
After the other cases settled, the jury did evaluate the bank's custodial duties in a case brought by two Florida investors, but sent a mixed message.
After 14 hours of deliberation, the jury said that the bank was not a fiduciary, and thus owed no fiduciary duty to two elderly Florida investors, Audrey Short and Faye Albert.
The jury ruled that the bank breached its custodian agreements when it calculated its fees based on the Madoff firm's reports instead of on the actual assets it held. It also said that the two plaintiffs had proved that the bank breached its agreements when it failed to issue accurate annual statements and failed to audit or verify the existence and value of the assets.
But the six jurors determined that neither plaintiff had proved that she suffered any economic loss as a result of the actions.
''They found we failed to maintain accurate records, but they found that nothing the bank did caused any harm,'' Tracy A. Miner, one of the bank's lawyers, said in a telephone interview. Ms. Miner said that the bank's liabilities involving the accounts that were settled could have reached $70 million to $80 million.
Steve Gard, a lawyer for Mrs. Short and Mrs. Albert, said that he planned to file a motion within two weeks asking for a judgment in the investors' favor because the jurors findings ''are inconsistent.''
Mr. Gard said that the jurors determined that his clients had not suffered a loss as a result of the bank's inadequate recordkeeping before getting a chance to hear all the evidence.
During the trial, the bank stressed that its contracts with the plaintiffs only obligated it to perform ministerial duties. Lawyers for the bank also made much of the fact that financial regulators, including the Securities and Exchange Commission, had not been able to catch Mr. Madoff, so it would be unrealistic to expect a small Connecticut bank to be able to do so.
For their part, the plaintiffs emphasized that there were cautious investors who stayed away from Mr. Madoff's firm because of the lack of transparency in his operation.
The case had been watched for its implications on the duties of custodial banks. Investors sometimes assume that a custodian actually takes custody of their assets, but the bank's obligations can vary widely depending upon how its contract is worded.
Custodial relationships become problematic ''when there is ambiguity about the bank's duties and the customer expects more than the bank thought it had agreed to'' said Kathy Bazoian Phelps, a Los Angeles-based lawyer and co-author of ''The Ponzi Book: A Legal Resource for Unraveling Ponzi Schemes.''
The interpretation of contractual obligations was ''exactly where the trouble lies'' in the Connecticut Community Bank case, she said.
Disputes over the obligations of custodians will only get more frequent and more heated, said Edward Siedle, a former S.E.C. lawyer who investigates pension fund abuses.
Investors are increasingly setting up so-called self-directed I.R.A.'s that invest in hedge funds and real estate, Mr. Siedle said. Each of those accounts must be kept with a custodian, which may have no obligation to do more than keep records that it never verifies.
''The risks are getting greater than ever,'' he said.
This is a more complete version of the story than the one that appeared in print.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: JURY TRIALS (92%); VERDICTS (90%); HOLDING COMPANIES (90%); PARENT COMPANIES (90%); EVIDENCE (89%); LAWYERS (89%); COMMUNITY BANKS (78%); BANKING & FINANCE REGULATION (78%); BANKING & FINANCE AGENCIES (78%); SECURITIES LAW (78%); DEPOSITORY SERVICES (78%); BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (78%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (77%); FRAUD & FINANCIAL CRIME (77%); PONZI SCHEMES (77%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (76%); CONTRACTS LAW (75%); LITIGATION (72%); SUITS & CLAIMS (72%); JUDGES (71%); INTERVIEWS (62%)

COMPANY: CONNECTICUT COMMUNITY BANK NA (58%)

INDUSTRY: SIC6021 NATIONAL COMMERCIAL BANKS (58%)

PERSON: BERNARD MADOFF (90%)

GEOGRAPHIC: HARTFORD, CT, USA (90%) CONNECTICUT, USA (91%) UNITED STATES (91%)

LOAD-DATE: July 19, 2013



556 of 937 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 19, 2013
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 354 words

HEADLINE: New Jobless Claims Drop, Partly for Seasonal Reasons

BYLINE: By THE ASSOCIATED PRESS

 BODY:
WASHINGTON -- The number of Americans applying for unemployment benefits fell 24,000 last week to a seasonally adjusted 334,000, a sign that steady job gains should continue. 
The drop left unemployment benefit applications at the lowest level in 10 weeks, the Labor Department said on Thursday. Some of the decline may have been caused by seasonal factors.
Still, the broader trend has been favorable. The four-week average, which smooths out fluctuations, fell 5,250, to 351,000.
''We believe labor market conditions remain on a gradually improving trajectory,'' said Laura Rosner, an economist at BNP Paribas.
Weekly applications data can be volatile in July. Automakers typically shut their factories in the first two weeks of the month to prepare for new models, which leads to a temporary spike in layoffs. But this year, much of the industry has skipped or shortened the shutdowns to keep up with stronger demand.
Applications are a proxy for layoffs. They have declined 5 percent since January. The drop has coincided with stronger job growth.
Employers added an average of 202,000 jobs a month through the first six months of the year, up from an average of 180,000 in the previous six months. In June, they added 195,000 jobs.
More than 4.5 million people received unemployment aid in the week ending June 29, the latest data available. That's down just 1,900 from the previous week. The number of recipients has fallen 21 percent in the last year.
Separately, the Conference Board, a business research group, said on Thursday that its index of leading indicators remained unchanged at 95.3 in June, pointing to modest growth in the coming months. The flat reading followed increases of 0.2 percent in May and 0.8 percent in April.
The longer-term trend has been positive. The index increased 1.7 percent in the first six months of this year. That's better than the 1.1 percent rise in the previous six months.
The trend ''suggests that the economy should continue to experience at least modest growth over the next six to nine months,'' Maninder Sibia, an economist at the Economic Advisory Service, said in a note to clients.

GRAPHIC: CHARTS: Jobless Claims: Weekly number of people who have filed for unemployment benefits for the first time. (Source: Labor Department, via Bloomberg)
Leading Indicators: An index of 10 economic components intended to predict overall economic activity
 2004 =100. (Source: The Conference Board) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: JOBLESS CLAIMS (94%); UNEMPLOYMENT INSURANCE (91%); LAYOFFS (90%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (78%); LABOR SECTOR PERFORMANCE (78%); INDEX OF LEADING ECONOMIC INDICATORS (78%); ECONOMIC INDICATORS (78%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (78%); LABOR DEPARTMENTS (73%); AUTOMOTIVE MFG (69%); AUTOMOBILE MFG (69%); AUTOMAKERS (54%)

COMPANY: BNP PARIBAS SA (56%)

TICKER: BNP (PAR) (56%); BNP (BIT) (56%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (56%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (56%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (56%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (56%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (56%); SIC6081 BRANCHES & AGENCIES OF FOREIGN BANKS (56%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: July 19, 2013



557 of 937 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 19, 2013
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 726 words

HEADLINE: Same Script by Bernanke, But Like a Farewell Scene

BYLINE: By BINYAMIN APPELBAUM

 BODY:
WASHINGTON -- Chairman Ben S. Bernanke of the Federal Reserve said on Thursday that it was ''way too early to make any judgment'' about a potential decision to start cutting back on the central bank's asset purchases in September.
Mr. Bernanke, appearing before the Senate one day after he testified before the House, largely repeated the themes and often the words of Wednesday's testimony. 
He said that the Fed had not slackened in its commitment to stimulate the economy -- it will cut back only if the economy is making progress. He chastised Congress, saying it was impeding economic growth. And he demurred from talking about his own future, choosing instead to listen quietly as senator after senator treated the hearing like a goodbye party.
This may have been Mr. Bernanke's final appearance before Congress as Fed chairman. It is widely expected that he will step down in January.
His last decision is when the Fed should begin to reduce its stimulus efforts. The Fed is buying $85 billion a month in Treasuries and mortgage-backed securities.
Mr. Bernanke said on Thursday that the Fed had concluded that such purchases, aimed at reducing long-term interest rates, do less to bolster the economy than the Fed's traditional focus on reducing short-term rates. He also suggested that in announcing a timeline for tapering last month, the Fed had succeeded in tempering risk-taking in financial markets.
But he once again resisted the idea that the Fed was lowering its sights.
''Isn't it still way too soon to consider any kind of policy tightening?'' Senator Robert Menendez of New Jersey asked Mr. Bernanke, citing the persistently high level of unemployment and the absence of inflationary pressures.
Mr. Bernanke responded that the Fed was changing its approach, not its goals. In testimony, he underscored that the central bank had other tools at its disposal, besides asset purchases.
''I think that we will be able to maintain that high level of accommodation ultimately through rate policy and, you know -- and by holding a very large balance sheet,'' he said.
Some economists, including Adam S. Posen, president of the Peterson Institute for International Economics, argue that the Fed is making the wrong choice. Mr. Posen describes the Fed's statements about its plans to hold down interest rates as ''cheap talk,'' and says it should continue with bond-buying instead.
A further complication for the Fed is that Mr. Bernanke's likely departure is beginning to erode his credibility as a spokesman about the Fed's future plans.
Mr. Bernanke has said that the Fed expects to reduce its bond-buying later this year, and to end purchases by the middle of next year, as long as economic growth remains ''broadly'' in line with the Fed's expectations.
''We have given some fairly specific qualitative guidance about what we're looking for,'' he said Thursday. Specifically, the Fed wants the unemployment rate to decline from the current rate of 7.6 percent to a rate ''in the general vicinity of 7 percent with inflation moving back toward this 2 percent objective.''
The Fed, however, has not included that guidance in its policy statements. And an account of the most recent meeting of the Federal Open Market Committee noted that ''about half'' of the 19 officials who participated said before the meeting that they expected to end asset purchases by the end of this year.
Senator Charles E. Schumer, Democrat of New York, asked Mr. Bernanke about the apparent disagreement over the question of how much longer the Fed should continue its current bond-buying campaign.
''There seems to be some disparity between the other members and you, and if you're not there come next year, there's a worry there,'' Mr. Schumer said. ''Do they think unemployment will be 7 percent this year, or do they have different assessments about the relative cost and benefit of'' quantitative easing?
Mr. Bernanke responded that officials had various reasons for their views. Some regard asset purchases as ineffective, while others may be more optimistic about the economy. But he added that the committee had ''a very careful discussion'' that led to his public statement about the probable timetable for tapering.
''The general scenario which I described in my press conference is broadly supported by people on the committee and including both voters and nonvoters,'' he said.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (92%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); BANKING & FINANCE (89%); CENTRAL BANKS (89%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (89%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (89%); INTEREST RATES (87%); INFLATION (78%); TREASURY SECURITIES (78%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (74%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (70%); MORTGAGE BACKED SECURITIES (66%)

PERSON: BEN BERNANKE (92%); BOB MENENDEZ (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: July 19, 2013



558 of 937 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 19, 2013
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 14

LENGTH: 964 words

HEADLINE: Senate Confirms Nominees as G.O.P. Discontent Rises

BYLINE: By JONATHAN WEISMAN and JEREMY W. PETERS

 BODY:
WASHINGTON -- President Obama's executive branch nominees continued to cruise through the Senate on Thursday, including his controversial pick to be labor secretary, Thomas E. Perez, as Republican anger over a deal to avoid a weakening of the filibuster seeped into the open.
The Senate, along strict party lines, 54-46, gave final confirmation to Mr. Perez, the Justice Department's civil rights chief, as the president's second labor secretary, then voted 59-40 to confirm his nominee to be the next Environmental Protection Agency administrator, Gina McCarthy, 154 days after the last E.P.A. head stepped down. 
Behind closed doors and in the public halls of the Capitol, Republican senators expressed deep regret over a deal many now say gave them nothing. Mr. Obama will get seven nominees confirmed, including some strongly opposed by conservatives. He will resurrect the National Labor Relations Board, which many Republicans believe tilts labor disputes toward the unions, and will sidestep mounting pressure to increase oversight of the new Consumer Financial Protection Bureau.
In exchange, Republicans did not even get a promise that Democrats will not change the rules on executive branch nominees with a 51-vote strong-arm maneuver in the future.
''There wasn't any deal. They got what they wanted. We basically rolled over,'' said Senator Richard C. Shelby, Republican of Alabama. ''What changed is the Democrats threatened to change the rules, and they got the agreement without changing the rules.''
''Senate Republicans preserved the right to surrender in the future,'' Senator Ted Cruz, Republican of Texas, said on his Twitter feed.
At a closed-door meeting on Wednesday, Senator Mitch McConnell of Kentucky, the Republican leader, embraced a Democratic narrative that the deal to avert the filibuster rule change was cut behind his back. He told Senate Republicans he could have extracted more concessions. That elicited a remarkable response from the negotiators of the deal. One of them, Senator Bob Corker, Republican of Tennessee, audibly muttered a common vulgarity that questioned his leader's veracity at the meeting, then confirmed the comment after it leaked out in the Capitol Hill newspaper Roll Call.
''I can assure you that McConnell has been very, very involved every step of the way,'' Mr. Corker said on Thursday.
Senator John McCain, the Arizona Republican who is widely seen as going behind Mr. McConnell's back to cut the deal, also said that Mr. McConnell's comments were simply not true.
''We were coordinating all our efforts together, Senator McConnell and I,'' he said. ''I was in constant contact with him. So I don't know if there was such a thing as a better deal or not.''
To some conservatives, the Perez confirmation is already emerging as the most galling consequence of the filibuster deal, even though many Republicans said he would have gotten the 60 votes to break a filibuster regardless.
Conservative Republicans in the House have spent months accusing Mr. Perez of being overly partisan, antireligious, and litigious to a fault. The House Oversight and Government Reform Committee had outstanding subpoenas issued against Mr. Perez, demanding records on a deal he struck with the city of St. Paul to drop a lawsuit involving public housing conditions in what some Republicans called a quid pro quo.
Republicans involved in that investigation say they have been left high and dry.
''We lost, he won,'' said Representative Jim Jordan, Republican of Ohio and a senior member of the committee.
Senator Mike Lee, Republican of Utah, echoed the concerns of many Republicans who have accused Mr. Perez of selecting cases based on political motivation and, in some instances, racial bias.
''Simply put, there's no shortage of reasons why Mr. Perez should not be confirmed,'' he said on the Senate floor.
Mr. Obama hailed the confirmation of Mr. Perez and others ''who have waited far too long for the yes-or-no votes they deserve.''
''Tom has lived the American dream himself, and has dedicated his career to keeping it within reach for hard-working families across the country. At the Department of Labor, Tom will help us continue to grow our economy, help businesses create jobs, make sure workers have the skills those jobs require, and ensure safe workplaces and economic opportunity for all,'' the president said.
Mr. Perez's opponents were not the only ones who believe the deal pulled the rug out from under them. Senator Rob Portman, Republican of Ohio, had been negotiating for three months, and until as recently as last week, to extract changes to the operation of the Consumer Financial Protection Bureau in exchange for his support for confirming its first director, Richard Cordray.
Mr. Portman wanted a Senate-confirmed inspector general for the new agency, as well as a board of directors to monitor a strong director. Those talks, involving the White House chief of staff, Denis McDonough, and Treasury Secretary Jacob J. Lew, had made enough progress that Mr. Portman asked Mr. McCain to leave Mr. Cordray's nomination out of a deal on executive-branch nominees, according to officials involved in the talks.
On Saturday, Mr. McCain told Mr. Portman he would get nothing.
''Everybody is still trying to figure out what this deal was,'' said Senator John Thune of South Dakota, the Senate's third-ranking Republican.
The deal is already proving shaky, regardless of any handshake compromise. Mr. McCain said Thursday said that he would place a hold on the nomination of Gen. Martin E. Dempsey to another two-year term as chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff.
Asked how he could reconcile that decision with his role as the chief negotiator of the filibuster deal, he shot back: ''What's the connection? I have a responsibility to get answers.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Mitch McConnell, the Senate minority leader, has complained about the deal on filibusters. (PHOTOGRAPH BY CHRISTOPHER GREGORY/THE NEW YORK TIMES)
 The Senate confirmed Thomas E. Perez as labor secretary. (PHOTOGRAPH BY ALEX WONG/GETTY IMAGES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LABOR DEPARTMENTS (90%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); TALKS & MEETINGS (89%); FILIBUSTER (89%); POLITICS (89%); US POLITICAL PARTIES (79%); CONSERVATISM (77%); CIVIL RIGHTS (76%); CONSUMER PROTECTION (76%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (73%); LABOR DISPUTES & NEGOTIATIONS (73%); ENVIRONMENTAL DEPARTMENTS (71%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (56%)

ORGANIZATION: NATIONAL LABOR RELATIONS BOARD (56%); BUREAU OF CONSUMER FINANCIAL PROTECTION (55%)

PERSON: MITCH MCCONNELL (89%); BARACK OBAMA (88%); TED CRUZ (79%); BOB CORKER (58%); RICHARD SHELBY (58%); JOHN MCCAIN (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: ARIZONA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: July 19, 2013



559 of 937 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 19, 2013
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; OP-ED CONTRIBUTOR; Pg. 25

LENGTH: 956 words

HEADLINE: The Lessons of Belle Glade

BYLINE: By CINDY HAHAMOVITCH. 
Cindy Hahamovitch is a history professor at the College of William & Mary and the author of ''No Man's Land: Jamaican Guestworkers in America and the Global History of Deportable Labor .''

 BODY:
WILLIAMSBURG, Va. -- IN 1965, the secretary of labor, Willard Wirtz, stood under a porch light in Belle Glade, Fla., facing a crowd of guest workers from the Caribbean. Mr. Wirtz could smell sweat and burned sugar cane on their clothes but couldn't see them, which was how the workers wanted it. Guest workers were often deported and blacklisted for striking or simply questioning whether they had been paid what they were owed.
''I would hear their voices -- they would ask questions,'' Mr. Wirtz recalled, but ''they weren't going to be identified.'' 
Congress had just terminated the famously exploitative Bracero Program for Mexican guest workers in response to reports of miserable pay and working conditions and farm employers' illegal use of braceros as strikebreakers. The last of these workers -- 4.5 million over the program's lifetime -- were just leaving when Mr. Wirtz visited Belle Glade to investigate the federal government's remaining guest-worker program, known as H-2, which annually imported roughly 15,000 men from the Caribbean.
Mr. Wirtz was convinced that growers didn't need Caribbean guest workers either, given widespread unemployment among American farmworkers, who still fell outside minimum wage, maximum hour, Social Security, workers' compensation and collective bargaining laws. Until employers lost access to foreign workers, he reasoned, they had no incentive to improve conditions to attract American workers to their farms.
Migrant labor is in the news again, as the House takes up the Senate's immigration bill and the draconian alternative of Representative Robert W. Goodlatte, a Virginia Republican. Both bills would expand guest-worker programs. But only the Senate plan tries to address their worst features.
Mr. Wirtz's solution to American farmworkers' chronic unemployment was to make the H-2 program so expensive that only employers desperate for labor would resort to it. He raised guest-workers' wages; required employers to pay for workers' housing and their travel costs from home; and, like his Republican predecessor, made growers search for American workers before he would approve guest workers. Growers insisted that trying to use ''local domestic help'' was like ''trying to convert Castro to democracy,'' but over four years, 314 of 350 participating employers switched from guest to domestic workers, with no significant labor shortages or crop losses.
Mr. Wirtz seemed to win, but growers had the last laugh. Abuses continued. Mr. Wirtz had not understood that as long as workers can be threatened with deportation, regulations are unenforceable. No doubt many H-2 employers followed the rules, but others broke them with impunity. H-2 workers were -- and still are -- threatened with violence, housed in storage sheds, underpaid or not paid, and, most important, deported and blacklisted for doing something about it.
Farmworker advocates were foiled in other ways as well: the more reformers succeeded in extending labor and housing laws to agriculture, the more farm employers resorted to using even more vulnerable undocumented workers. The African-Americans, Mexican-Americans and poor whites who once dominated farm work became rarities. By the 1970s, the big farm-labor housing center in Miami was known as ''Mexico City.'' Wages and housing conditions remained so depressed that the State Department reportedly sent diplomats bound for developing countries to Belle Glade as part of their training.
Despite these problems, restrictions that kept the H-2 program small were removed in 1986, during the last major immigration overhaul. Abuses multiplied. In 1997, the Government Accountability Office found that the Labor Department had never denied an application to import workers because an employer had violated workers' legal rights.
Today, growers of any crop in any state can import guest workers from any country. The United States approved about 85,000 agricultural jobs last year, most of which went to Mexicans. But the fortunes of farmworkers have improved little over the decades and now hang in the balance.
The bipartisan Senate compromise is a mixed bag for farmworkers. It would combine increased border security with a path to citizenship -- albeit a long path, up to 13 years -- for 11 million undocumented immigrants. Unauthorized farmworkers could gain legal status more quickly. But instead of encouraging growers to recruit from among those newly resident farmworkers by improving conditions, the proposal promises growers more guest workers, perhaps over 300,000 by the third year of the program.
New ''W'' visas would replace the H-2 program and require growers to ''attest'' to their need for foreign workers, but not prove it. Guest workers would be able to apply for permanent legal status, although it's unclear if enough green cards would be available. They could also quit an abusive employer for a better one -- a big gain -- but only if they entered the country with a new W-3 visa that would not provide for free housing and round-trip travel. And workers who felt their rights had been violated could, for the first time, go to federal court.
In contrast, Mr. Goodlatte's bill would block any path to citizenship, turn unauthorized farmworkers into guest workers and import up to 500,000 more -- Bracero redux.
Neither plan does anything to improve wages, require safer housing or protect our mostly immigrant farm labor force from pesticide poisoning. But if an expanded guest-worker program is inevitable, at least the Senate bill, by allowing guest workers some hope of becoming permanent residents, honors the long American tradition of giving the ultimate reward -- citizenship -- to those who do our dirtiest, most dangerous and essential work.

GRAPHIC: DRAWING (DRAWING BY SHANNON FRESHWATER) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: FOREIGN LABOR (94%); FARM LABOR (94%); EMPLOYMENT (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); DEPORTATION (89%); WAGES & SALARIES (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (89%); INVESTIGATIONS (89%); IMMIGRATION (89%); MINIMUM WAGE (78%); LABOR DEPARTMENTS (78%); MIGRANT WORKERS (78%); STRIKES (78%); LABOR UNIONS (78%); SOCIAL SECURITY (78%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (74%); LABOR SHORTAGES (73%); WORKERS COMPENSATION (73%); COLLECTIVE BARGAINING (69%); WORKERS COMPENSATION LAW (65%)

PERSON: BOB GOODLATTE (54%)

GEOGRAPHIC: WILLIAMSBURG, VA, USA (74%) VIRGINIA, USA (93%) UNITED STATES (94%); CARIBBEAN ISLANDS (94%)

LOAD-DATE: July 19, 2013



560 of 937 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 19, 2013
The International Herald Tribune

SECTION: Section ; Column 0; Editorial Desk; OP-ED COLUMNIST; Pg. 

LENGTH: 823 words

HEADLINE: Enough of the Daytonians

BYLINE: By ROGER COHEN

 BODY:
SARAJEVO -- Once upon a time there was an American-forged Balkan nation comprised of two entities, 10 cantons, a district and an overarching state where several hundred ministers presided over close to four million people but did little for them because preserving their privileges was a full-time job.
These ministers at the cantonal, entity, district and state levels were known as ''Daytonians,'' after an agreement reached in 1995 in Dayton, Ohio, that ended the bloodiest war in Europe since World War II. The accord stopped the killing but instituted an unworkable, many-layered political system whose chief beneficiaries were these fat-cat Daytonians and their hangers-on. 
Every now and again somebody might ask if a small country needed 14 education ministers. The Daytonians responded in unison: ''Of course it does!''
Somebody else might ask why the national anti-corruption agency was a complete joke, and would be told: ''The European Union insisted on one, but, hey, why would we police our own perks?''
Daytonians came in various stripes: Bosnian Muslim (or Bosniak), Serb and Croat. They disagreed about many things and nursed bitter memories of a war that killed at least 100,000 people. But they agreed on the necessity of their self-perpetuation. They agreed that investigating the disappearance of hundreds of millions of dollars would be silly. They agreed on the need for political parties drawn on ethnic lines. They agreed on the efficacy of pre-election nationalist outbursts.
And so a failed system endured.
In the capital of Daytonland, on an avenue known during the war as ''Sniper Alley,'' the United States built a vast embassy resembling a high-security prison whose message to passers-by seemed to be: ''America is under siege.''
One day in 2011 a radical Islamist opened fire on the embassy. He strolled around for 40 minutes shooting because nobody could decide if state or entity police or security forces should stop him.
Decision making in a land of entities -- the very term was a reflection of disagreement on what to call the country's component parts -- is hard.
Inside the embassy, U.S. diplomats grew frustrated. Dayton was not supposed to be set in stone. It froze things at the worst moment of interethnic relations. It reflected the reality of 1995 but was no long-term basis to run a country. In fact it was designed to block a country. Still, it kept the peace.
Bosnians -- facing high unemployment, rampant corruption, a venal judiciary and the need to join sectarian political parties to get a job in the state-run industries accounting for 60 percent of the economy -- voted with their feet. They left for Düsseldorf. They headed for Detroit or St. Louis, where they could be plain ''Bosnians,'' not some ethnic subgroup.
Nobody was sure how many people remained in the country. A census was planned. It was unclear if it would happen. Numbers are political dynamite in a country where Daytonians depend on their ethnic majorities to dominate minorities.
The shadow of the war endured. Unidentified human remains were scattered through the valleys of the land. Serbs massacred many tens of thousands of Bosnian Muslims in the first six months of 1992 and another 8,000 at Srebrenica in 1995. Every week trucks passed the presidency loaded with coffins headed for burial. Just this month, 409 newly identified victims were buried near Srebrenica, 18 years after the killing.
Terrible crimes had happened here, not confined to one side, but perpetrated overwhelmingly by one side, the Serbs.
Still in the Serb entity, crucible of imagined victimhood, denial persisted. They funded efforts to deny the Srebrenica slaughter. They made a dumb effort to institute new identification numbers that would distinguish Serb babies from others -- and thousands of people took to the streets to protest.
They dreamed of statehood, or union with Serbia, not noticing that in Serbia, a leading politician had talked of going down on his knees in shame at Srebrenica; not noticing that Serbia had negotiated an agreement with Kosovo; not understanding Serbia's turn toward the European Union and away from the folly of Bosnia.
Young people grew impatient. They wanted to be Bosnians -- not Bosniaks, or Serbs or Croats. They wanted to be citizens of their nation rather than ethnic pawns in Dayton's blocked labyrinth.
At Srebrenica, in the Serb entity, a campaign began to register Muslims driven away from their homes, so they could vote. They did -- and Camil Durakovic is now the young mayor of Srebrenica, working with a Serb deputy. Why stop there? The best answer to the Daytonians is to undercut the sectarian divide on which they thrive. Now the campaign has extended to registering all Muslims who fled the Serb entity and so change its warped politics.
In Bosnia the time has come to move beyond Dayton -- not its peace (the great achievement of Richard Holbrooke) but the division and denial it has perpetuated.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); US POLITICAL PARTIES (89%); SHOOTINGS (89%); POLITICS (89%); POLITICAL PARTIES (89%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (78%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (77%); EUROPEAN UNION (77%); DIPLOMATIC SERVICES (76%); POLITICAL ORGANIZATIONS (75%); CORRUPTION (73%); EDUCATION DEPARTMENTS (72%); WORLD WAR II (70%); INVESTIGATIONS (70%); PRISONS (62%)

ORGANIZATION: EUROPEAN UNION (55%)

GEOGRAPHIC: SARAJEVO, BOSNIA & HERZEGOVINA (92%); DAYTON, OH, USA (72%) OHIO, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%); BOSNIA & HERZEGOVINA (94%); EUROPE (92%); SOUTHEASTERN EUROPE (90%); CROATIA (79%); SERBIA & MONTENEGRO (79%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (72%)

LOAD-DATE: July 19, 2013



561 of 937 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 19, 2013
The International Herald Tribune

SECTION: Section ; Column 0; Foreign Desk; WAY OF THE WORLD; Pg. 

LENGTH: 885 words

HEADLINE: Capitalism, but With a Little Heart

BYLINE: By CHRYSTIA FREELAND | REUTERS

 BODY:
NEW YORK -- When the financial crisis threatened to topple the global economy, my Russian friends took great delight in calling me from Moscow and sharing the bittersweet response that was making the rounds of a city that always laughs loudest when things go wrong: Everything Marx told us about communism was false, the gag went, but everything he told us about capitalism was true.
In 2008, it was easy to see their point. The lopsided recovery hasn't brought much comfort, either. Across western Europe and North America, corporate profits and stock prices have rebounded, but the middle class is more squeezed than ever. 
Even so, my Muscovite pals were wrong. Marx didn't just get communism wrong -- he was also profoundly mistaken about capitalism, which turns out to be the best prosperity-creating system humanity has come up with so far.
But that doesn't mean it doesn't need to evolve. The high-tech, globalized capitalism of the 21st century is very different from the postwar version of capitalism that performed so magnificently for the middle classes of the western world.
That's why a lot of people, including many hard-driving capitalists, are trying to figure out how to retool the institutions of capitalism for our time. This week, the state of Delaware, which has made corporate governance its regional cuisine, approved a new form of incorporation, the B-corp, or benefit corporation. These are companies explicitly charged with a dual mission: to earn profits for shareholders, the traditional business goal, and also to pursue the social good in other ways, ranging from protecting employees to safeguarding the environment -- even if these goals come at the cost of short-term financial gain.
Jack Markell, the governor of Delaware, traveled to a seminar discussion in New York on the sweltering day his state signed B-corp into law. ''This is a very significant public policy issue,'' he said. ''There is both a market need and a societal need.''
Mr. Markell admitted that ''there are a lot of skeptics out there,'' but he said the B-corp status was an important response to a world in which the way we do business has changed.
''When businesses first started up, they operated in the communities where they existed. This was where the executives lived,'' Mr. Markell said. Because they were so deeply rooted in particular communities, they didn't need legal structures that required them to take into account all of their stakeholders -- social pressure served that role.
In today's virtual, global economy, those personal constraints are eroding fast. The B-corp structure is a way to re-create them.
Mr. Markell believes there is a hunger among investors and entrepreneurs to both do well and do good: ''What an unbelievable opportunity this represents to harness the energy of entrepreneurs who are really focused on making money and who want to give back at the same time.''
Albert Wenger, a partner at Union Square Ventures, a New York-based investment firm, buys that argument. He was at the seminar with Mr. Markell, and in a blog post earlier that day, he laid out what he sees as the critical challenge for capitalism today: ''Our problem as society is no longer how to make more stuff. Cars, clothes, computers are all becoming better and cheaper.''
Instead, Mr. Wenger argued, ''Our biggest remaining problems, however, require social innovation: how to distribute the benefits of progress more widely, how to live in better harmony with the environment and how to provide affordable access to education and healthcare for all.''
The good news, Mr. Wenger believes, is that it is not just Occupy Wall Street that has focused on this dilemma. Business people are worried about it, too. ''At Union Square Ventures we are seeing more and more entrepreneurs and startup employees who are motivated as much by making the world a better place as they are by making money,'' he said.
The optimists at the B-corp discussion, which was hosted by the World Economic Forum, hoped that doing well and doing good could be seamlessly aligned. They argued that by freeing businesses to be mission-driven and pursue long-term goals rather than short-term profits, and by appealing to a new generation of idealistic consumers, B-corps could be as, if not more, profitable as traditional companies that maximize shareholder value.
That is a comforting thought. Frederick H. Alexander, the former chair of the Delaware Bar Association's Section of Corporation Law, suggested a tougher possibility.
''Part of the struggle is facing up to the hard facts,'' he said. ''The basic thing that underlies a B-corp is that you don't have to maximize shareholder value. You are accepting the possibility of a lower return.''
That may have been common sense for the greatest generation. But for most of us today, that notion of voluntarily forgoing higher profits for the benefit of the wider community is, as Mr. Alexander put it, ''counterintuitive.''
The B-corp structure is part of a wider movement to make that trade-off more natural. As Mr. Alexander said, ''the issue is, do you want to conduct your investments in the way you wouldn't conduct your life.''
That is a very good question, and one we have gotten out of the habit of asking.
Chrystia Freeland is managing director and editor, consumer news, Thomson Reuters.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ENTREPRENEURSHIP (78%); PUBLIC POLICY (78%); COMPANY PROFITS (78%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (78%); GLOBALIZATION (78%); SHAREHOLDERS (75%); CORPORATE GOVERNANCE (70%); APPROVALS (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: MOSCOW, RUSSIAN FEDERATION (91%) NEW YORK, USA (93%); DELAWARE, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (93%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (91%); NORTH AMERICA (79%); EUROPE (79%); WESTERN EUROPE (77%)

LOAD-DATE: July 19, 2013



562 of 937 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 19, 2013
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Foreign Desk; NEWS ANALYSIS; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 1141 words

HEADLINE: Rifts Over Fees and Taliban Sour Afghanistan Exit

BYLINE: By MATTHEW ROSENBERG; Sharifullah Sahak contributed reporting from Kabul, and Thom Shanker from Washington.

 BODY:
KABUL, Afghanistan -- If the ease of the American exit from Afghanistan is based on the supply of Afghan good will, it has been a troubling and potentially very costly week for the United States.
Even as a top aide to President Hamid Karzai unleashed a new round of hostile talk on television this week, accusing the United States of using the Taliban to divide Afghanistan, another disagreement -- over customs fees and missing paperwork for American cargo shipments out of Afghanistan -- leapt into the open and threatened to steeply raise the price tag for the United States military withdrawal.
The common thread between them is a growing willingness by Afghan officials, from the president's office down through the ministries, to publicly counter what they see as American arrogance. Just a few years after the setting of an American withdrawal deadline for 2014 evoked alarm and worry among Afghans, the tone now has perceptibly hardened: even the officials who openly want the Americans to stay are now saying that staying must be strictly on Afghan terms.
The latest is Finance Minister Omar Zakhilwal, once a favorite of the Western contingent in Afghanistan, whose anger at the American attitude about customs fees led him to institute steep fines and briefly led Afghan officials to close the border crossings to Western military shipments. 
''At the heart of all this is not just a revenue collection issue,'' Mr. Zakhilwal said in an e-mail on Thursday. It is about ''respect of Afghan laws and procedures.''
Under a deal signed nearly a decade ago, goods shipped into Afghanistan by the American-led coalition are not subject to taxes or customs duties. But, Afghan officials said, each container brought in must be accompanied by paperwork to claim the exemption, and most of the forms were never filed.
The customs issues ''have been lingering for many years now with no serious intention or effort'' by the coalition to resolve them, Mr. Zakhilwal said.
Now that the coalition is trying to take out its equipment, the Afghan government is demanding each container either come with its paperwork -- or a $1,000 fine. Najeebullah Manali, a Finance Ministry official, put the number of trucks at roughly 70,000. That would mean a fine of $70 million.
If anything, Mr. Zakhilwal said, the Afghan government was giving the coalition a break. ''The duties owed to us run into hundreds of millions of dollars,'' he said. ''The truth is that quite a bit of these goods (mostly fuel) have been smuggled into the market with consequences not only for our revenue but also distorting our market and damaging competition.''
To force the issue, Afghanistan closed its border crossings with Pakistan to coalition shipments moving both ways on July 11. The crossings, through which most supplies move, were reopened on Wednesday after the Finance Ministry gave the coalition another month to settle the matter.
American officials have balked at paying the fines, portraying the Afghan border closing as a shakedown by a government that is short of cash and unwilling to tax its own business class, which has grown wealthy off American supply contracts.
Instead, the coalition has turned to air shipments. It has flown out more than two-thirds of the material it moved in the past month, American officials said. In previous months, more than two-thirds had been shipped by land.
Air shipments are a far more expensive solution than simply paying the fines demanded by the Afghan government. If continued, the air shipments could result in the withdrawal of forces reaching or exceeding $7 billion, the upper end of its estimated cost.
An administration official in Washington sought to play down the effects on the withdrawal. ''We'll work it out with the Afghans,'' the official said. ''No one is overly worried.''
The American officials spoke on the condition of anonymity, citing efforts under way to reach a settlement.
Those who could speak publicly about the dispute, which was first reported by The Washington Post, were circumspect. ''We are experiencing challenges with our equipment retrograde at Afghan border-crossing points,'' said Cmdr. William Speaks, a Pentagon spokesman, in an e-mail. ''We are confident that the situation will be resolved soon.''
While American officials were willing to stay quiet in hopes of working out a deal with Mr. Zakhilwal, their sense of discretion did not extend to the claims by Abdul Karim Khurram, the chief of staff to Mr. Karzai, that the United States was working with the Taliban.
Mr. Khurram has irked American officials for years. One Westerner said that at coalition headquarters, he was viewed ''as Satan himself.''
Mr. Khurram reinforced that view in an interview this week with the Afghan channel 1TV. He openly accused Washington of colluding with the Taliban and Pakistan, where the insurgents shelter, and, in the Afghan telling, they are given orders of whom to attack and when by the Pakistani military.
''In the past decade, America used the Taliban as tools in this war,'' Mr. Khurram said. In this, he was being only slightly more strident than his boss, Mr. Karzai, who has also accused the United States and the Taliban of working to destabilize Afghanistan.
Mr. Khurram then claimed the United States was sending Taliban fighters to aid the Syrian rebels, while, in Afghanistan, the insurgents ''kill children in cooperation with Americans.''
''Cooperating with America was a failure,'' he concluded.
Mr. Khurram framed his commentary as a discussion of a long-term security deal that would keep American forces in Afghanistan past 2014, when the NATO combat mission here ends. Negotiations on the pact were suspended by Mr. Karzai last month after an American-orchestrated attempt to start peace talks with the Taliban went sour. This week, although American officials had publicly shied away from criticizing Mr. Karzai for airing similar themes, American officials issued a rare rebuttal.
''The allegation that the United States seeks to divide Afghanistan by giving a share to the Taliban is nonsense,'' said Ambassador James B. Cunningham in a statement issued Thursday. ''We have not spent blood and resources, alongside our Afghan comrades, in pursuit of any other purpose than a stable Afghanistan that can provide for the security of its people, strengthen its institutions, and pursue the future which its people deserve.''
As for the long-term security agreement, ''we are ready to resume these negotiations at any time,'' he added.
Mr. Khurram, in the television interview, acknowledged that Afghanistan needed the aid of American forces and financing beyond 2014. But given the experience of the past 12 years, Afghans had to carefully evaluate the terms under which the foreigners would remain ''so the next generations do not curse us,'' he cautioned.
Among the issues he mentioned: taxes.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: At Camp Leatherneck, Marines supervised the packing of goods to be shipped out of the country. The tone of Finance Minister Omar Zakhilwal, at far left, has hardened against the United States. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY MAURICIO LIMA FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES
 SHAH MARAI/AGENCE FRANCE-PRESSE -- GETTY IMAGES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News Analysis

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TALIBAN (90%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (89%); PUBLIC FINANCE (89%); ECONOMIC POLICY (87%); ECONOMIC NEWS (87%); FINES & PENALTIES (87%); EXCISE & CUSTOMS (76%); TERRITORIAL & NATIONAL BORDERS (75%); SMUGGLING (71%); TARIFFS & DUTIES (71%)

PERSON: HAMAD KARZAI (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: KABUL, AFGHANISTAN (92%) HIMACHAL PRADESH, INDIA (58%) UNITED STATES (99%); AFGHANISTAN (97%); PAKISTAN (79%); INDIA (58%)

LOAD-DATE: July 19, 2013



563 of 937 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 19, 2013
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 17

LENGTH: 1186 words

HEADLINE: Doctors and Nurses Roam Empty Halls As Hospital Again Prepares for Its Closing

BYLINE: By ANEMONA HARTOCOLLIS; Vivian Yee contributed reporting.

 BODY:
At Long Island College Hospital in Brooklyn, there are scores of doctors and nurses on duty around the clock at a cost of $3 million per week. But in the maternity ward, nurses sit and knit or idly watch afternoon television because there are no babies being delivered and most of the hospital is empty. It is meant to house 375 patients; it has 18.
SUNY Downstate, which took over the failing hospital in 2011 and wants to close it, is locked in a legal stalemate with unions representing hospital workers. The unions, which represent nurses and other workers, say the hospital is desperately needed by the community and they, along with some doctors, have gone to court to stop the shutdown. When the hospital's existence was threatened in the past, the state stepped in with a plan to save it. But now that states are still recovering from the economic downturn, and hospitals are under pressure to cut costs, no one has come forward this time, and the hospital may be doomed.
SUNY is now taking its most aggressive action yet, issuing another closing plan, ordering doctors to discharge remaining patients within a day or two and warning doctors to expect termination letters. The hospital's grim fate illustrates how health care is changing in New York and in the country, as hospitals confront seismic changes in patient care and how it is financed. 
With its dwindling patient population, the huge red brick building in Cobble Hill stands on the border of Brooklyn Heights, with sweeping views of the Manhattan skyline that make it more valuable as a real estate development site than as a medical center. The emergency room is open, but has orders to send patients in need of hospital beds elsewhere. There is only one baby in the neonatal intensive care unit meant for 38; one patient in adult intensive care; 10 patients in general medicine; and none in the cardiac unit, pediatrics, psychiatry, surgery or other mainstay areas of hospital care.
''It's a ghost town,'' Dr. Judith Weinstock, a gynecologist who has worked at the hospital for 30 years, said this week, wandering through the empty corridors and elevators, never encountering a single patient.
For over 150 years, Long Island College Hospital has ministered to the north Brooklyn neighborhoods overlooking New York Harbor and the Statue of Liberty, standing firm as Brando-esque dockworkers gave way to Wall Streeters and other affluent young professionals.
If it were a private hospital, Long Island College Hospital probably would have also declared bankruptcy by now. But because it is run by a government entity, it cannot.
The hospital is losing $15 million a month, $12 million of it in payroll, with almost no money coming in. State officials said they expected to cover the losses through advances on federal financing given to hospitals with large numbers of poor and uninsured patients.
News of the imminent closing prompted public officials, including the City Council speaker, Christine C. Quinn, and a rival mayoral candidate, Bill de Blasio, the public advocate, to decry the decision. But they offered little in the way of concrete solutions.
Matt Wing, a spokesman for Gov. Andrew M. Cuomo, said the hospital was losing money despite ''significant support from state taxpayers.'' Now, he said, what the community needs is ''new sustainable health care.''
A few dozen longtime patients and nurses stood outside the hospital on Thursday afternoon, holding protest signs.
Julie Semente, a nurses' union representative for the hospital and an intensive care nurse, said she had been sitting with several colleagues amid empty beds when she began receiving a cascade of calls from different units of the hospital, saying they had been told to shut down. The operating room staff said they were told to complete the day's operations, then cancel all operations for the rest of the month. The endoscopy lab told her that they had been informed that after the end of the business day on Friday, ''the lab no longer exists.''
''We were a premium medical facility,'' she said. ''SUNY is trying to euthanize this hospital.''
The first signs of trouble came in 2008, when Stanley Brezenoff, president of Continuum Health Partners, then the parent company of Long Island College Hospital, said he wanted to close obstetrics and sell two buildings in an effort to pay off tens of millions of dollars in operating and capital debt that might otherwise force it to declare bankruptcy.
After an outcry from doctors, then-Gov. David A. Paterson stepped in to save it with state aid and a plan to merge with SUNY Downstate Medical Center, a major public university and medical center in Brooklyn that already used the hospital for training.
But by the time the state took over, doctors had already begun fleeing the hospital, said Dr. John Williams, the president of SUNY Downstate.
Dr. Alice Garner, the head of neonatal intensive care, said the staff had high hopes that the merger would lead to upgrades like new equipment, which never came. She still has to use old-fashioned methods like plastic wrap to conserve moisture in the skin of very premature babies, she said. ''We wrap them up like sandwiches,'' she said. ''We do wonders with Saran Wrap.''
In January, the state comptroller issued an audit saying that SUNY Downstate was on the verge of insolvency, and that Long Island College Hospital was partly to blame. Soon after, SUNY filed a closing plan. But in April, Justice Johnny Lee Baynes of the State Supreme Court sided with doctors, nurses and other workers and ordered that the hospital be kept open. SUNY appealed, arguing that Justice Baynes overstepped his authority by forcing a state agency to carry out public policy and spend taxpayer money.
In shops near the hospital, the nurses' union taped bright red posters with the message ''Long Island College Hospital OPEN for Care.''
But on June 20, at 6 a.m., the emergency room stopped accepting 911 ambulance calls or admitting patients. On June 21, doctors were banned from delivering babies or performing inpatient surgery.
On June 27, the administration instructed physicians that all admissions now had to be authorized by Dr. Michael Lucchesi, the chief medical officer.
Vito Diomede, a lawyer, said he ''pulled the lawyer card'' to be admitted to the hospital with a diabetic foot ulcer in early July.
''The place was fully staffed, most of the people were just sitting around, they were falling all over themselves to do what they could for me,'' he said. ''It was kind of ridiculous.''
When Sally Lewis's 11-month-old son, Ethan, went into respiratory distress last weekend, she took him to the hospital, where he had been born prematurely at 25 weeks. She called Dr. Garner, who agreed to take the child, who breathes and eats through tubes, into the neonatal intensive care unit.
Dr. Garner said she had later been reprimanded for admitting Ethan.
The hospital continues to pay for 1,000 social workers, patient care technicians, radiologists and other unionized workers as well as 435 full- and part-time nurses. On Thursday, they were warned that come Aug. 14, they might no longer have jobs.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Dr. Judith Weinstein, who has worked at Long Island College Hospital for 30 years, sat next to a white board usually filled with patients' names. On Thursday, William Medina, an E.M.T., sat outside a doctor's office across the street from the hospital, near a sign protesting its closing. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY ANTHONY LANZILOTE FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES
 BRYAN THOMAS FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: NURSES & NURSING (92%); HOSPITALS (90%); PREGNANCY & CHILDBIRTH (90%); PHYSICIANS & SURGEONS (90%); MATERNITY HOSPITALS (89%); OBSTETRICS & GYNECOLOGY (78%); EMERGENCY ROOMS (78%); PEDIATRICS (78%); INTENSIVE CARE UNITS (78%); CHILDREN (77%); REAL ESTATE (77%); UNDERINSURED & UNINSURED PATIENTS (76%); PSYCHIATRY (73%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (71%); MARINE CARGO HANDLING (71%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (68%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (68%); REAL ESTATE DEVELOPMENT (64%); ECONOMIC NEWS (53%)

ORGANIZATION: LONG ISLAND UNIVERSITY (93%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%) NEW YORK, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: July 19, 2013



564 of 937 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 19, 2013
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 698 words

HEADLINE: Microsoft Shares Drop After It Disappoints on Profit and Sales

BYLINE: By NICK WINGFIELD

 BODY:
SEATTLE -- The personal computer business has been in the worst downturn since the industry's inception, but Microsoft has shown a knack for finding ways to insulate itself. Until now.
On Thursday, the company missed Wall Street forecasts, blaming the declining PC market for the shortfall. Microsoft also acknowledged the disappointing sales of one of its most prominent products, its Surface RT tablet computer, by taking a $900 million charge to reflect unsold inventory of the device.
''It finally caught up to them,'' said Colin W. Gillis, an analyst at BGC Partners. ''We've been in a PC recession for five quarters.'' 
For the fiscal fourth quarter that ended June 30, Microsoft, which is based in Redmond, Wash., reported net income of $4.97 billion, or 59 cents a share, in contrast to a loss of $492 million, or 6 cents a share, in the period a year earlier. Last year, Microsoft took a $6 billion write-down on a soured acquisition, wiping out its overall profit.
In the latest quarter, revenue rose 10 percent, to $19.9 billion, from $18.06 billion a year earlier.
Those results fell well short of the average analyst estimates compiled by Thomson Reuters of 75 cents a share in earnings and $20.73 billion in revenue.
Revenue from Microsoft's Windows business, which includes its Surface tablet computers, rose 6 percent, to $4.41 billion. But without including the favorable impact from an upgrade offer last year, Microsoft's Windows revenue fell 6 percent in the quarter.
Last week, the research firm Gartner reported that global PC shipments declined 10.9 percent in the second quarter of the year, the fifth consecutive quarter of declining PC shipments, the longest ever.
Mobile devices have sapped much of the gusto out of the PC market. Many people are buying tablet computers, especially Apple's iPad, instead of PCs to watch movies, surf the Web and write e-mails.
''We know we have to do better, particularly on mobile devices,'' Amy Hood, Microsoft's chief financial officer, said in an interview.
Ms. Hood said the company's Windows business is a ''tale of two markets,'' one in which PC sales to businesses continue to grow modestly, while consumer demand for the machines is fizzling. She estimated that total industry PC shipments to the consumer market fell more than 20 percent during the quarter.
She said that a companywide reorganization that Microsoft announced last week was part of an effort to better position the business for big changes in technology, including the shift to mobile devices.
Until its most recent quarter, Microsoft showed a remarkable aptitude for finding ways to squeeze money out of its venerable business, despite the problems in the PC market. It did that through lucrative multiyear software contracts with corporate customers that tend to move far more slowly than consumers in adopting newer technologies.
Parts of Microsoft that cater more to businesses helped lessen the sting. Microsoft said revenue in its server and tools group rose 9 percent, to $5.5 billion. Revenue in its business division, dominated by the Office suite of applications, jumped 14 percent, to $7.21 billion. But the division grew only 2 percent without deferred revenue related to an earlier upgrade offer.
Office is under siege from a suite of online applications from Google and others, which has led Microsoft to adapt the software so it can be delivered as a service through cloud computing. Microsoft said that if Office 365, the version of its productivity applications that are offered as a service, were to perform for a full year at current levels, it would generate $1.5 billion in revenue.
''The consumer has voted,'' said Barbara Coffey, an analyst at S&P Capital IQ. ''I don't know that enterprise has yet. We've seen such a big shift to tablets. Microsoft just doesn't play in tablets at the same level that they do in PCs.''
Investors had become more bullish on Microsoft's ability to navigate the disruption of the PC market, sending its shares up more than 32 percent this year. But after the release of its financial results, shares of Microsoft dropped more than 6 percent in after-hours trading. They ended regular trading at $35.44, down 30 cents.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: A Microsoft store in Portland, Ore. The firm acknowledged the weak sales of its Surface RT tablet computer by taking a charge. (PHOTOGRAPH BY DON RYAN/ASSOCIATED PRESS) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: COMPANY PROFITS (90%); WIRELESS INDUSTRY (90%); PERSONAL COMPUTERS (90%); COMPANY EARNINGS (90%); COMPUTING & IT TRADE (89%); CONSUMER ELECTRONICS (89%); SHIPMENTS (89%); MARKET OPEN CLOSE (89%); TABLET COMPUTERS (89%); COMPUTER EQUIPMENT (89%); COMPANY REVENUES (89%); FINANCIAL RESULTS (89%); ECONOMIC NEWS (78%); RECESSION (78%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (78%); COMPUTER SOFTWARE (78%); INTERIM FINANCIAL RESULTS (76%); INTERVIEWS (74%); INTERNET & WWW (74%); EXECUTIVES (60%)

COMPANY: MICROSOFT CORP (93%); APPLE INC (84%)

TICKER: MSFT (NASDAQ) (93%); AAPL (NASDAQ) (84%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS511210 SOFTWARE PUBLISHERS (93%); SIC7372 PREPACKAGED SOFTWARE (93%); NAICS423430 COMPUTER & COMPUTER PERIPHERAL EQUIPMENT & SOFTWARE MERCHANT WHOLESALERS (84%); NAICS334112 COMPUTER STORAGE DEVICE MANUFACTURING (84%); NAICS334111 ELECTRONIC COMPUTER MANUFACTURING (84%); SIC5045 COMPUTERS & COMPUTER PERIPHERAL EQUIPMENT & SOFTWARE (84%); SIC3572 COMPUTER STORAGE DEVICES (84%); SIC3571 ELECTRONIC COMPUTERS (84%)

GEOGRAPHIC: SEATTLE, WA, USA (92%); PORTLAND, OR, USA (59%) WASHINGTON, USA (93%); OREGON, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: July 19, 2013



565 of 937 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 19, 2013
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; HIGH & LOW FINANCE; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1472 words

HEADLINE: The Time Bernanke Got It Wrong

BYLINE: By FLOYD NORRIS. 
Floyd Norris writes on finance and the economy at nytimes.com/economix.

 BODY:
It is amazing that a lot of criticism of the Federal Reserve today focuses on what it clearly got right -- the response to the debt crisis in 2008 and thereafter, a response that may well have prevented Great Depression II -- and not on what it got wrong: policies that allowed the dangerous imbalances to grow and bring on the crisis.
You could see that this week when Ben S. Bernanke, the Fed chairman, made his semiannual pilgrimage to Capitol Hill to discuss the state of the economy. Lawmakers voiced concern about possibly excessive regulation of banks, but not about the clearly inadequate capital the big banks -- and many small ones -- had before the crisis.
Some of them seemed to be upset that the Fed's policies had caused stock prices to rise. Jeb Hensarling, the Texas Republican who is chairman of the House Financial Services Committee, seemed to think that all current economic problems could be traced to President Obama's excessive spending. 
He was upset that the ''Federal Reserve has regrettably, in many ways, enabled this failed economic policy through a program of risky and unprecedented asset purchases.''
Mr. Bernanke, who is probably nearing the end of his tenure running the Fed, seemed to have had such criticisms in mind last week when he assessed ''the first 100 years of the Federal Reserve'' at a conference in Cambridge, Mass.
In analyzing the Fed's failures during the Depression, he seemed to be taking clear aim at some of his current critics -- and perhaps at other central banks that were far less aggressive after the credit crisis.
First, he appeared to address the idea, popular in some circles, that we need a new gold standard.
''The degree to which the gold standard actually constrained U.S. monetary policy during the early 1930s is debated,'' he said, ''but the gold standard philosophy clearly did not encourage the sort of highly expansionary policies that were needed.'' He said policy makers, following flawed economic theories, concluded ''on the basis of low nominal interest rates and low borrowings from the Fed that monetary policy was appropriately supportive and that further actions would be fruitless.''
Was that a criticism of the European Central Bank under Jean-Claude Trichet, which lowered interest rates but did little else as the euro zone crisis grew? It certainly helped to explain why Mr. Bernanke felt the need to embark on quantitative easing and to focus on longer-term interest rates as well as short-term ones.
Then Mr. Bernanke pointed to ''another counterproductive doctrine: the so-called liquidationist view, that depressions perform a necessary cleansing function.'' That was the view pushed in the early 1930s by Andrew Mellon, the Treasury secretary, to such an extent that it angered even President Herbert Hoover, who did not, however, seem to think he could overrule the secretary. Now the comments could be read as a reproach to those, in the United States and Europe, who push for austerity above all else.
''It may be that the Federal Reserve suffered less from lack of leadership in the 1930s than from the lack of an intellectual framework for understanding what was happening and what needed to be done,'' Mr. Bernanke concluded.
It seems to me that something similar could be said for the Fed before the debt crisis erupted. The intellectual framework it used simply could not cope with the idea that financial stability can itself become a destabilizing factor, as investors and bankers conclude that it is safe to take on more and more risk.
For a time, the period before the collapse was known as the ''Great Moderation,'' a term that Mr. Bernanke helped to publicize in a 2004 speech. Low levels of inflation, long periods of economic growth and low levels of employment volatility were viewed as unquestioned proof of success.
And what brought on that success? In 2004, Mr. Bernanke, then a Fed governor, conceded good luck might have helped, but his view was that ''improvements in monetary policy, though certainly not the only factor, have probably been an important source of the Great Moderation.''
In 2005, three Fed economists, Karen E. Dynan, Douglas W. Elmendorf and Daniel E. Sichel, proposed an additional explanation for the Great Moderation: the success of financial innovation.
''Improved assessment and pricing of risk, expanded lending to households without strong collateral, more widespread securitization of loans, and the development of markets for riskier corporate debt have enhanced the ability of households and businesses to borrow funds,'' they wrote. ''Greater use of credit could foster a reduction in economic volatility by lessening the sensitivity of household and business spending to downturns in income and cash flow.''
At least Mr. Bernanke's hubris was not as great as that of Robert E. Lucas Jr., the Nobel Prize-winning University of Chicago economist. In 2003, he began his presidential address to the American Economic Association by proclaiming that macroeconomics ''has succeeded: Its central problem of depression prevention has been solved.''
In his speech last week, Mr. Bernanke cited several assessments of the Great Moderation, including the one by the Fed economists. None questioned that it was wonderful.
The Fed chairman conceded that ''one cannot look back at the Great Moderation today without asking whether the sustained economic stability of the period somehow promoted the excessive risk-taking that followed. The idea that this long period of calm lulled investors, financial firms and financial regulators into paying insufficient attention to building risks must have some truth in it.''
One economist who would have expected that development was Hyman Minsky. In 1995, the year before Minsky died, Steve Keen, an Australian economist, used his ideas to set forth a possibility that now seems prescient. It was published in The Journal of Post Keynesian Economics.
He suggested that lending standards would be gradually reduced, and asset prices would rise, as confidence grew that ''the future is assured, and therefore that most investments will succeed.'' Eventually, the income-earning ability of an asset would seem less important than the expected capital gains. Buyers would pay high prices and finance their purchases with ever-rising amounts of debt.
When something went wrong, an immediate need for liquidity would cause financiers to try to sell assets immediately. ''The asset market becomes flooded,'' Mr. Keen wrote, ''and the euphoria becomes a panic, the boom becomes a slump.'' Minsky argued that could end without disaster, if inflation bailed everyone out. But if it happened in a period of low inflation, it could feed upon itself and lead to depression.
''The chaotic dynamics explored in this paper,'' Mr. Keen concluded, ''should warn us against accepting a period of relative tranquillity in a capitalist economy as anything other than a lull before the storm.''
When I talked to Mr. Keen this week, he called my attention to the fact that Mr. Bernanke, in his 2000 book ''Essays on the Great Depression,'' briefly mentioned, and dismissed, both Minsky and Charles Kindleberger, author of the classic ''Manias, Panics and Crashes.''
They had, Mr. Bernanke wrote, ''argued for the inherent instability of the financial system but in doing so have had to depart from the assumption of rational economic behavior.'' In a footnote, he added, ''I do not deny the possible importance of irrationality in economic life; however it seems that the best research strategy is to push the rationality postulate as far as it will go.''
It seems to me that he had both Minsky and Kindleberger wrong. Their insight was that behavior that seems perfectly rational at the time can turn out to be destructive. As Robert J. Barbera, now the co-director of the Center for Financial Economics at Johns Hopkins University, wrote in his 2009 book, ''The Cost of Capitalism,'' ''One of Minsky's great insights was his anticipation of the 'Paradox of Goldilocks.' Because rising conviction about a benign future, in turn, evokes rising commitment to risk, the system becomes increasingly vulnerable to retrenchment, notwithstanding the fact that consensus expectations remain reasonable relative to recent history.''
I asked Mr. Barbera for his evaluation of Mr. Bernanke's tenure. ''He missed on the way in, big time,'' Mr. Barbera said, referring to the debt crisis, ''but he appreciated what was happening, and very aggressively responded. It was not in the standard tool kit. But he did it. He did it aggressively, and he did it to good effect.''
If Mr. Bernanke's successor, whoever he or she is, will take to heart the lesson that Mr. Bernanke missed during the good times -- that stability itself eventually becomes destabilizing -- the chances of a Great Recession II will be greatly reduced.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: The Australian economist Steve Keen warned in a 1995 paper of a debt crisis similar to the one that developed 13 years later. (PHOTOGRAPH BY DEMETRIUS FREEMAN/THE NEW YORK TIMES)
 The economist Hyman Minsky influenced Mr. Keen's thinking, arguing that such a debt crisis could lead to a depression. (PHOTOGRAPH BY LEVY ECONOMICS INSTITUTE OF BARD COLLEGE) (B4) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (92%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); PUBLIC POLICY (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (90%); DEBT CRISIS (90%); ECONOMIC POLICY (89%); CENTRAL BANKS (89%); MONETARY POLICY (89%); GREAT DEPRESSION (89%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (78%); CREDIT CRISIS (78%); EURO CRISIS (78%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (77%); ECONOMIC DEPRESSION (77%); PUBLIC FINANCE (76%); EURO ZONE (75%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (75%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (73%); BANKING & FINANCE REGULATION (73%); CONFERENCES & CONVENTIONS (70%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (69%); US PRESIDENTS (67%); INTEREST RATES (65%); MONETARY UNIONS (63%); PRICE INCREASES (54%)

COMPANY: EUROPEAN CENTRAL BANK (62%)

PERSON: BEN BERNANKE (90%); BARACK OBAMA (57%); JEAN-CLAUDE TRICHET (55%); JEB HENSARLING (55%)

GEOGRAPHIC: MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%); TEXAS, USA (79%) EUROPE (92%); UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: July 19, 2013



566 of 937 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 19, 2013
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; DEALBOOK; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 915 words

HEADLINE: S.E.C. Tries to Use Trader's Goldman Colleague to Bolster Case

BYLINE: By BEN PROTESS and SUSANNE CRAIG

 BODY:
Jonathan Egol and Fabrice Tourre were close colleagues on Wall Street, a team of traders who worked side by side on a Goldman Sachs mortgage desk in the lead-up to the financial crisis.
On Thursday, that relationship came under the spotlight as Mr. Egol took the witness stand in the civil trial of Mr. Tourre, a 34-year-old Frenchman accused of misleading investors about a mortgage security that ultimately failed.
The case, one of the most prominent actions stemming from the 2008 crisis, centers on the claim that Mr. Tourre and Goldman failed to warn investors that a hedge fund run by the billionaire John A. Paulson helped construct the mortgage security and then bet against it. Mr. Tourre's lawyers argue that the investors were sophisticated and helped structure the deal. 
The Securities and Exchange Commission, which brought the charges in 2010, used Mr. Egol's appearance as an opportunity to introduce a series of e-mails and documents that could damage Mr. Tourre's defense. The e-mails, many of which were dispatches between the traders, show that Mr. Tourre told colleagues at Goldman that the mortgage security was ''selected by ACA/Paulson,'' referring to Mr. Paulson's hedge fund and ACA Management, the independent company Goldman hired to choose the mortgages in the deal.
Matthew T. Martens, who is leading the S.E.C.'s case, noted that Goldman produced reams of disclosures to investors, all of which emphasized ACA's role and omitted Mr. Paulson's. ''There's no disclosure?'' Mr. Martens queried, his voice rising.
''I am not aware of any,'' Mr. Egol, who was senior to Mr. Tourre at the time and is now a managing director at Goldman, conceded.
The revelations, partly rebutted when Mr. Tourre's lawyers cross-examined Mr. Egol, steadied the S.E.C.'s case after a crucial government witness did his best to unravel it. The witness, Paolo Pellegrini, an executive at Mr. Paulson's hedge fund, suddenly retracted his earlier statements that investors were unaware the hedge fund was betting against the deal. He said on the witness stand that he had been ''scared'' and pressured by S.E.C. officials.
While it is unclear whether the jury will find Mr. Pellegrini believable, his change of heart is potentially damaging to the S.E.C. Hours after his testimony, the agency shuffled the order of its witness list to move up the testimony of Gail Kreitman, a former Goldman employee, who could cause problems for the defense. Ms. Kreitman may take the stand as soon as Friday, though Mr. Egol's testimony is not yet done.
Outside the presence of the jury, Sean Coffey, a lawyer for Mr. Tourre, briefly sparred with Mr. Martens. ''I assume they're doing it based on what happened in court yesterday,'' Mr. Coffey said of the change in the witness lineup. Later, in response to another barb, Mr. Martens said: ''I don't think the sarcasm is necessary.''
When Mr. Egol took the stand, his gentle demeanor presented a contrast to Mr. Pellegrini, an imposing figure with an acerbic tongue.
Yet, when the S.E.C. first pursued the case involving the soured mortgage deal, the agency warned that it might charge Mr. Egol. It reversed course to sue only Goldman and Mr. Tourre. Goldman ultimately settled the case, paying what was then a record $550 million penalty without admitting or denying guilt.
Mr. Egol, whose honey-brown hair and beard project an avuncular presence, spent much of his testimony explaining the minutiae of mortgage securities to the jury. Still, the jurors struggled to stay awake at times, and at least three nodded off during an exchange between Mr. Egol and Mr. Coffey that involved terms like ''intermediation,'' ''counterparty risk'' and ''monoline insurers.''
For its part, the S.E.C. tried to use Mr. Egol to bolster its case. In one e-mail the S.E.C. presented to the jury, Mr. Tourre referred to Mr. Paulson's hedge fund as the ''sponsor'' of the mortgage security, a label that might imply Mr. Paulson was betting for the deal, not against it. Mr. Paulson's fund made $1 billion betting against the security.
''That's not how I would customarily have used the term,'' Mr. Egol said, supporting the S.E.C.'s argument.
Mr. Martens also walked Mr. Egol through Goldman's disclosures to investors. In all of the documents -- including a term sheet and a 66-page marketing book -- Goldman said the portfolio was ''selected by ACA,'' without reference to Paulson.
But under cross-examination, Mr. Egol suggested that it was not industry practice to disclose Mr. Paulson's involvement to investors, and there was no ''regulatory'' requirement to do so.
Mr. Egol also testified on cross-examination that the German bank IKB Deutsche Industriebank, a main investor in the transaction, knew the contents of the deal and had a say in what went into it, a victory for Mr. Tourre's defense.
During cross-examination, Mr. Coffey sought to clarify what Mr. Tourre said in an e-mail when he called the mortgage security ''infamous.'' Mr. Egol testified that his desk lost about $90 million in 2007 because of its position in the trade with Mr. Paulson, offering an alternate theory to the jury of why Mr. Tourre used the word.
If found liable, Mr. Tourre faces fines and could be barred from the securities industry.
As for his relationship with Mr. Egol, the two had not seen each other since 2011. It was then, Mr. Egol said, that they ''happened'' to bump into each other at a restaurant in New York.
This is a more complete version of the story than the one that appeared in print.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Jonathan Egol, center, who worked with Fabrice Tourre, left federal court in Manhattan after testifying on Thursday. (PHOTOGRAPH BY BRENDAN MCDERMID/REUTERS) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ELECTRONIC MAIL (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); WITNESSES (89%); JURY TRIALS (89%); HEDGE FUNDS (89%); TESTIMONY (89%); BANKING & FINANCE AGENCIES (78%); MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (78%); LAWYERS (77%); CROSS EXAMINATIONS (77%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (77%); CORPORATE WRONGDOING (76%); EXECUTIVES (70%)

COMPANY: GOLDMAN SACHS GROUP INC (91%)

ORGANIZATION: SECURITIES & EXCHANGE COMMISSION (90%)

TICKER: GS (NYSE) (91%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (91%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (91%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (91%); SIC6289 SERVICES ALLIED WITH THE EXCHANGE OF SECURITIES OR COMMODITIES, NEC (91%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (91%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (91%)

PERSON: FABRICE P TOURRE (93%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%) NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: July 19, 2013



567 of 937 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 19, 2013
The New York Times on the Web

SECTION: Section ; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 

LENGTH: 335 words

HEADLINE: Jobless Rate in New York City Rose Slightly in June

BYLINE: By PATRICK McGEEHAN

 BODY:
New York City's unemployment rate edged up to 8.4 percent in June even though employers had been steadily adding jobs all year, the State Labor Department reported on Thursday. 
Economists said the latest jobs numbers reflected healthy growth, even with the uptick in the unemployment rate, because they resulted from an increase in the number of people who wanted to work in the city. The city's unemployment rate had fallen to 8.3 percent in May, from 9.1 percent in January.
Employers in the city's private industries added about 14,600 jobs last month, after adjustments for seasonal fluctuations in hiring and layoffs, said Barbara Byrne Denham, a private economist. Ms. Denham, of Eastern Consolidated, a real estate services firm in Manhattan, said the city added 60,700 jobs in the first half of the year, the most in any six-month period since 2000.
Among the more promising signs for the city's economy was a healthy increase in the number of construction jobs, said Elena Volovelsky, an economist with the Labor Department. Many of those new jobs went to contractors who do repair work and finish buildings after their frames are set, she said.
''The building projects that were neglected because the real estate market was not doing well have picked up again,'' she said.
Even Wall Street, which had been shedding jobs as the big banks reorganized after the financial crisis, has been hiring again. Securities firms hired thousands of new full-time workers, as well as summer interns, something they were too cautious to do last summer, Ms. Volovelsky said.
The city's unemployment rate is still significantly higher than the national rate, which held at 7.6 percent in June. The statewide unemployment rate dropped to 7.5 percent in June, the lowest it has been since early 2009, from 7.6 percent in May.
Still, more than 720,000 residents of New York State were counted as unemployed. People without jobs must certify that they are actively seeking work to qualify as unemployed in the official statistics.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (93%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (90%); LABOR DEPARTMENTS (90%); CONSTRUCTION (90%); JOB CREATION (90%); REAL ESTATE (90%); RECRUITMENT & HIRING (78%); UNEMPLOYED PERSONS (78%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (78%); LAYOFFS (73%); FULL TIME EMPLOYMENT (73%); STATISTICS (73%); APPRENTICESHIPS & INTERNSHIPS (73%); REAL ESTATE AGENTS (69%); REAL ESTATE MARKET (69%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%) NEW YORK, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: July 19, 2013



568 of 937 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 19, 2013
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; Movies, Performing Arts/Weekend Desk; INSIDE ART; Pg. 22

LENGTH: 991 words

HEADLINE: A Dealer's Trophies Head to Market

BYLINE: By CAROL VOGEL

 BODY:
For decades, auctiongoers would see the dealer Jan Krugier arriving at Sotheby's or Christie's, fedora tilted carefully to one side and cigar in hand. In the salesroom he would generally sit in the front row, often bidding on a work that caught his eye, be it a Picasso painting, a Giacometti sculpture or a drawing by Victor Hugo. At art fairs, such works would be sumptuously displayed in his booth, generally at prices that were so dizzying that collectors knew he didn't really want to part with them.
Now, five years after his death, Christie's plans to offer works from his estate -- both his personal collection and inventory from his Geneva gallery -- in a special auction on Nov. 4 in Manhattan. The sale is expected to bring more than $160 million. The following day, a sale consisting primarily of works on paper and sculpture is scheduled, with an estimate of around $15 million. 
The works are but a fraction of the art amassed by Mr. Krugier over his lifetime. Since his death at 80, some of it has been sold privately and some has been kept by family members.
Among the highlights of Christie's sales are ''Herbstlandschaft,'' a 1911 landscape by Kandinsky with a sales estimate of $20 million to $25 million. (Mr. Krugier purchased it in 1989 at Sotheby's for just under $4 million.) ''This painting represents a world he loved, one that falls between the figurative into the abstract,'' said Conor Jordan, deputy chairman of Christie's Impressionist and modern art department.
Mr. Krugier's relationship with Marina Picasso, a grandchild of the artist who inherited a large group of Picassos, was a long one, and Picassos make up about one-tenth of the sale, from paintings to sculptures to drawings, Mr. Jordan said. Among them is a 1971 self-portrait in oil estimated at $6 million to $8 million. Then there is ''Tête'' (''Head''), a cutout sheet-iron sculpture that Picasso created as a study for a 50-foot steel sculpture in Daley Plaza in Chicago; it is expected to go for $25 million to $35 million.
Christie's competed mightily with Sotheby's to land the sale. What turned the tide, according to people familiar with the negotiations, was offering a more lucrative financial package that included giving Mr. Krugier's heirs a significant percentage of the buyer's premium.
Steven Murphy, Christie's chief executive, declined to discuss the deal, citing confidentiality agreements. ''It was a classical estate process, and it was competitive,'' he said. ''This is a great win for the Impressionist department.''
In addition to the usual marketing, which will include an online video that Mr. Murphy described as a ''mini-documentary,'' highlights from the sale will tour art capitals around the world, including Shanghai -- which is ''new for us,'' he said, citing that city's growing number of prosperous art collectors.
MOMA'S POLKE MOMENT
It all started in July 2008 with a visit to Sigmar Polke's Cologne studio, Kathy Halbreich, associate director of the Museum of Modern Art, recalled. ''I told him I wanted to do a comprehensive retrospective of his work, expecting a pushback because he'd never agreed to do a show incorporating more than two or three media together before,'' she said.
''Surprisingly I got not a moment's hesitation.''
A great deal has happened since then, including Polke's death three years ago at 69. Throughout Ms. Halbreich has stuck to her vision, and the museum has now set a date: a major retrospective is to open on April 19, 2014, and run through Aug. 2 before traveling to the Tate Modern in London and the Ludwig Museum in Cologne.
The exhibition encompasses more than 300 works, and Ms. Halbreich said the time is right for this kind of comprehensive survey. ''He was an experimental genius who was fearless, erudite and curious,'' she added. ''He has also been hugely influential to generations of artists working after him.''
Polke was more adventurous than most. In the 1970s, he set out to chronicle the use of hallucinatory drugs in various cultures, traveling to Pakistan, Afghanistan and Brazil with a camera. In 1980, he began exploring Australia and Southeast Asia, working with materials like arsenic, meteor dust, smoke, uranium rays, lavender, cinnabar and a purple pigment from the mucous excreted by snails. To the end, he pushed the boundaries, even producing holographic paintings and stained-glass windows.
The retrospective will be organized chronologically and include small sketchbooks as well as monumental digital canvases. The museum will screen 13 films by Polke, including 8 never publicly shown, as well as pieces like a performance made for West German television that was last broadcast in 1972.
Because of the size of the show and the monumentality of some of the works, it will be installed in the museum's second-floor galleries rather than on the sixth floor, which is normally used for special exhibitions.
''Some of the paintings are so big, they can only fit on the second floor,'' Ms. Halbreich said. ''This is one of the largest shows MoMA has ever done.''
THAT PLAYFUL DUO RETURNS
The British duo Gilbert and George like creating work that turns heads. Often laced with politics -- economic, social, sexual -- their art has embraced subjects ranging from pornography to pandemic diseases, vaudeville to scatology.
Always eager for the unexpected, Cecilia Alemani, director of the High Line's art program, asked the artists to come up with the next image for a 25-by-75-foot billboard at West 18th Street and 10th Avenue, in a parking lot next to the elevated walkway.
The artists suggested reviving a work they created three decades ago. Titled ''Waking,'' it is a photo piece from 1984 that belongs to the Guggenheim Bilbao in Spain and depicts the artists standing amid a bevy of attractive young men. It will be on view from Sept. 3 through Oct. 1.
''With all the talk today about urban life and gay marriage,'' Ms. Alemani said, ''it seems even more appropriate now.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: ''Bust of a Man Writing'' (1971), a Picasso self-portrait from Jan Krugier's estate, will go on the block at Christie's in November. (PHOTOGRAPH BY 2013 ESTATE OF PABLO PICASSO/ARTISTS RIGHTS SOCIETY (ARS), NEW YORK) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ART COLLECTING (90%); SCULPTURE (90%); AUCTIONS (90%); ART DEALERS (90%); PAINTING (89%); MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (77%); ARTISTS & PERFORMERS (77%); TEMPORARY STAND RETAILING (76%); VISUAL & PERFORMING ARTS (76%); ARTS FESTIVALS & EXHIBITIONS (71%); SALES PROJECTIONS (68%); GRANDCHILDREN (66%); CONFIDENTIALITY AGREEMENTS (50%); EXECUTIVES (50%)

COMPANY: SOTHEBY'S (92%)

TICKER: BID (NYSE) (92%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS454390 OTHER DIRECT SELLING ESTABLISHMENTS (92%); SIC5963 DIRECT SELLING ESTABLISHMENTS (92%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%) NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: July 19, 2013



569 of 937 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 19, 2013
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 789 words

HEADLINE: China's Feud With West On Solar Leads to Tax

BYLINE: By DIANE CARDWELL

 BODY:
Escalating a long-simmering trade dispute with the West over solar panels, China plans to impose tariffs that could exceed 50 percent on a material it imports from the United States and South Korea to make the panels, its Ministry of Commerce announced on Thursday.
The decision, which goes into effect next week, is a blow to the American industry, which analysts say counts China as its largest customer for solar-grade polysilicon, the main ingredient in solar panels. 
The Obama administration and the European Union have been trying to negotiate settlements with China in the world's largest antidumping and anti-subsidy trade cases.
Last fall, the United States put in place tariffs of roughly 24 to 36 percent on the Chinese imports after finding that Chinese companies were benefiting from unfair government subsidies and selling their products below the cost of production, a practice known as dumping.
In June, the European Union imposed modest tariffs of 11.8 percent on solar panels from China, but those are set to rise to 47.6 percent in August if Beijing does not stop what the Europeans say is dumping. Soon after, Beijing said it would investigate whether European wines had been sold at below cost in China.
United States trade officials declined to say how China's move might affect those negotiations but expressed disappointment. A spokeswoman for Michael Froman, the United States trade representative, said they were in discussions with China related to global issues in solar technology, including panels and polysilicon, and this step did not move the ball forward, ''but we will continue to engage.''
China dominates the world market in solar panel production, exporting about $30 billion a year in panel shipments to the West, but it imports a majority of polysilicon from the United States, Europe and Korea. Its decision to tax United States companies heavily but levy lower rates on some Korean producers and leave Europe out is being widely seen as retaliation for the American trade case, originally brought in 2011.
''China is slapping tariffs on polysilicon because it is unhappy that the United States exercised its legal rights and stood up for our remaining solar manufacturers,'' said Senator Ron Wyden, Democrat of Oregon, and chairman of the Committee on Energy and Natural Resources, whose home state is a center of solar panel production. ''I am confident that these retaliatory tariffs will be shown to be without merit.''
The tariffs are preliminary and could be changed or even eliminated if the United States were to successfully challenge them with the World Trade Organization, said Timothy C. Brightbill, a lawyer representing the companies that brought the United States trade case, adding that the process could take a year or two.
But that could prove too late for the domestic polysilicon business, industry officials say. ''It's a big setback for U.S. poly because the duties are going to start being collected next week and the rates are prohibitive,'' said John Smirnow, vice president of trade and competitiveness at the Solar Energy Industries Association, the main industry trade group. ''It could effectively act as a bar to U.S. polysilicon exports to China in the short run. They're losing their largest export market.''
Whether that will help or hinder Chinese companies is unclear. Globally, panel manufacturers have been squeezed, some to the point of bankruptcy, by China's rapid expansion of its production capacity over the last four years. That has drastically reduced prices and fed a boom in solar development, but now companies worry that an increase in the cost of raw materials could make it more difficult to compete.
At the same time, the United States tariffs might not raise the cost of panel production by much, at least not in the long term, said Shayle Kann, the head of GTM Research, a unit of Greentech Media. United States exports of polysilicon have been declining -- to about $700 million in 2012 from worth roughly $1 billion in 2011, according to a commerce department official -- as China develops its own production.
And it can still buy from Europe and the Korean companies with lower tariffs, rather than companies like the American company Hemlock Semiconductor, whose tariff was set at 53.3 percent.
''We will continue to collaborate with government leaders as this situation progresses and support any efforts to find a mutually acceptable resolution,'' said Jarrod Erpelding, a spokesman for Dow Corning and Hemlock Semiconductor.
Earlier this year, Hemlock announced it was laying off 400 employees because of the economic impact of panel oversupply and the trade dispute. ''No country or industry wins when trade disputes escalate,'' Mr. Erpelding said.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Monitoring a solar panel in the production line at a factory in Zhejiang province, China. (PHOTOGRAPH BY CHINATOPIX, VIA ASSOCIATED PRESS) (B5) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TARIFFS & DUTIES (91%); IMPORT TRADE (90%); TAXES & TAXATION (90%); SOLAR ENERGY (90%); EUROPEAN UNION (90%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (90%); TRADE DISPUTES (89%); TRADE DEVELOPMENT (89%); NATURAL RESOURCES (78%); GOVERNMENT GRANTS & SUBSIDIES (78%); BUSINESS FORECASTS (78%); ANTIDUMPING LAWS (78%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (77%); PUBLIC FINANCE (77%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (77%); COMMERCE DEPARTMENTS (73%); LAWYERS (71%)

ORGANIZATION: EUROPEAN UNION (83%)

PERSON: RON WYDEN (55%); BARACK OBAMA (55%)

GEOGRAPHIC: BEIJING, CHINA (88%) NORTH CENTRAL CHINA (90%); EAST CHINA (78%); ZHEJIANG, CHINA (58%) CHINA (99%); UNITED STATES (99%); EUROPE (94%); KOREA, REPUBLIC OF (92%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (91%); NORTHERN ASIA (79%)

LOAD-DATE: July 31, 2013



570 of 937 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 19, 2013
Correction Appended 
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; Movies, Performing Arts/Weekend Desk; Pg. 16

LENGTH: 5383 words

HEADLINE: The Listings

 BODY:
Theater
Approximate running times are in parentheses. Theaters are in Manhattan unless otherwise noted. Full reviews of current productions, additional listings, showtimes and ticket information are at nytimes.com/theater. A searchable, critical guide to theater is at nytimes.com/events.
Previews and Openings
'The Capables' (in previews; opens on Tuesday) What does it take to get some family members to clean up after themselves? Threatening to revoke privileges might do the trick for some parents, but the family in this new dark comedy by Jay Stull has to resort to a reality-TV-based intervention to break the mom (Dale Soules) of her hoarding habit. If initial reports are to be believed, the set designers have created an onstage hoard that is every pack rat's dream and everyone else's nightmare. The Gym at Judson, 243 Thompson Street, at Washington Square South, Greenwich Village, (212) 868-4444, smarttix.com. (Eric Grode) 
'The Designated Mourner' (in previews; opens on Sunday) In a joint venture to celebrate the 40-year theatrical collaboration between the writer and performer Wallace Shawn and his frequent director, André Gregory, the Public Theater and Theater for a New Audience are presenting a two-part salute. First up is Mr. Shawn's 1996 play, a series of interlocking monologues in which three artist-intellectuals reflect on the hard-right turn taken by their unnamed, once-liberal country. Mr. Gregory reunites the cast of his celebrated 2000 New York production, Mr. Shawn, Deborah Eisenberg and Larry Pine, for the occasion. The celebration will continue in October with the American premiere of Mr. Shawn's latest play, ''Grasses of a Thousand Colors.'' Public Theater, 425 Lafayette Street, at Astor Place, East Village, (212) 967-7555, publictheater.org. (David Rooney)
'First Date' (in previews; opens on Aug. 8) Zachary Levi, from the NBC spy comedy ''Chuck,'' and Krysta Rodriguez, from ''The Addams Family'' on Broadway and ''Smash'' on television, are the potential soul mates thrown together in an eventful getting-to-know-you evening in this romantic musical that kicks off the new Broadway season. Directed by Bill Berry, who first staged the musical as a production of the 5th Avenue Theater and ACT in Seattle, the show has a book by Austin Winsberg, a former writer and producer on ''Gossip Girl,'' with music and lyrics by Alan Zachary and Michael Weiner. Josh Rhodes (''Rodgers & Hammerstein's Cinderella'') is the choreographer. Longacre Theater, 220 West 48th Street, (212) 239-6200, telecharge.com. (Rooney)
'Handbook for an American Revolutionary' (previews start on Friday; opens on Monday) Not many writers have verse dramas, Nickelodeon and professional wrestling in their portfolios, so writing about a wide variety of people would seem to be well within Matthew-Lee Erlbach's skill set. Here he gives voice to a dozen characters he met while crossing America, including a deaf Mennonite girl, a white nationalist and a migrant field worker. Mr. Erlbach plays all 12. The Gym at Judson, 243 Thompson Street, at Washington Square South, Greenwich Village, handbooknyc.com. (Grode)
'Harbor' (previews start on Tuesday; opens on Aug. 6) Chad Beguelin's writing credits have fallen on the frothier side of the ledger thus far, including the lyrics and libretto for ''The Wedding Singer'' and lyrics for ''Elf.'' Now Mr. Beguelin trains his sights on a dysfunctional family that does not count among its members Santa Claus or a rapping grandmother. It does, however, include a ne'er-do-well woman who drops in on her brother at his Sag Harbor home, with her teenage son in tow. 59E59 Theaters, 59 East 59th Street, (212) 279-4200, primarystages.org. (Grode)
'I'm Getting My Act Together and Taking It on the Road' (opens on Wednesday) Fresh off well-received revivals of ''The Cradle Will Rock'' and ''Violet,'' the Encores! series of semi-staged musicals continues its new Off-Center summer program with this pioneering 1978 pop-rock musical. Renée Elise Goldsberry stars as a divorced singer looking to reclaim her place in the spotlight, this time on her own terms. As with ''Cradle,'' the Lobby Project events will offer plenty for ticket holders to take in before the show. City Center, 131 West 55th Street, (212) 581-1212, nycitycenter.org. (Grode)
'Love's Labour's Lost' (previews start on Tuesday; opens on Aug. 12) Shakespeare in the Park hit it big in 1971 when it set some of its young talent loose on a lesser-known Shakespeare play: ''Two Gentlemen of Verona,'' which was turned into a Tony Award-winning delight by Galt MacDermot and John Guare. Now the Public Theater's summer outpost has deputized the ''Bloody Bloody Andrew Jackson'' team of Michael Friedman (music and lyrics) and Alex Timbers (adaptation and direction) to musicalize this even more obscure comedy. A batch of ''Bloody Bloody'' performers are on board, along with Daniel Breaker and Rachel Dratch. Delacorte Theater, Central Park, enter the park at 81st Street and Central Park West, (212) 539-8750, shakespeareinthepark.org. (Grode)
'Murder for Two' (in previews; opens on Thursday) Second Stage Theater Uptown has provided early New York exposure for emerging playwrights including Rajiv Joseph, Leslye Headland, Adam Bock and Roberto Aguirre-Sacasa. The annual summer series wraps up its 2013 lineup with a rare foray into musicals in this madcap modern twist on Agatha Christie, in which one actor (Brett Ryback) plays the homicide investigator and another (Jeff Blumenkrantz) plays all 13 suspects. Joe Kinosian composed the score, and Kellen Blair wrote the lyrics, with both collaborating on the book. Scott Schwartz directs. McGinn/Cazale Theater, 2162 Broadway at 76th Street, fourth floor, (212) 246-4422, 2st.com. (Rooney)
'Murmurs' (opens on Wednesday) Dream logic, shape-shifting Venetian architecture, anonymous masked figures: we are officially out of Ringling Brothers territory and into the land of ''New Circus.'' Victoria Thierrée Chaplin, who is widely credited with being one of the genre's creators, returns to the Lincoln Center Festival with this self-proclaimed ''journey of the imagination,'' starring her daughter, Aurélia Thierrée. Gerald W. Lynch Theater at John Jay College, 899 10th Avenue, at 59th Street, Clinton, (212) 721-6500, lincolncenterfestival.org. (Grode)
'Shida' (previews start on Friday; opens on July 31) Rupert Holmes and Jason Robert Brown are among those triple threats who have contributed book, music and lyrics to their own musicals. But doing all that and then starring in the thing, too? All by yourself? Now that's the work of a quadruple threat. Enter Jeannette Bayardelle, a Broadway veteran (''Hair,'' ''The Color Purple'') who has written an autobiographical musical about a young girl from the Bronx whose dreams of becoming a writer get derailed, at least temporarily. Ars Nova, 511 West 54th Street, Clinton, (866) 811-4111, shidathemusical.com. (Grode)
'Soul Doctor' (in previews; opens on Aug. 15) This musical odyssey -- after engagements in South Florida and New Orleans, as well as Off Broadway -- examines the life of ''The Singing Rabbi,'' Shlomo Carlebach, a key figure in popular Jewish music, and his friendship with Nina Simone. The show is written and directed by Daniel S. Wise, with choreography by Benoit-Swan Pouffer. Circle in the Square Theater, 1633 Broadway, at 50th Street, (800) 432-7780, telecharge.com. (Grode)
'Storyville' (in previews; opens on Tuesday) Several places have laid claim to being the birthplace of jazz, but if jazz historians have to choose one spot, they tend to settle on New Orleans. This new musical promises a boisterous look at one of the city's creative hubs, the racy Storyville district, around 1917. The choreographer, Mercedes Ellington, should have some light to shed on jazz's formative years; after all, her grandfather was a piano player who went by the nickname Duke. Theater at St. Peter's Lutheran Church, 619 Lexington Avenue, at 54th Street, (212) 935-5820, yorktheatre.org. (Grode)
Summer Shorts 2013 (opens on Friday) With just six short plays featured, this annual mini-festival sticks to a tighter roster than some similar collections of one-acts. The first set opens this week with works by two heavy hitters (Neil LaBute and Tina Howe) and one up-and-comer (Lucas Hnath, whose ''A Public Reading of an Unproduced Screenplay About the Death of Walt Disney'' was a critical hit at Soho Rep this spring). 59E59 Theaters, 59 East 59th Street, Manhattan, (212) 279-4200, ticketcentral.com. (Grode)
Broadway
'Annie' James Lapine's revival of the singing comic strip from 1977 is merely serviceable. But its smiley-faced mixture of hope and corn scratches an itch in a city recovering from a recession and a hurricane. Theatergoers may occasionally feel the urge both to mist up and throw up, but Lilla Crawford is a nigh irresistible Orphan Annie. With Anthony Warlow and Faith Prince as Miss Hannigan (2:25). Palace Theater, 1564 Broadway, at 47th Street, (877) 250-2929, ticketmaster.com. (Ben Brantley)
&#x2605; 'The Assembled Parties' Richard Greenberg's play about the decline of an affluent family is a throwback to a time when Charm -- with a capital C -- was a cardinal virtue in theater. It is also smart, sad and so impossibly well-spoken you may feel like giving up on conversation. Lynne Meadow directs a fine cast led by a singularly charming Jessica Hecht (2:35). Samuel J. Friedman Theater, 261 West 47th Street, (212) 239-6200, telecharge.com. (Brantley)
&#x2605; 'Kinky Boots' Cyndi Lauper has created a love-and-heat-seeking score that performs like a pop star on Ecstasy. This Harvey Fierstein-scripted tale of lost souls in shoe business, in which a young factory owner (Stark Sands) teams up with a drag queen (Billy Porter), sometimes turns into a sermon. But it's hard to resist the audience-hugging charisma of the songs in this Tony winner for best new musical (2:20). Al Hirschfeld Theater, 302 West 45th Street, Clinton, (212) 239-6200, telecharge.com. (Brantley)
&#x2605; 'Matilda the Musical' The most satisfying and subversive musical ever to come out of Britain. Directed by Matthew Warchus, with a book by Dennis Kelly and addictive songs by Tim Minchin, this adaptation of Roald Dahl's novel is an exhilarating tale of empowerment, told from the perspective of that most powerless group, little children. Bertie Carvel is priceless as their schoolmistress nemesis (2:35). Shubert Theater, 225 West 44th Street, (212) 239-6200, telecharge.com. (Brantley)
'Motown: The Musical' A dramatically slapdash but musically vibrant joy ride through the glory days of the Detroit music label founded by Berry Gordy. Mr. Gordy's book is sketchy and obvious -- you want to plug your ears whenever the music stops. But the music is, of course, some of the greatest R&B ever recorded, and the performers mostly electric (2:40). Lunt-Fontanne Theater, 205 West 46th Street, (877) 250-2929, ticketmaster.com. (Charles Isherwood)
'The Nance' Playing a gay burlesque performer whose onstage specialty is mincing effeminacy, Nathan Lane combines shiny expertise and dark conviction to sometimes devastating effect, in this strained if heartfelt play by Douglas Carter Beane. Not even Mr. Lane, though, can reconcile all the disparities the script asks him to weave together. Jack O'Brien is the estimable director (2:25). Lyceum Theater, 149 West 45th Street, (212) 239-6200, telecharge.com. (Brantley)
'Pippin' Diane Paulus sends in the acrobats for her exhaustingly energetic (and now Tony-winning) revival of Stephen Schwartz and Roger O. Hirson's 1972 musical. As for the 99-pound story at the center of this muscle-bound spectacle -- the one about the starry-eyed son of Charlemagne (Matthew James Thomas) -- that's there too, if you look hard. With Patina Miller and a delightful Andrea Martin (2:35). Music Box Theater, 239 West 45th Street, (212) 239-6200, telecharge.com. (Brantley)
'Rodgers & Hammerstein's Cinderella' This ultimate and most enduring of makeover stories, via the team who gave us ''Oklahoma!,'' has been restyled by the director Mark Brokaw and the writer Douglas Carter Beane into a glittery patchwork of snark and sincerity, with a whole lot of fancy ball gowns. Laura Osnes and Santino Fontana are the appealing leading lovers (2:20). Broadway Theater, 1681 Broadway, at 53rd Street, (212) 239-6200, telecharge.com. (Brantley)
'The Trip to Bountiful' Michael Wilson's slow-handed staging of Horton Foote's 1953 drama about an old woman's journey into the past is most notable for its remarkable star, Cicely Tyson, who seems thoroughly rejuvenated by her return to Broadway. The attractive supporting cast includes Cuba Gooding Jr., Vanessa Williams and Adepero Oduye (2:10). Stephen Sondheim Theater, 124 West 43rd Street, (212) 239-6200, telecharge.com. (Brantley)
'Vanya and Sonia and Masha and Spike' Portraying a woman mired in what appears to be a permanent midlife crisis, the marvelous comic actor Kristine Nielsen provides much of the laughing gas in Christopher Durang's uneven but intermittently delightful riff on Chekhovian themes. David Hyde Pierce and Sigourney Weaver also star in this Tony-winning play directed by Nicholas Martin (2:30). John Golden Theater, 252 West 45th Street, (212) 239-6200, telecharge.com. (Isherwood)
Off Broadway
'Around the World in 80 Days' This stage version of the Jules Verne novel is an odd combination of steampunk and vaudeville. The actors' shameless mugging grows annoying after a while, but the pace stays brisk and the energy level high (1:30). New Theater at 45th Street, 354 West 45th Street, Clinton, (866) 811-4111, aroundtheworldinnyc.com. (Neil Genzlinger)
&#x2605; 'Buyer & Cellar' Jonathan Tolins has concocted an irresistible one-man play from the most peculiar of fictitious premises -- an underemployed Los Angeles actor goes to work in Barbra Streisand's Malibu, Calif., basement -- allowing the playwright to ruminate with delicious wit and perspicacity on the solitude of celebrity, the love-hate attraction between gay men and divas, and the melancholy that lurks beneath narcissism. In the capable hands of the director Stephen Brackett and the wickedly charming actor Michael Urie, this seriously funny slice of absurdist whimsy creates the illusion of a stage filled with multiple people, all of them with their own droll point of view (1:30). Barrow Street Theater, 27 Barrow Street, at Seventh Avenue South, West Village, (212) 868-4444, smarttix.com. (Rooney)
&#x2605; 'Choir Boy' A supremely gifted cast of singing actors breathes vivid life into Tarell Alvin McCraney's appealing but diffuse play about a gay teenager, played with beaming intensity by Jeremy Pope, trying to come to terms with his sexuality at an all-black boys prep school (1:30). City Center Stage II, 131 West 55th Street, (212) 581-1212, nycitycenter.org. (Isherwood)
'Cougar the Musical' Three older women find themselves attracted to younger men, two against their better judgment. The concept seems made for bus tours, but imagination, appealing numbers with original melodies and theme-transcending jokes lift this show well above the level of ''Menopause: The Musical'' and its ilk (1:30). Fridays and Saturdays only. St. Luke's Theater, 308 West 46th Street, Clinton, (212) 239-6200, telecharge.com. (Anita Gates)
'Cuff Me: The Fifty Shades of Grey Musical Parody' What can I possibly say that isn't said by the title of this production? Here's one thing: It's not exactly great theater, but I'd still rather see ''Cuff Me'' than read the novel upon which it's based (1:30). Actors Temple Theater, 339 West 47th Street, Clinton, (212) 239-6200, telecharge.com. (Claudia La Rocco)
'The Explorers Club' Nell Benjamin's intermittently funny but mostly blunt-witted comedy, directed by Marc Bruni, features a lively cast in a farcical story of tweedy members of a British science club fretting over whether to admit a female member, played by Jennifer Westfeldt (1:35). City Center Stage I, 131 West 55th Street, (212) 581-1212, nycitycenter.org. (Isherwood)
&#x2605; 'Gibraltar' James Joyce fans will appreciate this ''Adaptation After James Joyce's 'Ulysses,' '' a play that focuses on Leopold and Molly Bloom. Patrick Fitzgerald, who wrote it, and Cara Seymour play a range of characters. True to the book, they also suggest a good deal about the bond between Joyce and Nora Barnacle, his uneducated wife, indispensable muse and model for Molly (1:55). Irish Repertory Theater, 132 West 22nd Street, Chelsea, (212) 727-2737, irishrep.org. (Andy Webster)
&#x2605; 'Here Lies Love' An invigorating poperetta, conceived by David Byrne, that sets a new standard for audience participation. Or do I mean coercion? In this heady show about the heady life of Imelda Marcos, staged with infinite inventiveness by Alex Timbers, all the world's a dance floor, and all the men and women (including the audience) merely disco rats (1:30). Public Theater, 425 Lafayette Street, at Astor Place, East Village, (212) 967-7555, publictheater.org. (Brantley)
'It's Just Sex' Jeff Gould's lightweight comedy, a long-running hit in Los Angeles, is about three married couples whose party turns into an evening of spouse-swapping and postcoital navel-gazing (metaphorically). The cast is personable, but the script's only deep thought is that if women were told they could talk only to one person for the rest of their lives, they would understand why sexual fidelity is so stifling for men (1:30). Actors Temple Theater, 339 West 47th Street, Clinton, (212) 239-6200, telecharge.com. (Gates)
'My Name Is Asher Lev' Aaron Posner's adaptation of Chaim Potok's novel feels like a well-made play from the era in which the story takes place: the 1950s. Set in a Hasidic neighborhood in Brooklyn, this tale of an artistic prodigy has been directed with an attention to emotional nuance by Gordon Edelstein and features strong performances from its three-person cast: Ari Brand, Mark Nelson and Jenny Bacon (1:30). Westside Theater/Upstairs, 407 West 43rd Street, Clinton, (212) 239-6200, telecharge.com. (Rachel Saltz)
&#x2605; 'Natasha, Pierre and the Great Comet of 1812' Dave Malloy's transporting pop opera dramatizes an emotionally potent slice of Tolstoy's ''War and Peace.'' Rachel Chavkin directs a superb young cast who bring the loves and losses of 19th-century Russian aristocrats to vibrant, intimate life in a stylish cabaret setting expressly built for the production (2:30). Kazino, West 13th Street, at Washington Street, West Village, (877) 704-2821, thegreatcometof1812.com. (Isherwood)
&#x2605; 'Peter and the Starcatcher' The most exhilarating and inventive example of story theater since the Royal Shakespeare Company's ''Life and Adventures of Nicholas Nickleby.'' This production, about the boy who became Peter Pan, is an enchanted anatomy of the urge to defy gravity. Roger Rees and Alex Timbers direct (2:10). New World Stages, 340 West 50th Street, Clinton, (212) 239-6200, telecharge.com. (Brantley)
'A Picture of Autumn' Removing an aged parent from a beloved home that's no longer safe or convenient is never easy. Just imagine this scaled up a bit, with the parent clinging to a crumbling, 16th-century, 18-bedroom mansion. Robert tries this thankless task in the revival of this 1951 play by N.C. Hunter. The play feels much too long, drawing out dialogues as if the audience had as much time to kill as the listless manor residents. But the cast (led by George Morfogen) is nonetheless stellar (2:20). Mint Theater, 311 West 43rd Street, Clinton, (866) 811-4111, minttheater.org. (Catherine Rampell)
&#x2605; 'Potted Potter' With no new Harry Potter adventures to pore over, what's a Muggle in need of a fix to do? One answer: this gloriously goofy parody by Daniel Clarkson and Jefferson Turner, which compresses a retelling of the seven books into 70 minutes, complete with a game of Quidditch. Clearly the two comics attended Professor Flitwick's charms class, because they cast the perfect spell over the audience: reductio ad absurdum (1:10). Little Shubert Theater, 422 West 42nd Street, Clinton, (212) 239-6200, telecharge.com. (Daniel M. Gold)
&#x2605; 'Serious Money' Caryl Churchill's feral 1987 satire of the money culture and the quest for the big score is revived in a wicked, polished production by the Potomac Theater Project. Matching elements of Restoration comedy and Brechtian theatricality with the clamor of the trading floor, this play maintains a breakneck pace as it diagrams, in clever couplets, a takeover bid and the rapacious investors it attracts. If there's a sharper-edged evening of entertainment in Manhattan, it involves juggling knives (2:20). Atlantic Stage 2, 330 West 16th Street, Chelsea, (212) 279-4200, ptpnyc.org. (Gold)
&#x2605; 'The Two-Character Play' Playing strung-out sibling theater troupers in Tennessee Williams's rarely seen fever dream of an eternal folie à deux, Amanda Plummer and Brad Dourif don't just strike sparks. They're a raging conflagration that keeps changing form and direction. Gene David Kirk directs this revival of a demented, messy and oddly affecting self-portrait from an American master (2:10). New World Stages, 340 West 50th Street, Clinton, (212) 239-6200, telecharge.com. (Brantley)
'The Unavoidable Disappearance of Tom Durnin' David Morse gives a precise, chilling performance as the title character, a mini-Madoff, in Steven Levenson's downbeat drama about a man trying to make amends for the damage his crime inflicted on his family (1:40). Laura Pels Theater, Harold and Miriam Steinberg Center for Theater, 111 West 46th Street, (212) 719-1300, roundaboutunderground.org. (Isherwood)
'Unbroken Circle' Eve Plumb, a k a Jan of ''The Brady Bunch,'' demonstrates a flair for grown-up comedy as a born-again Christian with drinking and divorce habits in James Wesley's comic drama. Too bad the production is uncertainly paced and a little unpolished, because this story of a 1970s Texas family dealing with the death of an abusive patriarch has a lot going for it (1:50). St. Luke's Theater, 308 West 46th Street, Clinton, (212) 239-6200, telecharge.com. (Gates)
'Unconstitutional' Colin Quinn's entertaining spin through the history of our country translates wonky history into very funny jokes (1:05). Cherry Lane Theater, 38 Commerce Street, West Village, (212) 352-3101, cherrylanetheatre.org. (Jason Zinoman)
&#x2605; 'The Weir' This first-rate revival of Conor McPherson's play gathers a group of friends as they tell ghost stories to drive away a loneliness than can be even more frightening (1:30). Irish Repertory Theater, 132 West 22nd Street, Chelsea, (212) 727-2737, irishrep.org. (Ken Jaworowski)
Off Off Broadway
'Cymbeline' This chaotic tale of a princess and her banished lover is given a boisterous production as part of the Shakespeare in the Parking Lot series (2:30). The municipal parking lot at Ludlow and Broome Streets, Lower East Side, shakespeareintheparkinglot.com, (212) 873-9050. (Jaworowski)
'A Midsummer Night's Dream' The Classical Theater of Harlem has done wonders with its African-influenced staging of a 400-year-old comedy about lovers drugged by fairies. It's not nearly as polished as what you'll see at that other Shakespeare in the park, but the nuanced performances and high humor are a rare combination. And it's free (1:30). Richard Rodgers Amphitheater, Marcus Garvey Park, 18 Mount Morris Park West, at 122nd Street, Harlem, (347) 688-6304, classicaltheatreofharlem.org. (Gates)
&#x2605; 'Patti Issues' In his funny, tender coming-of-age monologue, Ben Rimalower traces the obsessive Patti LuPone fandom that provided him with an empowering role model. That inspiration proved perhaps most useful to Mr. Rimalower in processing the fallout after his father kicked down the closet door and bailed on the family. While on one hand, this is the story of many young gay men's propensity for diva worship, the tartly observed show goes several steps further by exploring the wide-eyed experiences that result when the acolyte gets to interact with his idol (1:00). Duplex Cabaret Theater, 61 Christopher Street, at Seventh Avenue, Greenwich Village, pattiissues.brownpapertickets.com. (Rooney)
&#x2605; 'Then She Fell' Inspired by Lewis Carroll's ''Alice'' books, this transporting immersive theater work occupies a dreamscape where the judgments and classifications of the waking mind are suspended. A guided tour of Wonderland, created by Third Rail Projects, leads its participants through a series of rooms and an interactive evening of dance, poetry, food and drink (2:00). The Kingsland Ward at St. John's, 195 Maujer Street, near Humboldt Street, Williamsburg, Brooklyn, (718) 374-5196, thenshefell.com. (Brantley)
'Wanda's Monster' Making Books Sing, which turns children's books into musicals, has adapted Eileen Spinelli's 2002 picture book about Wanda, a little girl who knows that a monster lives in her closet. Barbara Zinn Krieger, who wrote the script, has transformed Wanda's Granny -- the only adult who acknowledges the truth of Wanda's perception -- from a sensible soul into a kick-out-the-jams rocker. This characterization works beautifully with the show's upbeat score and lyrics by the children's pop star Laurie Berkner. This charming production brings home a point worth considering at any age: embrace what you fear, and you just may find a friend (1:00). Vineyard Theater, 109 East 15th Street, (646) 601-1406, wandasmonster.com. (Laurel Graeber)
Long-Running Shows
'Avenue Q' R-rated puppets give lively life lessons (2:15). New World Stages, 340 West 50th Street, Clinton, (212) 239-6200, telecharge.com.
'The Berenstain Bears Live! In Family Matters, the Musical' This adaptation of three of Stan and Jan Berenstain's children's books is pleasant enough, but the cubs are showing their age. Saturday and Sunday only (:55). Marjorie S. Deane Little Theater, 5 West 63rd Street, (866) 811-4111, berenstainbearslive.com.
'Black Angels Over Tuskegee' The tear-jerker story of these trailblazing African-American pilots (2:30). Actors Temple Theater, 339 West 47th Street, Clinton, (212) 239-6200, telecharge.com.
Blue Man Group Conceptual art as entertainment (1:45). Astor Place Theater, 434 Lafayette Street, East Village, (800) 258-3626, ticketmaster.com.
'The Book of Mormon' Singing, dancing, R-rated missionaries proselytize for the American musical (2:15). Eugene O'Neill Theater, 230 West 49th Street, (800) 432-7250, telecharge.com.
'Chicago' Jazz Age sex, murder and razzle-dazzle (2:25). Ambassador Theater, 219 West 49th Street, (212) 239-6200, telecharge.com.
'The Fantasticks' Boy meets girl, forever (2:05). Snapple Theater Center, 210 West 50th Street, (800) 745-3000, ticketmaster.com.
'Fuerza Bruta: Look Up' A sensory bath aimed at clubgoing college kids in search of cultural diversion (1:05). Daryl Roth Theater, 20 Union Square East, at 15th Street, (212) 239-6200, telecharge.com.
'Jersey Boys' The biomusical that walks like a man (2:30). August Wilson Theater, 245 West 52nd Street, (212) 239-6200, telecharge.com.
'The Lion King' Disney's call of the wild (2:45). Minskoff Theater, 200 West 45th Street, (800) 870-2717, ticketmaster.com.
'Mamma Mia!' The jukebox musical set to the disco throb of Abba (2:20). Cadillac Winter Garden Theater, 1634 Broadway, at 50th Street, (212) 239-6200, telecharge.com.
'Newsies' Extra! Extra! enthusiasm (2:20). Nederlander Theater, 208 West 41st Street, (866) 870-2717, newsiesthemusical.com.
'Old Jews Telling Jokes' With old jokes, a few songs and a little schmaltz, this winning revue is simple, effective entertainment executed with obvious affection (1:20). Westside Theater, 407 West 43rd Street, Clinton, (212) 239-6200, telecharge.com.
'Once' Almost love, in a singing Dublin (2:15). Bernard B. Jacobs Theater, 242 West 45th Street, (212) 239-6200, telecharge.com.
'Perfect Crime' The murder mystery that has been investigated since 1987 (1:30). Snapple Theater Center, 210 West 50th Street, (800) 745-3000, ticketmaster.com.
'The Phantom of the Opera' Who was that masked man anyway? (2:30). Majestic Theater, 247 West 44th Street, (212) 239-6200, telecharge.com.
'Rock of Ages' Big hair, thrashing guitars and inspired humor fuel this jukebox musical (2:25). Helen Hayes Theater, 240 West 44th Street, (212) 239-6200, telecharge.com.
'Sistas: The Musical' Black women reflect on their lives, with songs (1:30). St. Luke's Theater, 308 West 46th Street, Clinton, (212) 239-6200, telecharge.com.
'Sleep No More' A movable, murderous feast at Hotel Macbeth (2:00). The McKittrick Hotel, 530 West 27th Street, Chelsea, (866) 811-4111, sleepnomorenyc.com.
'Spider-Man: Turn Off the Dark' Web surfing with music (2:45). Foxwoods Theater, 213 West 42nd Street, (800) 745-3000, spidermanonbroadway.marvel.com.
'Stomp' And the beat goes on (and on), with percussion unlimited (1:30). Orpheum Theater, 126 Second Avenue, at Eighth Street, East Village, (800) 982-2787, ticketmaster.com.
'Wicked' Oz revisited (2:45). Gershwin Theater, 222 West 51st Street, (800) 745-3000, ticketmaster.com.
Last Chance
'A Cautionary Tail' (closes on Tuesday) Two half-Chinese siblings squirm under the iron paw of their menacing Tiger Mom. In their struggles to conform to unyielding parental expectations while remaining trendy, sexually adventurous, self-actualizing Stuyvesant students, the siblings end up turning against each other. In the age of Facebook, teenage spats can escalate quickly. Christopher Oscar Peña's script is sprawling and disjointed, but salvaged by direction from Benjamin H. Kamine, whose imaginative stagings and design choices are the production's real star (2:00). Flea Theater, 41 White Street, TriBeCa, (866) 811-4111, theflea.org. (Rampell)
&#x2605; 'Fried Chicken and Latkes' (closes on Saturday) Rain Pryor, the daughter of the comedian Richard Pryor (who died in 2005), stars in this effervescent solo show, which recounts her upbringing in a biracial household (her mother is Jewish) in Beverly Hills, Calif. Ms. Pryor, who sings and portrays a range of characters (including, poignantly, her father in a spot-on impression) is an ebullient performer with a robust singing voice. She lives in Baltimore now, but her outsize personality is built for Broadway (1:30). Actors Temple Theater, 339 West 47th Street, Clinton, (212) 239-6200, telecharge.com. (Webster)
&#x2605; 'Murder Ballad' (closes on Sunday) A small but savvy musical that panders in style to those of us who lap up febrile accounts of fatal attractions. Julia Jordan and Juliana Nash's contemporary tale of a razor-edged love triangle knows exactly what it wants to do, and does it most efficiently, with a four-member cast directed by Trip Cullman. Staged last fall at Manhattan Theater Club's Studio at Stage II, the show returns with most of its original cast (John Ellison Conlee, Will Swenson and Rebecca Naomi Jones) and an addition: Caissie Levy, who has replaced Karen Olivo. Union Square Theater, 100 East 17th Street, (800) 982-2787, ticketmaster.com. (Brantley)
&#x2605; 'Rantoul and Die' (closes on Saturday) Debbie, assistant manager at the local Dairy Queen, has had enough of Rallis, a whimpering man-child. But Rallis cannot bear the thought of living without her and discharges several disturbing cries for help. This darkly funny play is by Mark Roberts, creator of the sitcom ''Mike & Molly,'' and he writes here with the expletive-laden catharsis of someone who has been cramped by CBS's Standards & Practices department for far too long. His dialogue is exquisitely vivid and coarse, riddled with saw-toothed similes and sinister non sequiturs (1:40). Cherry Lane Theater, 38 Commerce Street, West Village, (866) 811-4111, amoralists.com. (Rampell)
'Unlock'd' (closes on Saturday) The best songs in this new musical from the Prospect Theater Company are surprisingly beautiful considering how daffy the story is. It's a Shakespearean sort of romantic comedy set in a land of sylphs and gnomes where hair is practically worshiped, especially the tresses of Belinda (Jillian Gottlieb), the fairest and possibly dimmest lass in the land. Things run on a little too long, but there are rewards along the way (2:00). The Duke on 42nd Street, 229 West 42nd Street, (646) 223-3010, dukeon42.org (Genzlinger)

CORRECTION-DATE: August 1, 2013

 CORRECTION:
A theater entry in the Listings pages on Friday about the Broadway musical ''First Date,'' which is in previews at the Longacre Theater, misidentified the theater where the show was first staged. It was at the ACT Falls Theater in Seattle, not at the 5th Avenue Theater there. (The staging was a co-production of ACT and the 5th Avenue Theater.) The error also appeared on July 5, 12 and 19.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO (PHOTOGRAPH BY SARA KRULWICH/THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Schedule

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ARTISTS & PERFORMERS (89%); MUSICAL THEATER (89%); MUSIC INDUSTRY (79%); THEATER & DRAMA (79%); VISUAL & PERFORMING ARTS (79%); TELEVISION COMEDIES (75%); TELEVISION INDUSTRY (75%); COSTUME & SET DESIGN (74%); CHOREOGRAPHY (74%); ALLIANCES & PARTNERSHIPS (72%); MUSIC (71%); SONG WRITING (71%); WRITERS (71%); REALITY TELEVISION (70%); THEATER (59%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (93%); SEATTLE, WA, USA (79%) NEW YORK, USA (93%); WASHINGTON, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: August 1, 2013



571 of 937 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(Economix)

PUB-DATE: July 19, 2013

SECTION: BUSINESS; economy

LENGTH: 1325 words

HEADLINE: What Makes U.S. Health Insurance Exchanges So Complicated

BYLINE: UWE E. REINHARDT


HIGHLIGHT: Americans&#8217; insistence on broad choices in health insurance raises both the cost and complexity of establishing insurance exchanges, an economist writes. 

 BODY:
Uwe E. Reinhardt is an economics professor at Princeton. He has some financial interests in the health care field. 
There is much coverage and commentary on news Web sites about whether the health insurance exchanges called for in the Affordable Care Act will be ready by Oct. 1 for enrollment by individuals seeking health insurance in the nongroup market. Insurance bought there takes effect on Jan. 1. I sense that many of those commenting would like the exchanges to fail. 
Why is setting up these exchanges so difficult? After all, they are not a novel invention. The eHealthInsurance.com Web site, for example, has since 1997 functioned as an electronic exchange for private health insurance products sold in the nongroup United States market. 
That exchange and similar existing private exchanges, however, are not suitable models for the exchanges envisaged in the Affordable Care Act. They function merely as passive brokers for whatever policies private insurers under contract with them choose to list. It is up to consumers to pore over the fine print of any particular insurance contract listed on an exchange for a detailed description of coverage benefits, limitations and exclusions. 
There have been many reports on how coverage gaps in the fine print of such policies can leave people who believe they have health insurance in serious financial distress once they fall ill. See, for example, an analysis by Consumer Reports. 
More relevant as a model in this context might be the health insurance exchanges in several European countries that operate social health insurance systems with multiple competing private insurers - Germany, the Netherlands and Switzerland prominent among them.

Let us therefore pretend that we are residents of Switzerland and rummage around in a Swiss health insurance exchange. 
All Swiss residents are required by federal statute to purchase insurance coverage for a common, comprehensive benefit package prescribed in the statute. Individuals buy that coverage on health insurance exchanges whose architecture is broken down by canton and that facilitate easy comparisons of the community-rated premiums charged by the competing private insurance carriers active in the individual's canton. 
Individuals can purchase supplemental benefits - e.g., coverage for private rooms in hospitals or alternative medicine - from the same companies on the same exchanges. The premiums for these benefits, however, are medically underwritten, which means that they depend in part on the applicant's health status. 
Private insurers in Switzerland are not allowed to earn profits on the common, comprehensive, social-insurance benefit package they cover, but they can earn profits on the supplemental benefits. 
The Swiss company Comparis, a general insurance broker, among other exchanges operates one for health insurance, and it is available in English.
To receive premium quotes from competing insurers, one enters the postal code of one's residence (e.g., 3010 for a part of the city of Bern). One is also asked to identify one's current insurance carrier in a pop-up list of carriers serving the canton. As if I were a Swiss resident, I randomly clicked on "Publisana" from that list. (A new resident would click on "Relocating to Switzerland.")
Because basic benefits are standard across Switzerland, the only consumer choice with regard to the benefit package is the deductible, which can range from 300 to 2,500 Swiss francs. (At current exchange rates, a Swiss franc is about $1.06.)
At the bottom, one can choose comparisons among standard coverage, a gatekeeper model (with a general practitioner), health maintenance organizations and telemedicine (shown as Telmed). I recommend "standard," offering free choice of provider. 
Click on "Continue," and up comes the comparison of premiums for one's chosen deductible for policies sold in one's canton. Monthly and annual premiums of the various insurers are shown, along with the savings one could achieve by switching insurers. 
A click on "request quote" leads to a page offering supplementary insurance for various items. A click on the "i" in green provides information on each supplementary benefit. Note that generous maternity benefits are included in the basic coverage and one can opt for additional services. (European men do not seem to view being forced to pay for maternity care an affront. At least one critic of the Affordable Care Act in the United States, on the other hand, has denounced inclusion of maternity benefits among the basic benefits as "Obamacare's War on Men.") 
Swiss insurance exchanges seem quite simple and user friendly. Presumably, no one needs the assist of an insurance navigator to work through this Web site.
So why can't the insurance exchanges under the Affordable Care Act be as simple as those in Switzerland? Why would it take almost three years to set up the American exchanges? And why will American buyers of health insurance need specially trained navigators to help them navigate these exchanges?
There are several reasons.
For one, the exchanges are but one small component of America's highly complex health insurance system and must be stitched smoothly onto its many facets - a challenge that would be just as demanding for anyone proposing to move toward universal health insurance coverage through private insurers, even in the absence of deliberate attempts to sabotage the effort. 
Swiss exchanges do not determine the public subsidies to which lower-income Swiss residents are entitled. These subsidies are handled by a different, cantonal authority. Therefore the Swiss exchanges do not have to determine eligibility for insurance. By contrast, in the United States, state-based exchanges must coordinate with the Internal Revenue Service to determine eligibility for subsidies and their magnitude. 
The American exchanges must also work with the state-administered Medicaid programs, to determine whether an applicant on the exchanges should be referred to Medicaid, and with small employers. 
Furthermore, some American exchanges will be "active" - they will actually negotiate premiums with insurers.
Finally, the Swiss exchanges need to feature premiums only for exactly the same health benefits. Individuals have a choice only over the deductible in the policy. The Affordable Care Act does specify the basic benefits that must be covered, which each state can translate into its own basic benchmark package. There will be four levels of covered benefits (bronze, silver, gold and platinum) that are likely to differ mainly by the degree of cost-sharing (deductibles, co-payments and co-insurance). But some variation of covered services around the state benchmark package nevertheless will be possible within the same actuarial value of a policy, adding some complexity. 
Benefit packages on the American exchanges will also vary by the degree of choice among providers that different policies permit. Presumably, the exchanges will have to ascertain the adequacy of the networks of providers attached to particular policies.
In short, comparing the various offerings on the American exchanges will not be nearly as simple as it is on the Swiss exchanges; hence the need for the specially trained navigators.
Americans insist on choice and pluralism among insurance products, enabling them to find coverage they believe will fit their personal needs. That choice, desirable though it may be, comes at a stiff price, with two dimensions. 
First, it adds considerably to monetary outlays on administrative functions, which in the United States run about twice per capita what they are in other countries. And to make careful and responsible choices takes a great deal of a person's time.

        
The Path to Complexity on the Health Care Act
        
The New Economics of Part-Time Employment
        
Putting Off the Employer Mandate
        
Confusing the Public on the Affordable Care Act
        
'Premium Shock' and 'Premium Joy' Under the Affordable Care Act

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: HEALTH INSURANCE (94%); US PATIENT PROTECTION & AFFORDABLE CARE ACT (90%); HEALTH CARE (89%); INSURANCE COVERAGE (89%); INSURANCE (89%); COMPANY PROFITS (89%); MANAGED CARE ORGANIZATIONS (78%); BUSINESS EDUCATION (78%); GOVERNMENT HEALTH INSURANCE (77%); INSURANCE AGENCIES & BROKERAGES (77%); PRODUCT REVIEWS (74%); ALTERNATIVE MEDICINE (73%); TAXES & TAXATION (66%) Health Insurance and Managed Care; Internal Revenue Service; Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act (2010); Switzerland; Today's Economist

COMPANY: U S HEALTH INSURANCE CO (58%)

ORGANIZATION: Internal Revenue Service

GEOGRAPHIC: BERN, SWITZERLAND (79%) SWITZERLAND (94%); UNITED STATES (93%); EUROPE (79%); GERMANY (74%); NETHERLANDS (69%); CENTRAL EUROPE (54%) Switzerland

LOAD-DATE: July 19, 2013



572 of 937 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(DealBook)

PUB-DATE: July 19, 2013

SECTION: BUSINESS

LENGTH: 1739 words

HEADLINE: Morning Agenda: Banks Could Be Victims of Their Own Success

BYLINE: WILLIAM ALDEN


HIGHLIGHT: Banks&#8217; strong earnings could end up undercutting their arguments against more regulation. | As it prepares to settle with JPMorgan, an energy regulator is expected to spare a top bank lieutenant. | Dell bought itself six more days to drum up support for the proposed buyout. | A former colleague of Fabrice Tourre was in the spotlight on Thursday. 

 BODY:
BANKS COULD BE VICTIMS OF THEIR OWN SUCCESS | 
The nation's six biggest banks reported $23 billion of profit in the second quarter, strong earnings that could end up undercutting their arguments against more regulation, DealBook's Peter Eavis writes. With regulators and lawmakers recently stepping up efforts intended to make the largest banks safer, those banks have warned that more regulations could hurt their ability to compete and curtail their lending. The most pressing concern for banks is a relatively tough new rule that could force banks to build up more capital.
But the banks, which now appear to have fewer allies in Washington than at any point since the financial crisis, did not demonstrate any difficulty in meeting the proposed rules, Mr. Eavis writes. That was highlighted on Wednesday when the Treasury secretary, Jacob J. Lew, called for the swift adoption of rules introduced through the Dodd-Frank financial overhaul law, effectively issuing an ultimatum to Wall Street. "If we get to the end of this year, and cannot, with an honest, straight face, say that we've ended 'too big to fail,' we're going to have to look at other options because the policy of Dodd-Frank and the policy of the administration is to end 'too big to fail,'" Mr. Lew said. 
Still, some analysts are skeptical the Treasury and the Federal Reserve would lend their weight to the aggressive measures lawmakers are contemplating. "The recent comments may be an attempt to gain some political benefit from looking tough on the banks. And the remarks may be aimed at reducing any momentum that the more draconian pieces of bank legislation are gaining in the Senate," Mr. Eavis writes.
JPMORGAN EXECUTIVE MAY ESCAPE PENALTY | 
The nation's top energy regulator, as it prepares to extract a record settlement from JPMorgan Chase over accusations that it manipulated power markets, is expected to spare a top bank lieutenant who federal investigators initially contended made "false and misleading statements under oath," Jessica Silver-Greenberg reports in DealBook. Blythe Masters, an executive known for developing exotic financial instruments, emerged this spring at the center of an investigation by the Federal Energy Regulatory Commission into accusations of illegal trading in the California and Michigan electricity markets.
Ms. Silver-Greenberg writes: "While the commission and JPMorgan are negotiating a settlement for about $500 million, the people briefed on the matter said, Ms. Masters is not expected to face a separate action. The move signals a pivot for the agency, which has been increasingly flexing its enforcement muscle, according to the people briefed on the matter, who spoke on the condition they not be named." Ms. Masters and the bank have asserted they did nothing wrong.
DELL BUYS TIME | 
Dell bought itself six more days to drum up support for its proposed $24.4 billion sale to its founder, but the fight for more support remains tough, DealBook's Michael J. de la Merced writes. The company on Thursday adjourned a meeting for shareholders to vote on the deal; the vote is now set for July 24 at 6 p.m.
"The meeting was adjourned after preliminary tallies showed that the deal would almost certainly have been defeated. With more time, a committee of Dell's board and the company's proposed buyers will try to twist more arms," Mr. de la Merced writes. "The two groups have already made headway. On Wednesday night, a number of big institutional investors switched their votes to 'yes,' people who had been briefed on the matter said. Those investors included big asset managers like the Vanguard Group, BlackRock, the State Street Corporation, the Bank of New York Mellon and Invesco."
ON THE AGENDA | General Electric reported quarterly earnings this morning of 36 cents a share, narrowly beating analysts' expectations of 35 cents a share, according to Thomson Reuters. Jeffrey Rosenberg, chief investment officer of BlackRock Advisors, is on Bloomberg TV at 10:15 a.m. 
IN TOURRE CASE, A COLLEAGUE IN THE SPOTLIGHT | 
The relationship between Fabrice Tourre and Jonathan Egol - who were close colleagues on a Goldman Sachs mortgage desk in the lead-up to the financial crisis - was under the spotlight on Thursday as Mr. Egol took the witness stand in the civil trial of Mr. Tourre, a 34-year-old Frenchman accused by the Securities and Exchange Commission of misleading investors about a mortgage security that ultimately failed. "The revelations, partly rebutted when Mr. Tourre's lawyers cross-examined Mr. Egol, steadied the S.E.C.'s case after a crucial government witness did his best to unravel it," Ben Protess and Susanne Craig write in DealBook. The witness, Paolo Pellegrini, an executive at the hedge fund that bet against the mortgage security, suddenly retracted his earlier statements that investors were unaware the hedge fund was betting against the deal.
 | Contact: @williamalden | E-mail
Sign up for the DealBook Newsletter, delivered every morning and afternoon.
Mergers & Acquisitions »
Vivendi Declined SoftBank's Rich Offer for Universal | Vivendi rejected a $8.5 billion cash bid from SoftBank of Japan for the Universal Music Group, even though the offer was at least $2 billion more than some analysts' estimates of Universal Music's value, according to a person briefed on the offer, The New York Times reports.
NEW YORK TIMES
Apache to Sell Gulf of Mexico Unit for $3.75 Billion | The Apache Corporation agreed to sell its business in the Gulf of Mexico's shelf for about $3.75 billion to a company owned by the private equity firm Riverstone Holdings.
DealBook »
Pfizer Said to Decline Pursuit of Onyx | That would leave Amgen in the leading position to buy Onyx Pharmaceuticals, Reuters reports.
REUTERS
Pressure on PepsiCo to Respond to Peltz's Overtures | The financial logic of Nelson Peltz's proposals for Pepsi is compelling, Jeffrey Goldfarb of Reuters Breakingviews writes.
REUTERS BREAKINGVIEWS
Berkshire Hathaway Buys Atlantic City Newspaper | 
PRESS OF ATLANTIC CITY
INVESTMENT BANKING »
Monte dei Paschi of Italy Yields to Change | Shareholders of the troubled Italian bank Monte dei Paschi di Siena voted on Thursday to lift ownership restrictions and encourage new outside investors, a move that could lead to similar changes at Italy's other big banks, The New York Times reports.
NEW YORK TIMES
Morgan Stanley Announces a Buyback, and Its Shares Rise | Morgan Stanley reported adjusted earnings for the second quarter that slightly beat analysts' estimates, driven by a strong performance from its wealth management unit and equity sales and trading.
DEALBOOK
BlackRock Earnings Increase 32% | The company's gains were driven largely by the broad rally in the stock market, which pushed up the value of BlackRock's products, especially its exchange-traded funds known as iShares.
DealBook »
UBS Leads in Underwriting Stock Sales in Southeast Asia | 
BLOOMBERG NEWS
Former Goldman Partner Darivoff Named Chairman of DFG | Philip M. Darivoff, a recently retired Goldman Sachs partner, has been appointed chairman of DFG Investment Advisers, an asset management firm in New York.
DealBook »
PRIVATE EQUITY »
Blackstone Earnings More Than Tripled in 2nd Quarter | The Blackstone Group reported gains in its private equity and real estate funds that exceeded analysts' expectations. The firm's shares rose 6.4 percent on Thursday.
REUTERS
Private Equity Firms to Buy Unit of Cermaq of Norway | Bain Capital and Altor are paying about $1.1 billion for the fish feed unit of Cermaq, a fish farm operator listed in Oslo, Reuters reports. The agreement came after a bidding contest.
REUTERS
HEDGE FUNDS »
Bets on Commodities Turn Out to Be Losers | Reuters reports: "Funds betting on commodity price moves have lost money every month since January, their joint longest losing streak on record, raising more doubts about their ability to make money at a time when the commodity 'supercycle' may be over."
REUTERS
I.P.O./OFFERINGS »
SeaWorld's Pre-Emptive Strike on Critical Documentary | SeaWorld, the theme park operator controlled by the Blackstone Group that went public this year, sent out a detailed critique of "Blackfish," a documentary set for release on Friday in New York and Los Angeles that makes the case that orca whales in captivity suffer distress because of confinement.
NEW YORK TIMES
From Blackstone, a Real Estate I.P.O. | The Blackstone Group's Brixmor Property Group, an owner of shopping centers, filed on Thursday for an initial public offering that is expected to come in the fourth quarter, Reuters reports.
REUTERS
VENTURE CAPITAL »
Yelp Buys Restaurant Reservation Start-Up | Yelp is paying about $12.7 million in cash and stock for SeatMe, which sells software to restaurants and bars, AllThingsD reports.
ALLTHINGSD
LEGAL/REGULATORY »
Detroit Tumbles Into Bankruptcy | Detroit filed for bankruptcy on Thursday, the largest American city ever to take such a course. Kevyn D. Orr, the city's emergency manager, has said the level of debt is likely to be $18 billion and perhaps as much as $20 billion, The New York Times reports.
NEW YORK TIMES
Bank in Madoff Suit Settles With Some Plaintiffs | Westport National Bank agreed to pay $7.5 million to investors in a related case as a jury found it not liable for losses for accounts controlled by Bernard L. Madoff Investment Securities.
DealBook »
Finra Scrutinizes High-Speed Trading Firms | The Financial Industry Regulatory Authority sent letters to 10 high-speed trading firms this week, asking for more information about their trading programs and the steps taken to avert "market disruptions."
DealBook »
Bernanke's Testimony Like a Farewell Scene | Ben S. Bernanke's testimony before the Senate on Thursday may have been his final appearance before Congress as Fed chairman.
NEW YORK TIMES
The Time Bernanke Was Wrong | Critics of the Federal Reserve seem not to focus on what the central bank got wrong, Floyd Norris, a columnist for The New York Times writes: policies that allowed dangerous imbalances to grow and bring on the financial crisis.
NEW YORK TIMES
Debating, Yet Again, the Worth of Law School | A recent academic study is drawing a lot of criticism for quantifying the economic value of a law degree, but the study raises many valid points, Steven M. Davidoff writes in the Deal Professor column.
DealBook »
Sign up for the DealBook Newsletter, delivered every morning and afternoon.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: COMPANY EARNINGS (91%); 2010 WALL STREET & BANKING REFORM (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); US DODD FRANK ACT (90%); AGENCY RULEMAKING (90%); ENERGY DEPARTMENTS (89%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (89%); ENERGY REGULATION (89%); ENERGY & UTILITY LAW (89%); BUYINS & BUYOUTS (89%); INVESTIGATIONS (89%); ENERGY & UTILITY POLICY (88%); BANKING LAW (79%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (79%); PUBLIC POLICY (78%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); UTILITIES INDUSTRY (77%); PUBLIC FINANCE (75%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (74%); LEGISLATION (73%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (73%); SPECIAL INVESTIGATIVE FORCES (69%); ELECTRICITY TRANSMISSION & DISTRIBUTION (67%); SETTLEMENT & COMPROMISE (62%) Morning Agenda

COMPANY: JPMORGAN CHASE & CO (93%)

TICKER: JPM (NYSE) (93%); JPM (LSE) (93%); 8634 (TSE) (93%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (93%); NAICS523999 MISCELLANEOUS FINANCIAL INVESTMENT ACTIVITIES (93%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (93%); SIC6022 STATE COMMERCIAL BANKS (93%)

PERSON: JACK LEW (76%); FABRICE P TOURRE (59%)

GEOGRAPHIC: MICHIGAN, USA (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (74%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: July 19, 2013



573 of 937 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(Bits)

PUB-DATE: July 19, 2013

SECTION: TECHNOLOGY

LENGTH: 756 words

HEADLINE: A Tech Veteran Takes on the Skills Gap

BYLINE: STEVE LOHR


HIGHLIGHT: Gary Beach, a technology industry veteran, takes on the much-debated subject of the skills gap in a new book. The skills gap, he argues, is really an education gap that has been building for decades. 

 BODY:
Gary J. Beach has long been a close observer of technology, a frequent speaker on the conference circuit and a confidante of senior technology executives. He is a former publisher of Computerworld, Network World and CIO Magazine, where he is currently publisher emeritus.
More than six years ago, Mr. Beach decided to begin studying in earnest a much-debated issue, and a subject of ritual complaint among technology executives - the apparently lagging skills of the American workforce. The result, published on Thursday, is his book, "The U.S. Technology Skills Gap: What Every Technology Executive Must Know to Save America's Future" (John Wiley & Sons). 
Much of the book is an illuminating, idiosyncratic history of education in America, dating back to 1941. "The skills gap is really an education gap, and it affects us all," Mr. Beach explained in an interview on Thursday.
Today's headlines about the sorry state of math and science proficiency of American children are nothing new. In 1964, Mr. Beach writes, the International Association for the Evaluation of Educational Achievement tested the math skills of eighth graders in 13 countries, and the American students came in next to last.
A scathing indictment of the United States public education system came in 1983, from an expert commission appointed by Ronald Reagan, "A Nation at Risk: The Imperative for Educational Reform."
Then, America's formidable economic challenger was Japan, a nation of high achieving math and science test-takers. Today, the ascendant power is China, which produces engineers at a torrid rate.
The Japan challenge faded. What's different this time?
One difference, Mr. Beach suggests, is the historical moment. And he makes the argument by showing off his research chops, pointing to a fascinating if obscure source: the Yuasa Phenomenon. This is a theory expounded by a Japanese physicist and historian, Mitsutomo Yuasa, in the 1960s. Since 1540, he declared, the mantle of global scientific leadership has moved from one country to another every 80 to 100 years. The United States, by his reckoning, became the leader in science in 1920.
America, Mr. Beach writes, cannot compete with China or India in churning out engineers. Instead, the Untied States can thrive by being more innovative. Stronger math and science skills are needed, he writes, but so are other skills, which he calls the "5C's - critical thinking, communication, collaboration, creativity and confidence."
"A nation," Mr. Beach writes, "whose citizens excel in the 5C's, but not math and science, is a nation of liberal arts majors! A nation of math and science wizards who can't think, communicate, collaborate or create, is a nation of machines. The successful countries of the 21st century will, and must, do both well."
Mr. Beach has some reasonably fresh recommendations for improving education in America. He would nearly double the starting salaries of bright young teachers to both attract more of them and place American starting salaries on a par with Finland and South Korea, two high-achieving nations in education.
To pay for that proposal, Mr. Beach suggests the creation of state education trust funds, modeled after the "Highway Trust Fund," the Eisenhower creation to finance the construction and maintenance of the nation's interstate highway system with a tax on gasoline.
Under the Beach plan, businesses would pay a yearly tax of $10 a worker and parents would pay $10 for each child between the ages of six to 17. That would raise $4.3 billion a year and pay for hiring 143,000 new math and science teachers.
Now, the whole notion of a skills gap has been challenged recently by some academics,notably Peter Cappelli, a professor of management at the Wharton School. They point to stagnant wages; if there were real shortages, businesses would pay more.
Mr. Beach sees a different world, based on his conversations with technology executives. "The skills gap is not fiction," he said. But in the technology industry, he said, there is a global market for skills - a market accessible to workers anywhere with the know-how and an Internet connection. The online worldwide labor pool, Mr. Beach suggests, slows wage growth for many technology jobs.

        
Daily Report: BlackBerry Chief Says Turnaround Will Take More Time
        
Daily Report: Dispute Over Tech Companies' Motives in Immigration Debate
        
Daily Report: Google, Facebook and Microsoft Ask to Reveal U.S. Data Requests
        
Daily Report: U.S. Confirms That It Gathers Online Data
        
Want Success in Silicon Valley? Drop Out of School

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: LABOR SHORTAGES (90%); WORKFORCE DEMAND (90%); PUBLISHING (90%); EXECUTIVES (90%); MATH & SCIENCE EDUCATION (90%); INTERVIEWS (77%); HISTORY (77%); EDUCATION SYSTEMS & INSTITUTIONS (77%); EDUCATION REFORM (75%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (74%); HUMANITIES & SOCIAL SCIENCE (74%); LABOR FORCE (71%); PUBLIC SCHOOLS (65%) Beach, Gary; Education; United States; Policy; Social

COMPANY: JOHN WILEY & SONS INC (57%)

TICKER: JWB (NYSE) (57%); JWA (NYSE) (57%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS511130 BOOK PUBLISHERS (57%); SIC2731 BOOKS: PUBLISHING, OR PUBLISHING & PRINTING (57%)

PERSON: Beach, Gary

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (99%); CHINA (92%); JAPAN (90%); INDIA (74%) United States

LOAD-DATE: July 19, 2013



574 of 937 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(Economix)

PUB-DATE: July 19, 2013

SECTION: BUSINESS; economy

LENGTH: 922 words

HEADLINE: What Went Wrong in Detroit, and the Road Ahead

BYLINE: JARED BERNSTEIN


HIGHLIGHT: Detroit&#8217;s fall into bankruptcy shows the need for states and cities to respond more forcefully to the challenges of globalization, an economist writes. 

 BODY:
Jared Bernstein is a senior fellow at the Center on Budget and Policy Priorities in Washington and a former chief economist to Vice President Joseph R. Biden Jr. 
According to various second-quarter earnings reports, Citigroup's profits were up 40 percent in the quarter, Bank of America's were up 60 percent, and Goldman Sachs profits doubled.
In other news, Detroit just declared bankruptcy. 
Talk about a tale of two cities.
Of course, there's a lot going on in these different stories. Detroit, in particular, faces a complex skein of challenges, as The New York Times noted:
"...numerous factors over many years have brought Detroit to this point, including a shrunken tax base but still a huge, 139-square-mile city to maintain; overwhelming health care and pension costs; repeated efforts to manage mounting debts with still more borrowing; annual deficits in the city's operating budget since 2008; and city services crippled by aged computer systems, poor record-keeping and widespread dysfunction."
In Detroit, as various news reports have cited, it takes the police an hour to respond to an emergency call; the average for the nation is 11 minutes.
The city is estimated to owe as much as $18 billion to $20 billion to its creditors. For a sense of that magnitude, consider that the next largest municipal bankruptcy in United States history involved $4 billion in debt.
Unemployment is almost 19 percent in the city, poverty around 40 percent. The figure below shows the latest job creation numbers by city, with Detroit at the end of the graph.
 Over-the-Year Change in Employment, March 2013 
So in a statistical and fiscal sense, it's a failed city, and there is a reasonable chance that a Chapter 9 bankruptcy, which in important ways is milder than the chapter of the code that applies to businesses (Chapter 11), will help it start over. But despite some sunny comments to that effect in Friday's newspapers, there's a lot of personal pain for retirees, pensioners, union members and city workers between here and there.
What happened, and where does the city go from here?
It's obviously been a long way down for Detroit, and it will take dedicated urban historians to provide the full story. But a brief word about the economics.
Despite the fact that the distorted American debate claims that everybody wins, in fact, globalization creates winners and losers. That's not at all an endorsement of protectionism. It's saying that policy makers have to work hard, much harder than ours have, to create an environment where citizens benefit from expanded global trade not just as consumers seeking lower prices but as workers needing rising wages.
That means states and cities with industrial bases need to diversify, retrain their work forces, and look around corners to see what's coming. I'm not saying it's easy, and again, there will be be winners and losers. But you've got to try.
Second, national leaders have to recognize that there is simply no such thing as pristine "free trade." Every country, including our own (though we tend to do so weakly), goes after export markets and tries to position itself to be internationally competitive. And some countries go further, managing their currency values to gain a price advantage and forcing excess national savings leading to large global trade imbalances. The United States has been hurt by those imbalances for decades, as our large trade deficits have exported labor demand, particularly in manufacturing, abroad. Moreover, we've done little to push back against these practices.
Detroit, along many other former manufacturing giants, has been hurt by the neglect of United States policy makers and the economists who advise them to rise to this challenge. Too often - and I've heard economists at the highest levels of power make this case - there's an assumption that this is all the free hand of the global marketplace at work, and that we'll rebalance our trade accounts by selling services to the rest of the world while we buy their goods.
Maybe someday that's where things will settle, but a glance at the magnitudes should give one pause concerning that facile solution. Our trade deficits in goods are large multiples of our surpluses in services, and that's not changing any time soon.
No, the vision that we can be a successful nation based on global finance returning profits like those above while the broad middle class falls behind, and a major city fails, is not one that most Americans would or should support.
As far as next steps for Detroit, that's worth watching closely, as the terms of the bankruptcy are decided. The central questions will be how the pain is divided up between creditors who are fighting to resist haircuts on their loans to the city and the stakeholders noted above.
The other thing we're about to see is a big push by conservatives to blame public unions and big government. As I've noted, bad governance is surely in play in Detroit, but there are lots of American cities with large public unions and active governments, and they're not bankrupt. You simply cannot understand Detroit's fall without considering the role of globalization and the city's failure to diversify out of autos.
At any rate, as the tale of two cities reminds us, this is economically the best of times and the worst of times. The problem is that it's the best of times for too small a share of us.

        
Is Corporate Debt Worth Subsidizing?
        
Making the Case for Detroit's Future
        
Can Detroit Find the Road Forward?
        
State Bankruptcies? 'Ludicrous,' He Says

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (92%); INTERIM FINANCIAL RESULTS (90%); BUDGETS (90%); COMPANY EARNINGS (90%); RETIREMENT & RETIREES (89%); CITY GOVERNMENT (89%); ECONOMIC NEWS (86%); GLOBALIZATION (86%); PROTECTIONISM (78%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (78%); BANKING & FINANCE (78%); BUDGET DEFICITS (78%); WAGES & SALARIES (77%); LABOR FORCE (77%); BUSINESS INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (76%); CIVIL SERVICES (73%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (69%); JOB CREATION (69%); POVERTY & HOMELESSNESS (67%); HISTORY (64%); LABOR UNIONS (63%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (63%) Bankruptcies; Detroit (Mich); Today's Economist

COMPANY: CITIGROUP INC (58%); BANK OF AMERICA CORP (58%); GOLDMAN SACHS GROUP INC (58%)

TICKER: C (NYSE) (58%); C (BMV) (58%); 8710 (TSE) (58%); BAC (NYSE) (58%); BAC (LSE) (58%); 8648 (TSE) (58%); GS (NYSE) (58%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (58%); NAICS522210 CREDIT CARD ISSUING (58%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (58%); NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (58%); SIC6712 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (58%); NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (58%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (58%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (58%); SIC6289 SERVICES ALLIED WITH THE EXCHANGE OF SECURITIES OR COMMODITIES, NEC (58%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (58%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (58%)

PERSON: JARED BERNSTEIN (74%); JOE BIDEN (73%)

GEOGRAPHIC: DETROIT, MI, USA (96%) MICHIGAN, USA (96%) UNITED STATES (96%) Detroit (Mich)

LOAD-DATE: July 19, 2013



575 of 937 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(Latitude)

PUB-DATE: July 19, 2013

SECTION: OPINION

LENGTH: 487 words

HEADLINE: From Paddy to Patty

BYLINE: LIEN HOANG


HIGHLIGHT: In Vietnam&#8217;s ongoing transition to capitalism, there&#8217;s more to McDonald&#8217;s arrival than just attracting foreign investment. 

 BODY:
HO CHI MINH CITY - McDonald's will be coming to town next year, the company announced recently. Given the popularity that KFC and other Western fast-food chains have been enjoying here, the advent of the Big Mac seemed like just a matter of time. McDonald's already operates in five of Asean's 10 member nations: Thailand, Malaysia, Singapore, Indonesia and the Philippines. Of the remainder, Vietnam has the biggest economy and the most consumers. 
Why did it take so long to add Vietnam? Some say it's because of the difficulty of sourcing the right potatoes here or a real-estate crunch that makes it difficult to find "beautiful restaurants." McDonald's is also said to take a slow and deliberate approach to entering new markets, especially in still-developing countries. 
Mostly, however, the perceived delay is about Vietnam's economic identity. For the Communist Party's leadership, there's more to McDonald's arrival than just attracting foreign investment. In the story of Vietnam's ongoing transition to capitalism, this step is about the Politburo redirecting its policies from vestigial socialism to market pragmatism.

Carl Thayer, a longtime Vietnam scholar, says the timing probably is no coincidence. It follows by just months a decision by the Politburo to further integrate Vietnam into the global economy. Last year the country posted its slowest growth since 1999. "Without that proactive integration, they're not going to achieve development targets," Thayer told me, referring to policy makers.
After visiting China last month, President Truong Tan Sang will be heading to Washington next week to meet President Barack Obama - only the second such visit since the two countriesnormalized relations in 1995. One of the issues on their agenda will be the Trans-Pacific Partnership, an ambitious free-trade agreement among more than 10 countries around the Pacific. The deal should help seal Vietnam's endorsement of globalization, which gained steam in 2007 when it joined the World Trade Organization.
While Vietnamese officials are still wary of Western influence, their discomfort seems to be fading. The public face of McDonald's in Vietnam will be Henry Nguyen, a Vietnamese-American. He happens to be the prime minister's son-in-law, so some are calling his appointment unabashed crony capitalism. But that's to miss the significance of his upbringing: Nguyen's family was among the hordes of Vietnamese who fled the Communists in 1975 for the United States. 
It's only recently that war-era suspicions have subsided enough to allow emigrants like Nguyen (and myself) to return to Vietnam easily. Now we (or rather, he) can marry the prime minister's daughter and be a national representative for a major multinational company. The inner circles of power are relaxing. Proof is: They're making way for cheeseburgers and fries. 

        
Easy Riders
        
Occupy Rice Paddy
        
Fatal Jabs
        
Beyond Sweatshops
        
That Third Bent Arrow

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); FAST FOOD (90%); TRADE DEVELOPMENT (90%); FOREIGN INVESTMENT (90%); INWARD INVESTMENT (90%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (90%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (89%); GLOBALIZATION (88%); VIETNAM WAR (79%); TRADE TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (77%); PUBLIC POLICY (76%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (76%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (73%); MULTINATIONAL CORPORATIONS (72%); RESTAURANTS (72%); PRIME MINISTERS (72%); FREE TRADE TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (71%); DEVELOPING COUNTRIES (71%); REAL ESTATE (71%); US PRESIDENTS (69%); POLITICAL PARTIES (67%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE LAW (67%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (66%); ASIAN AMERICANS (66%); TRENDS (64%); TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (50%) Economic Conditions and Trends; Foreign Investments; Ho Chi Minh City (Vietnam); International Trade and World Market; McDonald's Corporation; United States Economy; Vietnam; Vietnam War; Vietnamese-Americans; World Trade Organization; Asia

COMPANY: MCDONALD'S CORP (92%)

ORGANIZATION: McDonald&#039;s Corporation; World Trade Organization

TICKER: MCD (NYSE) (92%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS722513 LIMITED-SERVICE RESTAURANTS (92%); SIC5812 EATING PLACES (92%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (51%)

GEOGRAPHIC: HO CHI MINH CITY, VIETNAM (94%) VIET NAM (99%); UNITED STATES (94%); VIETNAM (94%); THAILAND (92%); SINGAPORE (92%); PHILIPPINES (92%); INDONESIA (92%); MALAYSIA (92%); ASIA (79%) Ho Chi Minh City (Vietnam); Vietnam

LOAD-DATE: July 19, 2013



576 of 937 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(Wheels)

PUB-DATE: July 19, 2013

SECTION: AUTOMOBILES

LENGTH: 644 words

HEADLINE: Cummins at the Brickyard: Diesel Racecars Are Nothing New

BYLINE: BENJAMIN PRESTON


HIGHLIGHT: Before Audi&#8217;s R10 scored a win at Le Mans and Mazda&#8217;s Skyactiv diesel began running Grand-Am races, Clessie Lyle Cummins entered diesel-power cars in the Indianapolis 500. 

 BODY:
http://www.youtube.com/watch?v=FLqCCXxrmV4
As more diesel-powered passenger cars make their way to the North American market, auto manufacturers seem eager to showcase the capabilities of these new machines in grueling motorsports trials. But there is really nothing new about diesel racecars like the Audi R18 E-tron quattro, which dominated the 24 Hours of Le Mans last month, or the Mazda 6 Grand-Am racecar scoring wins and getting attention.
No fewer than five diesel cars competed at the Indianapolis 500 in years past. 
In the early 1930s, with the American economy mired in the Great Depression, Indianapolis 500 promoters were a bit more open-minded in their acceptance of new and different entries. The stars aligned, and the fates of desperate race organizers and a struggling boat engine builder intertwined in a moment of singular innovation.
Clessie Lyle Cummins, who ran a small diesel plant specializing in marine engines, was feeling the pinch of the Depression and thought a diesel Indy 500 entry would be just the sort of spice his marque needed to invigorate business. Not without racing experience himself - Mr. Cummins had served in the pits with the race-winning Marmon Wasp crew in the 1911 Indy 500 - he decided to enter a diesel car in the 1931 race.
Everyone knew that the diesel car would be much slower than the higher-revving gasoline-powered cars of the day, but as long as Cummins's entry could maintain an average lap speed of 70 miles per hour or more, his team was in.
At more than 3,300 pounds, the car was heavy, and its 85-horsepower 366-cubic-inch 4-cylinder marine diesel engine wasn't exactly the most inspiring performer. But the car averaged 86.170 m.p.h. in the race, and Dave Evans drove it to 13th place using only 31 gallons of fuel, one quart of oil and two pints of water; all that in a 500-mile race that pushed the car to its limits.
After the race, Cummins took the car on a 5,000-mile tour around Europe. That and the race were good for business, and by 1934 he was ready to take another crack at the Indianapolis 500. This time, amid changing technology and regulations, Cummins fielded two cars. One had a four-stroke diesel and the other a two-stroke. The four-stroke lost its transmission at the beginning of lap 81, but the two-stroke finished 12th, although its disabled engine melted after it was shut down.
It wasn't until 1950 that another diesel showed up that the Brickyard. By then, Cummins had retired and his company had made a name for itself manufacturing truck and marine engines during World War II. But the car's vibration damper failed, and it was forced to retire after 52 laps.
http://www.youtube.com/watch?v=pxnidwdFBjc
The 1952 race was different, sort of. The car Cummins fielded was a sleek purpose-built monster. With a turbocharged, flat-mounted and offset 380-horsepower diesel, the car made 138.010 m.p.h. in qualifying with Fred Agabashian at the tiller, taking pole position at the start of the race. But mechanical problems again struck, and the car gave up fifth place when Agabashian dropped out of the race after less than 200 miles.
If you think about the times when diesel cars made their appearances at the Brickyard, they were epochs of great change: the Great Depression and the rise of Detroit V-8s. Now is one of those times. Doors are being flung open to new ideas in an effort to make things more efficient, more reliable and in the short term, more exciting. With diesel cars making real progress in motorsports, there's a chance they may again storm the Indianapolis Motor Speedway.

        
Monday Motorsports: Kanaan, Rosberg and Harvick Collect Big Wins
        
Coming Up Is Auto Racing's Biggest Weekend of the Year
        
Franchitti and Castroneves Pause in New York Before Indianapolis 500
        
Monday Motorsports: Ed Carpenter Qualifies for Indy 500 Pole Position
        
'Turbo' Could Be an IndyCar Marketing Engine

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: AUTO RACING (94%); AUTOMOTIVE MFG (90%); SMALL ENGINE MFG (90%); AUTOMOBILE MFG (90%); MOTOR VEHICLES (90%); INTERNET SOCIAL NETWORKING (78%); AUTOMAKERS (78%); DIESEL FUEL (78%); GREAT DEPRESSION (75%); WORLD WAR II (50%) Automobile Racing; automobiles; Engines; Indianapolis (Ind); Indianapolis Motor Speedway; North America; Automobiles; Fuel Efficiency; Motorsports

COMPANY: CUMMINS INC (92%)

ORGANIZATION: Indianapolis Motor Speedway

TICKER: CMI (NYSE) (92%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS336310 MOTOR VEHICLE GASOLINE ENGINE & ENGINE PARTS MANUFACTURING (92%); SIC3714 MOTOR VEHICLE PARTS & ACCESSORIES (92%)

GEOGRAPHIC: INDIANAPOLIS, IN, USA (96%) INDIANA, USA (96%) UNITED STATES (96%); NORTH AMERICA (94%); EUROPE (76%) Indianapolis (Ind); North America

LOAD-DATE: July 19, 2013



577 of 937 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(DealBook)

PUB-DATE: July 19, 2013

SECTION: BUSINESS

LENGTH: 1321 words

HEADLINE: Detroit Gap Reveals Industry Dispute on Pension Math

BYLINE: MARY WILLIAMS WALSH


HIGHLIGHT: For several years, the actuarial profession has been fighting over how to calculate the value, in today&#8217;s dollars, of future pension payments. 

 BODY:
Until mid-June, there was one ray of hope in Detroit's gathering storm: For all the city's problems, its pension fund was in pretty good shape. If the city went under, its thousands of retired clerks, police officers, bus drivers and other workers would still be safe.
Then came bad news. Seemingly out of nowhere, a $3.5 billion hole appeared in Detroit's pension system, courtesy of calculations by a firm hired by the city's emergency manager.
 Retirees were shaken. Pension trustees said it must be a trick. The holders of some of Detroit's bonds realized in shock that if the city filed for bankruptcy - as it finally did on Thursday - their claims would have even more competition for whatever small pot of money is available. 
But Detroit's pension revelation is nothing new to many people who advise pension plans for a living, the math-and-statistics whizzes known as actuaries. For several years, little noticed in the rest of the world, their staid profession has been fighting over how to calculate the value, in today's dollars, of pensions that will be paid in the future.
It may sound arcane, but the stakes for the country run into the trillions of dollars. Depending on which side ultimately wins the argument, every state, city, county and school district may find out that, like Detroit, it has promised more to its retirees than it ever intended or disclosed. That does not mean all those places will declare bankruptcy, but many have more than likely promised their workers more than they can reasonably expect to deliver.
The problem has nothing to do with the usual padding and pay-to-play scandals that can plague pension funds. Rather, it is the possibility that a fundamental error has for decades been ingrained into actuarial standards of practice so that certain calculations are always done incorrectly. Over time, this mistake, if that is what it is, has worked its way into generally accepted accounting principles, been overlooked by outside auditors and even affected state and municipal credit ratings, although the ratings firms have lately been trying to correct for it.
Since the 1990s, the error has been making pensions look cheaper than they truly are, so if a city really has gone beyond its means, no one can see it.
"When the taxpayers find out, they're going to be absolutely furious," said Jeremy Gold, an actuary and economist who for years has called on his profession to correct what he calls "the biases embedded in present actuarial principles." In 2000, well before the current flurry of pension-related municipal bankruptcies, he wrote his doctoral dissertation on how and why conventional pension calculations run afoul of modern economic principles.
Mr. Gold made his prediction about taxpayer fury in an interview a number of years ago in which he also explained why he had chosen his topic. He said he hoped to help put a stop to the errors he saw his colleagues making before pension problems that were already starting to brew then boiled over and a furious public heaped blame, scorn and legal liability on the profession.
When a lender calculates the value of a mortgage, or a trader sets the price of a bond, each looks at the payments scheduled in the future and translates them into today's dollars, using a commonplace calculation called discounting. By extension, it might seem that an actuary calculating a city's pension obligations would look at the scheduled future payments to retirees and discount them to today's dollars.
But that is not what happens. To calculate a city's pension liabilities, an actuary instead projects all the contributions the city will probably have to make to the pension fund over time. Many assumptions go into this projection, including an assumption that returns on the investments made by the pension fund will cover most of the plan's costs. The greater the average annual investment returns, the less the city will presumably have to contribute. Pension plan trustees set the rate of return, usually between 7 percent and 8 percent.
In addition, actuaries "smooth" the numbers, to keep big swings in the financial markets from making the pension contributions gyrate year to year. These methods, actuarial watchdogs say, build a strong bias into the numbers. Not only can they make unsustainable pension plans look fine, they say, but they distort the all-important instructions actuaries give their clients every year on how much money to set aside to pay all benefits in the future.
If the critics are right about that, it means even the cities that diligently follow their actuaries' instructions, contributing the required amounts each year, are falling behind, and they don't even know it.
These critics advocate discounting pension liabilities based on a low-risk rate of return, akin to one for a very safe bond.
In the years since his doctoral research, Mr. Gold and like-minded actuaries and economists have been presenting their ideas in professional forums and in scholarly papers crammed with equations and letters of the Greek alphabet. They have won converts, but so far no changes in the actuarial standards. Their theoretical arguments tend to fly over the head of the typical taxpayer.
Year after year there has been consistent resistance from the trustees of public pensions, the actuarial firms that advise them and the unions that represent public workers. The unions suspect hidden agendas, like cutting their benefits. The actuaries say they comply fully with all actuarial standards of practice and pronouncements of the Governmental Accounting Standards Board. When state and local governments go looking for a new pension actuary, they sometimes post ads saying that candidates who favor new ways of calculating liabilities need not apply.
A few years ago, with the debate still raging and cities staggering through the recession, one top professional body, the Society of Actuaries, gathered expert opinion and realized that public pension plans had come to pose the single largest reputational risk to the profession. A Public Plans Reputational Risk Task Force was convened. It held some meetings, but last year, the matter was shifted to a new body, something called the Blue Ribbon Panel, which was composed not of actuaries but public policy figures from a number of disciplines. Panelists include Richard Ravitch, a former lieutenant governor of New York; Bradley Belt, a former executive director of the Pension Benefit Guaranty Corporation; and Robert North, the actuary who shepherds New York City's five big public pension plans.
This project has drawn fire from a large number of public pension officials. They recently wrote the Society of Actuaries a joint letter, urging it to reconstitute the Blue Ribbon Panel by adding more people "who can provide insight" into the many benefits of the current method, and expressed great concern about switching to a new one that could cause confusion and volatility. Of possible interest to the bondholders and taxpayers of Detroit, they also said that as fiduciaries they were required to "put the interest of all plan participants and beneficiaries above their own interests or those of any third parties."
Much of the theoretical argument for retaining current methods is based on the belief that states and cities, unlike companies, cannot go out of business. That means public pension systems have an infinite investment horizon and can pull out of down markets if given enough time.
As Detroit has shown, that time can run out.
 Monica Davey contributed reporting. 
An earlier version of this article misstated the role of actuaries in pension plans. The actuary keeps track of plan members' data, calculates how much money must be contributed every year and advises the board on key assumptions like future investment returns; the actuary does not "run" the plan. 

        
Detroit Blazes a Path It Never Wanted
        
Kodak Spinoffs Clear the Path for Emergence From Bankruptcy

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: ACTUARIAL SERVICES (91%); PENSION FUNDS (90%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (90%); RETIREMENT & RETIREES (90%); PENSION & RETIREMENT PLANS (90%); ACCOUNTING (89%); PERSONAL FINANCE (78%); FINANCIAL RATINGS (78%); BUSINESS INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (76%); ACCOUNTING STANDARDS (69%); INTERVIEWS (60%); SCHOOL DISTRICTS (50%) Accounting and Accountants; Bankruptcies; Detroit (Mich); Pensions and Retirement Plans; Financial Services; Legal/Regulatory; Restructuring & Bankruptcy

GEOGRAPHIC: DETROIT, MI, USA (96%) MICHIGAN, USA (96%) UNITED STATES (96%) Detroit (Mich)

LOAD-DATE: July 24, 2013



578 of 937 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(DealBook)

PUB-DATE: July 19, 2013

SECTION: BUSINESS

LENGTH: 1068 words

HEADLINE: Under New Chief, a Feistier S.E.C. Emerges

BYLINE: BEN PROTESS and MICHAEL J. DE LA MERCED


HIGHLIGHT: A flurry of moves appeared to signal that the Securities and Exchange Commission was striking a harder line with Wall Street under its new chairwoman, Mary Jo White. 

 BODY:
First the Securities and Exchange Commissionrejected a settlement with a high-flying hedge fund manager, Philip A. Falcone. Then it charged another billionaire trader, Steven A. Cohen. By late Friday afternoon, it had accused one of the nation's largest cities, Miami, of securities fraud.
It was a busy 24 hours for the S.E.C., the federal regulator once blamed for missing the warning signs of the financial crisis and the vast Ponzi scheme orchestrated by Bernard L. Madoff. 
The flurry of moves appeared to signal that the agency was striking a harder line with Wall Street under its new chairwoman, Mary Jo White. While it is still early in her tenure, and the agency faces lingering criticism for its close ties to Wall Street, Ms. White has taken several steps to crack down on financial fraud.
"They're now demonstrating an aggressiveness that is highly unusual," said Thomas A. Sporkin, who spent nearly 20 years in the S.E.C's enforcement unit until last year, when he moved to the law firm Buckley Sandler. "It's rare to see a day like today."
 When Ms. White was nominated in January, some politicians and consumer groups expressed concerns about her connections to Wall Street. A former federal prosecutor turned defense lawyer, Ms. White has repeatedly spun through the revolving door connecting government and private practice. During her confirmation, several questioned whether Ms. White, who spent the last decade representing big banks like JPMorgan Chase and UBS, could have conflicts of interest.
Her recent actions have started to assuage some concerns. Already, Ms. White has moved to address a central criticism of the agency: that it allows defendants to neither "admit nor deny" wrongdoing when reaching settlements. The leaders of the S.E.C. enforcement unit detailed the policy shift in a memo last month, saying there might be cases that "justify requiring the defendant's admission of allegations in our complaint or other acknowledgment of the alleged misconduct as part of any settlement."
"It's welcome news for the American people desperate for a tougher S.E.C.," said Dennis M. Kelleher, who runs Better Markets, an advocacy group critical of Wall Street. He said, however, that the agency still had a high bar to prove it could be a tough enforcer. "Two hedge fund cases are good, but not good enough," he said.
A preliminary settlement with Mr. Falcone had been collapsing for weeks, people close to the S.E.C. said, as Ms. White and the agency's other commissioners questioned whether it was too lax. On Thursday, the agency's commissioners rejected the settlement, a rare move that happens only once or twice a year.
Moments later, the S.E.C. notified Mr. Falcone and his hedge fund, Harbinger Capital Partners, that the agency had rejected "the previously disclosed agreement in principle," according to a public filing his company made on Friday. The charges stemmed from accusations that Mr. Falcone had manipulated the market, used hedge fund assets to pay his own taxes and secretly favored select customers at the expense of others.
The S.E.C.'s rejection of the settlement - a move that will prompt the agency to either negotiate a tougher penalty or take Mr. Falcone to trial - suggested that its preliminary deal did not match the gravity of the crime. The deal, announced in May by Mr. Falcone, came with an $18 million penalty from the S.E.C., a rounding error to a hedge fund billionaire. Mr. Falcone was set to personally pay $4 million of the penalty, according to people briefed on the matter, while the fund's management company would have paid the rest.
While the deal also included at least a two-year ban from raising new capital, that punishment came with a number of caveats. And in a moral victory for Mr. Falcone, the deal also omitted a common provision barring defendants from committing future violations with fraudulent intent, raising concerns that the S.E.C.'s results fell short of its ambitions.
For a time, the S.E.C. was questioning whether to sanction Mr. Cohen. The agency spent nearly a decade investigating his hedge fund, SAC Capital Advisors, and even brought charges against several employees. But Mr. Cohen was not accused of wrongdoing. That changed on Friday, when the S.E.C. accused him of "failing to supervise" employees. 
The action, filed as an administrative proceeding at the agency rather than as a lawsuit in federal court, delivers a serious blow to Mr. Cohen. The agency is seeking to bar him from overseeing outside investor funds, a death knell to a hedge fund manager.
It is unusual for the S.E.C. to pursue a case against someone of Mr. Cohen's stature without formally accusing him of insider trading or fraud. The charge of failing to properly supervise is similar to what other regulators have done in a lawsuit against Jon S. Corzine, who led MF Global during the brokerage firm's collapse two years ago.
In its charging document on Friday, the S.E.C. says Mr. Cohen failed to halt two of his portfolio managers from trading on confidential information. The two SAC employees, who both face criminal charges, were swept up in a broad federal investigation into insider trading.
One of the portfolio managers, Mathew Martoma, is accused of improperly acting on data about a clinical drug trial in 2008. The other, Michael S. Steinberg, is accused of trading on confidential information about Dell's financial performance that same year.
Both men have denied the charges and face separate trials that begin in November. An SAC spokesman said that the S.E.C.'s action had no merit. "Steve Cohen acted appropriately at all times and will fight this charge vigorously," the spokesman said.
The case against Miami came just hours after the action against Mr. Cohen was announced. TheS.E.C. accused the city of giving misleading information about its finances to investors in 2009 in an effort to make its municipal bonds more attractive.
The agency also said the city broke a cease-and-desist order it signed in 2003 after facing similar charges. George Canellos, co-director of the S.E.C.'s enforcement unit, said in a statement that the city's conduct was "all the more appalling and unacceptable" because of the earlier problems.
A lawyer for Miami, Ivan Harris, said the city would fight the charges in court.

        
S.E.C. Charges Are the Latest Test for SAC's Cohen
        
Judge Approves SAC Settlement in Insider Trading Case, With Reservation

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: BANKING & FINANCE AGENCIES (90%); SECURITIES LAW (90%); FRAUD & FINANCIAL CRIME (90%); HEDGE FUNDS (90%); MISCONDUCT (78%); CONFLICTS OF INTEREST (78%); LAWYERS (78%); INSIDER TRADING (78%); FINANCIAL CRIME COUNTERMEASURES (78%); CONSUMER LAW (77%); PONZI SCHEMES (77%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (76%); LEGAL SERVICES (72%) Cohen, Steven A; Falcone, Philip A; Harbinger Capital Partners; Insider Trading; SAC Capital Advisors; Securities and Commodities Violations; Securities and Exchange Commission; White, Mary Jo; Financial Services; Hedge Funds; Legal/Regulatory

COMPANY: JPMORGAN CHASE & CO (84%)

ORGANIZATION: Harbinger Capital Partners; SAC Capital Advisors; Securities and Exchange Commission

TICKER: JPM (NYSE) (84%); JPM (LSE) (84%); 8634 (TSE) (84%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (84%); NAICS523999 MISCELLANEOUS FINANCIAL INVESTMENT ACTIVITIES (84%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (84%); SIC6022 STATE COMMERCIAL BANKS (84%)

PERSON: MARY JO WHITE (91%); PHILIP FALCONE (91%); STEVEN A COHEN (90%); BERNARD MADOFF (58%) Cohen, Steven A; Falcone, Philip A; White, Mary Jo

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: July 22, 2013



579 of 937 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 20, 2013
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 457 words

HEADLINE: Toyota Will Pay $1.6 Billion Over Faulty Accelerator Suit

BYLINE: By JACLYN TROP

 BODY:
A federal judge approved a $1.6 billion settlement on Friday in a class-action lawsuit against Toyota to compensate vehicle owners who suffered financial losses after widespread reports of sudden, unintended acceleration in 2009 and 2010. 
Owners who sold their vehicles at a loss through trade-ins and resale will receive from $125 to $10,000, depending on the level of depreciation. The settlement represents the end of the economic battle between Toyota and customers after several years of allegations of mechanical and electronic defects, though it does not cover individual personal-injury and wrongful death lawsuits that are still pending.
''This agreement allows us to resolve a legacy legal issue in a way that provides significant value to our customers and demonstrates that they can depend on Toyota to stand behind our vehicles,'' said Celeste Migliore, National Business and Field Communications manager for Toyota Motor Sales, U.S.A., Inc. The automaker will take a one-time $1.1 billion charge to its earnings cover the settlement costs.
James V. Selna, United States District Court judge of the Central District of California, who presided over the suit since 2010 after widespread reports of complaints and accidents related to unintended acceleration, granted final approval after the terms were proposed in December.
The settlement is ''extraordinary because every single dollar in the cash fund will go to claimants,'' Judge Selna said in a statement. A decision posted to the court's Web site calls the settlement ''fair, adequate and reasonable.''
Toyota is required as part of the agreement to install safety upgrades in about 3.2 million of its vehicles. The automaker is to establish two funds of $250 million to compensate owners not eligible for safety upgrades and those who sold their cars between Sept. 1, 2009, and Dec. 31, 2010, at a loss.
The settlement also requires Toyota to pay $30 million for automotive safety research on driver behavior and unintended acceleration. It would also provide a customer support program for more than 16 million current Toyota owners, who will be eligible for free repairs on certain parts for up to 10 years.
The sudden acceleration problems marred Toyota's reputation for quality. The automaker eventually recalled more than 11 million vehicles in connection with problems including floor mats that caused the accelerator to get stuck.
Steve Berman, who represented the plaintiffs in the class-action suit, called the settlement ''a significant financial recovery.''
''This is a great settlement for consumers,'' he said in a statement. ''It includes both safety fixes to make Toyota vehicles safer as well as monetary relief for owners who saw a reduction in their vehicle's value.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: A Toyota technician makes repairs on an accelerator pedal. (PHOTOGRAPH BY ANDREW WINNING/REUTERS) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: SUITS & CLAIMS (92%); JUDGES (91%); LITIGATION (90%); SETTLEMENT & COMPROMISE (90%); CLASS ACTIONS (90%); AUTOMOTIVE MFG (89%); AUTOMAKERS (89%); AUTOMOBILE MFG (89%); WOUNDS & INJURIES (78%); AUTOMOTIVE SAFETY (78%); AUTOMOTIVE SALES (78%); APPROVALS (78%); PERSONAL INJURY (78%); MOTOR VEHICLES (78%); COMPANY EARNINGS (78%); ONLINE LEGAL RESEARCH (75%); NEW CAR DEALERS (73%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (73%); DEPRECIATION (73%); WRONGFUL DEATH & SURVIVAL (73%); AUTOMOTIVE RECALLS (73%); CUSTOMER SERVICE (71%); PRODUCT RECALLS (70%); PRODUCT SAFETY (69%); AUTOMOTIVE RESEARCH (67%); DRIVER BEHAVIOR (50%)

COMPANY: TOYOTA MOTOR SALES USA INC (69%)

INDUSTRY: SIC5012 AUTOMOBILES & OTHER MOTOR VEHICLES (69%)

GEOGRAPHIC: CALIFORNIA, USA (75%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: July 20, 2013



580 of 937 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 20, 2013
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; OFF THE CHARTS; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 528 words

HEADLINE: New-Car Salesmen Are Lonely in Europe

BYLINE: By FLOYD NORRIS. 
Floyd Norris comments on finance and the economy at nytimes.com/economix.

 BODY:
IN Europe, new cars are becoming rare items.
The European Automobile Manufacturers' Association reported this week that new-car registrations in the European Union were down 6 percent in June compared with those in the month a year earlier and were running at their slowest pace since 1996. 
Even in Germany, whose economy has been stronger than those of most of its European brethren, sales were the lowest for any June since the country was unified in 1990.
The lone bright spot was Britain, where June sales were up 13 percent from a year earlier. Retail sales in general have been surprisingly strong in Britain in recent months, and, as can be seen from the accompanying charts, in the last 12 months its new-car registrations were 9 percent higher than in the previous 12 months, making it one of only three European countries shown to have posted an increase.
At the same time, auto sales have been on the rise in the United States and were higher in the last 12 months than at any time since 2008.
New-car sales have long been a reliable economic indicator, one that falls sharply when recessions start and then rises rapidly when economies recover. That is largely because car purchases can often be postponed if buyers are worried, creating pent-up demand when recessions end.
In some of the European countries struggling the most, where an end to the recession appears to be far-off, new-car sales have been falling steadily for years as those who absolutely must buy a car choose a used one instead. In some countries, there is an active business importing used cars from more prosperous nations.
The charts show the level of sales in the last 12 months compared with those for the calendar year 2006, before the credit crisis led to the Great Recession. In a handful of countries, sales are higher now, and in the United States the decline is only 5 percent.
But in the euro zone as a whole, sales are 28 percent below the 2006 level. In Spain, Greece, Portugal and Ireland, sales are down by at least 50 percent, and in most of those countries there is no sign of recovery. Outside the euro zone, sales in Romania and Hungary are also far below the 2006 level.
In the early days of the credit crisis, new-car sales held up better in Europe than in the United States, and more generous ''cash for clunkers'' incentives ignited a rebound in 2010. But since then, weakening European economies have led to new declines that show no sign of ending.
One of the sharpest declines is in the Netherlands, which has fallen into a new recession amid rising unemployment and falling consumer confidence. June new-car registrations were less than half the level of the previous June, and sales in the last 12 months are down nearly a third compared with those in the period a year earlier.
The charts reflect sales of passenger cars only, excluding sales of light trucks, a category that includes sport utility vehicles and minivans, vehicles that are less likely to be used for business in the United States than in Europe. If those vehicles were included, the performance of both the European and American markets would appear to be a little worse, but the trends would be similar.

GRAPHIC: CHARTS: Two Continents, Moving in Opposite Directions: European new-car sales have fallen to the lowest level in more than a decade while American new-car sales have been recovering. Over the last year, sales have increased in only three of the 20 largest countries in the European Union -- Britain, Hungary and Denmark. In none of them have sales risen as rapidly as in the United States. (Sources: European Automobile Manufacturers' Association and Ward's Automotive Group, both via Bloomberg) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); AUTOMOTIVE SALES (90%); RECESSION (90%); AUTOMOBILE MFG (90%); NEW VEHICLE REGISTRATIONS (90%); EURO (89%); EURO ZONE (89%); SALES FIGURES (89%); CONSUMER CONFIDENCE (89%); CREDIT CRISIS (89%); EUROPEAN UNION (89%); AUTOMOTIVE MFG (78%); AUTOMAKERS (78%); MONETARY UNIONS (78%); AUTOMOTIVE SCRAPPAGE PROGRAMS (78%); DELAYS & POSTPONEMENTS (78%); BUSINESS & PROFESSIONAL ASSOCIATIONS (78%); IMPORT TRADE (77%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (77%); RETAIL SALES (76%); TERRITORY MANAGEMENT (76%); AUTOMOTIVE EXPORTS & IMPORTS (73%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (71%); ECONOMIC INDICATORS (70%); CASH FOR CLUNKERS PROGRAM (60%)

ORGANIZATION: EUROPEAN UNION (91%)

GEOGRAPHIC: EUROPE (99%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (94%); UNITED STATES (94%); HUNGARY (92%); GERMANY (91%); CENTRAL EUROPE (90%); ROMANIA (79%); SPAIN (79%); UNITED KINGDOM (79%); NETHERLANDS (73%); GREECE (58%); DENMARK (58%); PORTUGAL (58%)

LOAD-DATE: July 20, 2013



581 of 937 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 20, 2013
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 12

LENGTH: 832 words

HEADLINE: Michigan Judge Rules Against Bankruptcy Push

BYLINE: By BILL VLASIC

 BODY:
DETROIT -- Gov. Rick Snyder of Michigan on Friday defended his decision to force Detroit into bankruptcy as a necessary step to halt its decades-long decline and resolve its spiraling debt crisis. But even as he was pleading for patience during the lengthy process ahead to fix the city's finances, a state judge was ruling that the governor had overstepped his authority by approving the city's bankruptcy filing.
A judge in Ingham County, home to Michigan's capital, Lansing, ruled that Mr. Snyder's action had violated the state Constitution because it could cut the pension benefits of retired public employees. The judge, Rosemarie Aquilina, said pensions were protected under state law, and issued an order that the bankruptcy filing be withdrawn. 
Her ruling was immediately challenged by Michigan's attorney general, who appealed to the state's Court of Appeals on the grounds that the Chapter 9 bankruptcy filing stayed all legal proceedings related to Detroit's debt obligations.
While the ruling may be overturned, it underscored the mounting tension in the city and the legal battles ahead as bondholders, retirees and other creditors attempt to recover money owed them by the city.
Mr. Snyder and Detroit's emergency manager, Kevyn D. Orr, estimate the city's debt and other long-term obligations at $18 billion.
After weeks of mostly unsuccessful negotiations with creditors to settle debts, Mr. Orr recommended a bankruptcy filing to Mr. Snyder this week. The city then filed for Chapter 9 on Thursday, minutes before Judge Aquilina was to hold a hearing on the employee pension funds' constitutional challenge to a potential bankruptcy proceeding.
The president of one public employees' union hailed the judge's decision on Friday. ''There is too much at stake to play political games with the hard-earned retirement security of Detroit's public workers,'' said Lee Saunders, head of the American Federation of State, County and Municipal Employees union.
But at a joint news conference on Friday, Mr. Snyder and Mr. Orr were resolute on the need for a bankruptcy filing.
Mr. Snyder, a Republican who has pushed a pro-business agenda in the state, said Detroit had no other options to deal with its debts and improve city services ranked among the nation's worst.
''This is the time to say enough is enough in terms of the downward decline of the city of Detroit,'' he said.
Now that the city has filed, Mr. Snyder and Mr. Orr said they wanted to reassure Detroit's 700,000 residents that police, fire and other essential services will continue to function.
Mr. Orr, who was appointed by the governor, predicted that residents might start to see improvements soon, saying that the bankruptcy filing offers ''breathing room'' and will allow Detroit to use its limited resources to put more police cars and ambulances into service.
Depending on the outcome of the appeal of Judge Aquilina's order, the initial bankruptcy hearings could begin as soon as next week.
On Friday, Judge Steven W. Rhodes was picked to oversee the case. Mr. Rhodes is a hometown selection, having served for 28 years as a bankruptcy judge in the Eastern District of Michigan.
The initial stages of the case will consist of Mr. Orr and possibly state officials showing that there was no available remedy for Detroit's troubles other than bankruptcy.
''We didn't make this decision in haste,'' Mr. Orr said. ''This is a decision that has been winding its way through the city for the better part of six decades.''
Employee unions and creditors may argue otherwise -- either by challenging the size of Detroit's debt, or Mr. Orr's assertions that he bargained in good faith to reach out-of-court settlements with bondholders, retirees and others.
Some labor unions had accused Mr. Orr of using bankruptcy as a threat during negotiating sessions.
Mr. Orr said that despite marathon talks with creditors, there was little or no movement toward settlements.
''We are finally at a point where we simply can't kick this can down the road any further,'' he said.
There is no blueprint for Detroit's recovery at this point. In the short term, Mr. Orr said that a deal with two secured creditors, Bank of America and UBS, to accept 75 cents on the dollar for $340 million in liabilities would free up casino revenues that could be used for city services.
The arrangement would provide the city with about $11 million a month in casino receipts. That cash is critical to keep the city safe and functional during a drawn-out bankruptcy process.
Mr. Orr said he expected Detroit to emerge from bankruptcy before his term as emergency manager ends in 14 months.
For Mr. Snyder, placing the state's largest city in bankruptcy is a calculated risk that its decline could be reversed under court supervision.
He said that he did not anticipate any direct state or federal money would be needed in the effort, but that government grants to help remove abandoned buildings and improve Detroit's infrastructure would be essential to the city's comeback.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Gov. Rick Snyder and Kevyn D. Orr, Detroit's emergency manager, at a news conference Friday. (PHOTOGRAPH BY NATHAN WEBER FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (95%); JUDGES (92%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (90%); DECISIONS & RULINGS (90%); SETTLEMENTS & DECISIONS (90%); LITIGATION (90%); BUSINESS INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (90%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (90%); CIVIL SERVICES (89%); PUBLIC EMPLOYEE RETIREMENT SYSTEMS (89%); PENSION & RETIREMENT PLANS (89%); GOVERNORS (89%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY COURTS (78%); APPELLATE DECISIONS (78%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (78%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (78%); DEBT CRISIS (78%); PUBLIC DEBT (77%); CONSTITUTIONAL LAW (76%); COUNTIES (76%); PENSION FUNDS (75%); APPEALS (75%); ATTORNEYS GENERAL (74%); RETIREMENT & RETIREES (74%); LABOR UNIONS (74%); APPOINTMENTS (72%); BONDS (72%); APPROVALS (71%); APPEALS COURTS (68%); RANKINGS (50%); PRESS CONFERENCES (50%)

PERSON: RICK SNYDER (90%)

GEOGRAPHIC: DETROIT, MI, USA (94%); LANSING, MI, USA (92%) MICHIGAN, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: July 20, 2013



582 of 937 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 20, 2013
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Foreign Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1213 words

HEADLINE: Kerry Achieves Deal to Revive Mideast Talks

BYLINE: By MICHAEL R. GORDON and JODI RUDOREN; Michael R. Gordon reported from Amman, and Jodi Rudoren from Jerusalem.

 BODY:
AMMAN, Jordan -- Israeli and Palestinian leaders have ''established a basis'' to resume direct peace negotiations for the first time in three years, Secretary of State John Kerry announced Friday, after an intense round of shuttle diplomacy aimed at reviving the dormant Middle East peace process.
The preliminary agreement is the Obama administration's first incremental success in efforts to convene talks since the president's attempt to broker a deal early in his first term ended in acrimony. If negotiations develop beyond what Mr. Kerry described as an ''initial'' phase by chief negotiators, it would be the first face-to-face meeting of Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu of Israeli and President Mahmoud Abbas of the Palestinian Authority since the Arab Spring upended politics across the Middle East.
After multiple, marathon sessions with each man in recent weeks, Mr. Kerry said here Friday that both had shown ''courageous leadership'' that made him ''hopeful'' about the prospects for resolving the intractable conflict. He said that if ''everything goes as expected,'' Saeb Erekat, the chief Palestinian negotiator; Tzipi Livni, the Israeli minister in charge of the peace process; and Isaac Molho, Mr. Netanyahu's special envoy, would join him for talks in Washington ''within the next week or so.'' 
''The representatives of two proud peoples today have decided that the difficult road ahead is worth traveling and that the daunting challenges that we face are worth tackling,'' Mr. Kerry said in Amman, the Jordanian capital, on Friday night before flying back to Washington. ''They have courageously recognized that in order for Israelis and Palestinians to live together side by side in peace and security, they must begin by sitting at the table together in direct talks.''
There was no indication that either the Israelis or the Palestinians had compromised on core issues -- such as ending Israeli settlement activity in the West Bank or conceding the right of return of Palestinian refugees -- that have sunk previous negotiations. Rather, this round of diplomacy was focused on getting distrusting adversaries to sit in the same room.
But after years of stalemate in which the prospects of creating side-by-side Israeli and Palestinian states seemed to fade, even as a goal of American and regional diplomacy, the resumption of a process of talks counts as progress, some analysts said.
''He's gotten them into the pool,'' said David Makovsky, director of a project on the peace process at the Washington Institute for Near East Policy, referring to Mr. Kerry. ''Right now they're in the very shallow end, and they're going to have to swim in deeper waters -- and they can be treacherous. It's still an achievement that he got them into the pool.''
The agreement to take the first steps toward negotiations came after Mr. Kerry repeatedly extended his visit, the sixth to the region since March in what has been his main focus as secretary of state. On Wednesday, he won an endorsement from the Arab League of a ''formula'' involving economic incentives for Palestinians and security assurances for Israel along with a new political framework for the talks, but the Palestinian leadership balked at the proposal Thursday night.
On Friday, Mr. Kerry met twice here in Amman with Mr. Erekat and then traveled by helicopter to the West Bank to see Mr. Abbas at his Ramallah headquarters. He apparently won concessions on the new framework, which American, Israeli and Palestinian officials said would allow Washington to declare the 1967 prewar borders as the basis for the talks -- along with the recognition of Israel as a Jewish state -- but allow Mr. Netanyahu and Mr. Abbas to distance themselves from those terms.
Some actions on confidence-building measures -- perhaps a release of Palestinians serving long terms in Israeli jails and a Palestinian agreement to postpone participation in international organizations based on the observer-state status it won at the United Nations General Assembly last fall -- must yet be taken, which is why a date has not been set for the Washington meeting.
Mr. Kerry said the sides had agreed not to disclose details of the deal. It remained unclear whether the negotiators had more work to do around the terms of the talks or would be tackling more substantive matters.
''They may be talking about process at first,'' said a senior State Department official, speaking on the condition of anonymity because of the delicacy of the diplomacy. ''They may be talking about an agenda. I don't think they are going to sit down and draw lines on a map.''
Late Friday night, Ms. Livni posted a message on her Facebook page declaring that ''four years of political stagnation are coming to an end.''
''I know that, despite this being an opportunity, once the negotiations begin they will be complex,'' she wrote. ''In that room we will maintain the national and the security interests of Israel as a Jewish and democratic state -- to that I vouch.''
Ahmad Abbas, director of the Palestinian Authority planning ministry, said in an interview that ''all the big issues -- Jerusalem, settlements, refugees -- have been postponed until further notice,'' but that the ''Americans agreed to provide guarantees which would not turn our faces red'' regarding the future borders.
''Financially, we are going to solve our problems,'' he said. ''We have to choose the best option among the evil ones.''
The obstacles to any substantive peace agreement remain formidable on both sides, and it is unclear whether either party is contemplating real concessions, or is even fully focused on resuming the intractable peace process.
The 78-year-old Mr. Abbas presides over a fiercely divided people, with the militant Hamas movement ruling the Gaza Strip and his more moderate Fatah faction dominating the West Bank. His political weakness was apparent this week at stormy leadership meetings. Mr. Netanyahu, meanwhile, heads a fragile, conservative governing coalition and political party in which many key figures virulently oppose the establishment of a Palestinian state, in a nation more focused than ever on domestic concerns.
Dennis B. Ross, a former American peace envoy to the Middle East, said that given those internal political challenges, having the talks start at the negotiator-level and remaining mum about the terms were smart steps by Mr. Kerry.
''You don't need another situation where you bring the leaders together and build the expectations that you're going to have a dramatic breakthrough,'' Mr. Ross said. ''There probably isn't a complete meeting of the minds, but there's enough convergence there and enough confidence in him that they each feel they can proceed. Better not to say certain things that might require one or the other to respond or qualify.''
The last round between Mr. Netanyahu and Mr. Abbas, in 2010, broke down after 16 hours of talks over three weeks. This time, according to Israeli news reports, both sides have agreed to negotiate for at least six months.
But those involved in the process and expert analysts agree that the hard part is yet to come.
''If the negotiations will start, then the problem begins,'' one senior Israeli official said, also on the condition of anonymity. ''This is just the foreplay.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Secretary of State John Kerry in Ramallah, in the West Bank, where he met Friday with the Palestinian leader Mahmoud Abbas. (POOL PHOTO BY MANDEL NGAN) (A6) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PEACE PROCESS (94%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (78%); TALKS & MEETINGS (78%); PRIME MINISTERS (78%); REFUGEES (68%)

PERSON: JOHN KERRY (93%); MAHMOUD ABBAS (73%); BENJAMIN NETANYAHU (58%); TZIPORA LIVNI (58%); BARACK OBAMA (56%)

GEOGRAPHIC: AMMAN, JORDAN (94%) PALESTINIAN TERRITORY, OCCUPIED (98%); ISRAEL (97%); JORDAN (94%); UNITED STATES (94%); MIDDLE EAST (94%)

LOAD-DATE: July 20, 2013



583 of 937 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 20, 2013
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; DEALBOOK; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1065 words

HEADLINE: Under New Chief, a Feistier S.E.C. Emerges

BYLINE: By BEN PROTESS and MICHAEL J. DE LA MERCED; Nathaniel Popper contributed reporting.

 BODY:
First the Securities and Exchange Commission rejected a settlement with a high-flying hedge fund manager, Philip A. Falcone. Then it charged another billionaire trader, Steven A. Cohen. By late Friday afternoon, it had accused one of the nation's largest cities, Miami, of securities fraud.
It was a busy 24 hours for the S.E.C., the federal regulator once blamed for missing the warning signs of the financial crisis and the vast Ponzi scheme orchestrated by Bernard L. Madoff. 
The flurry of moves appeared to signal that the agency was striking a harder line with Wall Street under its new chairwoman, Mary Jo White. While it is still early in her tenure, and the agency faces lingering criticism for its close ties to Wall Street, Ms. White has taken several steps to crack down on financial fraud.
''They're now demonstrating an aggressiveness that is highly unusual,'' said Thomas A. Sporkin, who spent nearly 20 years in the S.E.C's enforcement unit until last year, when he moved to the law firm Buckley Sandler. ''It's rare to see a day like today.''
When Ms. White was nominated in January, some politicians and consumer groups expressed concerns about her connections to Wall Street. A former federal prosecutor turned defense lawyer, Ms. White has repeatedly spun through the revolving door connecting government and private practice. During her confirmation, several questioned whether Ms. White, who spent the last decade representing big banks like JPMorgan Chase and UBS, could have conflicts of interest.
Her recent actions have started to assuage some concerns. Already, Ms. White has moved to address a central criticism of the agency: that it allows defendants to neither ''admit nor deny'' wrongdoing when reaching settlements. The leaders of the S.E.C. enforcement unit detailed the policy shift in a memo last month, saying there might be cases that ''justify requiring the defendant's admission of allegations in our complaint or other acknowledgment of the alleged misconduct as part of any settlement.''
''It's welcome news for the American people desperate for a tougher S.E.C.,'' said Dennis M. Kelleher, who runs Better Markets, an advocacy group critical of Wall Street. He said, however, that the agency still had a high bar to prove it could be a tough enforcer. ''Two hedge fund cases are good, but not good enough,'' he said.
A preliminary settlement with Mr. Falcone had been collapsing for weeks, people close to the S.E.C. said, as Ms. White and the agency's other commissioners questioned whether it was too lax. On Thursday, the agency's commissioners rejected the settlement, a rare move that happens only once or twice a year.
Moments later, the S.E.C. notified Mr. Falcone and his hedge fund, Harbinger Capital Partners, that the agency had rejected ''the previously disclosed agreement in principle,'' according to a public filing his company made on Friday. The charges stemmed from accusations that Mr. Falcone had manipulated the market, used hedge fund assets to pay his own taxes and secretly favored select customers at the expense of others.
The S.E.C.'s rejection of the settlement -- a move that will prompt the agency to either negotiate a tougher penalty or take Mr. Falcone to trial -- suggested that its preliminary deal did not match the gravity of the crime. The deal, announced in May by Mr. Falcone, came with an $18 million penalty from the S.E.C., a rounding error to a hedge fund billionaire. Mr. Falcone was set to personally pay $4 million of the penalty, according to people briefed on the matter, while the fund's management company would have paid the rest.
While the deal also included at least a two-year ban from raising new capital, that punishment came with a number of caveats. And in a moral victory for Mr. Falcone, the deal also omitted a common provision barring defendants from committing future violations with fraudulent intent, raising concerns that the S.E.C.'s results fell short of its ambitions.
For a time, the S.E.C. was questioning whether to sanction Mr. Cohen. The agency spent nearly a decade investigating his hedge fund, SAC Capital Advisors, and even brought charges against several employees. But Mr. Cohen was not accused of wrongdoing. That changed on Friday, when the S.E.C. accused him of ''failing to supervise'' employees.
The action, filed as an administrative proceeding at the agency rather than as a lawsuit in federal court, delivers a serious blow to Mr. Cohen. The agency is seeking to bar him from overseeing outside investor funds, a death knell to a hedge fund manager.
It is unusual for the S.E.C. to pursue a case against someone of Mr. Cohen's stature without formally accusing him of insider trading or fraud. The charge of failing to properly supervise is similar to what other regulators have done in a lawsuit against Jon S. Corzine, who led MF Global during the brokerage firm's collapse two years ago.
In its charging document on Friday, the S.E.C. says Mr. Cohen failed to halt two of his portfolio managers from trading on confidential information. The two SAC employees, who both face criminal charges, were swept up in a broad federal investigation into insider trading.
One of the portfolio managers, Mathew Martoma, is accused of improperly acting on data about a clinical drug trial in 2008. The other, Michael S. Steinberg, is accused of trading on confidential information about Dell's financial performance that same year.
Both men have denied the charges and face separate trials that begin in November. An SAC spokesman said that the S.E.C.'s action had no merit. ''Steve Cohen acted appropriately at all times and will fight this charge vigorously,'' the spokesman said.
The case against Miami came just hours after the action against Mr. Cohen was announced. The S.E.C. accused the city of giving misleading information about its finances to investors in 2009 in an effort to make its municipal bonds more attractive.
The agency also said the city broke a cease-and-desist order it signed in 2003 after facing similar charges. George Canellos, co-director of the S.E.C.'s enforcement unit, said in a statement that the city's conduct was ''all the more appalling and unacceptable'' because of the earlier problems.
A lawyer for Miami, Ivan Harris, said the city would fight the charges in court.
This is a more complete version of the story than the one that appeared in print.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Mary Jo White, chairwoman of the Securities and Exchange Commission. (PHOTOGRAPH BY CHIP SOMODEVILLA/GETTY IMAGES) (B1)
 The S.E.C. rejected a settlement in its civil lawsuit against Philip A. Falcone, chief executive of Harbinger Capital Partners. (PHOTOGRAPH BY STEVE MARCUS/REUTERS) (B6) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BANKING & FINANCE AGENCIES (90%); SECURITIES LAW (90%); FRAUD & FINANCIAL CRIME (90%); HEDGE FUNDS (89%); MISCONDUCT (78%); FINANCIAL CRIME COUNTERMEASURES (78%); CONFLICTS OF INTEREST (78%); CONSUMER LAW (77%); PONZI SCHEMES (77%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (76%); LAWYERS (75%); LEGAL SERVICES (72%)

COMPANY: JPMORGAN CHASE & CO (84%)

ORGANIZATION: SECURITIES & EXCHANGE COMMISSION (97%)

TICKER: JPM (NYSE) (84%); JPM (LSE) (84%); 8634 (TSE) (84%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (84%); NAICS523999 MISCELLANEOUS FINANCIAL INVESTMENT ACTIVITIES (84%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (84%); SIC6022 STATE COMMERCIAL BANKS (84%)

PERSON: STEVEN A COHEN (88%); MARY JO WHITE (88%); STEVEN COHEN (58%); BERNARD MADOFF (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: July 20, 2013



584 of 937 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 20, 2013
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1167 words

HEADLINE: G-20 Backs Plan to Curb Corporate Tax Strategy

BYLINE: By ANDREW E. KRAMER and FLOYD NORRIS; Andrew E. Kramer reported from Moscow and Floyd Norris from New York.

 BODY:
MOSCOW -- The world's richest economies for the first time endorsed a blueprint on Friday to curb widely used tax avoidance strategies that allow some multinational corporations to pay only a pittance in income taxes.
It could be years before any changes take place in national tax laws and big corporations and other interest groups are sure to lobby heavily to preserve their tax breaks. But the proposal was the most concrete response yet to the intensifying pressure on governments around the world to address the issue.
The governments have strong motivation for change. They are starved for revenue and face citizenry who see inequity in a system that enables some highly profitable corporations to pay far lower tax rates than workers.
In one widely cited example, Starbucks last year paid no corporate tax in Britain despite generating sales of nearly £400 million ($630 million) from more than 700 stores in that country. Apple, despite being the most profitable American technology company, avoided billions in taxes in the United States and around the world through a web of complex subsidiaries. 
In light of such practices -- which are entirely legal, taking advantage of differing tax rules around the world -- the Organization for Economic Cooperation and Development has proposed that all nations adopt 15 new tax principles for corporations. The plan focuses on corporations only and would, if adopted widely, shift some of the global tax burden toward large companies -- the ones big and rich enough to devise complex tax-reduction strategies -- and away from small businesses and individuals, which tend to spend a much bigger share of their incomes on taxes.
The list, presented Friday at a meeting of finance ministers of the Group of 20 countries in Moscow, includes ideas to prevent corporations from ''treaty shopping'' to find countries with the lowest taxes and then find ways to book their profits there, even when much of the money is made elsewhere.
The group recommended strict rules for defining where a company has a permanent presence. It also proposed three measures to limit the practice of so-called transfer pricing -- the shunting of profits and losses between subsidiaries by disguising them as internal corporate payments for goods or, as is increasingly common, for copyright or patent royalties.
Friday's proposal represents a new global commitment to tackle an issue that has drawn angry outcry in some countries. Lawmakers in the British Parliament and the United States Congress this year have held hearings on corporate tax avoidance. It is unclear if this proposal will gain any more traction than past statements of resolve by the Group of 20 nations with the biggest economies. The Obama administration has endorsed the plan and Jacob J. Lew, the Treasury secretary, issued a statement saying it would help ''address the persistent issue of stateless income, which undermines confidence in our tax system.''
The O.E.C.D. does not expect to complete work on the proposals until the fall of 2015, and after that it would be up to governments and legislatures to pass new tax laws adopting them.
Some of the proposals would seek to standardize the way profits are counted, and to assure that companies could not -- as Apple did -- create subsidiaries that had profits but, for tax purposes, were located nowhere. There would also be efforts to assure an international exchange of information, to make it possible for countries to assess the taxes each multinational was paying around the world.
The plan is called BEPS, for ''base erosion and profit shifting,'' a description of tactics that companies use to reduce their taxes. If successful, it would mean that countries could collect more in taxes at the same time they lowered tax rates, simply because the base they were taxing was larger.
The details, however, may prove daunting and will be subject to intense lobbying by corporations. In addition, countries have long used tax policies in efforts to lure businesses to locate operations there. The O.E.C.D. plan would not seek to end such competition entirely -- any country would be free to charge lower rates than others did -- but it would try to keep countries from essentially offering companies ways to avoid paying taxes anywhere, something critics say Ireland did in reaching agreements with Apple.
Senator Carl Levin, the Michigan Democrat who is the chairman of a subcommittee that has investigated tax arrangements at several major companies, including Apple, said that there was ''growing global demand for reining in corporate offshore tax abuses'' and that he hoped the United States would act on the proposals.
''It's long overdue for Congress to close outrageous corporate tax loopholes, increase tax fairness, and use the revenue to stop irrational sequestration cuts from further damaging national security, education, health care, research and innovation and more,'' he said on Friday.
If the plan is accepted, the countries in the Group of 20 would commit to it at a gathering of heads of state in St. Petersburg, Russia, in September.
''It's a matter of justice and fairness,'' Ángel Gurría, the secretary general of the O.E.C.D., said at the presentation of the new plan with the finance ministers of France, Britain, Germany and Russia.
Pierre Moscovici, the minister of economy and finance of France, said some multinational corporations managed to pay an income tax of only 3 percent or so. ''This is unbelievable to our fellow citizens, who pay their fair share,'' he said.
Multinational companies have found they can pay less by opening subsidiaries in the Netherlands, Luxembourg and Ireland, or in North America in offshore havens like Bermuda or the Cayman Islands.
Authorities in Ireland, for example, for years have encouraged multinational companies like Google, Facebook, Pfizer, Johnson & Johnson and Citigroup to set up shop and provide good jobs, in return for helping those companies pay less tax around the world. And in response to critics, Ireland has blamed loopholes in other countries' tax policies and the lack of uniformity in international taxation principles.
On Friday, Ireland's Department of Finance issued a statement saying ''Ireland welcomes the work of the O.E.C.D.,'' and that tax avoidance strategies arose because ''of the constantly changing business environment with which international common tax principles may not have kept pace.'' The statement noted that Ireland had been part of the task force that helped draft the proposals announced on Friday.
The tactics of tax-shopping companies include placing copyrights in offshore shell companies, then paying royalties to those shell entities as a way of reducing the stated taxable profits earned in higher-tax countries. Using such strategies, businesses that operate across borders have an advantage over businesses operating mostly domestically, skewing the global economy in favor of multinational chains and large corporations, the O.E.C.D. report said.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: The Apple flagship in London. Apple created subsidiaries that had profits but, for tax purposes, were located nowhere. (PHOTOGRAPH BY FACUNDO ARRIZABALAGA/EUROPEAN PRESSPHOTO AGENCY) (B2) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TAXES & TAXATION (93%); TAX LAW (91%); TAX ENFORCEMENT (90%); MULTINATIONAL CORPORATIONS (90%); TAX RELIEF (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); INCOME TAX (89%); PUBLIC FINANCE (89%); CORPORATE TAX (89%); TAX PLANNING (78%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (78%); LOBBYING (78%); ECONOMIC POLICY (77%); ECONOMIC NEWS (77%); ROYALTIES (77%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (77%); BRITISH PARLIAMENT (73%); SMALL BUSINESS (68%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (66%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (64%)

ORGANIZATION: ORGANISATION FOR ECONOMIC CO-OPERATION & DEVELOPMENT (55%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (54%); JACK LEW (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: LONDON, ENGLAND (79%) UNITED STATES (93%); UNITED KINGDOM (92%)

LOAD-DATE: July 20, 2013



585 of 937 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 20, 2013
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1589 words

HEADLINE: Town's Schools Test a Law of Racial Arithmetic

BYLINE: By AL BAKER; Kristin Hussey contributed reporting.

 BODY:
GREENWICH, Conn. -- Just a few minutes' drive from the polo fields, the fieldstone walls guarding 10-acre estates and the Greenwich Country Day School, from which the elder George Bush graduated in 1937, is far denser terrain, where the homes are smaller and closer together and part of a public housing complex that seems escaped from New York City.
This, too, is Greenwich, and the two public elementary schools in this part of town look, demographically, nothing like most schools in the whiter, wealthier areas. At both, minority students make up at least two-thirds of the enrollment, including some students who are the children of housekeepers, landscapers and construction workers who keep up the lavish homes in the backcountry.
And that is putting the town on a collision course with the State of Connecticut. 
Segregation within school districts is not unique to Greenwich -- one need look no farther than New York City to find mostly white schools a few blocks from mostly black schools. But Connecticut is one of a few states that forbid districts from letting any of their schools deviate too much in racial makeup from any of their other schools.
The Greenwich district, where minority students constitute one-third of the overall public school population, is trying to come up with solutions. But as previous attempts to correct the imbalance have failed to keep up with population shifts, the district's leaders and many parents are challenging the notion that the law, which was passed in 1969, is even relevant today.
''In 2013, that is a very different conversation than in the civil rights era,'' the superintendent, William S. McKersie, said. ''We are getting high-quality outcomes. The challenge with the state is, 'Are you applying an old understanding of how to get educational opportunity that could undermine what we are trying to do here?' ''
Based on a number of measures, including high school students' performance on SAT and Advanced Placement exams, Greenwich in recent years has ranked near the top among Connecticut districts in its economic class, said Kimberly D. Eves, a district spokeswoman. She said, ''We are among the top performing districts in the state, over all.''
The district's student body breaks down as 69 percent white, 16.9 percent Hispanic, 8 percent Asian, 2.9 percent black and 2.8 percent multiracial.
State law says that no school's nonwhite enrollment can deviate from the districtwide average for schools with the same grade levels by more than 25 percentage points. In addition to New Lebanon and Hamilton Avenue Elementary, the two schools on the western edge of town with too few white students, two schools on the far eastern and northern sides of town are flirting with imbalance of an opposite kind: having too few minority children.
Greenwich education officials are weighing several proposals for state review, including starting additional magnet schools and doing some modest redistricting, with busing for those options. This week, district officials updated state education officials on their plans.
In a statement, Stefan Pryor, the state education commissioner, defended the law as a way to improve the quality of education for all students in Greenwich.
''Greenwich has grappled with this issue for years,'' Mr. Pryor said, ''undertaking, for example, efforts regarding magnet schools and facility upgrades, with limited effect to date.'' Noting that Greenwich ''continues to have a significant achievement gap,'' he said it was important that the district make greater progress.
Greenwich officials say they have made gains, even if not enough.
The gap between whites and blacks on meeting state goals in reading dropped to 27.4 percentage points in the 2011-12 academic year, from 32 points five years earlier, said John Curtin, the district's special projects manager. For whites and Hispanics, the gap fell to 21.7 percentage points, from nearly 30 points in the same period, he said. (Asians make up only a tiny percentage of the students at the two schools.)
Dr. McKersie, the superintendent, said, ''We are not satisfied with the quality of education we are providing, particularly to our low-income Latino and African-American students, and our other low-income students.''
But in making their case that improving education might not be as simple as rebalancing the schools' racial makeup, Greenwich officials point to another, smaller gap. In New Lebanon and Hamilton Avenue Elementary, black and Hispanic students are passing state tests at only a slightly lower rate than in the other schools -- in math, the difference is six percentage points.
They also say they spend $2,000 to $4,000 more per student in those schools, in addition to any federal aid given to schools with high-needs populations. This is evidence, they say, that the district has tried to address head-on the core concerns behind the state law -- that segregated schools do not provide for their lowest performing students.
''We have evolved educationally in recognizing that we must provide high-quality instruction based on individual student needs, regardless of where the school is in the district,'' Dr. McKersie said. ''I am not convinced that forcing students to move from their neighborhood elementary school is the best strategy for improving academic outcomes, especially in a district where students attend integrated schools from 6th through 12th grade.''
The imbalance was created by a steady increase in black and Hispanic residents on the western side of town, which created another vexing problem for the district: Several schools are now in danger of becoming overcrowded.
Kelly Donnelly, a spokeswoman for the Connecticut Board of Education, said the state preferred local officials to solve the racial imbalance issue. If it found a remedial plan was insufficient, she said, the state could order the district to redraft it, and if it was still lacking, the matter could end up in court.
Amid the civil rights movement of the 1960s, a number of states developed policies or enacted laws on racial integration in the schools, including California, Connecticut, Illinois, Massachusetts, Minnesota, New Jersey, New York and Pennsylvania, said Gary Orfield, a professor of education and law at the University of California, Los Angeles, who is a director of the university's Civil Rights Project.
Since then, he said, many of the desegregation policies have been ''repealed or interpreted away, or died of little use.''
In Boston, it was a federal civil rights lawsuit, not a state law, that led to busing, and the resulting widespread protests and white flight from the public school system.
Susie Ponce, whose parents are from Colombia, moved to western Greenwich from Queens in 2007. She thinks Hamilton Avenue Elementary, which her two children attend, could have more white children, she said, but it has an array of nationalities.
''If I had a choice, I would keep my kids where they are right now,'' said Ms. Ponce, who until recently was the school's parent coordinator. ''Because not only are they getting a great education, they are getting the social-emotional intelligence that I grew up with, just being exposed to other children from different cultures.''
Still, Jennifer Roberto, 15, said that had Hamilton Avenue Elementary been more integrated when she went there, her high school experience might not now include a lunchroom demarcated in unofficial zones: light-skinned faces here, dark ones over there.
''If they change the groups at kindergarten and everything, if they start mixing it, it will be more diverse later,'' Jennifer said. ''Cliques wouldn't even form.''
Adriana Ospina, the lone Hispanic member of the Greenwich Board of Education, said, ''You hear some of the kids being referred to as 'the ghetto kids,' and that is horrendous.''
But even parents and local officials who think Greenwich needs to try harder to integrate its schools are wary of forcing students to travel across town.
Ms. Ospina said she was hoping that voluntary measures, like increased used of magnet schools, could solve the problem. She said it was not fair to tell a parent of an elementary school student on the eastern side of town that her child ''no longer has the right, or privilege, to a neighborhood school.''
That is the stated view of virtually all parents, almost all of them from schools in the northern and eastern parts of town, who have spoken at the district's public meetings on the issue.
Lori Fields, whose daughter just completed kindergarten at Parkway Elementary, a school in the backcountry, in far-northern Greenwich (with a 17 percent minority enrollment this spring), said the school was a large reason she bought her home eight years ago, when she was moving from California.
At a June 14 hearing she said, ''I don't support any option that would force children out of their neighborhood schools.''
At the hearing, Benjamin D. Bianco, a lawyer and father of a student at North Street Elementary School (29 percent minority enrollment), in the center of town, said he saw the state's racial balance mandate as open to challenge as violating the equal protection clause of the Constitution, an idea the district has also said it is considering.
''We all bought our homes based on what school our kids were going to go to,'' Mr. Bianco said. ''If you talk to any Realtor, I'm sure in this town, but probably in any town across America, when they give you the listing for homes you have price, square footage, school district. I mean, it's not a complicated concept.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: New Lebanon Elementary is one of several Greenwich, Conn., schools whose racial makeup is very unlike other district schools. (PHOTOGRAPH BY LISA WILTSE FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES)
 Superintendent William S. McKersie (A3) GRAPHICS: Imbalance in Greenwich Schools: According to Connecticut state law, the diversity among students in four elementary schools in Greenwich is imbalanced or nearly imbalanced. Schools to the southwest have high numbers of minorities, while schools to the north and the east are predominantly white. (Source: Greenwich Public Schools) (A3) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (90%); EDUCATION SYSTEMS & INSTITUTIONS (90%); SCHOOL DISTRICTS (89%); CHILDREN (89%); POPULATION & DEMOGRAPHICS (89%); PRIMARY & SECONDARY EDUCATION (77%); RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (77%); CONSTRUCTION (77%); HIGH SCHOOLS (77%); STUDENT DEMOGRAPHICS (77%); STANDARDIZED ACADEMIC TESTING (77%); PRIMARY SCHOOLS (77%); POPULATION DECLINE (75%); PARENTS (74%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (73%); ADVANCED PLACEMENT PROGRAMS (72%); PUBLIC HOUSING (72%); EDUCATION DEPARTMENTS (72%); PUBLIC SCHOOLS (71%); CIVIL RIGHTS (70%); RANKINGS (63%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (93%) CONNECTICUT, USA (94%); NEW YORK, USA (93%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: July 20, 2013



586 of 937 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 20, 2013
The International Herald Tribune

SECTION: Section ; Column 0; OpEd; OP-ED CONTRIBUTOR; Pg. 

LENGTH: 627 words

HEADLINE: Europe's Stance on Settlements Is a Blunder

BYLINE: By YAIR LAPID

 BODY:
JERUSALEM -- What has caused more calamities throughout history: the harmful intentions of evil people or the misguided mistakes of well-intentioned people? My bet is on the latter.
This question came to my mind as I sat in my Jerusalem office this week and read the new directives published by the European Union that prohibit it from financing institutions, like research and nonprofit groups, in academia, culture, science and sport, in Jewish settlements in East Jerusalem, the West Bank, the Gaza Strip and the Golan Heights. The rules were finalized Friday and take effect on Jan. 1.
The move is more symbolic than crippling: It largely strengthens existing E.U. rules and does not affect trade or the private sector. This gesture may resonate among European champions of peace, but as a minister in Israel's government and chairman of a party that is wholly committed to the peace process and a two-state solution, I wish to note one problem with these new directives: They will encourage nothing but delay in the resumption of peace negotiations. 
Why? As the American secretary of state, John Kerry, leads new efforts to reinvigorate peace talks among Israelis and Palestinians, one of the obstacles -- if not the main one -- is the presence of extremist Palestinians and their supporters. I'm referring to a diverse group of thugs with automatic weapons: Hamas, Hezbollah, Al Qaeda and fighters backed by Iran. They are all demanding the same thing of Mahmoud Abbas, president of the Palestinian National Authority: Stall. From their perspective, as long as the Palestinians steer clear of the negotiating table, their situation will improve.
The premise of this militant Palestinian rejectionism is rather simple: As the years pass, the international isolation of Israel will increase. Indeed, the campaign of delegitimizing the Jewish state -- a campaign financed primarily by Arab oil -- has gained momentum in recent years. The only thing that can stop it is the resumption of peace negotiations.
Each time Israel makes a gesture or undertakes a confidence-building measure, the automatic rifles in Ramallah are loaded and cocked. ''If you agree to sit with the Israelis,'' they warn Mr. Abbas, ''you will be betraying us and betraying Allah.''
These enemies are powerful, but their argument has recently weakened. The determination of Mr. Kerry, coupled with Prime Minster Benjamin Netanyahu's explicit endorsement of a two-state solution, have opened, for the first time in a long time, a window of opportunity for the resumption of talks.
It won't be easy or quick, but for the time being the stranglehold of the extremists has been impaired. One example: I have been able, over the past few months, to publicly conduct meetings with my Palestinian counterpart, Finance Minister Shukri Bishara, to transfer tax monies for the Palestinian Authority (some of which were collected inside Israel proper) and to begin open discussions on joint Israeli-Palestinian economic ventures.
However, this nascent cooperation is in jeopardy now, because of the well-intentioned but misguided folks in Brussels who do not appreciate the nuances of our region. In one fell swoop, they have emboldened the extremists, allowing them to triumphantly claim to Mr. Abbas. ''You see, we were right all along. You must not negotiate. We don't have to do anything. The international community will do our job for us.''
The world shouldn't make things easier for extremists. It's challenging enough to remain sane and pursue peace in this crowded, problematic neighborhood of ours. We do not need our friends overseas to make it even more difficult. The E.U. would do well to revoke its decision.
Yair Lapid is Israel's minister of finance and founder of the centrist Yesh Atid party.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PEACE PROCESS (91%); TERRORIST ORGANIZATIONS (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); TALKS & MEETINGS (89%); HISTORY (89%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (88%); JEWS & JUDAISM (79%); BANKING & FINANCE AGENCIES (77%); EUROPEAN UNION (77%); BANKING & FINANCE (76%); TERRORISM (75%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (75%); HAMAS (75%); HEZBOLLAH (73%); PUBLIC FINANCE (72%); NONPROFIT ORGANIZATIONS (71%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (70%); AL-QAEDA (65%)

ORGANIZATION: EUROPEAN UNION (58%); AL-QAEDA (54%); HEZBOLLAH (54%); HAMAS (54%)

PERSON: JOHN KERRY (79%); MAHMOUD ABBAS (55%); BENJAMIN NETANYAHU (55%)

GEOGRAPHIC: JERUSALEM, ISRAEL (94%) PALESTINIAN TERRITORY, OCCUPIED (96%); EUROPE (94%); ISRAEL (94%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (92%); UNITED STATES (79%); IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (79%)

LOAD-DATE: July 20, 2013



587 of 937 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 20, 2013
The International Herald Tribune

SECTION: Section ; Column 0; OpEd; OP-ED CONTRIBUTOR; Pg. 

LENGTH: 853 words

HEADLINE: The E.U. Flexes a New Muscle

BYLINE: By DANIEL LEVY

 BODY:
Has Europe just discovered a previously unused muscle that can be flexed a little in the interest of Middle East peace? The leaking of European Union guidelines barring E.U. support for projects based in occupied territories has generated high political drama.
But first of all it is worth clarifying that the guidelines apply only to programs of the European Union, and not to those of its 28 member states or to trade; that they constitute a codification of existing policy rather than new policy; and that they are of minor significance in economic terms (Europeans sources estimated that only 0.5 percent of relevent E.U. project funding might be affected). 
Europe, in common with the rest of the world, has always considered the settlements to be illegal under international law, and existing E.U. agreements with Israel already contain stipulations barring benefits to settlements.
This is not a boycott of Israel. In fact, the guidelines facilitate the continuation of hundreds of millions of euros in funding for projects within Israel proper.
Nevertheless, the reaction in Israel has bordered on hysteria, conjuring a flood of economic consequences.
In part, this reaction reflected inaccurate and exaggerated reporting on the European decision in Israel. In larger part, the intensity of Israeli push-back appeared deliberately intended to intimidate Europeans against taking further steps in this direction.
Most significantly, however, the reaction suggests that both supporters and opponents of Israeli policies believe the Europeans might be on to something -- namely that the lack of consequences for Israel has been a key enabler of the ongoing occupation and denial of Palestinian rights.
Liberal Israelis jumped at this belated proof that settlements beget economic penalties. At the same time, the pro-settlement Greater Israel camp issued a flurry of invective against Europe, evidently aware that if the Israeli public comes to believe that the occupation can carry costs, it might be awakened from its sleepwalk toward apartheid. The agitation of the settlers is probably heightened by their sense that they are close to achieving their goal of permanently neutralizing the prospect of a two-state separation.
The European Union came to its decision to issue the directive through a combination of factors. Europeans have been frustrated that their frequent expressions of displeasure over the Israeli settlements have been scorned by Israel, and they have been confused by the incompatible commitments of Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu to maintaining a Jewish democratic state while expanding settlements and entrenching the occupation.
The Europeans are also sensitive to the notion that, as the largest collective donor to the Palestinian Authority, they are in effect subsidizing the occupation. Given the oversight of the European Parliament, the European Court of Justice and the European voting public, the E.U. had no choice but to clarify its position against any funding for settlement-based entities.
Finally, the decision reflects a sense that there can be a European role alongside the United States -- a division of labor -- in the resolution of the Israeli-Palestinian conflict.
While Washington has similar stipulations regarding settlements in its loan guarantees to Israel, domestic U.S. politics severely restrict the consequences it can impose on Israel. Europe has more political leverage when it comes to recalibrating the asymmetry of Israeli-Palestinian interaction.
Europe will move slowly in taking further steps, but it is likely to become more assertive in distinguishing between Israel proper and the occupied territories.
This will not change unless one of two things happens: Israel can formally annex the territories with the consent of the Palestinians and extend full rights and equal citizenship to all, creating a binational democracy rather than a Jewish-majority state.
Alternatively, and more in line with the aspirations of most Israelis and Palestinians, Israel could agree to the creation of a viable and sovereign neighboring Palestinian state, based on the 1967 lines, thereby rendering moot the entire issue of settlements and occupation.
Which brings us to the most disingenuous and misleading claim of the Israeli leadership in opposing Europe's move -- that it harms Secretary of State John Kerry's efforts to resume negotiations and achieve peace by empowering Palestinian maximalism.
Ignore for a moment the multitude of steps that the government of Israel could take in support of peace but refuses to. Reverse the claim, however, and it does ring true: Europe's move helps peace by challenging Israel's impunity and changing the cost/benefit calculations of the Israeli public, thus undercutting Israeli maximalists.
Europe and America can play complementary roles. Far from derailing peace, Europe's move might be remembered for its contribution to resuscitating the two-state project.
Daniel Levy is director of the Middle East and North Africa Program at the European Council on Foreign Relations and a senior research fellow at the New America Foundation.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (91%); EUROPEAN UNION (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); INTERNATIONAL LAW (89%); EUROPEAN UNION INSTITUTIONS (89%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (77%); BOYCOTTS (77%); EUROPEAN UNION COURTS (73%); INTERNATIONAL COURTS & TRIBUNALS (73%); PRIME MINISTERS (72%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (71%); SUPREME COURTS (66%)

ORGANIZATION: EUROPEAN UNION (91%)

PERSON: BENJAMIN NETANYAHU (53%)

GEOGRAPHIC: ISRAEL (97%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (96%); EUROPE (96%); PALESTINIAN TERRITORY, OCCUPIED (92%); MIDDLE EAST (92%); UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: July 20, 2013



588 of 937 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 20, 2013
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1235 words

HEADLINE: Frayed Prospects, Despite a Degree

BYLINE: By SHAILA DEWAN

 BODY:
At a time when many job seekers complain that their résumés vanish into a black hole, Charles Wells managed to get a high-level recruiter at Ernst & Young to meet with him in person, twice.
But the end result was disheartening: Mr. Wells was told, he said, that company policy required him to have at least two years of experience in the field before he could be hired.
If Mr. Wells were a newly minted college graduate, he would not have had that problem. Ernst & Young recruits heavily on college campuses for entry-level positions, no experience required.
But Mr. Wells graduated in 2011, during one of the worst job markets in history, and his work record since then -- like countless numbers of his peers -- doesn't measure up to what employers like Ernst & Young demand for ''experienced'' applicants. 
Even as the jobs picture slowly improves, the disadvantage of bad timing follows those who graduated during the worst years. Applicants like Mr. Wells have neither the bright-eyed and bushy-tailed appeal of the class of 2013, nor the benefit of relevant work experience that might give them an edge.
''I'm competing against people that are graduating now,'' said Mr. Wells, 27, who worked in construction and other jobs before starting college in 2007. ''It's easier to grab them up, because they're fresh.''
His problems stem from the fact that companies typically divide their hiring into two pools: entry-level jobs, which are overwhelmingly filled by campus recruits, and experienced workers. Some allow recent graduates to stay in the first category for a year or two after getting their diploma. But recruiters say those applicants may find themselves at a disadvantage, especially if they have not been bolstering their résumés with classes, internships or volunteer work.
''If you're a 2011 or a 2012 grad, the competition just got fierce -- even more fierce -- with the let-out of the 2013 class,'' said Alexa Hamill, the United States campus recruiting leader for PricewaterhouseCoopers. ''It's like you're in overtime, and they brought in the fresh team.''
The impact of this is difficult to measure because government statistics do not allow for a comparison of the fate of this year's graduates with their immediate predecessors, instead lumping all college graduates under 25 into one group. And certainly college graduates as a whole are doing vastly better than those with only a high school degree (young college graduates have an unemployment rate of just over 8 percent, while the unemployment rate for high school graduates within the same age group is close to 20 percent).
But everything that is known about the job market points to the fact that Mr. Wells and his cohort are feeling the pinch. Many of the country's largest companies make most of their entry level hires on campus, meaning there are no slots for the hapless person who had the misfortune of graduating in 2011. And historically, those who graduate during a recession earn far less than their peers who do not, and it can take a decade or more for them to catch up. Many have been forced to settle for lower-wage, lower-skill jobs, which has in turn helped increase joblessness among the high school graduates who previously held those jobs.
In 2000, about 60 percent of employed college graduates were working in jobs that required a degree, said Andrew Sum, director of the Center for Labor Market Studies at Northeastern University. Now fewer than half are.
Campus recruiters at a variety of institutions said that those who graduated in 2013 have had a relatively easy time finding jobs, in part because the prolonged economic downturn has made them more focused on preparing themselves for the workplace. Alumni who graduated in the previous few years continue to trickle in, asking for help.
''The class of 2009 just got royally screwed, because their first four years in the labor market were this horrible thing,'' said Heidi Shierholz, a labor specialist at the Economic Policy Institute, a left-leaning research organization in Washington. ''This year's first four years won't be that bad.''
Dan Black, the Americas director of recruiting for Ernst & Young, said that young applicants who were not current students needn't bother sending a résumé without some connection to the firm through a friend, mentor or acquaintance. ''You will not find entry-level jobs listed on our Web site,'' he said.
For those with a job history marred by the recession, ''we want to see that you have made productive use of your time since graduation -- the Peace Corps, Teach for America, course-work, a C.P.A. exam,'' he said. ''I don't think it's bad to be a barista at Starbucks, but we need some evidence that you are continuing to move toward that goal of entering the field.''
Another challenge for the recent graduate is that companies have increasingly been hiring workers from their own pool of interns. Williams, an energy company based in Tulsa, Okla., started its internship program in 2005 and now makes 85 percent of its entry-level hires from the intern pool, said Paige Cole, the senior recruiter at Williams. Interns must be current college students.
Such practices mean students' early choices are increasingly important.
''You actually could be making your first career choice decision when you accept that internship,'' Ms. Cole said.
Even as the financial crisis hit, Mr. Wells, who received a degree in geography from Kennesaw State University outside Atlanta and is now teaching English as a second language, remained confident in his prospects, believing that he could set himself apart from his peers. ''I figured right away I was going to have a job, but I'm learning a large lesson right now,'' he said.
Mr. Wells said his skills had already become outdated. New graduates in his major are required to learn technological skills that he missed out on. He has had no luck applying at smaller companies where he could get the experience he needs for a job at Ernst & Young.
Unlike those who were blindsided by the recession after they started school, the class of 2013 knew even as first-year students that their competitiveness depended on getting internships, studying abroad and choosing their majors carefully. Mr. Wells, who is now heading to business school, said he wished he had chosen a more marketable major.
Karen Andrews, the executive director of career services at Kennesaw State, said that because so many newer alumni were unemployed or working in basic service industry jobs, she formed an alumni job club and ultimately hired a full-time alumni career adviser. ''When the economy tanked, their lack of preparation became very obvious,'' she said.
Still, many have tried to make the best of their situation, portraying their disappointing experience in the work force as real-world seasoning that might appeal to employers.
Ariana Wharton, 26, graduated from Kennesaw in 2011 with a degree in communications and public relations after switching majors from pre-med. When she did not find a job right away, she volunteered for the Red Cross and started her own business delivering fast food. She joined Ms. Andrews's job club, where she fine-tuned her résumé. When she went to a job fair earlier this year, armed with a new elevator pitch, she landed a job in customer service for an international phone company, making $35,000 a year.
''I definitely felt like I had an edge over the students,'' she said.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Charles Wells teaching in Atlanta. He finished college in 2011, which has hurt his job prospects. (PHOTOGRAPH BY TAMI CHAPPELL FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) (B4) DRAWING (DRAWING BY JAMES BEST JR./ THE NEW YORK TIMES) (B1)
 CHART: Tight Market: After the recession, young college graduates have had a more difficult time finding employment. Many have taken lower-paid and lower-skill jobs, which has helped to push unemployment for high-school graduates even higher. (Source: Bureau of Labor Statistics) (B4) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: EMPLOYMENT (91%); RESUMES & CURRICULA VITAE (90%); EMPLOYMENT SEARCH (90%); HIGH SCHOOLS (89%); LABOR SECTOR PERFORMANCE (89%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (78%); SECONDARY SCHOOLS (76%); APPRENTICESHIPS & INTERNSHIPS (73%); COLLEGES & UNIVERSITIES (71%); VOLUNTEERS (70%); DEMOGRAPHIC GROUPS (63%); STATISTICS (60%)

COMPANY: ERNST & YOUNG GLOBAL LTD (90%); PRICEWATERHOUSECOOPERS (52%)

ORGANIZATION: BUREAU OF LABOR STATISTICS (59%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS541211 OFFICES OF CERTIFIED PUBLIC ACCOUNTANTS (90%); NAICS541613 MARKETING CONSULTING SERVICES (90%); NAICS541611 ADMINISTRATIVE MANAGEMENT & GENERAL MANAGEMENT CONSULTING SERVICES (90%); SIC8721 ACCOUNTING, AUDITING, & BOOKKEEPING SERVICES (52%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: July 20, 2013



589 of 937 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 20, 2013
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 11

LENGTH: 1333 words

HEADLINE: Immigration Bill's Supporters Call on Business Groups to Pressure G.O.P.

BYLINE: By JONATHAN WEISMAN and ASHLEY PARKER

 BODY:
WASHINGTON -- With political momentum behind an immigration overhaul flagging, advocates are counting on business groups to turn up the pressure on skeptical House Republicans who are much less susceptible to that lobby than they have been in the past.
The changed dynamic illustrates the difficulty of guiding immigration legislation through the House as well as the challenge for business interests to reassert their influence before a more ideological brand of Congressional Republican.
''I've heard from all sides on the immigration bill, certainly our Kansas Chamber of Commerce,'' said Representative Lynn Jenkins of Kansas, a member of the House Republican leadership. ''But I will tell you, a majority of Kansans that I visit with are not as eager. And the power lies with the people, at least in Kansas.''
The prickly relationship between House Republicans and business groups large and small will complicate efforts to move legislation to increase immigration of highly skilled workers, expand guest worker programs and establish a path to legalization or citizenship for the 11 million immigrants in the country illegally. 
Yet advocates of such a comprehensive approach say the business world may still be their last best shot, and business groups are mobilizing for an immigration offensive expected to kick into high gear by August.
''The business community is solidly behind this -- small business, large business, the chamber, the Business Roundtable, you name it, they're all solidly in,'' said Senator John McCain, Republican of Arizona and an author of the bill approved by the Senate last month. ''We need them to weigh in, very frankly, on this issue, because we advertise ourselves as the party of business. Perhaps they can have some effect.''
In a meeting on Tuesday with seven of the eight senators who drafted the original bill and members of various advocacy groups, a frustrated Mr. McCain took business to the woodshed. Their efforts so far to lobby House Republicans, he explained in a stern tone, have not been sufficient. Their side is losing the battle to define the message, he said, and the next few months, including the August recess, will make or break the immigration effort.
This week, Speaker John A. Boehner said he welcomed any sales pitches from business, noting that the majority of House Republicans had never been faced with immigration legislation. ''The more education that we have for our members, the better we're going to be able to facilitate dealing with a very thorny issue,'' he said.
In a broad immigration overhaul, businesses desire an injection of highly skilled workers who have found it increasingly difficult to enter the country, an expanded pool of lower skilled but energetic immigrants and a way to legally employ workers in the country illegally who have been mainstays of the labor force in many areas.
Many business groups have been working on the issue for more than a year. Last month, during the annual summit meeting of the National Association of Manufacturers, the group's members held meetings with lawmakers to discuss immigration and other issues. Several of the association's members recently participated in an immigration briefing for House staff members hosted by Representative Robert W. Goodlatte, Republican of Virginia and the chairman of the House Judiciary Committee.
''It does us no good to bring in the best and brightest in the world, train and educate them, and then send them home,'' said Joe Trauger, the association's vice president of human resources policy, in summing up the group's message.
Last month, Mr. Goodlatte also met with 20 chief executives of some of the largest corporations in the country through the Business Roundtable, an association of major-company chief executives, said Greg Brown, 52, the chairman and chief executive of Motorola, who heads the group's immigration task force.
The Business Roundtable has strongly supported the Senate's comprehensive approach, he said, and the chief executives ''remain cautiously optimistic that as the House continues to progress and pass a series of independent bills, then after August there will be a mechanism to unify them with the Senate.''
At the same time, the House's approach has risks. High technology businesses strongly back an expansion of visas for skilled workers. Agribusiness and service industries are most interested in guest worker programs. In a comprehensive bill, like the Senate's, all the business groups have an incentive to back the whole measure to make sure that their particular component remains. If the House separates the components, businesses could get behind some -- but not all -- of the piecemeal bills.
''You've got to keep a holistic momentum going because if you disaggregate, you run the risk of fragmentation,'' Mr. Brown said.
The most involved group has been the U.S. Chamber of Commerce, which helped broker a deal with organized labor on a guest worker program that was critical to the success of the Senate bill and ran national radio and television advertisements in the week leading up to the legislation's final passage in the Senate. Four weeks ago, the group met with the 120 largest trade associations among its members to plot strategy. Engagement with local and state chambers of commerce has been constant.
''The goal is to get a duplicate message, an echo chamber,'' said Bruce Josten, the chamber's longtime chief lobbyist.
But, he said, ''The House is entirely different from the Senate.''
Business lobbyists say that hostility in the House may be overstated. Maybe 40 to 60 conservative legislators view business groups based in Washington with suspicion, but many of them were never going to side with business on immigration.
Still, the skepticism toward business is pervasive in certain sectors. Some Republicans are instead looking to conservative groups like the Club for Growth and Heritage Action for guidance.
''So many of them have come to the well so many times for their corporate welfare handouts that they have lost all credibility with the base of the Republican Party,'' said Representative Mick Mulvaney, Republican of South Carolina. ''The days of the Chamber of Commerce being the gold standard may be coming to an end if they aren't already in the past.''
Indeed, when they have had the chance, Republicans have relished the opportunity to strike a populist stance against big business. The entire House Republican leadership has been castigating President Obama's decision to delay for a year the mandate that large employers buy their workers health insurance, but press on with an insurance-buying mandate for individuals.
''Obama gave big business a pass,'' Ms. Jenkins said in an interview. ''That was a major shift. The administration represents big business.''
The Club for Growth does not see itself as a business group, said its president, Chris Chocola. ''We're a pro-free-market group,'' he said, which is not always in line with business interests.
The Club for Growth does do one thing that explicitly pro-business groups do not. ''We participate in primary elections; they don't,'' Mr. Chocola said. ''And the greatest motivating factor for a member of Congress is keeping their job.''
Many business groups are trying to reach members of Congress where it matters most -- in their home districts. John Feinblatt, the chief policy adviser for Mayor Michael R. Bloomberg of New York and chairman of the Partnership for a New American Economy, said his group has drawn up a list of roughly 40 House Republicans to watch, and the group plans to mobilize in 14 states, and more districts, during the August recess.
''The bottom line is, this is not a fight that's going to be won in Washington,'' Mr. Feinblatt said. ''It's going to be won in districts across the country as representatives hear from local business owners, from local chambers of commerce, from job creators at home, all saying that passing immigration legislation is crucial to the success of their local economy.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Senator John McCain with reporters at the Capitol last month. He has urged advocacy groups to press House members. (PHOTOGRAPH BY CHRISTOPHER GREGORY/THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: IMMIGRATION (92%); LEGISLATION (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); IMMIGRATION LAW (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); LOBBYING (89%); SMALL BUSINESS (78%); FOREIGN LABOR (78%); ECONOMIC MIGRATION (78%); BUSINESS & PROFESSIONAL ASSOCIATIONS (73%); LABOR FORCE (72%); APPROVALS (67%)

ORGANIZATION: BUSINESS ROUNDTABLE (54%)

PERSON: JOHN MCCAIN (89%); JOHN BOEHNER (78%); LYNN JENKINS (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: ARIZONA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: July 20, 2013



590 of 937 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 20, 2013
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; YOUR MONEY; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1592 words

HEADLINE: Frayed Prospects, Despite a Degree

BYLINE: By TARA SIEGEL BERNARD

 BODY:
Daniel Toole is a 28-year-old architect in Seattle who plans to attend Harvard's master's program in urban design. But instead of paying his way with graduate student loans, he is trying to raise money by selling a slice of his future earnings to investors.
He needs $80,000, even after scholarships and grants. Mr. Toole wants to finance a big chunk of that through a new company called Pave, which connects people like him with ''backers.'' If he reaches his goal and raises $30,000 from Pave investors, he will pay them 7 percent of his projected annual salary for 10 years.
''If I decide to go into the Peace Corps or do something like work for a major firm that didn't pay well for the first couple years out of school, the percentage of total income would be quite a bit lower than standard 10-year loan paybacks,'' said Mr. Toole, who has commitments for nearly $11,000 so far. 
The program comes with other perks: the investors, who clearly want to see their human investments succeed, often double as mentors.
''This is me reaching out and seeing if I can get access to people who can guide me through my career and push me around through their own networks,'' Mr. Toole added. ''I need solid financial mentorship. I am not great with money, and my parents cannot provide that for me.''
This alternative form of financing is unlikely to put even a tiny dent in the vast market for federal and private student loans. But with student debt approaching more than $1.2 trillion, particularly at a time when young graduates are facing high unemployment, it's not that surprising that some people find the idea alluring. Viewed through another prism, critics call it a form of indentured servitude.
The program enrollees I spoke with found the whole idea liberating. They said they preferred to pay back a living being who took a risk instead of a faceless institution; it felt less like a loan, they said, and more like an opportunity. If a borrower wants to take a year to start a new company, for instance, or their income drops below, say, the poverty level, they aren't required to make payments. The risk is shouldered by the investor.
The whole notion of using a portion of your future income to pay for higher education recently made headlines in Oregon. The state Legislature there approved a bill that would create a pilot program: instead of tuition, all students enrolled in state colleges would pay, say, 3 percent of their future income for about 20 years into a state-administered fund. That means some would pay more for their education than others; the program's supporters say people should think about it as a social insurance program, like Social Security.
Pave and its competitors, including a company called Upstart, operate differently. Upstart, for instance, tries to estimate what you are likely to earn, based on factors including the college attended, the field of study and grade point average, among other things. ''Harvard M.B.A.'s have a very high earning potential,'' said Dave Girouard, the founder of Upstart and a former Google executive, ''and that means they can raise more money for a lower portion of income.''
Among its small crop of first users, individuals have raised about $25,000 on average, though Rachel Honeth Kim, a Harvard graduate with an M.B.A., recently raised $100,000 from 37 investors, including Mr. Girouard.
Many of the people enrolled with companies like Pave and Upstart use the money to finance their own companies and ideas, or, like Mr. Toole, to further their education or pay off existing student debt. A freshman seeking to bankroll an entire college education isn't the type of candidate these sites are seeking, at least not now.
The companies are also ushering the most promising candidates onto their programs, often with big entrepreneurial plans or causes that are likely to catch investors' attention. But nobody is guaranteed to raise enough money to meet their goals.
There are other risks, too. If a person is wildly or even moderately successful, they may pay far more than they would owe using a traditional loan. And people with big dreams in lower-paying professions may not necessarily raise enough to cover their education costs.
Of course, if borrowers have enough income to pay their obligations but fail to, the whole experience will begin to feel more like a traditional loan. Delinquencies will be reported to the big credit bureaus. Collection agencies will get involved. (Borrowers will be held to their contracts. Pave and Upstart also had discussions with the Consumer Financial Protection Bureau, a federal regulator that oversees financial products and services.)
Participants in these programs also need to figure out whether they would fare better using federal student loans and programs. Some graduates with high debt loads relative to their income can reduce those payments using one of the federal government's income-based repayment programs, which caps payments at 10 to 15 percent of income and discharges remaining debt after 20 or 25 years. Public service and nonprofit workers may be eligible to have any remaining debt discharged after 10 years of payments.
Keeping all of that in mind, here's a closer look at how some of these companies work.
PAVE You must be 18 to join, but the company said there was greater demand for people who were at least in their senior year of college. Given those demographics, close to half the people are using the money raised to repay debt, while others are using the money to pursue a big idea like making films or to further their education. Once the company verifies that individuals are who they say they are, and they pass its financial and credit check, they may create a video campaign and online pitch.
Sal Lahoud, one of Pave's co-founders, said it used historical guidance based on what the average person had earned in a particular field to estimate a candidate's future income, which helped it determine how much they were likely to raise successfully. It's ultimately up to the prospects to decide what percentage of their earnings they are comfortable signing away for the next 10 years, though it can be no more than 10 percent of their annual income.
There is no cap on the amount repaid to investors, but prospects can always decide to pay their backers five times the original amount, unless other terms are set. ''If you are doing amazing, why should the people who invested in you early on not participate?'' Mr. Lahoud asked. ''We built a contract that balances both sides very well. The investors take full downside and full upside.''
Borrowers don't pay anything if annual income falls below 150 percent of the federal poverty line.
Pave takes its share, too: 3 percent of the amount the individual raises, and it charges a 1.5 percent servicing fee on payments made to the investors, who are estimated to earn about 5 to 8 percent on their investment.
So far, more than 4,000 prospects have applied to the program, with more than 1,000 backers. But the service opened to the public only six weeks ago. About 30 people have either received all of their funding or are still currently raising money, for a grand total of $550,000. About 130 more prospects have been invited to start campaigns, which will be introduced on the Web site over the next few months.
UPSTART Though the company plans on opening the program to more people, right now it's accessible only to college seniors and people who graduated from a four-year college or a graduate program within the last eight years. You also need to be in reasonably good shape creditwise, meaning you need a FICO score of at least 640. (Having no credit history is acceptable).
The maximum candidates can share is 7 percent of their projected annual income (over 10 years), which is calculated using its own model.
As with Pave, there's nothing stopping a potential high-earner from changing course and deciding to become a social worker or a teacher. That's the risk the investor takes, though Mr. Girouard says they aim to generate investor returns of about 8 percent on average. (My colleague Paul Sullivan wrote about them from the investor's perspective last month).
People earning less than $30,000 annually are not required to make payments, but the repayment term extends a year. The maximum they can ever pay back is five times the amount raised.
The company collects 3 percent of the money raised, and it charges investors an annual fee of 0.50 percent of the amount invested, not unlike a mutual fund. Both Pave and Upstart allow only accredited investors to participate, which means having an annual income more than $200,000 or a net worth above $1 million.
LUMNI This company, which in 2002 helped bankroll its first student in Chile, is open to all college students, though it aims to help those from lower-income families. Investors ultimately decide which students they want to finance. As at the other sites, students also agree to pay back a set percentage of their projected future income to their investors -- a maximum of 15 percent in the United States -- for up to 120 months after they graduate. Lumni, which started operating in the United States in 2010, has helped 27 students raise money here (and more than 3,000 in Chile, Peru, Mexico and Colombia). It's not accepting new applications from American students right now because it is currently analyzing how its first crop of graduates performed. ''We see our relationship more like the one angel investors have with entrepreneurs,'' said Felipe Vergara, the company's chief executive.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Daniel Toole, 28, an architect in Seattle, is trying to raise $30,000 through Pave so he can seek a master's degree at Harvard. (PHOTOGRAPH BY STUART ISETT FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) (B4) DRAWINGS: DRAWING (DRAWINGS BY JAMES BEST Jr./ THE NEW YORK TIMES) (B1)
 DRAWING (DRAWING BY ROBERT NEUBECKER) (B4) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: COLLEGES & UNIVERSITIES (90%); STUDENT LOANS (90%); STUDENT FINANCIAL AID (90%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (89%); GRADUATE & PROFESSIONAL SCHOOLS (89%); POOR POPULATION (78%); FUNDRAISING (77%); WAGES & SALARIES (77%); SCHOLARSHIPS & GRANTS (77%); TUITION FEES (77%); PERSONAL DEBT (77%); STUDENT EXPENSES (77%); COMPANY EARNINGS (77%); LEGISLATION (63%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (63%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (63%); POVERTY & HOMELESSNESS (62%); APPROVALS (50%)

ORGANIZATION: PEACE CORPS (56%)

GEOGRAPHIC: SEATTLE, WA, USA (93%) WASHINGTON, USA (93%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: July 20, 2013



591 of 937 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 20, 2013
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 10

LENGTH: 944 words

HEADLINE: Going, in Uncertainty, Where No Other Big City Has

BYLINE: By MONICA DAVEY

 BODY:
DETROIT -- This city awoke on Friday in bankruptcy proceedings, a place no American city of its size has ever been, and reminders of the uncharted, uncertain nature of the circumstance were all around.
Well into the workday, the morning after a state-appointed emergency manager filed for Chapter 9 bankruptcy protection for the city, a woman paused outside the Detroit municipal building, inquiring whether the place was closed. The receptionist at the mayor's office (which, like the rest of city offices, was open as usual) said she had received a few calls from similarly puzzled residents, not to mention a caller from Texas who said he wanted to make an offer to buy the city. And one resident on the East Side, told of the city's bankruptcy filing in federal court, wondered aloud whether she now ought to move away.
''Mostly what we're getting are questions,'' said Saunteel Jenkins, the president of Detroit's City Council. ''City employees want to know whether they'll get paid. Constituents want to know what it means for services. People want to know, what does this mean for me?'' 
Although Detroit's slide from an industrial powerhouse into financial ruin had been long and slow, and the prospect of bankruptcy has loomed here for months, residents were only beginning to wrestle with how the move might change life. If immediate shifts were, at least for now, barely noticeable -- ''It's all just court papers,'' in the words of one resident -- many said they were anxious about what the coming months will mean for a city truly at a crossroads. Were they on the brink of a fresh start, with faster response times by the police and more working streetlights, as state officials have promised, or a further hollowing out of a city that lost a quarter of its population in the last decade?
''If we're broke, we're broke,'' Cicero Lewis said as he walked down a street where only a few houses remained, along with occasional mounds of trash, a forgotten pair of boots, a discarded suitcase. ''If this is going to help the city, then O.K.,'' Mr. Lewis said. ''Bankruptcy could be good. Let's see.''
For some, and even some who predict that bankruptcy might ultimately revive the city, doubts linger about the way Detroit, which is more than 82 percent black and dominated by Democrats, finds itself in this moment. Gov. Rick Snyder, who is white and a Republican, authorized the bankruptcy filing, which required no approval from the mayor or council. ''No deals should happen without our elected officials,'' said the Rev. Charles Williams II, who leads the Detroit chapter of the National Action Network, adding that protests were planned next week. ''When did the governor become our mayor?''
But as word of the bankruptcy spread, officials here raced on Friday to assure workers and residents that business was proceeding as usual. Kevyn D. Orr, the state-appointed emergency manager, was meeting with all city department heads, his spokesman said, and sending e-mail to the city's nearly 10,000 workers. The city has said that it hopes to emerge from bankruptcy by the fall of 2014, an ambitious timeline for a complex case that court filings say involves more than 100,000 creditors.
For now, Mr. Orr said his message to the public will be simple: ''We're open for business. Your garbage truck is going to come. Potholes are going to be filled -- hopefully better than in the past.''
In an interview, Mr. Snyder said that his greatest worry in this situation was that some in the general public might be confused or worse. ''This is something that can be scary to people,'' he said, adding later, ''This is about continuing normal services and giving people assurance that normal services are going to happen.''
As officials have tried to explain the circumstances to residents here in the weeks leading up to the bankruptcy, they repeatedly pointed to the city's diminished services -- broken ambulances and uncollected garbage -- even as Detroit's ability to pay for services was shrinking. The city now owes 38 cents of every dollar to pay its debts, the state says, and, if left alone, that is expected to leap to 65 cents for every dollar by 2017.
''It's obvious we need some help,'' said Norman Mighty, a resident who said he was unsurprised by the bankruptcy filing, relieved even that it had finally come. A 16-year-old girl, who said she rarely emerged from her house because it was the only one left on her darkened block, said any change would be good. And, at a club where members had to replace first-floor windows with bricks to end the break-ins and where members say the police took three days to respond to a burglary report, Charlene Kaslowski sounded hopeful. ''Maybe it really can come back,'' she said.
Others were unconvinced, and troubled by the uncertainty of the course ahead and the prospect of added stigma in a city that has already had its share. Some suggested that if bankruptcy was a preferable alternative, other major cities like New York, would have ventured there during their own financial crises rather than solving them outside of court. Some had long lists of questions: When does this end? How much will the thousands of retired city workers lose in benefits? And what will a post-bankruptcy Detroit look like?
''It's the word bankruptcy,'' Sharon Bowman said, ''it just doesn't sit right with me.'' Ms. Bowman, who has lived here for nearly five decades, recalled an instance when she called 911 because she suspected she was having a stroke, then waited, she said, for what felt like ages. ''It's a total disaster here,'' she said. ''I tell you what -- if I was younger or had more education, I would zoom out of here.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: The day after in Detroit: The skyline highlights the old and the new. Diane Henry, top right, sold water with her daughter, Miracle, left, and granddaughter, Lele. Meanwhile, a scrapper worked atop a building downtown, while a city worker threw out the trash. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY NATHAN WEBER FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES
 STEPHEN McGEE FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (91%); CITIES (91%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY COURTS (90%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY LAW (90%); CITY LIFE (90%); BUSINESS INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (89%); MAYORS (89%); CITY GOVERNMENT (89%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (78%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (78%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (78%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (78%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (77%); CIVIL SERVICES (76%); APPOINTMENTS (72%); URBAN DEVELOPMENT (72%); ECONOMIC NEWS (72%)

PERSON: RICK SNYDER (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: July 20, 2013



592 of 937 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 20, 2013
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; The Arts/Cultural Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1055 words

HEADLINE: Detroit's Creditors Eye Its Art Collection

BYLINE: By RANDY KENNEDY and MONICA DAVEY; Randy Kennedy reported from New York and Monica Davey from Detroit. Mary Chapman contributed reporting from Detroit.

 BODY:
As Detroit files for bankruptcy -- the largest American city ever to do so -- the impressive collection of the Detroit Institute of Arts has become a political bargaining chip in a fight that could drag on for years between the city and its army of creditors, who have said in no uncertain terms that the artworks must be considered a salable asset.
''We haven't proposed selling any asset,'' said Bill Nowling, a spokesman for Kevyn D. Orr, the state-appointed emergency manager appointed to deal with Detroit's debts, which could amount to more than $18 billion. ''But we haven't taken any asset off the table. We can't. We cannot negotiate in good faith with our creditors by taking assets off the table. And all of our creditors have asked about the worth of the D.I.A. And we've told them that they're welcome to find out.''
Unlike most art museums around the country, which are owned by nonprofit corporations that hold a collection in trust for citizens, the institute is owned by Detroit, as is much of its collection -- which is not particularly deep but includes gems by artists like Bruegel, Caravaggio, Rembrandt and van Gogh. It is considered among the top 10 encyclopedic museums in the country. 
Museums do not generally appraise the market value of their works beyond a blanket amount for insurance policies. But experts have speculated that the institute's works could bring more than $2 billion if sold.
About a month ago, the institute's officials were contacted by Christie's auction house, which asked for an inventory of works and asked if appraisers could visit to assess the collection. It is unclear whether such a visit took place and whether it was creditors or someone else who enlisted Christie's to begin an appraisal. (Mr. Nowling said that the emergency manager's office did not do so, and Christie's declined to comment.)
But as Detroit's financial fate comes before a federal bankruptcy judge, it is clear that the desire of creditors to determine the collection's worth will not go away.
The museum, which has hired a well-known bankruptcy lawyer, Richard Levin, to advise it on its possible exposure, declined to comment on Friday. But on its Facebook page, the museum said: ''As a municipal bankruptcy of this size is unprecedented, the D.I.A. will continue to carefully monitor the situation, fully confident that the emergency manager, the governor and the courts will act in the best interest of the City, the public and the museum.''
Few large American art museums have found themselves in the financial cross hairs quite as often as the Detroit Institute of Arts. Not long after it was founded in 1885, it became enmeshed in a lawsuit that led to a loss of city appropriations, putting it in budgetary straits. In 1955, during a city financial crisis, the museum's acquisitions mostly ceased. And in 1973, during another economic downturn, it had to close temporarily.
Last month, after the first rumblings that creditors were pressing the issue of the collection as an asset, Bill Schuette, Michigan's attorney general, issued a forcefully worded opinion saying that the artworks -- under the state's trust law and other laws -- were ''held in trust for the public'' and could be sold only for the purpose of acquiring additional art, not for satisfying municipal debts. He added that in decades of financial turmoil in Detroit, ''at no time have the people demanded their most precious cultural resources be sold in order to satisfy financial obligations.''
Under federal bankruptcy proceedings, however, it is unclear what force that opinion would have. Even the question of what would happen if the city decided to sell the art is difficult to answer -- whether, for example, the museum would appeal to the bankruptcy judge or would be able to go to another court to try to prevent it. Museum officials say the sale of even a part of an institution's core collection in effect renders a museum defunct: donors stop giving money and art, attendance declines and other support dries up.
(The Detroit Institute of Arts' annual attendance is nearly 600,000. Last year three Michigan counties agreed to institute a property tax increase earmarked for the museum, putting it on a secure financial footing for the first time in decades.)
Politically, and perhaps as a negotiating tactic, the question of the collection's fate is being cast as a choice between measurable benefits, like city pensions, which could be cut to satisfy creditors, and the much harder-to-measure benefits of cultural assets.
''It's hard to go to a pensioner on a fixed income and say 'We're going to cut 20 percent of your income or 30 percent or whatever the number is, but art is eternal,' '' Mr. Nowling said. ''For people, that's a hard distinction. I think it's a distinction that some of the patrons of the D.I.A. have a hard time understanding. We're talking about real people here with real decisions that have real impact on their lives.''
He added, of the art works: ''It doesn't mean we're proposing to sell them. But we need to know how much they're worth and we need to know what value are they bringing back to the city.''
Bankruptcy lawyers say the issue of the value of such cultural assets goes beyond philosophical or moral arguments. For a bankruptcy judge, the questions could include whether the sale of a city's artworks would have long-term economic implications -- depressing tourism, harming real-estate values and the value of other cultural institutions, for example -- in a way that sets a city up for financial failure again down the road.
Samuel Sachs II, who was the director of the museum from 1985 to 1997, said on Friday, ''If they do attack this, it will be the end of one of the most venerable cultural institutions in the country, not just in Detroit.''
He added: ''If you could sell off Detroit's hospitals and its universities, would you do that, too? If you do things like this, you're basically spelling the end of the city as an ongoing entity.''
On Friday, the corridors and galleries of the institute's Beaux-Arts building were filled with a sizable crowd of patrons, with bankruptcy -- not just aesthetics -- on some minds. ''I came over here almost in defiance,'' said Alice Jackson, a Detroit retiree. ''Because if they start selling off assets, that will be a big blow to our morale.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: The collection of the Detroit Institute of Arts has become a bargaining chip in the city's bankruptcy battle. (PHOTOGRAPH BY FABRIZIO COSTANTINI FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) (C1)
 Lea Schelke, a docent at the Detroit Institute of Arts, with van Gogh's self-portrait and his ''Postman Joseph Roulin.'' (PHOTOGRAPH BY CARLOS OSORIO/ASSOCIATED PRESS) (C6) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ART COLLECTING (90%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (90%); MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (90%); AUCTIONS (89%); ART DEALERS (89%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY COURTS (78%); CITY LIFE (78%); CITIES (78%); ARTISTS & PERFORMERS (78%); APPOINTMENTS (76%); NONPROFIT ORGANIZATIONS (73%); LAWYERS (62%); JUDGES (60%)

COMPANY: FACEBOOK INC (51%)

TICKER: FB (NASDAQ) (51%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS519130 INTERNET PUBLISHING & BROADCASTING & WEB SEARCH PORTALS (51%)

GEOGRAPHIC: MICHIGAN, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: July 20, 2013



593 of 937 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 20, 2013
The New York Times on the Web

SECTION: Section ; Column 0; Politics; Pg. 

LENGTH: 2144 words

HEADLINE: Transcript: Obama Speaks of Verdict Through the Prism of African-American Experience

 BODY:
Following is a transcript of President Obama's remarks on race in America in the White House briefing room. (Transcript courtesy of Federal News Service.)
PRESIDENT OBAMA: Well, I -- I wanted to come out here first of all to tell you that Jay is prepared for all your questions and is -- is very much looking forward to the session.
Second thing is I want to let you know that over the next couple of weeks there are going to obviously be a whole range of issues -- immigration, economics, et cetera -- we'll try to arrange a fuller press conference to address your questions.
The reason I actually wanted to come out today is not to take questions, but to speak to an issue that obviously has gotten a lot of attention over the course of the last week, the issue of the Trayvon Martin ruling. I gave an -- a preliminary statement right after the ruling on Sunday, but watching the debate over the course of the last week I thought it might be useful for me to expand on my thoughts a little bit. 
First of all, you know, I -- I want to make sure that, once again, I send my thoughts and prayers, as well as Michelle's, to the family of Trayvon Martin, and to remark on the incredible grace and dignity with which they've dealt with the entire situation. I can only imagine what they're going through, and it's -- it's remarkable how they've handled it.
The second thing I want to say is to reiterate what I said on Sunday, which is there are going to be a lot of arguments about the legal -- legal issues in the case. I'll let all the legal analysts and talking heads address those issues.
The judge conducted the trial in a professional manner. The prosecution and the defense made their arguments. The juries were properly instructed that in a -- in a case such as this, reasonable doubt was relevant, and they rendered a verdict. And once the jury's spoken, that's how our system works.
But I did want to just talk a little bit about context and how people have responded to it and how people are feeling. You know, when Trayvon Martin was first shot, I said that this could have been my son. Another way of saying that is Trayvon Martin could have been me 35 years ago. And when you think about why, in the African-American community at least, there's a lot of pain around what happened here, I think it's important to recognize that the African-American community is looking at this issue through a set of experiences and a history that -- that doesn't go away.
There are very few African-American men in this country who haven't had the experience of being followed when they were shopping in a department store. That includes me.
And there are very few African-American men who haven't had the experience of walking across the street and hearing the locks click on the doors of cars. That happens to me, at least before I was a senator. There are very few African-Americans who haven't had the experience of getting on an elevator and a woman clutching her purse nervously and holding her breath until she had a chance to get off. That happens often.
And you know, I don't want to exaggerate this, but those sets of experiences inform how the African-American community interprets what happened one night in Florida. And it's inescapable for people to bring those experiences to bear.
The African-American community is also knowledgeable that there is a history of racial disparities in the application of our criminal laws, everything from the death penalty to enforcement of our drug laws. And that ends up having an impact in terms of how people interpret the case.
Now, this isn't to say that the African-American community is naïve about the fact that African-American young men are disproportionately involved in the criminal justice system, that they are disproportionately both victims and perpetrators of violence. It's not to make excuses for that fact, although black folks do interpret the reasons for that in a historical context.
We understand that some of the violence that takes place in poor black neighborhoods around the country is born out of a very violent past in this country, and that the poverty and dysfunction that we see in those communities can be traced to a very difficult history.
And so the fact that sometimes that's unacknowledged adds to the frustration. And the fact that a lot of African-American boys are painted with a broad brush and the excuse is given, well, there are these statistics out there that show that African-American boys are more violent -- using that as an excuse to then see sons treated differently causes pain.
I think the African-American community is also not naïve in understanding that statistically somebody like Trayvon Martin was probably statistically more likely to be shot by a peer than he was by somebody else.
So -- so folks understand the challenges that exist for African-American boys, but they get frustrated, I think, if they feel that there's no context for it or -- and that context is being denied. And -- and that all contributes, I think, to a sense that if a white male teen was involved in the same kind of scenario, that, from top to bottom, both the outcome and the aftermath might have been different.
Now, the question for me at least, and I think, for a lot of folks is, where do we take this? How do we learn some lessons from this and move in a positive direction? You know, I think it's understandable that there have been demonstrations and vigils and protests, and some of that stuff is just going to have to work its way through as long as it remains nonviolent. If I see any violence, then I will remind folks that that dishonors what happened to Trayvon Martin and his family.
But beyond protests or vigils, the question is, are there some concrete things that we might be able to do? I know that Eric Holder is reviewing what happened down there, but I think it's important for people to have some clear expectations here. Traditionally, these are issues of state and local government -- the criminal code. And law enforcement has traditionally done it at the state and local levels, not at the federal levels.
That doesn't mean, though, that as a nation, we can't do some things that I think would be productive. So let me just give a couple of specifics that I'm still bouncing around with my staff so we're not rolling out some five-point plan, but some areas where I think all of us could potentially focus.
Number one, precisely because law enforcement is often determined at the state and local level, I think it'd be productive for the Justice Department -- governors, mayors to work with law enforcement about training at the state and local levels in order to reduce the kind of mistrust in the system that sometimes currently exists.
You know, when I was in Illinois I passed racial profiling legislation. And it actually did just two simple things. One, it collected data on traffic stops and the race of the person who was stopped. But the other thing was it resourced us training police departments across the state on how to think about potential racial bias and ways to further professionalize what they were doing.
And initially, the police departments across the state were resistant, but actually they came to recognize that if it was done in a fair, straightforward way, that it would allow them to do their jobs better and communities would have more confidence in them and in turn be more helpful in applying the law. And obviously law enforcement's got a very tough job.
So that's one area where I think there are a lot of resources and best practices that could be brought to bear if state and local governments are receptive. And I think a lot of them would be. And -- and let's figure out other ways for us to push out that kind of training.
Along the same lines, I think it would be useful for us to examine some state and local laws to see if it -- if they are designed in such a way that they may encourage the kinds of altercations and confrontations and tragedies that we saw in the Florida case, rather than defuse potential altercations.
I know that there's been commentary about the fact that the Stand Your Ground laws in Florida were not used as a defense in the case.
On the other hand, if we're sending a message as a society in our communities that someone who is armed potentially has the right to use those firearms even if there's a way for them to exit from a situation, is that really going to be contributing to the kind of peace and security and order that we'd like to see?
And for those who resist that idea that we should think about something like these Stand Your Ground laws, I just ask people to consider if Trayvon Martin was of age and armed, could he have stood his ground on that sidewalk? And do we actually think that he would have been justified in shooting Mr. Zimmerman, who had followed him in a car, because he felt threatened?
And if the answer to that question is at least ambiguous, it seems to me that we might want to examine those kinds of laws.
Number three -- and this is a long-term project: We need to spend some time in thinking about how do we bolster and reinforce our African-American boys? And this is something that Michelle and I talk a lot about. There are a lot of kids out there who need help who are getting a lot of negative reinforcement. And is there more that we can do to give them the sense that their country cares about them and values them and is willing to invest in them?
You know, I'm not naïve about the prospects of some brand-new federal program.
I'm not sure that that's what we're talking about here. But I do recognize that as president, I've got some convening power.
And there are a lot of good programs that are being done across the country on this front. And for us to be able to gather together business leaders and local elected officials and clergy and celebrities and athletes and figure out how are we doing a better job helping young African-American men feel that they're a full part of this society and that -- and that they've got pathways and avenues to succeed -- you know, I think that would be a pretty good outcome from what was obviously a tragic situation. And we're going to spend some time working on that and thinking about that.
And then finally, I think it's going to be important for all of us to do some soul-searching. You know, there have been talk about should we convene a conversation on race. I haven't seen that be particularly productive when politicians try to organize conversations. They end up being stilted and politicized, and folks are locked into the positions they already have.
On the other hand, in families and churches and workplaces, there's a possibility that people are a little bit more honest, and at least you ask yourself your own questions about, am I wringing as much bias out of myself as I can; am I judging people, as much as I can, based on not the color of their skin but the content of their character? That would, I think, be an appropriate exercise in the wake of this tragedy.
And let me just leave you with -- with a final thought, that as difficult and challenging as this whole episode has been for a lot of people, I don't want us to lose sight that things are getting better. Each successive generation seems to be making progress in changing attitudes when it comes to race. I doesn't mean that we're in a postracial society. It doesn't mean that racism is eliminated. But you know, when I talk to Malia and Sasha and I listen to their friends and I see them interact, they're better than we are. They're better than we were on these issues. And that's true in every community that I've visited all across the country.
And so, you know, we have to be vigilant and we have to work on these issues, and those of us in authority should be doing everything we can to encourage the better angels of our nature as opposed to using these episodes to heighten divisions. But we should also have confidence that kids these days I think have more sense than we did back then, and certainly more than our parents did or our grandparents did, and that along this long, difficult journey, you know, we're becoming a more perfect union -- not a perfect union, but a more perfect union.
All right? Thank you, guys.
Copyright © 2013 by Federal News Service, LLC, 1120 G Street NW, Suite 990, Washington, DC 20005-3801 USA. Federal News Service is a private firm not affiliated with the federal government. No portion of this transcript may be copied, sold or retransmitted without the written authority of Federal News Service, LLC. Copyright is not claimed as to any part of the original work prepared by a United States government officer or employee as a part of that person's official duties. For information on subscribing to the FNS Transcripts Database or any other FNS product, please email info@fednews.com or call 1-202-347-1400.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Text

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TRANSCRIPTS (91%); US PRESIDENTS (91%); VERDICTS (89%); AFRICAN AMERICANS (89%); JURY TRIALS (85%); PRESS CONFERENCES (78%); IMMIGRATION (55%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (91%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (95%)

LOAD-DATE: July 20, 2013



594 of 937 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 20, 2013
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 567 words

HEADLINE: U.S., Urging Worker Safety, Outlines Steps for Bangladesh to Regain Its Trade Privileges

BYLINE: By STEVEN GREENHOUSE

 BODY:
The Obama administration publicly recommended on Friday a series of steps that the Bangladesh government should take to have its trade privileges with the United States restored.
Three weeks after announcing it would suspend Bangladesh's trade preferences, the administration released an ''action plan,'' which calls on Bangladesh to significantly increase the number of labor, fire and building inspectors and to improve their training. The plan urges Bangladesh to impose stiffer penalties, including taking away export licenses, on garment factories that violate labor, fire or building safety standards. 
In addition, the administration recommended that Bangladesh create a public database of all garment factories for reporting labor, fire and building inspections, including information on violations found, penalties assessed and violations corrected, with the names of the lead inspectors.
The administration suspended Bangladesh's trade privileges after a widespread outcry that the country was doing too little to safeguard worker' rights and safety in light of the Rana Plaza factory building collapse in April that killed 1,129 workers and the Tazreen factory fire in November that killed 112.
The action plan calls for establishing ''an effective complaint mechanism, including a hot line'' for workers to anonymously report fire, building and workers' rights violations.
With regard to the garment industry, the Obama administration said Bangladesh should enact and carry out measures to address concerns that factories were suppressing workers' rights to unionize and bargain collectively. The administration urged Bangladesh to ensure that unions and their supporters do not face reprisals and to ''expeditiously'' grant recognition to unionization efforts when enough worker signatures have been gathered to meet legal requirements.
Union leaders in Bangladesh say that after they gather the needed 30 percent of worker signatures at a company to qualify for union recognition, the country's labor department gives those lists of names to factory owners, who then often proceed to fire union supporters or bully them into withdrawing their names from the list -- so that there is no longer the 30 percent needed. Labor leaders say that is a major reason so few of the nation's 5,500 garment factories and four million garment workers are unionized.
On Monday, the Bangladesh government adopted a new labor law that it said would be critical in making it easier for workers to unionize. One provision bars government labor officials from giving that list of union supporters to factory owners. Nonetheless, Bangladeshi labor leaders pointed to several new provisions to assert that the law was in ways a step backward and made it harder to unionize.
The Obama administration called on Bangladesh to publicly report information on the status and outcomes of individual unionization efforts and on whether the government had officially registered them, including the time taken to process unionization applications and the basis for any denials. It said Bangladesh should make sure that its export-processing zones allow full freedom to unionize.
The administration also said Bangladesh should proceed with a ''transparent investigation'' into last year's killing of Aminul Islam, a prominent union organizer. Bangladeshi news media have reported that government officials might have been involved.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: INSPECTIONS (90%); WORKPLACE HEALTH & SAFETY (90%); BUILDING & HOUSING CODES (90%); APPAREL MFG (90%); LABOR & EMPLOYMENT LAW (89%); GARMENT WORKERS (89%); LABOR UNIONS (89%); EXPORT TRADE (78%); EXPORT CONTROLS (77%); FACTORY FIRES (76%); BUILDING & HOUSING INSPECTIONS (76%); FINES & PENALTIES (76%); SPECIAL ECONOMIC ZONES (75%); EXPORT & IMPORT LAW (75%); NONTARIFF BARRIERS (73%); LABOR DEPARTMENTS (71%); FIREFIGHTERS & FIREFIGHTING (71%); STANDARDS & MEASUREMENTS (70%); LICENSES & PERMITS (70%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (89%)

GEOGRAPHIC: BANGLADESH (99%); UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: July 20, 2013



595 of 937 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 20, 2013
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; LETTERS; Pg. 18

LENGTH: 566 words

HEADLINE: A Dementia Omen, or Normal Aging?

 BODY:
To the Editor:
Re ''Dementia's Signs May Come Early'' (front page, July 18):
I am a neurologist. If you are looking for early signs of dementia, ask the family, not the patient. Given all the recent attention to Alzheimer's disease, many people with the cognitive changes of normal aging become frightened, and fearing the worst, diagnose dementia.
There are also large numbers of people with pseudodementia. These people may seem to be demented, but the brain is normal. Such people may be too busy, too stressed, too depressed and so forth, so their thinking and behavior may suggest a dementia that is not present. 
Ask the patient's daughter or son: Do you think the memory loss goes beyond what is normal for age? If the answer is no, then until and unless a medication is available that prevents cognitive decline, detailed investigations may have more side effects than benefit.
MATTHEW MENKEN Princeton, N.J., July 18, 2013
To the Editor:
Even when formal testing may not reveal evidence of dementia, we must not overlook the complaints and concerns of our older adults when it comes to memory and poor concentration.
Yes, we must not forget that many of our depressed elderly show signs of ''subjective cognitive decline.'' Frequently older adults who are clinically depressed freely express concerns about the loss of cognition. Those elderly can be well treated with antidepressants.
We must not also forget that, conversely, many people who do indeed suffer from the first stages of dementia of the Alzheimer type are in denial when loved ones start to notice their intellectual impairment.
PETER KUDLER New York, July 18, 2013
The writer is a psychiatrist.
To the Editor:
Left to its own devices, the dementia industry will have everyone either at risk or at an early stage or deep in the grips of dementia.
The sad truth is that we all forget, and it becomes harder to lay down new memories as we get older. When or if this becomes pathological, especially when it is still mild, is a question that is highly dependent on cultural, social, economic and political factors.
Except for feeding the burgeoning dementia research community and placating those who feel better having a diagnosis, there seems little advantage at this time to pursuing an early diagnosis of a disease that is still without decent therapy when the patient is only destined to get worse.
DANIEL J. BRAUNER Evanston, Ill., July 18, 2013
The author is a geriatrician and an ethicist at the University of Chicago.
To the Editor:
I have been in practice for more than 50 years and want to reassure readers that ''subjective cognitive decline'' used to be called and still should be called ''normal age-related senescence.'' It is and always has been a benign condition. This new diagnosis is highly questionable and will create unnecessary anxiety in our aging population, who already have enough things to worry about.
BENJAMIN SADOCK New York, July 18, 2013
The writer is a professor of psychiatry at New York University School of Medicine.
To the Editor:
Thanks but no thanks for ''Dementia's Signs May Come Early.'' Everyone I know over 65 is terrified of Alzheimer's. Even a friend who just turned 50!
Seems that the more information (and speculation) we get, the more we worry ourselves into ''Alzheimer's anxiety'' (my term).
As the teenagers like to say: T.M.I. (too much information).
ANNE CRAWFORD STORZ Hamden, Conn., July 18, 2013

GRAPHIC: DRAWING (DRAWING BY KAREN BARBOUR) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: DEMENTIA (93%); CENTRAL NERVOUS SYSTEM DRUGS (90%); NEUROSCIENCE (90%); AGING (90%); LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); PHYSICIANS & SURGEONS (90%); DEMENTIA EVALUATION (90%); SENIOR CITIZENS (90%); DISEASES & DISORDERS (89%); ALZHEIMER'S DISEASE (89%); INVESTIGATIONS (88%); PSYCHIATRY (78%); MEMORY DISORDERS (78%); WRITERS (78%); GERIATRICS (77%); DEPRESSION (77%); MENTAL ILLNESS (77%); ANTIDEPRESSANTS (75%); ETHICS (74%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (59%)

GEOGRAPHIC: CHICAGO, IL, USA (51%) ILLINOIS, USA (77%); NEW JERSEY, USA (75%) UNITED STATES (77%)

LOAD-DATE: July 20, 2013



596 of 937 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(Paul Krugman)

PUB-DATE: July 20, 2013

SECTION: OPINION

LENGTH: 552 words

HEADLINE: How Much Should We Worry About A China Shock?

BYLINE: PAUL KRUGMAN


HIGHLIGHT: Beware the indirect effects. 

 BODY:
Suppose that those of us now worried that China's Ponzi bicycle is hitting a brick wall (or, as some readers have suggested, a BRIC wall) are right. How much should the rest of the world worry, and why?
I'd group this under three headings: 
1. "Mechanical" linkages via exports, which are surprisingly small.
2. Commodity prices, which could be a bigger deal.
3. Politics and international stability, which involves some serious risks.
So, on the first: this is what many people immediately think of. China's economy stumbles; China therefore buys less from the rest of the world; and the result is a global slump. Or, maybe not so much.
Some quick, rough, but I think useful math: In 2011, the combined GDP of all the world's economies not including China was slightly over $60 trillion. Meanwhile, Chinese imports of goods and services were about $2 trillion, or around 3 percent of the rest of the world's GDP. 
Now suppose that China has a slowdown of 5 percent relative to trend. Imports would fall more than this; typical estimates of the "income elasticity" of imports (the percentage change from a 1 percent change in GDP, other things equal) are around 2. So we could be looking at a 10 percent fall in Chinese imports - an adverse shock to the rest of the world of one-tenth of 3 percent,or 0.3 percent of GDP. Not nothing, but not catastophic.
And even this is arguably an exaggeration, because a significant part of China's imports are components for its exports,and don't depend on Chinese domestic demand.
As I said, then, the mechanical links through trade flows are relatively small, although they could bulk much larger for some of China's neighbors (but would be smaller for the United States).
Commodity prices are a potentially bigger story. China is a major consumer of raw materials - for example, about 11 percent of world oil consumption. And because the supply and demand of commodities tend to be relatively unresponsive to prices in the short run, a sharp drop in Chinese demand could lead to sharp falls in commodity prices. So the Ponzi bicycle shock could be a bigger deal for countries that sell raw materials, whether they sell to China or not, than it is to China exporters.
Finally, politics and international relations. I am obviously no kind of expert here. But it's obvious, first, that China's political regime is remarkable, even given the annals of history, for the hypocrisy of its position: officially it's building the socialist future,in practice it's presiding over a crony capitalist Gilded Age. Where, then, does the regime's legitimacy come from? Mainly from economic success. Let that success falter,and then what?
And if you really want to get nervous, think about what cynical governments trying to distract their populace from domestic failures have often done in the past. Saber-rattling over some islands somewhere, anyone?
No particular bottom line here, except that you probably want to focus much more on the indirect effects than on the direct export multiplier.
Oh, and a curious aside. Of course I've been reading Michael Pettis, who has been making many of the points I've raised for some time. But I've had a bit of trouble accessing his work in the past couple of days; as of this morning, I get this:
Consider all jokes about Chinese corruption, stimulus, etc.made.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: GROSS DOMESTIC PRODUCT (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); BRIC COUNTRIES (90%); IMPORT TRADE (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); COMMODITIES MARKETS (89%); EXPORT TRADE (89%); CONSUMPTION (75%); OIL & GAS CONSUMPTION (69%)

GEOGRAPHIC: CHINA (99%); UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: July 20, 2013



597 of 937 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(Opinionator)

PUB-DATE: July 20, 2013

SECTION: OPINION

LENGTH: 1605 words

HEADLINE: Who's Your Daddy?

BYLINE: MILES CORAK


HIGHLIGHT: Better job opportunities for the children of the top 1 percent deepen our cynicism about how people get ahead. 

 BODY:
Gus Wenner runs Rollingstone.com; his father gave him the job. But Jann Wenner, the magazine's co-founder and publisher, was quick to assure critics of the appointment process that his son is terribly talented and had to prove himself before being given the reins. Apparently Gus worked his way up from more junior positions with the company, and demonstrated, according to his father, the "drive and discipline and charm, and all the things that show leadership." Gus Wenner is 22 years old.
He is certainly not the only kid just out of college, or even out of high school, working at daddy's firm. Family contacts are a common way of finding both temporary internships and longtime careers. But whether because of blatant nepotism, or a privileged head start in life that nurtures talent and ambition, opportunities for the children of the top 1 percent are not the same as they are for the 99 percent.
This is hardly a shock, but it is precisely the type of inequality that reveals the elusive promise of the "Just Do It" version of the American dream and deepens our cynicism about how people get ahead. As a consequence, it dilutes support for public policies that could address the lack of upward mobility among children born at the bottom, who ought to be given priority. 
A strong tie between adult outcomes and family background rubs Americans the wrong way. When the Pew Charitable Trusts conducted a nationally representative poll asking about the meaning of "the American dream," some typical answers included: "Being free to say or do what you want" and "Being free to accomplish almost anything you want with hard work;" but also "Being able to succeed regardless of the economic circumstances in which you were born."
This is exactly the reason that "the American dream" is not only a defining metaphor for the country, but also why Americans have long been willing to tolerate a good deal more economic inequality than citizens of many other rich countries. A belief in the possibility of upward mobility not only morally justifies inequality as the expression of talents and energies, but also extends a promise to those with lower incomes. After all, why would you be a strong advocate for reducing inequality if you believe that you, or eventually your children, were likely to climb the income ladder?
Hard work and perseverance will always be ingredients for success, but higher inequality has sharply tilted the landscape and made having successful parents, if not essential, certainly a central part of the recipe.
A child's prospects are actually more fluid elsewhere, not just in the most equal countries, like Denmark or Sweden, but even in countries like Canada that have moderate levels of inequality, as I demonstrate in a forthcoming paper in the Journal of Economic Perspectives.
American children raised at the top, and at the bottom, are more likely to land on the same rung of the income ladder as their fathers than their Canadian counterparts. More than one-quarter of sons raised by fathers in the top 10 percent stay in the top 10 percent as adults, and another quarter fall no further than the top third. Meanwhile, half of those raised by fathers in the bottom 10 percent remain at the bottom or rise no further than the bottom third. In Canada there is less stickiness at the top, and children raised in the bottom are more likely to rise to the top half in earnings.
Maternal income was left out of this study and others like it because many women were out of the workforce in past generations. This may have made sense once, but no longer. The achievements of the next generations reaching adulthood will reflect the steep rise in the number of working mothers as well as the increasing tendency of high earners to marry each other. Both these trends have raised family incomes in a way that will reinforce privilege and position.
BUT American parents with high aspirations for their children are not packing their bags for Denmark, or even crossing the Canadian border, particularly if they find any appeal in Jann Wenner's belief in the virtues of talent and energy.
Children, after all, inherit a good deal from their parents: height, beauty, personality, to saying nothing of drive, discipline and perhaps even charm. It should be no surprise that a parent's and a child's incomes are correlated if certain genetic traits or aspects of family culture continue to be as important for success now as they were a generation ago. The relatively small and homogeneous Danish population can hardly be compared to a large and ethnically diverse country like America: perhaps there are just fewer visionary and driven entrepreneurs on the coasts of the North Sea who have equally talented children?
The belief that talent is bred in the bone, and that opportunities are open to anyone with ambition and energy, also has a dangerous corollary. When the lens of public policy is focused on the plight of the poor, this belief can help revive the laissez-faire conception of the poor as "undeserving," the authors of their own predicament. Yet we actually know a good deal about why children of the poor have a higher chance of being stuck in poverty as adults.
The recipes for breaking this intergenerational trap are clear: a nurturing environment in the early years combined with accessible and high-quality health care and education promote the capacities of young children, heighten the development of their skills as they grow older, and ultimately raise their chances of upward mobility.
Talent is nurtured and developed, and even genes are expressed differently depending upon environmental influences.
It is not just demography and inbred entrepreneurial spirit that make the tie between parent and child incomes stronger in America than any other rich country to which it is commonly compared. Differences in public policies also play a role. Less inequality makes opportunity-enhancing policies that are of relatively larger benefit to lower-income families easier to introduce and sustain. Ontario, the most populous Canadian province, is introducing full-day kindergarten, accessible to all 4- and 5-year-olds, without fanfare or a hint of the kind of rhetorical rancor and calamitous opposition that the Obama administration has faced for its proposal to do the same.
THE Danish and Canadian top 1 percent certainly have their share of privilege: the Gus Wenners of the world, talented or not, are not rare. A recent study published by the Russell Sage Foundation showed that about 30 percent of young Danes and 40 percent of Canadians had worked with a firm that at some point also employed their fathers. This is more likely the higher the father's place on the income ladder, rising distinctly and sharply for top earners. In Denmark more than half of sons born to the top 1 percent of fathers had worked for an employer for whom the father also worked, and in Canada the proportion is even higher at nearly 7 of every 10.
This is on a par with the United States, where, according to a 2006 study, up to half of jobs are found through families, friends or acquaintances, with higher wages being paid to those who found jobs through "prior generation male relatives" who actually knew the potential employer or served as a reference.
The difference is that Danes, Swedes and even Canadians are able to promote mobility for the majority while continuing to live with a dynasty at the top. It is the lack of a cleareyed focus on the top, free from rhetoric about talent and the pursuit of dreams, that is keeping Americans from effectively promoting upward mobility.
This intergenerational transmission of employers has little to do with the exceptional talent that produces the next Steve Jobs. There is more than a one-in-three chance that newly appointed C.E.O.'s of American family firms will have a family connection. Yet these firms are more likely to experience a subsequent decline in performance than those promoting from outside.
Family members do not on average have a distinctly more valuable set of skills or managerial talent, but the belief that they do remains an important thread running through the American dream and sustains the aspirations of Americans in, roughly speaking, the top fifth of the income distribution.
The 1 percent are an important touchstone for these upper-middle-class families, who after all have also experienced significant growth in their relative standing. The graduate and other higher degrees that they hold, and for which they exerted considerable effort, have put them on the upside of the wave of globalization and technical change that has transformed the American job market.
An era of higher inequality gives them both more resources to promote the capacities of their children, and more incentive to make these investments since their children now have all the more to gain. It is not unreasonable for these aspiring families to believe that with a little more effort they may yet cross the threshold into the top 1 percent, and they can certainly imagine that their children stand just as good a chance, if not better.
For them, an American dream based on effort, talent and just deserts still lives, and as a result they are likely to be less and less predisposed, with their considerable cultural and political influence, to support the recasting of American public policy to meet its most pressing need: the prospects of those at the bottom.
Miles Corak is a professor of economics at the University of Ottawa. 

        
No Rich Child Left Behind
        
Class Struggle in the Sky
        
Poor, Little Motherless Child
        
No English!
        
What if We're Looking at Inequality the Wrong Way?

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: CHILDREN (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); INCOME DISTRIBUTION (74%); APPRENTICESHIPS & INTERNSHIPS (73%); PUBLIC POLICY (66%); TRUST ARRANGEMENTS (50%) Children and Childhood; Income Inequality; Nepotism; Polls and Public Opinion; Wenner, Gus; Wenner, Jann; The Great Divide

COMPANY: FITT HIGHWAY PRODUCTS INC (91%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS311999 ALL OTHER MISCELLANEOUS FOOD MANUFACTURING (91%); SIC2099 OTHER FOOD PREPARATIONS (91%)

PERSON: JANN WENNER (93%) Wenner, Jann

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%); DENMARK (50%)

LOAD-DATE: July 20, 2013



598 of 937 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 21, 2013
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Classified; Pg. 21

LENGTH: 183 words

HEADLINE: Paid Notice: Deaths DONHAUSER, ROSINE LAMBIOTTE

 BODY:
DONHAUSER--Rosine Lambiotte, 88, died peacefully at her Manhattan home on July 14. Born in 1925, she grew up in the Nievre region of France, and in Brussels, Belgium, where she graduated from the Universite Libre de Bruxelles with a Master's degree in Economics. In 1958, she emigrated to the United States after marrying R. Paige Donhauser, her late beloved husband. Believing passionately in education as a source of empowerment, she first volunteered in New York public schools, later with the former Literacy Volunteers of America, and finally, with the English Speaking Union. For several years she taught French at the Nightingale-Bamford School. Those who knew her, will miss her kindness, fierce intelligence, profound love and understanding of literature, music, and art, and most of all, her warm and ready smile. She is survived by her brother Georges Lambiotte of Brussels, many nieces and nephews, and her children Caroline R. and Peter L. Donhauser, son-in-law Victor Barall, daughter-in-law Whitney W. Donhauser, and granddaughters, Amelia W. and Cecile L. Donhauser, all of New York. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Paid Death Notice

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: DEATHS & OBITUARIES (92%); CHILDREN (88%); EDUCATION SYSTEMS & INSTITUTIONS (88%); LITERACY & ILLITERACY (70%); GRANDCHILDREN (66%)

ORGANIZATION: LITERACY VOLUNTEERS OF AMERICA (55%)

GEOGRAPHIC: BRUSSELS, BELGIUM (93%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (90%) NEW YORK, USA (90%); BOURGOGNE, FRANCE (88%) BELGIUM (93%); UNITED STATES (91%); FRANCE (88%)

LOAD-DATE: July 21, 2013



599 of 937 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 21, 2013
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Classified; Pg. 21

LENGTH: 329 words

HEADLINE: Paid Notice: Deaths HAAS, FELIX "PHIL" 1921, 2013

 BODY:
HAAS--Felix "Phil" 1921-2013. Provost Emeritus of Purdue University, passed away on Tuesday, July 16, 2013, surrounded by his family at his daughter's home in New York. Phil Haas was born on April 20, 1921, in Vienna, Austria. He emigrated in 1938 and served as General Patton's Artillery Sergeant in the U.S. Army during World War II. 
He received his PhD in mathematics in 1952 from M.I.T. While at MIT, he met and married Violet Bushwick, who also received a PhD in Mathematics from MIT. He subsequently held a series of academic appointments including Fine Instructor of Mathematics at Princeton University, Phil served Purdue for more than 40 years and became the first Dean of the School of Science after its creation in 1962. In that role, he recruited many scientists at the cutting edge of their fields, and launched the country's first computer science department. He then served as University Provost (1974-86). He felt privileged to work at a Land Grant Institution whose mission it was to give all students the opportunity to pursue higher education regardless of their economic backgrounds. After retiring as Provost, Phil returned to Purdue as the Arthur G, Hansen Professor Emeritus of Mathematics and taught for 15 more years (1987-2002). He did so pro-bono in exchange for a commitment from Purdue that his teaching would relieve the load of non-tenured female faculty members with young children. In 2006, Purdue renamed one of its two Computer Science buildings in honor of Felix Haas. He was pre-deceased by his beloved first wife, Violet. He is survived by his second wife, Margaret of Westfield, NJ, by his three children and their spouses, Richard (Ann Mitchell) of Shrewsbury, MA, Elizabeth (Steven Edersheim) of Scarsdale, NY, and David (Dana Stevens) of Westfield, NJ, and seven grandchildren, Derek, Brian (Yen-Hua Yu), Andrea, Jacob, Alvin, Claire, and Violet. Donations may be made in his name to the Felix Haas Memorial Fund, Purdue University.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Paid Death Notice

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: DEATHS & OBITUARIES (91%); COLLEGES & UNIVERSITIES (90%); TEACHING & TEACHERS (90%); MATHEMATICS (90%); UNIVERSITY ADMINISTRATION (90%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (89%); CHILDREN (89%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (78%); GRANDCHILDREN (78%); MARRIAGE (78%); ACADEMIC TENURE (78%); WORLD WAR II (76%); MATH & SCIENCE EDUCATION (76%); COMPUTER SCIENCE (74%); ARMIES (72%)

ORGANIZATION: PURDUE UNIVERSITY (94%); PRINCETON UNIVERSITY (56%)

GEOGRAPHIC: VIENNA, AUSTRIA (72%) NEW JERSEY, USA (92%); NEW YORK, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (92%); AUSTRIA (72%); CENTRAL EUROPE (72%)

LOAD-DATE: July 21, 2013



600 of 937 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 21, 2013
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section SR; Column 0; Sunday Review Desk; OPINIONATOR; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 1598 words

HEADLINE: Who's Your Daddy?

BYLINE: By MILES CORAK

 BODY:
Gus Wenner runs Rollingstone.com; his father gave him the job. But Jann Wenner, the magazine's co-founder and publisher, was quick to assure critics of the appointment process that his son is terribly talented and had to prove himself before being given the reins. Apparently Gus worked his way up from more junior positions with the company, and demonstrated, according to his father, the ''drive and discipline and charm, and all the things that show leadership.'' Gus Wenner is 22 years old.
He is certainly not the only kid just out of college, or even out of high school, working at daddy's firm. Family contacts are a common way of finding both temporary internships and longtime careers. But whether because of blatant nepotism, or a privileged head start in life that nurtures talent and ambition, opportunities for the children of the top 1 percent are not the same as they are for the 99 percent.
This is hardly a shock, but it is precisely the type of inequality that reveals the elusive promise of the ''Just Do It'' version of the American dream and deepens our cynicism about how people get ahead. As a consequence, it dilutes support for public policies that could address the lack of upward mobility among children born at the bottom, who ought to be given priority. 
A strong tie between adult outcomes and family background rubs Americans the wrong way. When the Pew Charitable Trusts conducted a nationally representative poll asking about the meaning of ''the American dream,'' some typical answers included: ''Being free to say or do what you want'' and ''Being free to accomplish almost anything you want with hard work;'' but also ''Being able to succeed regardless of the economic circumstances in which you were born.''
This is exactly the reason that ''the American dream'' is not only a defining metaphor for the country, but also why Americans have long been willing to tolerate a good deal more economic inequality than citizens of many other rich countries. A belief in the possibility of upward mobility not only morally justifies inequality as the expression of talents and energies, but also extends a promise to those with lower incomes. After all, why would you be a strong advocate for reducing inequality if you believe that you, or eventually your children, were likely to climb the income ladder?
Hard work and perseverance will always be ingredients for success, but higher inequality has sharply tilted the landscape and made having successful parents, if not essential, certainly a central part of the recipe.
A child's prospects are actually more fluid elsewhere, not just in the most equal countries, like Denmark or Sweden, but even in countries like Canada that have moderate levels of inequality, as I demonstrate in a forthcoming paper in the Journal of Economic Perspectives.
American children raised at the top, and at the bottom, are more likely to land on the same rung of the income ladder as their fathers than their Canadian counterparts. More than one-quarter of sons raised by fathers in the top 10 percent stay in the top 10 percent as adults, and another quarter fall no further than the top third. Meanwhile, half of those raised by fathers in the bottom 10 percent remain at the bottom or rise no further than the bottom third. In Canada there is less stickiness at the top, and children raised in the bottom are more likely to rise to the top half in earnings.
Maternal income was left out of this study and others like it because many women were out of the workforce in past generations. This may have made sense once, but no longer. The achievements of the next generations reaching adulthood will reflect the steep rise in the number of working mothers as well as the increasing tendency of high earners to marry each other. Both these trends have raised family incomes in a way that will reinforce privilege and position.
BUT American parents with high aspirations for their children are not packing their bags for Denmark, or even crossing the Canadian border, particularly if they find any appeal in Jann Wenner's belief in the virtues of talent and energy.
Children, after all, inherit a good deal from their parents: height, beauty, personality, to saying nothing of drive, discipline and perhaps even charm. It should be no surprise that a parent's and a child's incomes are correlated if certain genetic traits or aspects of family culture continue to be as important for success now as they were a generation ago. The relatively small and homogeneous Danish population can hardly be compared to a large and ethnically diverse country like America: perhaps there are just fewer visionary and driven entrepreneurs on the coasts of the North Sea who have equally talented children?
The belief that talent is bred in the bone, and that opportunities are open to anyone with ambition and energy, also has a dangerous corollary. When the lens of public policy is focused on the plight of the poor, this belief can help revive the laissez-faire conception of the poor as ''undeserving,'' the authors of their own predicament. Yet we actually know a good deal about why children of the poor have a higher chance of being stuck in poverty as adults.
The recipes for breaking this intergenerational trap are clear: a nurturing environment in the early years combined with accessible and high-quality health care and education promote the capacities of young children, heighten the development of their skills as they grow older, and ultimately raise their chances of upward mobility.
Talent is nurtured and developed, and even genes are expressed differently depending upon environmental influences.
It is not just demography and inbred entrepreneurial spirit that make the tie between parent and child incomes stronger in America than any other rich country to which it is commonly compared. Differences in public policies also play a role. Less inequality makes opportunity-enhancing policies that are of relatively larger benefit to lower-income families easier to introduce and sustain. Ontario, the most populous Canadian province, is introducing full-day kindergarten, accessible to all 4- and 5-year-olds, without fanfare or a hint of the kind of rhetorical rancor and calamitous opposition that the Obama administration has faced for its proposal to do the same.
THE Danish and Canadian top 1 percent certainly have their share of privilege: the Gus Wenners of the world, talented or not, are not rare. A recent study published by the Russell Sage Foundation showed that about 30 percent of young Danes and 40 percent of Canadians had worked with a firm that at some point also employed their fathers. This is more likely the higher the father's place on the income ladder, rising distinctly and sharply for top earners. In Denmark more than half of sons born to the top 1 percent of fathers had worked for an employer for whom the father also worked, and in Canada the proportion is even higher at nearly 7 of every 10.
This is on a par with the United States, where, according to a 2006 study, up to half of jobs are found through families, friends or acquaintances, with higher wages being paid to those who found jobs through ''prior generation male relatives'' who actually knew the potential employer or served as a reference.
The difference is that Danes, Swedes and even Canadians are able to promote mobility for the majority while continuing to live with a dynasty at the top. It is the lack of a cleareyed focus on the top, free from rhetoric about talent and the pursuit of dreams, that is keeping Americans from effectively promoting upward mobility.
This intergenerational transmission of employers has little to do with the exceptional talent that produces the next Steve Jobs. There is more than a one-in-three chance that newly appointed C.E.O.'s of American family firms will have a family connection. Yet these firms are more likely to experience a subsequent decline in performance than those promoting from outside.
Family members do not on average have a distinctly more valuable set of skills or managerial talent, but the belief that they do remains an important thread running through the American dream and sustains the aspirations of Americans in, roughly speaking, the top fifth of the income distribution.
The 1 percent are an important touchstone for these upper-middle-class families, who after all have also experienced significant growth in their relative standing. The graduate and other higher degrees that they hold, and for which they exerted considerable effort, have put them on the upside of the wave of globalization and technical change that has transformed the American job market.
An era of higher inequality gives them both more resources to promote the capacities of their children, and more incentive to make these investments since their children now have all the more to gain. It is not unreasonable for these aspiring families to believe that with a little more effort they may yet cross the threshold into the top 1 percent, and they can certainly imagine that their children stand just as good a chance, if not better.
For them, an American dream based on effort, talent and just deserts still lives, and as a result they are likely to be less and less predisposed, with their considerable cultural and political influence, to support the recasting of American public policy to meet its most pressing need: the prospects of those at the bottom.
Miles Corak is a professor of economics at the University of Ottawa.
This is a more complete version of the story than the one that appeared in print.

GRAPHIC: GRAPHIC
 DRAWING (DRAWING BY JAVIER JAÉN) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CHILDREN (90%); APPRENTICESHIPS & INTERNSHIPS (73%); PUBLIC POLICY (65%); TRUST ARRANGEMENTS (50%)

COMPANY: FITT HIGHWAY PRODUCTS INC (91%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS311999 ALL OTHER MISCELLANEOUS FOOD MANUFACTURING (91%); SIC2099 OTHER FOOD PREPARATIONS (91%)

PERSON: JANN WENNER (90%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%); DENMARK (50%)

LOAD-DATE: July 21, 2013

 
