

201 of 607 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 11, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 11; Column 2; Real Estate Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 2681 words

HEADLINE: When It Comes to Taxes, Older Is Better

BYLINE: By JOSH BARBANEL

 BODY:
IF you can afford the many millions you need to live at 720 Park Avenue -- and you squeak past the co-op board -- you will find yourself in a building with all the advantages New York has to offer. It is one of the great old Park Avenue luxury apartment buildings, with tasteful 12-room apartments and neighbors who grace the social pages, the business pages and the lists of the world's richest people.
 But 720 Park Avenue and its neighboring prewar dowagers, up and down the great streets of the city, enjoy another advantage: they pay uncommonly low property taxes, when compared with the market value of their apartments.
While the owners at 720 Park, which sits on the corner of 70th Street, pay about $40,000 per apartment in taxes each year, an analysis by The New York Times estimated that they would pay two to three times that if they were taxed at their true market values, under the system used for calculating taxes for single-family homes. 
 The analysis of 68,000 sales by The Times found that this advantage is woven into the tax base of most older co-ops and to a lesser extent many condominiums and postwar co-ops across Manhattan as market values have risen sharply. State law bars assessors from basing taxes for condos and co-ops at their true market value. 
 Average taxes on Manhattan co-ops and condos are lower than they would be if they were taxed the way some of the most heavily taxed houses are. But it is prewar co-ops that have the greatest tax advantage. On average, they pay significantly lower taxes as a percentage of market value than the taxes paid by even typical one- to three-family homes across the city. And buildings with unusually high recent market values, like 720 Park Avenue, pay unusually low taxes, even when compared to newer condominiums.
 The owners of 720 Park Avenue pay about $3.20 for each $1,000 in value, based on estimates of the market value made by The Times from recent sales data. 
 On 148th Road in Rosedale, Queens, the mostly middle-class owners of boxy two-family homes -- nurses, cabdrivers, mechanics and the like -- pay more than $9 for each $1,000 in market value. They are among about 44,000 homeowners who pay at or close to the city's top tax rate. ''I assumed that they pay more on Park Avenue,'' said Allyson Davilar, a nurse at North Shore University Hospital who has lived on 148th Road for 11 years. She pays $4,390 in taxes on a two-family house valued at $478,000 last year.
 Jacqueline Stewart, a private duty nurse who lives next door, paid $435,000 for her house two years ago. Two weeks ago, Ms. Stewart received a notice raising her taxes by $181, to $4,390. Her husband, Godfrey, who maintains equipment for White Castle restaurants, said he didn't mind paying the taxes if Rosedale received good services, but he had complaints about the schools and what he said was the limited police presence in the neighborhood. 
 On Park Avenue, co-op owners are often unaware of the details of their tax bills because they pay them through their monthly maintenance charges. John E. Beerbower, a partner in the law firm Cravath, Swaine & Moore and the co-op board president, said the board has no way of knowing whether its building is charged too much or too little in taxes and instead relies on the advice of its managing agent, who in turn hires lawyers who specialize in property taxes.
 ''Taxes have not been much of an issue or much of a focus,'' Mr. Beerbower said, compared with repairs and maintenance, ''where there are alternatives to discuss, such as whether to get a new rug for the lobby or not.''
 Under another quirk in the tax law, the owners of older co-ops also pay far less in taxes than do new luxury condos, especially when owners of the new buildings did not qualify for abatements that would cushion the blow of high taxes. Last December, Rupert Murdoch, the chairman of the News Corporation, agreed to pay the highest price ever for a Manhattan residence, $44 million for a triplex at 834 Fifth Avenue previously owned by Laurance S. Rockefeller.
 It may have been expensive, but because the apartment was in a prewar co-op completed in 1931, it was a bargain in property taxes. Taxes in the building average $43,400 per apartment, or about $85,600 for Mr. Murdoch's apartment based upon his allocation of shares in the co-op.
 In contrast, consider the plight of David Martinez, an international financier, who paid $42.5 million for the 76th floor and part of the 77th floor of the south tower at the Time Warner Center in Columbus Circle. (He later paid $12.5 million for the rest of the 77th floor.) Mr. Martinez has one of the highest individual tax bills in the city, around $395,000 a year for his first purchase, and a total of nearly $546,000 on both, more than six times Mr. Murdoch's tax bill.
 This is not to say that in getting favorable tax treatment, the owners of the prewar co-ops are doing anything wrong. They are merely the beneficiaries of a complex property tax system set in motion in 1981 by the State Legislature over the veto of the governor, after the State Court of Appeals threw out the previous tax system as unfair.
 The linchpin of the current system was a decision of the Legislature to continue to protect the owners of one-, two-, or three-family homes, who had historically low taxes. For these homeowners rates were set low and increases in assessments because of changes in market values were limited.
 As for co-ops and condos, they also got a special break. The law dictated that they be assessed the way rental buildings were, and no higher, even though values of rental buildings were kept low because of rent control and rent stabilization. 
 Individual homes are reassessed every year using computer models that reflect the latest market values. But when city tax assessors go out to value co-ops and condos, they come up with official fair market values that are a small fraction of the true market values set in transactions between a willing buyer and a willing seller. 
 They try to find what they call similar rental buildings, and estimate the stream of future rental revenues and rental expenses, and then compute the current value of those hypothetical earnings.
 Because prewar co-ops were compared with older rental buildings, with rent regulated tenants, low values were assigned to them. But new condos have higher values: They are assessed initially on their construction costs and later on comparisons with new market rate rental buildings.
 According to the most recent Department of Finance tax records, the average official market value for prewar co-ops is stunningly low -- $94 a square foot, or about $94,000 for a 1,000-square-foot apartment, values that haven't been seen in most of Manhattan in years. At 720 Park Avenue, the tax assessors assigned a market value of $141 per square foot, or $28.7 million for the entire building. But brokers say that recently, a single apartment in the 14-story building was put up for sale for $20 million and quickly went to contract, at a price estimated at $3,000 a square foot. 
 Yet 720 Park Avenue, like most large co-ops, routinely challenges its assessment, seeking a reduction from the rates set by the Department of Finance. At the hearings, no one talks about recent sales, or co-op prices per square foot. Instead, the co-op's lawyers point to ''comps,'' or comparisons with nearby rental buildings with arguably lower net rental earnings than those used by the city.
 According to records of the New York City Tax Commission, which hears administrative appeals, the co-op board at 720 Park Avenue has appealed its assessment every year since at least 1996. The building won a $1.75 million reduction in the city's market value in 2001, covering several previous years as well. In 2003 and 2004, its official value was reduced by the city assessor, this time by another $1 million, apparently because of weakness in the rental market. But the market value went up by $3.6 million for the tax bills that went out last spring, city records show.
 Reed Schneider, general counsel for the Tax Commission, said that explaining the logic behind the assessment of co-ops is difficult. ''I explain that, under the law, it is a hypothetical based on a fiction,'' he said. 
 Martha E. Stark, the finance commissioner, and other finance officials declined a request for an interview, and referred questions to Sam Miller, an assistant commissioner for communications and public service, who also declined to answer questions. But in an e-mail message, he said, ''We are preparing our own analysis, and it will address ways to make the property tax more equitable and transparent.'' 
 The analysis by The Times estimated that if 720 Park paid the highest tax rate, as a percentage of market value, charged to single-family homeowners, the co-op would probably have a tax bill of about $117,000 per apartment, or about $9.40 for each $1,000 of market value. 
 This is just above the rate paid by the homeowners in Rosedale, Queens, whose taxes are high because the 1960's houses were given high assessments when they were built. It is also the rate used when a building is converted to one- to three-family homes. 
 But most single-family homeowners are allowed to phase in assessment increases over many years -- 6 percent a year or 20 percent over five years -- and as a result most homeowners pay less than the homeowners in Rosedale do. At the typical assessment of about $6.20 per $1,000 in market value, the co-op would probably owe about $77,000 per apartment or nearly double what they now pay.
 This pattern is repeated across Manhattan. On average, all prewar condos pay an effective tax rate of $5.55 per $1,000 in market value, a difference of $2,700 in taxes for each apartment, compared with the top homeowner tax rate. The analysis found that if more recent sales were included in the estimate of market value, the effective tax rate would drop to less than $5 per $1,000 of value in all of Manhattan. 
 Postwar co-ops in Manhattan pay a higher effective tax rate, $8.50 per $1,000, according to the analysis, while condo owners pay, on average, $9.42 per $1,000, roughly the same as the top single-family taxpayers. (In the suburbs, real tax rates of $20 or more per $1,000 of value are common.)
 This pattern is apparent across many city neighborhoods. On prime sections of Fifth Avenue, Park Avenue and Central Park West, the effective tax rate for older co-ops is $5.20 per $1,000 of value -- below average for the borough, translating into $10,500 in savings per apartment under the current tax system. 
 On the Upper West Side, the effective tax rate for prewar co-ops is even lower, $4.80 per $1,000. Even lower effective tax rates were found in newly fashionable neighborhoods, like the Lower East Side and Upper Manhattan, from East Harlem to Hamilton Heights and Washington Heights.
 Built into these low tax bills is a special tax abatement created by the Legislature in 1997 to compensate owners of co-ops and condos for what they depicted at the time as the higher tax burden they were forced to bear, compared with single-family homeowners. 
 The abatement, now scheduled to expire in 2008, cuts taxes a minimum of 17.5 percent for each co-op or condo (but not to owners who have more than three units in any one building) below what they would otherwise be. It is costing the city's treasury $277 million this year, city officials said. 
 Supporters of the abatement portrayed it at the time as a ''crusade for fairness in property taxes,'' and they say that most buildings still need protection from high taxes, especially outside Manhattan. 
 But the effectiveness of the co-op and condo abatement has been repeatedly called into question by a series of studies by the Independent Budget Office, a city agency set up to review city budget and policy issues. 
 In 1998, George Sweeting, an analyst and a deputy director at the office, reported that 19 percent of the abatement money was not well spent, because the abatement reduced taxes below the top level of owners of one- to three-family homes. In 2004, when the law was last renewed, Mr. Sweeting raised his estimate to 35 percent. 
 Even advocates for co-ops and condos agree that the current tax law and the co-op and condo abatements give an unfair tax advantage to some co-ops. They say they are willing to see taxes on some buildings rise as part of a permanent fix to the tax system that will give co-op and condos equal treatment with homeowners.
 ''There are co-ops that are still hurting, and the vast majority of them are in the outer boroughs,'' said Mary Ann Rothman, executive director of the Council of New York Cooperatives and Condominiums. 
 Martin E. Karp, a retired corporate executive who has led the fight for relief for co-ops and condos since 1990 as head of the Action Committee for Reasonable Real Estate Taxes, said that he only wants equal treatment of owners of single-family homes and apartments, not an advantage. 
 ''Our position is that whatever it is, it will have to be faced up to,'' he said. ''If you want to get equity for 80 or 85 percent of the co-ops and condominiums, the others may have to give something back.'' 
 Finance Department officials are considering proposals to make the system fairer, according to several people who have been briefed on the ideas, including a plan that would set the same rules for rental buildings, co-ops and condos, and one-, two- and three-family homes. But similar proposals in the past have been raised and abandoned out of a fear of a backlash from voters who might face higher taxes. 
 Alexander B. Grannis, a Democratic assemblyman from the East Side who sponsored the abatement measure, said he is also looking for a permanent fix to the city's unwieldy tax system. ''It has been easier for mayors and the city to live with the abatement and give up hundreds of millions of dollars in city revenue, rather than finding the political will to fix the entire system,'' he said. 
 As for the benefits going to wealthy co-op owners, he wondered whether other taxes, like a higher income tax, might suit the city better. ''Property taxes,'' he said, ''are a very regressive way for a government to raise money.'' 

How the Analysis Was Done
 To examine tax patterns, The New York Times obtained information on 68,000 completed sales in Manhattan collected by brokers and appraisers and used them to project a rough measure of the market value of co-op and condo buildings.
 These were then combined with computer tapes of Department of Finance tax files for the current tax year to calculate the effective tax rates, or the taxes paid as a percentage of market value. The taxes were also recalculated using market values and the tax rates and assessment ratios set for one-, two- and three-family homes. 
 To estimate market values, median sale price per square foot was calculated for each building, and for larger geographic areas like a tax block and census tract. Values were then assigned to each tax lot from the smallest geographic area that had a significant number of sales. Most estimates of co-op and condo market values were based on sales that closed in 2003 and 2004, roughly the same sales that would have been available to tax assessors when they figured this year's assessment. Market values for one-, two- and-three family homes, which are recalculated each year using computer models, were taken from the Department of Finance records.
 Because, under state law, assessment increases for homeowners are gradually phased in, the analysis used the two separate benchmarks for comparison: the top assessment ratio, 6 percent of market value, and the typical or median assessment ratio, of just under 4 percent. Jonathan Miller, president of Miller Samuel, an appraisal firm, provided sales data on co-ops, while Gregory J. Heym, the director of research and chief economist for Brown Harris Stevens, provided recent data on condominium sales. Taxes on properties in other boroughs came from public records.


GRAPHIC: Photos: COMPLICATED SYSTEM -- Taxes on this Rosedale, Queens, house, above, are more than double those at 720 Park Avenue, left, when true market values are considered. (Photos by above, Frances Roberts for The New York Times
 top right, Chester Higgins/The New York Times)(pg. 1)Chart/Map: ''Taxing Questions''Many co-ops and condos in New York City benefit from an assessment method and tax structure different from those used for single-family homes.The city's assessment system leads to ''fair market value'' far below what the open market would dictate.FAIR MARKET VALUE PER SQUARE FOOT, 2003-2004Prewar Co-opCity's assesment method: $ 94Based on sales: 650Postwar Co-opCity's assesment method: 111Based on sales: 501CondoCity's assesment method: 200Based on sales: 794Many owners of condos and co-ops, especially prewar co-ops, pay lower taxes than they would if they were taxed based on market values, using the top real tax rates applied to owners of one- to three-family homes.Map shows the change in taxes apartments would pay in areas where most older co-ops are concentrated, if the tax code were uniform for all co-ops, condos and private homes.Note: Buildings with incomplete data were excluded.(Source by New York Times analysis of Department of Finance tax data and sales data from Miller Samuel and Terra Holdings)(pg. 9)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: RESIDENTIAL COOPERATIVES (92%); REAL ESTATE (90%); RESIDENTIAL CONDOMINIUMS (90%); RESIDENTIAL CO-OWNERSHIP (90%); PROPERTY TAX (90%); TAXES & TAXATION (90%); CONDOMINIUMS (89%); MULTIFAMILY REAL ESTATE (89%); NURSES & NURSING (84%); REAL ESTATE VALUATIONS (76%); RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (76%); SALES FIGURES (76%); HOMEOWNERS (74%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (73%) Taxation; Property Taxes; Cooperatives; Condominiums; Taxation

PERSON: Josh Barbanel

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%) NEW YORK, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%) New York City

LOAD-DATE: December 11, 2005



202 of 607 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 11, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 9; Column 4; Society Desk; WEDDINGS/CELEBRATIONS; Pg. 22

LENGTH: 193 words

HEADLINE: Constance Lynch, James Mabli

 BODY:
Constance Keefe Lynch, the daughter of Angela and James M. Lynch of Glastonbury, Conn., was married there yesterday to James Geoffrey Mabli, the son of Lynn and James J. Mabli of Harrington Park, N.J. The Rev. Robert D. Farrell officiated at the Roman Catholic Church of St. Dunstan. 
 Mrs. Mabli, 27, is a lawyer in Brooklyn for the Partnership for the Homeless, a nonprofit advocacy organization and service provider. She graduated from Boston College and received her law degree from the Catholic University of America. Her father is the treasurer of Purcell Associates, a consulting engineering firm in Glastonbury. Her mother is an organizational psychologist working in Hartford for the business consulting services division of I.B.M.
Mr. Mabli, also 27, is a candidate for a doctoral degree in applied econometrics at New York University. He graduated from Boston College. His mother is a business education teacher and the job coordinator for school-to-work programs at Memorial High School in West New York, N.J. His father is a vice president for client management in Jersey City with the investor services subsidiary of the Mellon Financial Corporation.


GRAPHIC: Photo

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CHRISTIANS & CHRISTIANITY (85%); FAITH BASED SCHOOLS (76%); LAW SCHOOLS (76%); RELIGION (76%); HIGH SCHOOLS (75%); CONSULTING SERVICES (74%); MANAGEMENT CONSULTING (74%); CATHOLICS & CATHOLICISM (71%); NONPROFIT ORGANIZATIONS (71%); BANKING & FINANCE (70%); ENGINEERING (69%); PRIMARY & SECONDARY SCHOOL TEACHERS (66%); HOMELESSNESS (56%) Terms not available from NYTimes

COMPANY: BANK OF NEW YORK MELLON CORP (68%)

ORGANIZATION: BOSTON COLLEGE (83%); PARTNERSHIP FOR THE HOMELESS (57%)

TICKER: BK (NYSE) (68%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (68%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (68%); SIC6712 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (68%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%); BOSTON, MA, USA (87%); HARTFORD, CT, USA (79%) NEW YORK, USA (92%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (87%); CONNECTICUT, USA (79%); NEW JERSEY, USA (77%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: December 11, 2005



203 of 607 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 11, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 4; Column 1; Week in Review Desk; THE WEEK; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 577 words

HEADLINE: Primary Addresses Dec. 4-10

 BODY:

NORTH CAROLINA

The News -- Taking a break from his war speeches, President Bush delivered one on the economy on Monday, promoting tax cuts and recent job-growth figures.

Behind the News -- his economy of ours is on the move,'' Mr. Bush told 600 employees of the Deere-Hitachi Construction Machinery Corporation in Kernersville, N.C. And it's quite possible that Americans are with him on that assessment. After months of political erosion, his approval rating improved markedly in the latest New York Times/CBS News poll, rising to 40 percent from a career low of 35 percent last month. 


MARYLAND

The News -- Condoleezza Rice, before heading to Europe on Monday, delivered a statement intended to clarify the United States policy on torture and ''rendition.''

Behind the News -- Ms. Rice, Vice President Dick Cheney and Defense Secretary Donald H. Rumsfeld all spent time last week promoting the administration's Iraq policy and, more particularly, defending it against its critics. It was Ms. Rice who came under the most scrutiny as she met with skeptical European leaders initially unreassured by her statement that ''the United States does not permit, tolerate or condone torture under any circumstances'' and ''does not transport and has not transported detainees from one country to another for the purpose of interrogation using torture.''

TOKYO

The News -- In a speech on Wednesday, the Japanese foreign minister, Taro Aso, said his nation should show ''deep remorse'' for its actions in World War II, which ''brought great suffering to innocent people in the countries of Asia, notably the Republic of Korea and China.''

Behind the News -- Although the speech was on Pearl Harbor Day -- and delivered in Japanese and English -- it was intended as much for Japan's Asian neighbors as anyone. Japan's resurgent nationalism has drawn international criticism, and because of that Prime Minister Junichiro Koizumi was expected to get something of a cold shoulder at an Asian summit meeting this week in Malaysia.

STOCKHOLM

The News -- Enter stage way left. Harold Pinter, too ill to travel to Stockholm, taped his Nobel Prize acceptance speech from London (www.nobelprize.org).

Behind the News -- The prize was for literature, but the politics, along with the plays, were the thing, as Mr. Pinter lit into American foreign policy, past and present. There was this, for example: ''I put to you that the United States is without doubt the greatest show on the road. Brutal, indifferent, scornful and ruthless it may be, but it is also very clever. As a salesman it is out on its own, and its most saleable commodity is self love.'' And this: ''It also has its own bleating little lamb tagging behind it on a lead, the pathetic and supine Great Britain.''

LONDON

The News -- David Cameron accepted the leadership of Britain's Conservatives in a speech on Tuesday.

Behind the News -- With the youthful Mr. Cameron (he's 39), the Tories are positioning themselves to wrest back Parliament from the once-more-youthful Tony Blair (he's 52) and his Labor Party. Mr. Cameron hopes to shed the Tories' stodgy image and move the party toward the center, which is where Mr. Blair moved his party. Mr. Cameron can now bid for the prime minister's job in elections that must be held by 2010.
 ''I want us to give this country a modern, compassionate conservatism that is right for our times and right for our country,'' Mr. Cameron said as he became the fifth Tory leader in eight years.

GRAPHIC: Photos: A celebratory President Bush. (Photo by Larry Downing/Reuters)
A conciliatory Taro Aso. (Photo by Shizuo Kambayashi/Associated Press)
A victorious David Cameron. (Photo by Alan Weller/Bloomberg News)
A diplomatic Condoleezza Rice. (Photo by Etienne Ansotte/Agence France-Presse -- Getty Images)
 A forceful Harold Pinter. (Photo by Henrik Montgomery/Pressens Bild, via Agence France-Presse)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: EMPLOYMENT RATES (90%); FOREIGN POLICY (89%); TORTURE (88%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (87%); WORLD WAR II (78%); NEWS BRIEFS (78%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (78%); POLITICS (78%); TALKS & MEETINGS (78%); AWARDS & PRIZES (78%); TAXES & TAXATION (78%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (77%); PRIME MINISTERS (75%); POLLS & SURVEYS (71%); DEFENSE DEPARTMENTS (68%); STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (66%); NOBEL PRIZES (64%) Terms not available from NYTimes

COMPANY: DEERE-HITACHI CONSTRUCTION MACHINERY CORP (72%)

INDUSTRY: SIC3531 CONSTRUCTION MACHINERY & EQUIPMENT (72%)

PERSON: CONDOLEEZZA RICE (90%); GEORGE W BUSH (69%); DICK CHENEY (58%); DAVID CAMERON (58%); TARO ASO (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: TOKYO, JAPAN (54%) NORTH CAROLINA, USA (92%); MARYLAND, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (95%); JAPAN (93%); EUROPE (92%); ASIA (92%); KOREA, REPUBLIC OF (79%); MALAYSIA (79%); CHINA (79%); NORTHERN ASIA (79%); IRAQ (79%)

LOAD-DATE: December 11, 2005



204 of 607 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 11, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 3; Column 1; Money and Business/Financial Desk; FUNDAMENTALLY; Pg. 9

LENGTH: 1083 words

HEADLINE: Giving Yourself A Tax Cut on Investments

BYLINE: By PAUL J. LIM. 
Paul J. Lim is a financial writer at U.S. News & World Report. E-mail: fund@nytimes.com.

 BODY:
THOUGH tax rates have come down in recent years, the government's cut of capital gains and dividend income is still one of the biggest drags on many investors' portfolios. 
 People know this. Nine in 10 investors surveyed recently by Eaton Vance, the investment firm, said the impact of taxes on their investment returns was important to them. It should be. In mutual funds, taxes can obliterate about two percentage points a year in total return.
The problem is, ''while investors say they know that taxes are important, most don't seem to know what they can do about it,'' says Duncan Richardson, chief equity investment officer at Eaton Vance, which emphasizes tax-efficient investing.
 The good news is that investors can do several things at this time of year to minimize the impact of investment taxes. Among them are these:

SEEK OUT TAX-ADVANTAGED ACCOUNTS -- The easiest way to save on taxes is to stash money in accounts that aren't taxed along the way to retirement, like 401(k)'s and individual retirement accounts. 
 Yet nearly 30 percent of workers eligible to invest in 401(k)'s don't do so, according to a study by Hewitt Associates, the employee benefit research firm. 
 If you do participate, it's important to contribute as much as the Internal Revenue Service and your employer's plan permit if you want the maximum tax advantage. For workers 50 and older, this includes using the government's catch-up provision, which permits them to stuff an additional $4,000 into their accounts above the current annual 401(k) limit of $14,000. (In 2006, the annual limit goes to $15,000 and the catch-up limit for older workers goes to $5,000.) 
 ''Not only does this save you taxes, it reduces your adjusted gross income,'' said Cal Brown, vice president for planning for the Monitor Group, a wealth management and investment advisory firm in McLean, Va. ''And if you reduce your A.G.I., you will save more in taxes than just the taxes you save from making additional 401(k) contributions.'' Reducing income below certain levels permits you to take advantage of certain benefits. For example, Mr. Brown said that if your household adjusted gross income for 2005 exceeded $145,950 (or $72,975 if you are married and filing separately), your itemized deductions are generally reduced by 3 percent of the amount over that threshold. 
 Reducing A.G.I. can also help investors, especially those with incomes approaching $150,000, to avoid the dreaded alternative minimum tax. That's the so-called stealth tax, which was created to ensure that wealthy households pay their fair share of taxes -- but it increasingly snares middle-income families because it is not indexed for inflation.

LOCK IN SOME LOSSES -- If the government can skim off the top of your investment gains, why not make it foot the bill for some of your losses?
 By selling stock or mutual funds that are trading at a loss, you can realize capital losses, which can be used to offset gains elsewhere in your portfolio, thereby reducing your tax bill.
 What if you don't have any capital gains to speak of this year? You may still want to take a loss now, because you can use it to reduce up to $3,000 in ordinary income this year and can carry the remaining loss forward for as long as you live. 

DON'T JUST SELL LOSERS; REPLACE THEM -- If you plan to sell an investment that is underwater, it's important to ''study the opportunity costs'' of being out of a sector or the market, says Rande Spiegelman, vice president for financial planning at the Schwab Center for Investment Research in San Francisco.
 Recent history has shown that being out of the market for even a couple of months can be costly. Over the last two years, for instance, the Russell 3000 total stock market index has risen 5.4 percent, on average, from the beginning of December to the end of February. 
 An easy way to sell losers but to remain fully invested is to consider an exchange-traded index fund that tracks the sector of the stock that you're dumping. If you wanted to sell shares of Merck, for example, at a loss, you might consider immediately replacing that holding with shares of the Healthcare Select Sector SPDR or the iShares Dow Jones U.S. Healthcare Sector Index fund -- both exchange-traded funds that track major health care indexes. 
 By investing in a similar but not ''substantially identical'' investment, you avoid the I.R.S.'s wash-sale rule, which says investors cannot take advantage of realized losses if they go into the same investment within 30 days of selling.

DON'T BUY AN IMMEDIATE TAX BILL -- If you're thinking of using a mutual fund to step back into the market after selling stocks at a loss, be careful.
 Every year in late November or December, mutual funds distribute to their shareholders the gains they realized by selling stocks that year. 
 While getting money back immediately sounds good, it's not. You are putting, say, $1,000 into a fund in late December, only for that portfolio to give back $100 of your money -- along with a tax bill for that distribution.
 In recent years, distributions have been relatively small because stock funds have used losses realized during the bear market to offset gains. This year is likely to be different because ''a lot of funds families have used up those tax-loss carry-forwards,'' said Tom Roseen, senior research analyst at Lipper, the fund tracker. 
 Be particularly careful this month of stepping into real estate funds, natural resources sector funds, domestic value portfolios, small-cap portfolios and emerging-markets stock funds. According to the fund tracker Morningstar, these categories have some of the highest potential capital gains exposure. 
 Categories expected to have low distributions include technology sector funds and large-cap growth funds, many of which have had sizable tax-loss carry-forwards since the bear market.
 So-called tax-efficient funds, which manage money with taxes in mind, are also considered a relatively safe bet. But be sure to hold these investments outside a tax-advantaged account because they are already tax-efficient.

MAKE CHARITABLE DONATIONS -- It may be an especially good time for contributions if you have appreciated stock that you want to sell.
 You can give the appreciated stock to a charity and claim the full market value at the time of the donation. The charity can then sell the stock without tax consequences.
 It's one of the few win-win options the I.R.S. provides to investors. So don't waste the opportunity.


GRAPHIC: Drawings (Illustrations by Stuart Goldenberg)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US 401K PLANS (90%); PENSION & RETIREMENT PLANS (90%); CAPITAL GAINS TAX (90%); TAXES & TAXATION (90%); TAX LAW (90%); TAX RELIEF (89%); WEALTH MANAGEMENT (89%); PUBLIC FINANCE (78%); PERSONAL FINANCE (78%); UPPER INCOME PERSONS (78%); MIDDLE INCOME PERSONS (78%); INVESTMENT ADVISERS (77%); INDIVIDUAL RETIREMENT ACCOUNTS (77%); MUTUAL FUNDS (77%); TAX DEDUCTIONS (73%); BONDS (73%); TAX AUTHORITIES (73%); OLDER WORKERS (72%); AFFLUENT MARKET (66%) Taxation; Stocks and Bonds; Capital Gains Tax

COMPANY: AON HEWITT (82%)

ORGANIZATION: INTERNAL REVENUE SERVICE (54%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS561110 OFFICE ADMINISTRATIVE SERVICES (82%); NAICS541612 HUMAN RESOURCES CONSULTING SERVICES (82%); NAICS541214 PAYROLL SERVICES (82%)

PERSON: Paul J Lim

GEOGRAPHIC: VIRGINIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: December 11, 2005



205 of 607 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 11, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 3; Column 2; Money and Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 3128 words

HEADLINE: The Next Retirement Time Bomb

BYLINE: By MILT FREUDENHEIM and MARY WILLIAMS WALSH

 BODY:
SINCE 1983, the city of Duluth, Minn., has been promising free lifetime health care to all of its retired workers, their spouses and their children up to age 26. No one really knew how much it would cost. Three years ago, the city decided to find out.
 It took an actuary about three months to identify all the past and current city workers who qualified for the benefits. She tallied their data by age, sex, previous insurance claims and other factors. Then she estimated how much it would cost to provide free lifetime care to such a group.
The total came to about $178 million, or more than double the city's operating budget. And the bill was growing.
 ''Then we knew we were looking down the barrel of a pretty high-caliber weapon,'' said Gary Meier, Duluth's human resources manager, who attended the meeting where the actuary presented her findings. 
 Mayor Herb Bergson was more direct. ''We can't pay for it,'' he said in a recent interview. ''The city isn't going to function because it's just going to be in the health care business.''
 Duluth's doleful discovery is about to be repeated across the country. Thousands of government bodies, including states, cities, towns, school districts and water authorities, are in for the same kind of shock in the next year or so. For years, governments have been promising generous medical benefits to millions of schoolteachers, firefighters and other employees when they retire, yet experts say that virtually none of these governments have kept track of the mounting price tag. The usual practice is to budget for health care a year at a time, and to leave the rest for the future.
 Off the government balance sheets -- out of sight and out of mind -- those obligations have been ballooning as health care costs have spiraled and as the baby-boom generation has approached retirement. And now the accounting rulemaker for the public sector, the Governmental Accounting Standards Board, says it is time for every government to do what Duluth has done: to come to grips with the total value of its promises, and to report it to their taxpayers and bondholders. 
 The board has issued a new accounting rule that will take effect in less than two years. It has not yet drawn much attention outside specialists' circles, but it threatens to propel radical cutbacks for government retirees and to open the way for powerful economic and social repercussions. Some experts are warning of tax increases, or of an eventual decline in the quality of public services. States, cities and agencies that do not move quickly enough may see their credit ratings fall. In the worst instances, a city might even be forced into bankruptcy if it could not deliver on its promises to retirees.
 ''It's not going to be pretty, and it's not the fault of the workers,'' said Mayor Bergson, himself a former police officer from Duluth's sister city of Superior, Wis. ''The people here who've retired did earn their benefits.''
 The new accounting rule is to be phased in over three years, with all 50 states and hundreds of large cities and counties required to comply first. Those governments are beginning to do the necessary research to determine the current costs and the future obligations of their longstanding promises to help pay for retirees' health care. Local health plans vary widely and have to be analyzed one by one. No one is sure what the total will be, only that it will be big. 
 Stephen T. McElhaney, an actuary and principal at Mercer Human Resources, a benefits consulting firm that advises states and local governments, estimated that the national total could be $1 trillion. ''This is a huge liability,'' said Jan Lazar, an independent benefits consultant in Lansing, Mich. ''If anybody understands it, they'll freak out.''
 Last spring, the state of Alaska was the scene of a showdown over retirement benefits that those involved said was a precursor of fights to come. Conservative lawmakers who supported scaling back traditional retiree health care and pension benefits squared off against union lobbyists, advocates for the elderly and the schools superintendent of Juneau, the state capital, who defended the current benefits.
 After saying that Alaska's future combined obligations for pensions and retiree health care were underfunded by $5.7 billion, Gov. Frank H. Murkowski called a special session of the Legislature and pushed through changes in pension and retirement health care benefits for new state employees. (The state Constitution forbids changing the benefits of current employees.) 
 Instead of having comprehensive, subsidized medical coverage, new public workers will have a high-deductible plan and health savings accounts. The changes cleared the State Senate and passed by a one-vote margin in the House. 
 Even the White House weighed in on the Alaska problem. Ruben Barrales, President Bush's director of intergovernmental affairs, lobbied wavering Republican legislators, arguing in favor of replacing pensions and traditional retiree health benefits with private savings accounts for new employees. Mr. Barrales noted that the president was seeking similar changes in Social Security, including a plan for private accounts.
 The union that represents state employees in Alaska said the narrower benefits would make it harder to recruit qualified teachers and government workers. ''They keep chiseling away'' at school employees' pay and benefits, said Julia Black, a single mother and union activist who earns $11 an hour as an aide in classes for disabled children in Juneau. 
 Actuaries say that about 5.5 million retired public employees have health benefits of some kind -- and accountants joke that there are not enough actuaries in the country to do all the calculations necessary to estimate how much all these retirees have been promised. 
 Though it may seem strange after a decade of double-digit health cost inflation, hardly any public agencies have been tracking their programs' total costs, which must be paid out over many years. The promises seemed reasonable when they were initially made, officials say.
 In Duluth, Mayor Bergson said the city actually offered free retiree health care as a cost-cutting measure back in 1983. At the time, Duluth was trying to get rid of another ballooning obligation to city workers: the value of unused sick leave and vacation days. Public workers then were in the habit of saving up this time over the course of their careers and cashing it in for a big payout upon retirement. Compared with the big obligations the city had to book for that unused time, substituting free retiree health care seemed cheap. ''Basically, they traded one problem for another,'' Mayor Bergson said.
 WITH some exceptions, most states and cities have set aside no money to pay for retiree medical benefits. Instead, they use the pay-as-you-go system -- paying for former employees out of current revenue. Agencies did not have to estimate the total size of their commitment to retiree health care, so few did so.
 Under the new accounting rule, local governments will still not have to set aside any money for those promises. But they will be required to lay out a theoretical framework for the funding of retiree health plans over the next 30 years, and to disclose what they are doing about it. If they fail to put money behind their promises to retirees, they may feel the unforgiving discipline of the financial markets. Their credit ratings may go down, making it harder and more expensive to sell bonds or otherwise borrow money.
 Parry Young, a public finance director at Standard & Poor's, the credit rating agency, said his analysts look at total liabilities, including pension and now other ''post-employment'' obligations. Many governments, he added, have already been grappling with big deficits in their employee pension funds.
 A few agencies are wrestling with the daunting task of estimating their total retiree health obligations and coming up with a way to slice it into a 30-year funding plan. They are finding that under the new method, the benefit costs for a particular year can be anywhere from 2 to 20 times the pay-as-you-go costs they have been showing on their books.
 Maryland, for example, now spends about $311 million annually on retiree health premiums. But when that state calculated the value of the retirement benefits it has promised to current employees, the total was $20.4 billion. And the yearly cost will jump to $1.9 billion under the new rule, according to an analysis for the state by actuaries at Aon Consulting, which advises companies on benefits. 
 That is because Maryland would not be recording just its insurance premiums as the year's expense, but instead would report the value of the coverage its employees have earned in that year as well as a portion of the $20.4 billion they amassed in the past. After 30 years, the entire $20.4 billion should be accounted for.
 Michigan says it has made unfunded promises that are now valued at $17 billion for teachers, part of a possible $30 billion total for all public agency retirees. Other places that have done the math include the state of Alabama; the city of Arlington, Tex.; and the Los Angeles Unified School District. New York City has not yet completed an actuarial valuation of its many retiree benefit plans. But in its most recent financial statements, the city said it expected that the new rule would ''result in significant additional expenses and liabilities being recorded'' in the future. 
 The numbers can vary wildly by locality, depending on how rich its benefits are, what assumptions its actuary uses about future demographics and investment earnings, and that great unknown: the cost of health care 30 years in the future.
 ''Fifteen years ago, who would have projected 10 years of double-digit increases in health care costs?'' said Frederick H. Nesbitt, executive director of the National Conference on Public Employee Retirement Systems, an advocacy group in Washington. Mr. Nesbitt pointed out that when the accounting rulemakers began requiring a similar change in financial reporting for companies in the 1990's, it was followed by a sharp decline in the retiree medical benefits provided by corporate America.
 Today, only one in 20 companies still offers retiree benefits, according to Don Rueckert Jr., an Aon actuary. The rate for large companies is less than one in three, down from more than 40 percent before the private-sector accounting change, according to Mercer Human Resource Consulting. General Motors and Ford are among the big companies that still offer retiree health benefits. But G.M. recently persuaded the United Automobile Workers union to accept certain reductions, and Ford is seeking similar cuts. 
 ''We expect the same thing in the public sector, unless we help employers do the right thing,'' said John Abraham, deputy research director for the American Federation of Teachers.
 The Governmental Accounting Standards Board, known by the acronym GASB (pronounced GAZ-bee), is a nonprofit organization based in Norwalk, Conn., and a sister to the Financial Accounting Standards Board that writes accounting rules for the private sector. Karl Johnson, the project manager for the retiree-benefits rule, said GASB began hearing from public employees' unions as soon as it issued a first draft of its new standard. The unions said that if governments were forced to disclose the cost of their plans, they would probably cut or drop them, just as companies have done.
 Mr. Johnson said the accounting board had no interest in trying to reduce anyone's benefits, and no power to dictate local policy even if it wanted to. ''Accounting is just trying to hold up a good mirror to what's happening,'' he said. ''These are very expensive benefits.''
 Under the new rule -- outlined in the board's Statement No. 45 in June 2004, and known widely as GASB 45 -- large public governments and school boards with large health care obligations to retirees will have to start reporting their overall benefits cost in 2007 -- either on Jan. 1 of that year or, for most big governments, on the start of the fiscal year beginning June 1, 2007. Smaller governments will start using the new method in the two years after that.
 The change comes at a rough time for state and local governments. Spending on Medicaid and education has been spiraling, and Congress continues to cut federal taxes and shift burdens of governing away from Washington. In some areas, including parts of Michigan, governments are also suffering from the financial difficulties of important local industries. Max B. Sawicky, an economist at the Economic Policy Institute, a liberal research group in Washington, called the new requirement ''another straw on the camel's back'' for state and local governments already straining under their budget burdens.
 Mr. Johnson said the accounting board had tried to issue the retiree health care rule 10 years ago, when the economic picture was rosier. It did succeed then in issuing an accounting standard for government pension plans, but before it could turn to the related issue of retiree health care, other urgent accounting issues crowded onto its agenda. The board finally cleared its decks and voted to address retiree benefits in 1999. Coming up with the new methodology took five years.
 Now that it is here, ''the general sense in the marketplace is that GASB 45 is going to lead to a watershed in public-sector health benefits,'' said Dallas L. Salisbury, president of the Employee Benefit Research Institute, a nonpartisan research center in Washington.
 Indeed, the handful of states and cities that have already calculated their obligations to retirees have concluded they must also rein in the costs. Michigan, for example, with its possible $30 billion in largely unfunded health care promises, is already considering legislation that would shift ''a considerable amount of the cost for health insurance to the retiree,'' said Charles Agerstrand, a retirement consultant for the Michigan Education Association, a teachers union. The legislation would require teachers retiring after 20 years to pay 40 percent of their insurance premiums, as well as co-payments and deductibles, he said.
 The pressure is greatest in places like Detroit, Flint and Lansing, where school systems offered especially rich benefits during the heyday of the auto plants, aiming to keep teachers from going to work in them. Away from those cities, retiree costs may be easier to manage. In the city of Cadillac, 100 miles north of Grand Rapids, government officials said they felt no urgent need to cut benefits because they promised very little to begin with. Instead, Cadillac has started putting money aside to take care of future retirement benefits for its 85 employees, said Dale M. Walker, the city finance director.
 Ohio is one of a few states to set aside significant amounts. Its public employee retirement system has been building a health care trust fund for years, so it has money today to cover at least part of its promises. With active workers contributing 4 percent of their salary, the trust fund has $12 billion. Investment income from the fund pays most current retiree health costs, said Scott Streator, health care director of the Ohio Public Employee Retirement System. ''It doesn't mean we can just rest,'' he said. ''It is our belief that almost every state across the country is underfunded.'' He said his system plans to begin increasing the employee contributions next year.
 In Duluth, Mayor Bergson grew quiet for a moment at the thought of a robust trust fund. ''There was not a nickel set aside'' in Duluth, he said. ''The reason was, if you set money aside, you'd do less 'pretty projects.' Less bricks and mortar. Fewer streets. Fewer parks. So no one set the money aside. ''If the city had set $1 million aside every year for those 22 years'' since the promise was made, he added, ''we'd be in really good shape right now.''
 Mayor Bergson said his city intends to start setting aside money for the first time in 2006, but he is also trying to rein in the growth of new obligations. He raised to 20 from 3 the number of years that an employee must work for the city in order to qualify for retirement benefits. 
 He also imposed a hiring freeze and pledged not to lift it until Duluth could hire employees without promising them free lifetime health care. As the city has lost police officers, firefighters, an operator of its huge aerial lift bridge and other workers, the remaining employees have racked up more than $2 million in overtime. But Mayor Bergson says that this is still cheaper than dealing with free retirement health care once the new accounting rule takes effect. 
 Most recently, he reached out for what may prove a political third rail: he took issue with the idea that once a public employee has retired, his benefits can never be reduced. This idea, as applied to pensions, is rooted in the constitutions of about 20 states, and unions argue that it also protects retiree health care. 
 Active employees in Duluth have had to start paying more for their health care under the city plan, Mayor Bergson said. If active workers must make concessions, he said, retired workers should make concessions, too. Otherwise, in relative terms, they are pulling ahead of the active work force. 
 ''That's not a popular thing to say,'' Mayor Bergson said. ''I'm getting kicked hard by retirees. I'm getting beat up by active employees. The people who are kicking me are the ones I'm trying to protect.''
 ATTEMPTS to balance the competing interests of retirees, active workers and taxpayers are building tension. Ross Eisenbrey, a former Clinton administration official who is now at the Economic Policy Institute, said that ''when taxpayers wake up to these obligations, their first inclination is often to escape them or reduce them.''
 The problem is that people have counted on those benefits, and many have accepted lower salaries in exchange for better retirement benefits, said Teresa Ghilarducci, an economics professor at the University of Notre Dame. If they are close to retirement, said William R. Pryor, a firefighters' union official who is an elected board member of the Los Angeles County Employees Retirement Association, it may well be too late for them to make up for the loss with their own savings.
 The clock is ticking. In Duluth, a city official approached the actuary who made the city's estimate in 2002 and asked her to refine and update her numbers because economic conditions had changed and the new accounting rule had been announced. This time the obligations worked out to $280 million, a 57 percent increase in less than three years.


GRAPHIC: Photos: Retirement benefits threaten to swamp budgets in many states. A school aide and union activist, Julia Black, shown with Hayden Bryson, is resisting cuts in Alaska. (Photo by Michael Penn for The New York Times)(pg. 1)
 Mayor Herb Bergson said that Duluth, Minn., ''isn't going to function'' if it has to keep its promise of providing lifetime health care to its retirees. (Photo by Allen Brisson-Smith for the New York Times)(pg. 8)Chart/Map: ''Unprepared States''Most states and cities have set aside no money to pay for retiree medical benefits. Instead, they use the pay-as-you-go system -- paying for former employees out of current revenue.State financing of retiree health benefits, 2001Pay-as-you-go (30)Prefunded (11)None reported (9)(Source by Workplace Economics)Map of the United States highlighting states with above mentioned systems. (pg. 8)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: RETIREMENT & RETIREES (90%); ACTUARIAL SERVICES (90%); PUBLIC EMPLOYEE RETIREMENT SYSTEMS (90%); HEALTH CARE (89%); ACCOUNTING STANDARDS (89%); BUDGETS (89%); ACCOUNTING (88%); MANAGED CARE ORGANIZATIONS (78%); PERSONAL FINANCE (78%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (78%); EDUCATIONAL INSTITUTION EMPLOYEES (78%); MEDICAL INSURANCE CLAIMS (78%); HUMAN RESOURCES (78%); PENSION & RETIREMENT PLANS (78%); HEALTH CARE COSTS (78%); HEALTH INSURANCE (78%); SCHOOL BUDGETS (74%); MAYORS (74%); EDUCATION SYSTEMS & INSTITUTIONS (73%); WATER RESOURCES MANAGEMENT (73%); BABY BOOMERS (73%); INSURANCE CLAIMS (71%); CIVIL SERVICES (70%); ANNUAL FINANCIAL RESULTS (69%); TEACHING & TEACHERS (68%); TALKS & MEETINGS (68%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (67%); INTERVIEWS (67%); ENERGY & UTILITY LAW (65%); SCHOOL DISTRICTS (65%); PRIMARY & SECONDARY SCHOOL TEACHERS (65%); TAXES & TAXATION (63%); BONDS (60%); TAX LAW (60%) Medicine and Health; Health Insurance and Managed Care; Pensions and Retirement Plans; Government Employees; Medicine and Health

ORGANIZATION: GOVERNMENTAL ACCOUNTING STANDARDS BOARD (59%) Governmental Accounting Standards Board

PERSON: Milt Freudenheim; Mary Williams Walsh

GEOGRAPHIC: DULUTH, MN, USA (96%) MINNESOTA, USA (96%) UNITED STATES (96%) Duluth (Minn)

LOAD-DATE: December 11, 2005



206 of 607 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 11, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 3; Column 1; Money and Business/Financial Desk; ECONOMIC VIEW; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 1016 words

HEADLINE: What's the Return On Education? 

BYLINE: By ANNA BERNASEK

 BODY:
SOCRATES once said that the more he learned, the more he became convinced of his own ignorance. It's a familiar feeling for anyone who tries to make sense of the American education system.
 This academic year, the better part of $1 trillion will be spent on education in the United States. That's an awful lot of spending, approaching 10 percent of the overall economy. But what exactly is the return on all of that money?
While the costs are fairly simple to calculate, the benefits of education are harder to sum up. 
 Much of what a nation wants from its schools has nothing to do with money. Consider the social and cultural benefits, for instance: making friends, learning social rules and norms and understanding civic roles.
 But some of the most sought-after benefits from education are economic. Specialized knowledge and technical skills, for example, lead to higher incomes, greater productivity and generation of valuable ideas.
 Those benefits are vital to a nation's growth. In recent years, Americans have become keenly aware of the impact of education as freshly educated workers from China and India compete for good jobs once held in the United States. 
 Today, many parents have a gut feeling that education is the way to ensure prosperity for their children, yet there is surprisingly little certainty about how much education contributes to the nation's overall wealth.
 It is largely a problem of measurement. Economists have tried for decades to quantify the impact of education. They still don't have all the answers, but their work can shed some light on what Americans are getting for their investment. That information could serve as a backdrop for debates on how much government should spend on education and what should be left to individuals. 
 Start with what economists are confident about: the payoff to individuals. By measuring the relationship between the number of years of schooling and income earned in the job market, economists think that they have a good idea of what it's worth. 
 Alan B. Krueger, an economics professor at Princeton, says the evidence suggests that, up to a point, an additional year of schooling is likely to raise an individual's earnings about 10 percent.
 For someone earning the national median household income of $42,000, an extra year of training could provide an additional $4,200 a year. Over the span of a career, that could easily add up to $30,000 or $40,000 of present value. If the year's education costs less than that, there is a net gain.
 The payoff, of course, varies by individual. Another year of education will not have the same benefit for everyone. And school resources matter as well. According to studies by Professor Krueger and others, class size, teacher quality and school size can make a difference in the outcome. They have found that the effect of better schools is most pronounced for disadvantaged students.
 There is less certainty about the big picture. That is partly because educational benefits accrue to the economy gradually, often showing up years after schooling is complete. Another problem is the difficulty of quantifying indirect benefits. One unknown, for example, is the degree to which formal education fosters new commercial ideas and technological breakthroughs. 
 While there is little doubt that there are benefits, those measurement challenges have led to big shifts in the conclusions of economic studies over time. In the early 1990's, economists calculated big economic rewards from additional investment in education. A decade later, the conclusions were different: studies suggested that while one individual might gain advantage over another through greater education, there might be no overall economic benefit.
 Today, economists suspect that the truth is somewhere in the middle. Jonathan Temple, an economist at the University of Bristol in England, says the research trend is moving back toward the earlier findings. The latest attempts to quantify the impact of education on total economic growth have tended to conclude that it is at least as significant as that measured for individuals. 
 Because indirect benefits can't be counted accurately, Professor Temple suspects an even bigger impact. Insofar as education enhances worker productivity, there is a clear benefit to the economy. 
 Two Harvard economists, Lawrence F. Katz and Claudia Goldin, studied the effect of increases in educational attainment in the United States labor force from 1915 to 1999. They estimated that those gains directly resulted in at least 23 percent of the overall growth in productivity, or around 10 percent of growth in gross domestic product.
 The most important factor was the move to universal high school education from 1910 to 1940. It expanded the education of the work force far more rapidly than at any other time in the nation's history, creating economic benefits that extended well into the remainder of the century, according to Professors Katz and Goldin. That moved the United States ahead of other countries in education and laid the foundation for the expansion of higher education. 
 Today, more Americans attend college than ever before, but the rest of the world is catching up. The once-large educational gap between the United States and other countries is closing -- making it increasingly important to understand what education is really worth to a nation. 
 If economists are right, it is not just part of the cost of maintaining a functioning democracy, but a source of wealth creation for all. That means that investing in the education of every American is in everyone's self-interest. 
 Still, we're a long way from being able to judge the right level of spending on education -- and how to achieve it. With a college degree more important than ever, the cost of higher education is rising steeply, creating growing stress for many American families. With more study, researchers may be able to identify ways of reducing costs while increasing the payoff from education.
 Taking our cue from Socrates, the first step may be to recognize what we don't know.


GRAPHIC: Chart: ''Who's Paying More for College''Higher education's share of all education spending has been relatively flat since the 1970's . . .Graph tracks higher education's share of spending and all other since the 1970's.. . . as private spending on higher education has surpassed public spending.Graph tracks higher education spending (private and public) since the 1970's.(Source by Bureau of Economic Analysis)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: EDUCATION SYSTEMS & INSTITUTIONS (90%); TEACHING & TEACHERS (86%); STUDENT EXPENSES (77%); CHILDREN (77%); BUSINESS EDUCATION (77%); LABOR SECTOR PERFORMANCE (76%); PARENTS (76%); EMPLOYMENT (74%); PERSONAL & FAMILY INCOME (73%); UPPER INCOME PERSONS (73%); COMPANY EARNINGS (73%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (71%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (66%) Education and Schools; United States Economy

PERSON: Anna Bernasek

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (97%); INDIA (79%); CHINA (79%)

LOAD-DATE: December 11, 2005



207 of 607 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 11, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 6; Column 2; Magazine; THE WAY WE LIVE NOW: 12-11-05: FREAKONOMICS; Pg. 38

LENGTH: 1148 words

HEADLINE: The Economy of Desire

BYLINE: By Stephen J. Dubner and Steven D. Levitt. 
Stephen J. Dubner and Steven D. Levitt are the authors of ''Freakonomics: A Rogue Economist Explores the Hidden Side of Everything.'' More information on the academic research behind this column is at www.freakonomics.com.

 BODY:
Analyzing a Sex Survey
 What is a price?
 Unless you're an economist, you probably think of a price as simply the amount you pay for a given thing -- the number of dollars you surrender for, let's say, Sunday brunch at your favorite neighborhood restaurant. But to an economist, price is a much broader concept. The 20 minutes you spend waiting for a table is part of the price. So, too, is any nutritional downside of the meal itself: a cheeseburger, as the economist Kevin Murphy has calculated, costs $2.50 more than a salad in long-term health implications. There are moral and social costs to tally as well -- for instance, the look of scorn delivered by your vegan dining partner as you order the burger. While the restaurant's menu may list the price of the cheeseburger at $7.95, that is clearly just the beginning.
The most fundamental rule of economics is that a rise in price leads to less quantity demanded. This holds true for a restaurant meal, a real-estate deal, a college education or just about anything else you can think of. When the price of an item rises, you buy less of it (which is not to say, of course, that you want less of it). 
 But what about sex? Sex, that most irrational of human pursuits, couldn't possibly respond to rational price theory, could it?
 Outside of a few obvious situations, we generally don't think about sex in terms of prices. Prostitution is one such situation; courtship is another: certain men seem to consider an expensive dinner a prudent investment in pursuit of a sexual dividend. 
 But how might price changes affect sexual behavior? And might those changes have something to tell us about the nature of sex itself?
 Here is a stark example: A man who is sent to prison finds that the price of sex with a woman has spiked -- talk about a supply shortage -- and he becomes much more likely to start having sex with men. The reported prevalence of oral sex among affluent American teenagers would also seem to illustrate price theory: because of the possibility of disease or pregnancy, intercourse is expensive -- and it has come to be seen by some teenagers as an unwanted and costly pledge of commitment. In this light, oral sex may be viewed as a cheaper alternative.
 In recent decades, we have witnessed the most exorbitant new price associated with sex: the H.I.V. virus. Because AIDS is potentially deadly and because it can be spread relatively easily by sex between two men, the onset of AIDS in the early 1980's caused a significant increase in the price of gay sex. Andrew Francis, a graduate student in economics at the University of Chicago, has tried to affix a dollar figure to this change. Setting the value of an American life at $2 million, Francis calculated that in terms of AIDS-related mortality, it cost $1,923.75 in 1992 (the peak of the AIDS crisis) for a man to have unprotected sex once with a random gay American man versus less than $1 with a random woman. While the use of a condom greatly reduces the risk of contracting AIDS, a condom is, of course, yet another cost associated with sex. In a study of Mexican prostitution, the Berkeley economist Paul Gertler and two co-authors showed that when a client requested sex without a condom, a prostitute was typically paid a 24 percent premium over her standard fee.
 Francis, in a draft paper titled ''The Economics of Sexuality,'' tries to go well beyond dollar figures. He puts forth an empirical argument that may fundamentally challenge how people think about sex. 
 As with any number of behaviors that social scientists try to measure, sex is a tricky subject. But Francis discovered a data set that offered some intriguing possibilities. The National Health and Social Life Survey, sponsored by the U.S. government and a handful of foundations, asked almost 3,500 people a rather astonishing variety of questions about sex: the different sexual acts received and performed and with whom and when; questions about sexual preference and identity; whether they knew anyone with AIDS. As with any self-reported data, there was the chance that the survey wasn't reliable, but it had been designed to ensure anonymity and generate honest replies.
 The survey was conducted in 1992, when the disease was much less treatable than it is today. Francis first looked to see if there was a positive correlation between having a friend with AIDS and expressing a preference for homosexual sex. As he expected, there was. ''After all, people pick their friends,'' he says, ''and homosexuals are more likely to have other homosexuals as friends.'' 
 But you don't get to pick your family. So Francis next looked for a correlation between having a relative with AIDS and expressing a homosexual preference. This time, for men, the correlation was negative. This didn't seem to make sense. Many scientists believe that a person's sexual orientation is determined before birth, a function of genetic fate. If anything, people in the same family should be more likely to share the same orientation. ''Then I realized, Oh, my God, they were scared of AIDS,'' Francis says.
 Francis zeroed in on this subset of about 150 survey respondents who had a relative with AIDS. Because the survey compiled these respondents' sexual histories as well as their current answers about sex, it allowed Francis to measure, albeit crudely, how their lives may have changed as a result of having seen up close the costly horrors of AIDS. 
 Here's what he found: Not a single man in the survey who had a relative with AIDS said he had had sex with a man in the previous five years; not a single man in that group declared himself to be attracted to men or to consider himself homosexual. Women in that group also shunned sex with men. For them, rates of recent sex with women and of declaring homosexual identity and attraction were more than twice as high as those who did not have a relative with AIDS. 
 Because the sample size was so small -- simple chance suggests that no more than a handful of men in a group that size would be attracted to men -- it is hard to reach definitive conclusions from the survey data. (Obviously, not every single man changes his sexual behavior or identity when a relative contracts AIDS.) But taken as a whole, the numbers in Francis's study suggest that there may be a causal effect here -- that having a relative with AIDS may change not just sexual behavior but also self-reported identity and desire.
 In other words, sexual preference, while perhaps largely predetermined, may also be subject to the forces more typically associated with economics than biology. If this turns out to be true, it would change the way that everyone -- scientists, politicians, theologians -- thinks about sexuality. But it probably won't much change the way economists think. To them, it has always been clear: whether we like it or not, everything has its price.


GRAPHIC: Drawing (Drawing by David M. Brinley)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: AIDS & HIV (90%); RESTAURANTS (90%); PRICE INCREASES (89%); PRICE CHANGES (86%); ADOLESCENTS (78%); MEN'S HEALTH (75%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (71%); MEAT FREE DIETS (71%); SEXUALLY TRANSMITTED DISEASE (71%); DISEASES & DISORDERS (70%); REAL ESTATE (69%); PROSTITUTION (64%) Acquired Immune Deficiency Syndrome; Prices (Fares, Fees and Rates); Homosexuality; Sex; Women; Men; Acquired Immune Deficiency Syndrome

PERSON: Stephen J Dubner; Steven D Levitt

GEOGRAPHIC: CHICAGO, IL, USA (79%) ILLINOIS, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: December 11, 2005



208 of 607 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 11, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 6; Column 1; Magazine; Pg. 61

LENGTH: 363 words

HEADLINE: Branding Nations

BYLINE: By Clay Risen

 BODY:
If the British consultant Simon Anholt had his way, sitting at the cabinet table with the secretary of defense and the attorney general would be a secretary of branding. Indeed, he foresees a day when the most important part of foreign policy isn't defense or trade but image -- and when countries would protect and promote their images through coordinated branding departments. ''I've visited a great many countries where they have ministers for things that are far less important,'' he says. 
This year, Anholt, a prolific speaker, adviser to numerous governments and editor of the journal Place Branding, published ''Brand America: The Mother of All Brands,'' in which he predicted that the days when countries will essentially open their own in-house marketing shops are right around the corner. ''Governments understand this very well, and most of them are now trying or have tried in the past to achieve some kind of control over their images,'' Anholt writes. He may be on to something, since governments are quickly realizing that image maintenance isn't just about reeling in tourists -- witness Karen Hughes's high-profile public-diplomacy efforts or Tony Blair's Public Diplomacy Strategy Board, an outgrowth of Britain's ''Cool Britannia'' campaign. Late last year, the Persian Gulf state Oman hired Landor Associates, a brand consulting outfit, to develop and promote ''Brand Oman.''
 Public boosterism campaigns are nothing new. But true nation branding, Anholt says, involves close coordination of the often disparate factors that go into a country's international image: tourism promotion, trade, even foreign policy. Just as companies have learned to ''live the brand,'' countries should consider their reputations carefully -- because, he says, in the interconnected world, that's what statecraft is all about. ''Today's community of nations is open, transparent and substantially democratic -- in many ways, like a marketplace,'' he writes in ''Brand America.'' ''The state's reputation is therefore of critical importance.'' Given how difficult it is for an unpopular America to make its way in the world, maybe Anholt isn't as crazy as he sounds. Clay Risen



GRAPHIC: Drawing: Simon Anholt (Drawing by Alexandria Compain-Tissier.)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: DEFENSE DEPARTMENTS (90%); BRANDING (90%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING (90%); FOREIGN POLICY (90%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (90%); FOREIGN RELATIONS (89%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING SERVICES (78%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (78%); TOURISM DEVELOPMENT (76%); PUBLIC RELATIONS (72%); TRENDS (69%); TOURISM (67%); ECONOMIC NEWS (59%) Economic Conditions and Trends; Advertising and Marketing

COMPANY: LANDOR ASSOCIATES (54%)

ORGANIZATION: Place Branding (Journal)

INDUSTRY: SIC8742 MANAGEMENT CONSULTING SERVICES (54%)

PERSON: TONY BLAIR (58%) Clay Risen; Simon Anholt

GEOGRAPHIC: INDIAN OCEAN (53%) UNITED KINGDOM (94%); UNITED STATES (93%); GULF STATES (68%)

LOAD-DATE: December 11, 2005



209 of 607 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 11, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 6; Column 3; Magazine; Pg. 67

LENGTH: 360 words

HEADLINE: Econophysics

BYLINE: By Christopher Shea

 BODY:
Victor Yakovenko, a physicist at the University of Maryland, happens to think that current patterns of economic inequality are as natural, and unalterable, as the properties of air molecules in your kitchen. 
He is a self-described ''econophysicist.'' Econophysics, the use of tools from physics to study markets and similar matters, isn't new, but the subfield devoted to analyzing how the economic pie is split acquired new legitimacy in March when the Saha Institute of Nuclear Physics, in Calcutta, held an international conference on wealth distribution.
 Econophysicists point out that incomes and wealth behave suspiciously like atoms. In the United States, for example, beneath the 97th percentile (roughly $150,000), the dispersion of income fits a common distribution pattern known as ''exponential'' distribution. Exponential distribution happens to be the distribution pattern of the energy of atoms in gases that are at thermal equilibrium; it's a pattern that many closed, random systems gravitate toward. As for the wealthiest 3 percent, their incomes follow what's called a ''power law'': there is a very long tail in the distribution of data. (Consider the huge gap between a lawyer making $200,000 and Bill Gates.)
 Other developed nations seem to display this two-tiered economic system as well, with the demarcation lines differing only slightly. 
 To an econophysicist, the exponential distribution of incomes is no coincidence: it suggests that the wealth of most Americans is itself in a kind of thermal equilibrium. To change it, ''you will have to fight entropy,'' Yakovenko says. That people aren't mindless atoms and that governments try limited wealth redistribution doesn't really matter, he adds: large, complex systems have their own statistical logic that trumps individual, and state, decisions. In March, Yakovenko told New Scientist that ''short of getting Stalin,'' efforts to make more than superficial dents in inequality would fail. Recent increases in inequality in the United States, he adds, stem from the rising fortunes of the top 3 percent; there has been little change in the rest of the distribution. Christopher Shea

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PHYSICS (90%); NUCLEAR PHYSICS (78%); SCIENCE NEWS (77%); SCIENCE & TECHNOLOGY (77%); ECONOMIC NEWS (72%); CONFERENCES & CONVENTIONS (70%); TRENDS (69%) Economic Conditions and Trends; Physics 

ORGANIZATION: UNIVERSITY OF MARYLAND (84%)

PERSON: BILL GATES (51%) Christopher Shea; Victor Yakovenko

GEOGRAPHIC: KOLKATA, INDIA (56%) WEST BENGAL, INDIA (56%) UNITED STATES (93%); INDIA (56%)

LOAD-DATE: December 11, 2005



210 of 607 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 11, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 6; Column 3; Magazine; Pg. 67

LENGTH: 355 words

HEADLINE: Embryo Adoption

BYLINE: By Sarah Blustain

 BODY:
This year, opponents of abortion stepped up their use of a carefully chosen phrase -- ''embryo adoption'' -- that describes a couples' decision to have a baby using the embryos of another couple. 
The less loaded term for embryo adoption is ''embryo donation.'' It typically signifies that a couple who have undergone in vitro fertilization, and have had as many children as they wish to, are releasing their leftover embryos for use by other would-be parents. Of some 400,000 frozen embryos in the country, according to the RAND Corporation, about 9,000 are designated for other families. (Another 11,000 are designated for research, while the balance remain unused in freezers.)
 Medically, embryo adoption and embryo donation are identical. But to promoters of embryo adoption, which term you use makes all the difference: ''We would like for embryos to be recognized as human life and therefore to be adopted as opposed to treated as property,'' explains Kathryn Deiters, director of development at the Nightlight Christian Adoptions agency, in California, which has been offering embryo adoptions since the late 1990's. Nightlight also favors the term ''snowflakes.'' As the agency's executive director, Ron Stoddart, told The Washington Times: ''Like snowflakes, these embryos are unique, they're fragile and, of course, they're frozen.. . .It's a perfect analogy.''
 In May, President Bush delighted the Nightlight agency when he met with some of its young success stories, who wore ''Former Embryo'' stickers on their chests. He used the occasion to stress his opposition to legislation supporting wider stem-cell research with embryos. 
 The number of snowflake babies so far is small. But liberating the in vitro world's ice chests is only part of the movement's goals; raising consciousness is the rest. Advocates would like to see courts consider embryo-transfer disputes under adoption law rather than contract law, as now occurs. Making snowflakes subject to adoption law, it is hoped, would be an important symbolic step toward the movement's ultimate goal: granting embryos the rights of human beings. Sarah Blustain


GRAPHIC: Photo: Bush promoting embryo adoption. (Photograph by Eric Draper.)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ADOPTION (90%); ABORTION (90%); REPRODUCTIVE TECHNOLOGY (89%); FAMILY LAW (89%); CHILDREN (89%); IN VITRO FERTILIZATION (89%); ADOPTION LAW (89%); FAMILY (78%); BIOTECHNOLOGY & GENETIC SCIENCE (70%); STEM CELL RESEARCH (69%); EXECUTIVES (67%); CONTRACTS LAW (66%) Reproduction (Biological); Infertility ; Fetal Tissue; Abortion; Infertility

COMPANY: RAND CORP (71%)

INDUSTRY: SIC8732 COMMERCIAL ECONOMIC, SOCIOLOGICAL, & EDUCATIONAL RESEARCH (71%)

PERSON: Sarah Blustain

GEOGRAPHIC: CALIFORNIA, USA (69%) UNITED STATES (69%)

LOAD-DATE: December 11, 2005



211 of 607 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 11, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 3; Column 4; Money and Business/Financial Desk; OFFICE SPACE: THE BOSS; Pg. 11

LENGTH: 698 words

HEADLINE: A Tale of Two Streets

BYLINE: By JOE MOGLIA; As told to Eve Tahmincioglu.

 BODY:
THE neighborhood gang I was in growing up on Dyckman Street in Manhattan wasn't like your jailhouse types with the tattoos, everybody shooting each other. While it wasn't uncommon for somebody to carry a knife, the fights were street fights, not knife fights. We had names like the Tiny Tots or the Redskins, like the football team. 
 I got beat up once by my group for stupidity. When I was 12, I asked my mother where babies were born. She told me God came down from heaven and planted a seed under a woman's heart and it took nine months to grow and came out of the stomach. 
Well, we're hanging in the park one day, my gang and me, and we were talking about a certain word. 
 When someone explained what the literal definition was, the conversation got into intercourse, but I didn't know what that was. They tried to explain it to me.
 I said, ''What are you guys talking about?'' They said, ''That's where babies come from.'' I said, ''Are you nuts?'' They said, ''Where do you think babies come from?'' I told them God came down from heaven, and the rest. They said, ''Where did you hear that from?'' I told them it was my mother. They said, ''Your mother doesn't know what she's talking about.'' I said the same about them. And they figured, because of my sheer stupidity, it was a good idea for eight guys to jump me. 
 Since I was part of the group, they didn't want to put me in the hospital. So I went home bleeding from my mouth and head, my shirts ripped. My mom said, ''Did you get into another fight?'' I said, ''Mom, I got to talk to you.''
 I was first-generation American. My father was born in Italy, my mother in Ireland. Neither had a high school education. My dad owned a vegetable store, and since the age of 10 I was expected to work in the store. I think that kept me from getting into trouble. My two best friends in grammar school were killed in high school. One died from an overdose. The other was killed by the police while he was robbing a store.
 One of the things I've learned, whether I'm hanging out with guys in the neighborhood or interacting with high-paid Wall Street executives, is that everyone wants to be treated with respect, with dignity. When I'm in the car sometimes, going to a television interview or somewhere else, I watch a guy unload a truck, and I think to myself, ''You could have been that guy unloading that truck.'' 
 My dream was to play football or baseball in college, but instead at 19 I got married and had a family. I needed to support them and pay tuition, so I got a job as an assistant coach. I majored in economics because I thought I wanted to pursue a career on Wall Street, but I got so much satisfaction from the experience of being a coach. I thought if I could get a head-coach job after college I would begin a career in education -- teaching and coaching. I applied to 100 schools. At 22, I became the youngest high school football coach in Delaware's history.
 I loved my 16-year career in coaching, ending up working at Dartmouth, but it came to a point that the amount of satisfaction I got from it no longer was worth the amount of commitment I had to make. Since I was always interested in Wall Street, I decided if I could get an institutional-level job at a top-tier firm in New York City I would take the job. In spring 1984, I accepted a job at Merrill Lynch in the institutional sales training program. There were 25 M.B.A.'s and one football coach.
 I had so much on the line; I couldn't fail. I remember my first year as a rookie institutional bond salesman, one of my first big trades. The traders were patting me on the back. I went to confirm the trade to the account and realized I got the buy and sell backward. It was a $10 million trade. The trade cost the desk a couple of hundred thousand dollars. I never got off the phone again without knowing what position we had.

JOE MOGLIA
Chief executive, Ameritrade

DATE OF BIRTH
PUB-DATE: April 1, 1949

WHERE HE GREW UP
Washington Heights, Manhattan

EDUCATION
Fordham University, B.A., economics; University of Delaware, M.A., secondary education and social sciences

FAVORITE FOOTBALL PLAY
Quick pitch

FAVORITE BUSINESS BOOK
''The Intelligent Investor,'' by Benjamin Graham


GRAPHIC: Photo: JOE MOGLIA

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: INFANTS & TODDLERS (90%); CHILDREN (89%); PREGNANCY & CHILDBIRTH (75%); SECONDARY SCHOOLS (69%); HIGH SCHOOLS (65%); FRUIT & VEGETABLE STORES (60%); INTERVIEWS (60%) Biographical Information

ORGANIZATION: Ameritrade

PERSON: Joseph Moglia; Eve Tahmincioglu

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%) NEW YORK, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: December 11, 2005



212 of 607 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 11, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 3; Column 1; Money and Business/Financial Desk; OFFICE SPACE: CAREER COUCH; Pg. 11

LENGTH: 898 words

HEADLINE: When a Friend Is Also Your Boss

BYLINE: By MATT VILLANO. 
Workplace or career topics may be sent to ccouch@nytimes.com.

 BODY:

Q. You work for a good friend, but lately you've begun to have doubts about his business judgment. Is there a way to handle this without ruining the friendship?

A. Nobody enjoys unpleasant discussions with friends, but your job requires that you put the interests of the company first, said Michael Gibbs, clinical professor of economics and human resources at the University of Chicago. ''Friendship is important, but at the end of the day, your top priority at work has to be the business itself,'' he said. ''When you start losing faith in your boss's ability to perform on the job, it's time to speak up.''

Q. Was it wise to agree to work for a friend in the first place?

A. It's late in the game to question your decision, but it's worth remembering that mixing personal and professional lives can be tricky. Sure, it can be fun to work with people you know and respect. And when it works out over the long run, it can be very rewarding to share passion for a mission with pals you've known for years. Bill Gates and Steve Ballmer, for example, were roommates in college, joined forces at Microsoft in 1980 and still work together today. Even if the two quarrel behind the scenes, the relationship evidently works. 
But working for a friend can be a minefield. Your friend may assume that you are on top of things when you are not. You may have different interpretations of the corporate culture, or divergent expectations for the job. Power is another issue: when a friend decides how much money you make, how much vacation you can take and what kind of promotion you'll get, the dynamics of your relationship can be challenged.
 ''Working for a friend creates a dual relationship, and at the very least the connection becomes more complex, and it follows new rules,'' said Carol Kauffman, assistant professor of psychology at Harvard Medical School in Boston. ''If you know those rules, that's great. But most of us don't, and it's usually a struggle to figure them out.''

Q. How do you talk to your friend about this problem?

A. There will never be a perfect time or place, so just do it. Confine business discussions to the office and approach the boss as any other employee would, by scheduling a private meeting during the day. Dr. Leann Mischel, assistant professor of management at Susquehanna University in Selinsgrove, Pa., says that this strategy keeps your friendship separate from work and conveys to your friend -- and to colleagues who pay attention -- that you don't expect to be treated differently than anyone else.

Q. How do you express your misgivings in a way that preserves your job and your friendship?

A. Every relationship is different, so you'll have to decide for yourself the most appropriate way to communicate your concerns. Some friendships are relatively formal. Others allow friends to speak as freely in the workplace as they do in a bar. Because friendships change over time, you'll have to make sure that your approach is sensitive.
 Regular communication can be important in heading off trouble. At 1-800-Got-Junk?, a rubbish removal business based in Vancouver, British Columbia, Cameron Herald has reported to his best friend, Brian Skudamore, since 2000. The friends meet weekly to review performance and to discuss their goals. Over the years, this approach has fostered what Mr. Herald, the chief operating officer, calls a ''painfully honest'' method of communication, in which each man speaks his mind clearly and directly.
 ''I'll always voice my opinion,'' Mr. Herald said. ''If Brian doesn't like what I have to say, I'm fine with it so long as I know my opinion has been heard.''
 Mr. Skudamore, the chief executive, added: ''Our relationship is like a marriage in a sense. We don't have to agree, so long as we listen.''

Q. Are there ways to make the encounter easier from the beginning?

A. The closer the friendship, the easier any discussion will be. For those friends who aren't as open as Mr. Herald and Mr. Skudamore, a more careful and even legalistic approach may be best.
 Susan Hodgkinson, president of the Personal Brand Company, a leadership development firm in Boston, says she sometimes counsels clients to participate in a ''contracting conversation,'' during which they make a written record of goals as well as methods for dealing with potential conflicts. Ms. Hodgkinson encourages her clients to add to the document throughout the year, creating a tool to solve problems as they arise.
 ''It's subtle, non-edgy language that helps put things into perspective,'' she said. ''For some, the notion of contracting makes for a more productive outcome because many of the answers are already there.''

Q. Is there a way to salvage your friendship if your friend rejects your criticisms outright?

A. Maybe not. If you've reached an impasse, you may try to involve an arbitrator, assuming that your firm has a human resources department and access to a specialist who will focus on the facts of a case and try to defuse an emotionally charged situation.
 Another option, of course, is to request a transfer or to leave the company. 
 Jan Yager, author of ''Who's That Sitting at My Desk? How to Succeed by Mastering Work Relationships'' (Hannacroix Creek Books, 2004), said that this move might seem extreme, but that it would enable you to separate your friendship from your job. ''You should never have to choose between the two,'' she said.


GRAPHIC: Drawing (Drawing by Chris Reed)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Interview

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (89%); BUSINESS EDUCATION (89%); HUMAN RESOURCES (77%); ETHICS (73%); CORPORATE CULTURE (73%); TALKS & MEETINGS (72%); GRADUATE & PROFESSIONAL SCHOOLS (71%); PSYCHOLOGY (61%) Labor; Ethics

COMPANY: MICROSOFT CORP (55%)

ORGANIZATION: UNIVERSITY OF CHICAGO (57%)

TICKER: MSFT (NASDAQ) (55%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS511210 SOFTWARE PUBLISHERS (55%); SIC7372 PREPACKAGED SOFTWARE (55%)

PERSON: BILL GATES (50%); STEVEN A BALLMER (50%) Matt Villano

GEOGRAPHIC: CHICAGO, IL, USA (88%); BOSTON, MA, USA (69%) ILLINOIS, USA (88%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (69%); PENNSYLVANIA, USA (68%) UNITED STATES (88%)

LOAD-DATE: December 11, 2005



213 of 607 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 11, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 3; Column 1; Money and Business/Financial Desk; SUNDAY MONEY: SPENDING; Pg. 9

LENGTH: 1205 words

HEADLINE: How to Make Your (Accounting) Relationship Work

BYLINE: By ERYN BROWN

 BODY:
WHEN Lisa Ludovici, 45, received a letter of inquiry from the Internal Revenue Service last year regarding her 2001 taxes, she immediately forwarded it to her accountant, who said he would take care of it, she recalled. Months passed, she said, and nothing happened: the accountant failed to return her calls, even when the government eventually billed her $1,500 for the supposed discrepancy. In the end, Ms. Ludovici said she consulted another tax preparer who told her that the problem was minor and said that it appeared that the I.R.S. had made an incorrect assumption. 
 Ms. Ludovici, a manager of government affairs for Comcast in Los Angeles, cleared everything up with a single phone call, and she said the I.R.S. dropped the matter. She did not owe any money.
But until then, she rode an emotional roller coaster. ''I'm scared of anything from the I.R.S., so I was anxious. And I got more flipped out progressively. Maybe he flipped out because I was flipping out,'' she said, referring to her first accountant. ''I really just needed someone to tell me, calmly, that it was O.K. At least he could have called me back and told me it would be easy to deal with.'' 
 Accountant-client relationships can often be fraught with emotion, said Thomas P. Oschenschlager, vice president for taxation at the American Institute of Certified Public Accountants, a trade association in Washington.
 ''Just doing tax returns can be a very highly personal situation,'' he said. ''The person who does your taxes knows more about you than your doctor or your minister.'' 
 Accountants like Mr. Oschenschlager, who worked at Grant Thornton for 23 years, urge taxpayers who hope to avoid trauma to choose their preparers wisely. 
 The nuts and bolts of the process are straightforward enough. Ask for referrals, accountants say, especially from friends and associates in similar financial circumstances. Interview candidates to ensure that they have relevant experience. Make sure that you understand tax preparers' fee policies, and don't be afraid to ask how the working relationship will proceed: Will the accountant you interview, or a junior person, be completing the return? Will the return be outsourced to a site in India? What is the firm's policy on returning phone calls? 
 But advice on how to handle the softer side of the accounting relationship is harder to come by. 
 Customer service in the accounting field is seldom studied systematically. ''Little has changed since 1992,'' said August J. Aquila, a consultant at the Growth Partnership, which advises accounting firms about marketing and expanding their practices. 
 That year, Mr. Aquila, who is based in Minnetonka, Minn., wrote an article for the Journal of Accountancy detailing reasons that firms lose clients. The reasons, he said, include ignoring clients, cutting them off from contact with partners and using a lot of technical jargon during consultations. 
 While some individual firms conduct customer satisfaction surveys, he said, the profession has done little to track satisfaction on the macro level. 
 But anecdotally, there is much evidence of problems. Some may be a result of rudeness or laziness. Others can arise because practitioners may not be equipped to handle clients' complicated finances. 
 Linda Beamish of Ogdensburg, N.Y., owner of DeFelsko Inc., a manufacturing company, eventually outgrew the local firm she had been dealing with. She sought out an adviser familiar with the challenges that family businesses face, including preparation for succession. ''We needed a firm with broader experience,'' she said. 
 Claude Finch, who owns Rodeo City Wireless, a retail store in Ellensburg, Wash., recently began working with a certified public accountant, Scott E. Pernaa. Mr. Finch said his former accountant had spent a lot time helping him with do-it-yourself software. ''I needed someone to do more accounting for me; she really didn't respond to my needs.'' When Mr. Finch and his wife, Katy, called and asked for additional assistance, he said, they were told that ''it wouldn't be until two weeks, and that was too late.''
 Some people in the industry say that customer service problems arise because fewer people are entering the field. ''There is a shortage of accountants in this country,'' said Shannon Vincent, chief executive of the ReNew Group, an accounting-practice consulting firm in Oakland, Calif. ''As a result, they don't necessarily have to treat their customers well.''
 According to the accounting institute, 53,760 accounting degrees were awarded during the 2003-04 school year. That was up 20 percent from 2001-02, but it was short of the industry's peak of 61,220 in 1994-95.
 To ease personal relationships with clients, many accountants stress the importance of clear communication. 
 ''Accountants are trained in the technical side, so they always feel better on that turf,'' Mr. Aquila said, but he added that ''firms are beginning to realize that the soft side is as important as the technical side.'' 
 Ms. Beamish's new C.P.A., William J. Killory of Dermody, Burke & Brown, based in Syracuse, said he viewed his job ''as being a problem-solver.'' ''It's not just numbers and debits and credits,'' he added. ''It's being able to talk to the client in a language they understand.''
 Michael M. Eisenberg, a C.P.A. who runs an accounting and financial-planning practice in Los Angeles, says he likes to use props: for example, a set of laminated flash cards to illustrate market trends, and an exhibit of a 7-cent postage stamp from 1970 to bring inflation to life. ''Teaching clients holds down the number of emotional phone calls, cuts down on panic calls,'' he said. ''It's common sense. Treat someone like you'd like to be treated.''
 But Mr. Eisenberg also said he depended on clients to meet him halfway when it came to keeping meltdowns at bay. ''I have a rule: call me before the issue happens,'' he said. Submitting tax and other paperwork on time, and in good order, also helps.
 Another strategy is to start the search for a new adviser early. As filing season nears, most accountants have less time to get to know their clients. What's more, many last-minute chances to save on taxes -- like making charitable gifts to maximize deductions -- disappear at the close of the calendar year. 
 ''It is not too late to choose, from a practitioner standpoint,'' said Leslie Michael, a C.P.A. based in Indianapolis. ''You can take advantage of last-minute planning opportunities. Come January and February, you're stuck with the cards you're dealt.''
 IN the end, the best that careful clients can do is trust their gut. 
 ''Basically, you're not going to know until you work with the person,'' Mr. Eisenberg said.
 Mr. Finch, the owner of Rodeo City Wireless, said Mr. Pernaa's enthusiasm had convinced him. ''We didn't do a lot of research,'' he said. ''We met him, and we knew it would work out. You can see it and you can feel it when you pick the right partner in business.''
 But Ms. Ludovici looked for a more practical way to keep her new accountant in line: potential shame. ''I went with someone I knew, someone who wasn't going to be able to duck my calls,'' she said. ''Someone I see at parties.''


GRAPHIC: Photo: Claude and Katy Finch, owners of a business in Ellensburg, Wash., turned to Scott E. Pernaa, right, a C.P.A., for advice. (Photo by Jeff T. Green for The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TAXES & TAXATION (93%); PUBLIC FINANCE (90%); ACCOUNTING (90%); TAX PREPARATION SERVICES (89%); TAX AUTHORITIES (89%); TAX CONSULTING (89%); INTERVIEWS (86%); ACCOUNTING & AUDITING FIRMS (78%); CONSULTING SERVICES (78%); OUTSOURCING (78%); CUSTOMER SERVICE (65%) Accounting and Accountants

COMPANY: GRANT THORNTON INTERNATIONAL LTD (58%)

ORGANIZATION: INTERNAL REVENUE SERVICE (84%); AMERICAN INSTITUTE OF CERTIFIED PUBLIC ACCOUNTANTS (54%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS541611 ADMINISTRATIVE MANAGEMENT & GENERAL MANAGEMENT CONSULTING SERVICES (58%); NAICS541213 TAX PREPARATION SERVICES (58%); NAICS541211 OFFICES OF CERTIFIED PUBLIC ACCOUNTANTS (58%)

PERSON: Eryn Brown

GEOGRAPHIC: MINNESOTA, USA (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (71%) INDIA (79%); UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: December 11, 2005



214 of 607 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 11, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 3; Column 3; Money and Business/Financial Desk; DataBank; Pg. 15

LENGTH: 539 words

HEADLINE: Stocks Are Down, Even After a T.G.I.F. Party 

BYLINE: By JEFF SOMMER

 BODY:
A rally on Friday wasn't enough to make up for earlier declines that sent the stock market into negative territory for the week. 
 The price of oil set the tone for stocks, as it has so often this year. On Friday, the futures price of a barrel of crude fell to $59.39 in New York from $60.66 on Thursday, setting off a surge in the stock market. But oil had risen for most of the week and discouraged many traders. Intel, the semiconductor company, fell 4.9 percent for the week, the worst performance among the Dow industrials. Its sales forecast for the fourth quarter disappointed Wall Street, although the stock gained 1.5 percent on Friday, trimming some of its earlier losses.
For the week, the Dow Jones industrial average lost 98.93 points, or 0.9 percent, to close at 10,778.58. The Standard & Poor's 500-stock index fell 5.71 points, or 0.5 percent, to close at 1,259.37. The Nasdaq composite index dropped 16.64 points, or 0.7 percent, to close at 2,256.73. The Dow is down 0.4 percent for the year; the other two stock indexes have both climbed by more than 3.7 percent. 
 In the bond market, the yield on the benchmark 10-year Treasury note rose slightly, to 4.52 percent from 4.51 percent the previous week. JEFF SOMMER

 Antigenics
NNM: AGEN
The drug company said it plans to reduce its work force by 32 percent, or 81 positions, and to take a $2 million charge as part of a strategy to focus on its most promising medicines.
FRIDAY'S CLOSE: $5.18
WEEK'S CHANGE: -9.60%
EST. '05 P/E: --

 DeVry
NYSE: DV
The education company said total undergraduate student enrollment for the fall semester fell 2.3 percent, to 38,546, from 39,450 in the same period last year. This year's figure missed Wall Street's targets.
FRIDAY'S CLOSE: $21.97
WEEK'S CHANGE: -6.35%
EST. '05 P/E: 35.61

 CAE
NYSE: CGT
The Canadian provider of civil aviation training services said it secured about $41.4 million in new orders for flight simulators and training equipment for clients such as Jet Airways and Japan Airlines.
FRIDAY'S CLOSE: $7.49
WEEK'S CHANGE: +8.71%
EST. '05 P/E: 27.84

 International Speedway
NNM: ISCA
Shares of the motor sports promoter tumbled on the details of its new television contract, which increases the average annual rights fee to $560 million. That was well below analysts' expectations.
FRIDAY'S CLOSE: $47.24
WEEK'S CHANGE:-13.98%
EST. '05 P/E: 16.05

 Merck
NYSE: MRK
The New England Journal of Medicine said last week that in a report published in that journal in 2000, Merck misrepresented the results of a crucial clinical trial of the painkiller Vioxx to play down its heart risks.
FRIDAY'S CLOSE: $29.13
WEEK'S CHANGE: -2.80%
EST. '05 P/E: 11.62

 ConAgra
NYSE: CAG
The packaged-foods manufacturer lowered its fiscal second-quarter earnings forecast to 38 cents a share because of higher fuel and energy costs. That is 7 cents lower than what Wall Street had been expecting.
FRIDAY'S CLOSE: $20.13
WEEK'S CHANGE: -5.93%
EST. '05 P/E: 14.99

 Electronic Arts
NNM: ERTS
The video game maker said it had reached an agreement to buy Jamdat Mobile, the provider of cellphone games such as Tetris and Bejeweled, in a deal valued at about $680 million.
FRIDAY'S CLOSE: $55.14
WEEK'S CHANGE: -2.97%
EST. '05 P/E: 36.49

(Source: Bloomberg Financial Markets)

GRAPHIC: Chart: ''STOCKS IN THE NEWS''Note: Graphs are scaled so that percentage changes are comparable.McClatchyNYSE: MNIThe newspaper publisher said its advertising revenue rose slightly last month, and it maintained its quarterly and full-year forecasts. The company also said its total circulation in November fell 4.1 percent.FRIDAY'S CLOSE: $58.35WEEK'S CHANGE: -4.59%EST. '05 P/E: 16.90

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: STOCK INDEXES (97%); STOCK EXCHANGES (90%); BONDS (90%); OIL & GAS PRICES (90%); BOND MARKETS (90%); PHARMACEUTICALS INDUSTRY (78%); CRUDE OIL PRICES (78%); SALES PROJECTIONS (77%); ECONOMIC NEWS (77%); FACTORY ORDERS (77%); FINANCIAL RESULTS (75%); BUSINESS FORECASTS (75%); ENTERTAINMENT & ARTS (75%); MANUFACTURING OUTPUT (75%); NEW ORDERS (73%); ELECTRONICS (73%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (73%); PUBLIC FINANCE (72%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (70%); LABOR FORCE (70%); SEMICONDUCTOR MFG (70%); TREASURY SECURITIES (70%); GOVERNMENT BONDS (70%); FLIGHT SCHOOLS (67%); FLIGHT SIMULATORS (65%); AIRLINES (64%); CIVIL AVIATION (62%); PUBLIC DEBT (62%); SPORTS AGENTS & PROMOTERS (60%); INTEREST RATES (59%); SPORTS (50%); SPORTS & RECREATION (50%) Stocks and Bonds; Dow Jones Stock Average; Nasdaq Composite Index; Standard & Poor's 500-Stock Index; Finances; Interest Rates; Credit; Government Bonds

COMPANY: INTEL CORP (57%); DEVRY INC (53%); JET AIRWAYS (INDIA) LTD (51%)

TICKER: INTC (NASDAQ) (57%); DV (NYSE) (53%); JETAIRWAYS (NSE) (51%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS334413 SEMICONDUCTOR & RELATED DEVICE MANUFACTURING (57%); NAICS611410 BUSINESS & SECRETARIAL SCHOOLS (53%); NAICS611310 COLLEGES, UNIVERSITIES & PROFESSIONAL SCHOOLS (53%); SIC8221 COLLEGES, UNIVERSITIES, & PROFESSIONAL SCHOOLS (53%); NAICS481111 SCHEDULED PASSENGER AIR TRANSPORTATION (51%); SIC4512 AIR TRANSPORTATION, SCHEDULED (51%)

PERSON: Jeff Sommer

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (90%) UNITED STATES (90%)

LOAD-DATE: December 11, 2005



215 of 607 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 11, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 6; Column 1; Magazine; Pg. 104

LENGTH: 400 words

HEADLINE: Worldwide Flat Taxes

BYLINE: By Michael Steinberger

 BODY:
In the United States, advocates of a flat tax -- a single rate applied to all taxpayers regardless of income level -- are generally regarded as the intellectual heirs to the flat-earthers. Arguments to replace the graduated income tax with a flat tax have won little respect in policy circles and even less among voters (witness Steve Forbes's two failed presidential bids). 
Overseas, however, it is a different story. In August, it was reported that Greece was weighing the introduction of a 25 percent flat tax, joining a growing list of European countries that either have adopted the flat tax or are giving the idea strong consideration. The flat tax has proved especially popular in former Soviet bloc countries. Estonia was the first to implement one, establishing a 26 percent flat rate in 1994. Since then, Latvia, Lithuania, Ukraine, Slovakia, Romania and Georgia have all flattened their tax rates. Russia itself went to a single bracket in 2001, and Bulgaria, Croatia and Hungary are expected to follow suit in the near future. 
 All this has left American flat-taxers exultant. ''The world is flat,'' crowed The Wall Street Journal in a recent editorial. The fact that an idea rooted in conservative ideology has gained its strongest following in formerly Communist Eastern Europe only adds to their sense of vindication. As they see it, the flat tax is winning converts because it is easy to administer, helps reduce tax evasion (especially if the tax rate is set relatively low) and stimulates economic activity. They point, for instance, to the impressive growth and the rise in tax revenues that Russia has enjoyed since introducing its flat tax. 
 But William Gale of the Brookings Institution says it is far from clear that the flat tax has been a miracle cure for the nations that have embraced it. He notes that Russia was already enjoying robust growth before it implemented a flat tax. As to the idea that Americans should give the flat tax another look in light of its popularity abroad, Gale is politely dismissive. In his view, most of the countries that have gone to a flat tax have done so not because they think it is fairer and more conducive to growth but because they have weak bureaucracies and rampant noncompliance and see the single-bracket approach as the only viable option under the circumstances. ''These are acts of desperation,'' Gale says. Michael Steinberger

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TAXES & TAXATION (98%); TAX FRAUD (73%); TAX LAW (73%); CONSERVATISM (51%) Taxation; Flat Tax

COMPANY: WALL STREET JOURNAL (55%)

PERSON: Michael Steinberger

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%); EUROPE (93%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (93%); LITHUANIA (79%); SLOVAKIA (79%); CROATIA (79%); ROMANIA (79%); HUNGARY (79%); GEORGIA (79%); UKRAINE (77%); GREECE (72%); ESTONIA (71%); EASTERN EUROPE (71%); LATVIA (56%); BULGARIA (51%) Greece; Europe

LOAD-DATE: December 11, 2005



216 of 607 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 11, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 7; Column 1; Book Review Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 2149 words

HEADLINE: One Man's Arabia

BYLINE: By GEOFFREY WHEATCROFT. 
Geoffrey Wheatcroft's books include ''The Controversy of Zion: Jewish Nationalism, the Jewish State, and the Unresolved Jewish Dilemma'' and, most recently, ''The Strange Death of Tory England.''

 BODY:
THE GREAT WAR
 FOR CIVILISATION
 The Conquest of the Middle East.
 By Robert Fisk.
 1,107 pp. 
 Alfred A. Knopf. $40.
Even those of us who are not optimists by disposition have to admit that there are good reasons for being cheerful when we look around the world today. North America and Western Europe enjoy peace and prosperity unimaginable by historic standards, and if the picture is less rosy in Latin America, and often tragic in Africa, then one must admit that whatever happens in those places doesn't threaten global stability. And now Japan is being joined by China and India in an explosive economic development (with whatever untoward social and environmental consequences) that may yet make this the Asian century. 
 There is, in fact, just one region on earth that gives grounds for the deepest gloom. We unhelpfully call it the Middle East, although what's really meant is Western Asia, the area between the Mediterranean and 
 the Indus, bordered in the north by the Black Sea, the Caucasus and desert, in the south by the Persian Gulf and the Indian Ocean. That region is in the throes of a historically immense, pathological crisis whose character we only partly understand, although we can perceive easily enough that what is already perilous may turn catastrophic, and could yet engulf us all. 
 One symptom of this crisis is the degree to which the region, not really so populous compared with Africa on one side and South Asia on the other, dominates our daily news. A breed of reporters have made it their home and their career, few of them better known than the Englishman Robert Fisk. Now in his late 50's, he is one of the most controversial journalists of the age, winner of numerous prizes, much admired by some, including colleagues who respect his obsessive attention to detail and sheer physical courage, execrated by others because of what has been seen as his open hostility to Israel, America and the West. 
 For most of the 1970's and 80's he worked for The Times of London, covering Belfast before he moved to the Middle East in 1976. Eleven years later he switched papers, and has since then been writing for The Independent, which has itself changed character since its birth less than 20 years ago and is now a daily version of the weekly ''viewspapers,'' using its front page more for campaigning and debate than for hard news. Fisk fits in there very snugly.
 He has already written a book about Lebanon, where he lives. Now comes ''The Great War for Civilisation,'' his Big Book (and how) and his testament. A vast overview of the region, it makes use of every clipping and notebook he has ever kept and runs in no particular order, chronological or otherwise, from his meetings with Osama bin Laden (''my first impression was of a shy man'') to the Russian invasion of Afghanistan and the Iraq-Iran war, both of which he covered.
 Then he heads back to the Armenian genocide of 90 years ago before coming forward again to the first gulf war and the betrayal of the Kurds that followed it, by way of ''The Last Colonial War'' (that would be Israel in the territories, of course), not to mention 19th-century British expeditions to Afghanistan. All in all, it adds up to some half a million words.
 If that description sounds a little sour, maybe it is. There are different kinds of full disclosure, and on occasion it might be appropriate for a reviewer to own up and admit to a touch of sheer resentment at having had to read diligently a book of more than 1,000 pages that might with profit have been kept to half that length, or even a third. 
 This is really several books fighting each other inside the sack. It could have been an intelligent young person's guide to Western Asia, or a concentrated, closely structured polemic against American policy in the region, or just a memoir. A recurring reminiscence about Fisk's father, who served as an infantry officer in World War I, and the gung-ho adventure yarn about Afghanistan the elder Fisk had read as a boy, might have made for a vivid personal story on its own, but seem here to have wandered into the wrong party.
 When Fisk (or any of us) is writing for a newspaper, the exigencies of the trade, and tough-minded copy editors, keep length under control. Here he lets it all hang out, diffuse and inchoate, made worse by a penchant for Fine Writing. ''The night wind moved through the darkening trees, ruffling the robes of the Arab fighters around us.'' ''I have woken in my bed to hear the blades of the palm trees outside slapping each other in the night, the rain smashing against the shutters.'' Chapters begin with tiresomely portentous sentences -- ''Ben Greenberger doesn't trust the Arabs''; ''Roger Tartouche grins at visitors from beneath his steel French army helmet, head turned slightly to the left, his battledress buttoned up to the neck'' (on his gravestone, that is) -- all of which only adds to the immense wordage. 
 At least in part, ''The Great War for Civilisation'' is a stimulating and absorbing book, by a man who speaks Arabic, who has known the region better than most and has met the leading players, from bin Laden to Ahmad Chalabi (who offered to introduce him to Oliver North). It is a formidable production; and as Dr. Johnson said of ''Paradise Lost,'' no man ever wished it longer. 
 What Fisk's enemies will be scanning the book for is not so much stylistic lapses as the bias of which he is often accused, and here I believe he can be defended, at least in terms of personal honor. Robert Fisk is not a crooked journalist like -- well, some sentences are better left unfinished, but quite a few names come to mind. Indeed, Fisk uses the book, among other things, to settle old scores, and there are some hair-raising and all too plausible stories about working for Rupert Murdoch and his more sycophantic apparatchiks.
 Without doubt Fisk is an honest man by his lights, but then plain dishonesty is not the only danger for journalism. Another correspondent on Fisk's own paper who had reported from the Balkans in the 1990's looked back with distaste at ''the angry partisanship'' with which that conflict was covered. The phrase could almost be Fisk's heraldic motto. 
 He doesn't let us forget that he loathes Saddam Hussein, and is contemptuous of Yasir Arafat even as he sarcastically mentions his own anti-Israeli reputation. Then he goes on to write about ''Israel's policy of state murder'' and ''the American journalists who report in so craven a fashion from the Middle East.'' This newspaper and its writers are regularly pummeled, notably ''Tom Friedman, an old friend but an increasingly messianic columnist.'' Friedman can look after himself, but if I were Fisk I would not lightly use the word ''messianic'' about anyone. 
 Some former colleagues of Fisk's have claimed that events are wrongly described and names wrongly recorded here. There are certainly quite a few historical errors. A. J. Balfour was not ''Lord Balfour'' at the time of the eponymous Declaration; and the famous wartime broadcast from an R.A.F. bomber by Richard Dimbleby was over Berlin, not Hamburg. But such minor slips are not the real problem. 
 Journalists are not automatons but sentient men and women, and the ''extinction of self'' that supposedly scientific German historians once preached is an illusion. And yet Fisk's brand of reporting-with-attitude has obvious dangers. His ungovernable anger may do his heart credit, but it does not make for satisfactory history. His book contains very many gruesome accounts of murder and mutilation, and page after page describing torture in almost salacious detail. This has an unintended effect. A reader who knew nothing about the subject -- the proverbial man from Mars -- might easily conclude from ''The Great War for Civilisation'' that the whole region is mad, bad and dangerous to know, which is presumably not what Fisk wants us to think. Nor does he much abet the argument by George W. Bush and Tony Blair that Islam is essentially a peaceful and gentle religion. Most of the Muslims met here seem cruel and crazy, exemplifying Shelley's line about ''bloody faith, the foulest birth of time.'' 
 Such a relentless catalog of butchery also misses the point. Unless one is an unconditional pacifist one must accept even the death of innocents. During World War II, 100,000 German children (as well as half a million adults, mostly women) were killed by Allied bombing. It is possible utterly to deplore that bombing campaign while still believing that the war to defeat Hitler was just. Likewise there is a distinction between the violent consequences of the present operation in Iraq, and the question of how far it was wise or virtuous in the first place. 
 Both the ferocity with which the Americans waged the first gulf war, and the betrayal of the Marsh Arabs and the Kurds thereafter, are bitterly condemned by Fisk (although he also describes with revulsion what the Iraqis did in Kuwait). So should we not have fought that war at all? Or, having begun it, should we have pressed on to destroy Saddam Hussein the first time around? What some members of the administration of Bush the Elder said -- if we'd taken Baghdad, we would have owned the country -- has surely gained more force now, when exactly that has come to pass. 
 After all I have said, to add ''more in sorrow'' might seem a little hypocritical, but this review is, for what it's worth, written by someone who largely shares Fisk's broader outlook, if one can filter out the rage and exaggeration. Western intervention -- once European, now American -- in that region has been too often malign in intention and lamentable in effect. Iraq itself is a creation of the British, in particular of Winston Churchill, and not the happiest legacy of empire, though one that may be unraveling thanks to the latest Western meddling. 
 But Fisk's condemnations, and his tone of voice, are so sweeping as to damage his own case. He became particularly unpopular four years ago because of what he wrote after the attacks in New York: ''This is not the war of democracy versus terror that the world will be asked to believe in the coming hours and days. It is also about American missiles smashing into Palestinian homes and U.S. helicopters firing missiles into a Lebanese ambulance in 1996 and. . . .'' He still feels sorry for himself about the torrent of abuse he received, unable to see that, although there is a great deal to be said in criticism of American policy in the Middle East, Sept. 12, 2001, might not have been the best day to say it.
 Nor does he allow for historical context. He denounces, for example, the 1953 coup in Iran, engineered by Kermit Roosevelt of the C.I.A. and his British buddies to oust the government of Mohammed Mossadegh and install the shah. As it happens, one of the conspirators is a neighbor of mine, a charming and courteous old gentleman who was a wartime hero before he swapped a Royal Navy uniform for the cloak and dagger of MI6, and to this day he is impenitent about that power play in the cold war. 
 He and his fellow plotters didn't delude themselves that they were trying to bring good government to the Persian people, nor did they ''call too loud on Freedom / To cloak your weariness,'' as Kipling had it. The object of the exercise wasn't to ''democratize the Middle East'' but to keep the Soviets from reaching the Indian Ocean, and it succeeded. If anything, I have more sympathy with that kind of realpolitik than for the weird mixture of ideology and deception we get from the present administration. 
 All the same, there is plenty here to make us think again about where the region is heading, and why. Some of Fisk's points are very telling. Next time the president informs us of the noble and beneficent cause of democracy, read Fisk on Algeria, which did indeed have democratic elections, only they were unfortunately won by the wrong party in the form of the Islamic extremists.
 And as a break from the latest grim news coming out of Baghdad, have a look at what a correspondent for Fisk's old paper, The Times of London, said about Iraq. Many people ''think that the local inhabitants will welcome us because we have saved them,'' and that the country only needs developing to repay our expenditure, but this is clearly wrong, since ''we are asking the Arab to exchange his pride and independence for a little Western civilization.''
 That was written in September 1919. Another commentator said that in Iraq we have been led ''into a trap from which it will be hard to escape with dignity and honor. . . . Things have been far worse than we have been told, our administration more bloody and inefficient than the public knows. . . . We are today not far from a disaster.'' The writer was none other than T. E. Lawrence -- in August 1920. Did someone say what goes around comes around?


GRAPHIC: Drawings (Drawings by Ray Bartkus)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Review

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BOOK REVIEWS (90%); WRITERS (86%); JOURNALISM (69%) 

PERSON: OSAMA BIN LADEN (50%) Geoffrey Wheatcroft; R00121000 Fisk

GEOGRAPHIC: INDIAN OCEAN (88%); ATLANTIC OCEAN (73%) MIDDLE EAST (94%); EUROPE (92%); NORTH AMERICA (92%); LATIN AMERICA (92%); ASIA (92%); AFRICA (92%); WESTERN EUROPE (91%); INDIA (79%); SOUTHERN ASIA (79%); MEDITERRANEAN (79%); CHINA (79%); ISRAEL (79%); WESTERN ASIA (79%); UNITED STATES (79%); LEBANON (79%); CAUCASIAN STATES (79%); GULF STATES (55%)

LOAD-DATE: December 11, 2005



217 of 607 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 11, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 7; Column 2; Book Review Desk; Pg. 18

LENGTH: 1398 words

HEADLINE: The Excluded Middle

BYLINE: By Matt Bai. 
Matt Bai covers national politics for The New York Times Magazine.

 BODY:
OFF CENTER
 The Republican Revolution and 
 the Erosion of American Democracy.
 By Jacob S. Hacker and Paul Pierson.
 261 pp. Yale University Press. $25.
Over the last few years, in this time of Democratic despondency, there has emerged a new genre of comfort books for liberals -- books that seek to expose the nefarious means by which conservatives have amassed power, while at the same time reassuring urban liberals that they bear none of the blame. Thomas Frank's best-selling ''What's the Matter With Kansas?,'' for instance, advanced the premise that rural voters just aren't sophisticated enough to vote in their own interests. In ''Don't Think of an Elephant!,'' the linguist George Lakoff took a slightly different angle, suggesting that these voters weren't dumb, exactly, but that their brain synapses had been rewired by the Republicans' skillful manipulation of language. Now come Jacob S. Hacker and Paul Pierson, political science professors at Yale and the University of California, Berkeley, with ''Off Center: The Republican Revolution and the Erosion of American Democracy.'' Hacker and Pierson offer a variation on this same theme: voters can't make the right choices, they contend, because our system of government itself has dangerously malfunctioned. 
 The authors begin with the basic premise, buttressed with a sheaf of studies and laid out in clinical prose, that the American electorate is no more conservative than it ever was. ''When Reagan was elected in 1980, the public mood was more conservative than in any year since 1952,'' Hacker and Pierson write. ''But by the time of George W. Bush's election in 2000, Americans had grown substantially more liberal'' and their views ''were virtually identical to their aggregate opinions in 1972.'' This represents an immediate break with Frank, who argued that American voters have swerved hard right in response to social issues, but to anyone who's actually talked to voters around the country it is also a more plausible claim. For all the hype about the so-called religious right, most rural and exurban voters display little ideological zealotry; rather, they seem inclined toward mild conservatism on economics and foreign policy, along with a reverence for individual liberty -- a combination which places them firmly in the historical mainstream of American politics.
 By design, Hacker and Pierson argue, American democracy should force politicians to cater to this political center, and yet the Republican majority in Washington has all but ignored it. As a case study, the authors examine the G.O.P.'s tax cuts, which have reduced federal taxes to their lowest level since 1950. Even administration officials admitted, privately, that Americans weren't clamoring for a tax cut. And, as has often been reported, roughly 40 percent of these tax cuts went to the 1 percent of Americans who make the most money, while the average voter will get little more than years of budget deficits. How is it, Hacker and Pierson ask, that Republicans have managed to pursue such an extreme policy without incurring any political consequences? 
 Their answer is that Republicans have learned how to game the system shamelessly. Groups like Americans for Tax Reform and the Club for Growth enforced party discipline, forcing moderate Republicans to back the president or risk being unseated. The administration dishonestly marketed the tax cuts, promoting the idea that they would somehow transform the lives of middle-income families. And by inserting so-called sunset provisions into the final law, which made the tax cuts appear to expire when the intention was to renew them, they were able to disguise their true cost in the budgeting process. In all of these ways, the authors contend, Republicans managed to enact a policy that benefits the few while appearing to champion the many. 
 Hacker and Pierson go on to expand this argument into a broader indictment of Republican leaders, who, they claim, have sabotaged the checks and balances built into American government so that they can fool voters while governing in the narrow interests of extremists. In particular, they accuse Republicans of manipulating the media (as evidenced, for example by the embarrassing revelation that the administration paid commentators for favorable coverage) and of ruthlessly redrawing congressional districts.
 No doubt Hacker and Pierson wish their book could have arrived a year ago, rather than at this moment of upheaval in Washington, when their underlying argument -- that Republicans have figured out a way to do whatever they want without fear of centrist rejection -- is being effectively disproved. After all, President Bush's poll numbers have reached historic lows, and moderates in Congress, sensing that the president can no longer protect them, have refused to extend tax cuts and slash critical spending. Bush's Social Security plan, which gets extended treatment in ''Off Center,'' is effectively dead. The political center is apparently not the doormat the authors believe it to be. Nonetheless, the deeper message of Hacker and Pierson's book will no doubt resonate with a lot of readers -- the idea that Republicans win elections by manipulating the electoral system and misrepresenting their policies, so that voters are unable to understand what they're voting for. 
 There is substantial truth to most of Hacker and Pierson's claims about Republican tactics. But is this duplicity really the sole reason, or even the main one, that so many moderate voters continue to help elect conservatives? Could it be, for instance, that the threat of terrorism and the G.O.P.'s historic advantage on issues of national security are contributing factors? (It's worth noting that Bush's presidency was in deep distress before the attacks of Sept. 11.) Hacker and Pierson flatly dismiss this idea; their book is concerned only with domestic policy, they say, because that's what voters care about most. What about the perception of Democratic elitism, which alienates a lot of rural voters who might otherwise vote for an alternative candidate? The authors reject this as a media exaggeration, and assert that poor and working-class Americans have never identified as strongly with the Democratic Party as they do today. This may be true of voters in the aggregate, but it conveniently fails to acknowledge what exit polls have made starkly clear -- that middle-income white men have fled the party by the planeload in recent elections, providing the Republican margin of victory. 
 In fact, Hacker and Pierson can't seem to find any significant fault among Democrats at all, save for their chronic but so darn lovable disunity. Like Frank and Lakoff, the authors seem to prefer the more self-ennobling explanation that conservatives have seized power from an unwitting electorate. For all its pretensions to objectivity, ''Off Center'' deteriorates into just the latest example in our political discourse of what might be called confirmational analysis -- that is, a work whose primary purpose is to confirm what its audience already believes.
 In the end, for all its talk about the political center, there is a radical current that runs through ''Off Center'' -- an insinuation that American democracy no longer works simply because Democrats haven't been winning. This is most pronounced in discussions of the Electoral College, which Hacker and Pierson dream of abolishing, and the structure of the Senate, which they deplore. Citing the New Yorker writer Hendrik Hertzberg, the authors point out that if each senator represents half his state, then the Democratic minority in the Senate actually represents 30 million more voters than the Republican majority. This is very interesting, but, as a couple of political scientists should know, it's also irrelevant; our democracy is not, in fact, an Athenian democracy but a republic of states that was designed to protect small states from the dictates of urban elites. That some liberals, Hacker and Pierson among them, would reinvent the system now for their own ends is highly ironic, given that this is precisely the kind of contempt for the traditions of American democracy of which they accuse their opponents. Which just goes to show you that the real threat to our system of government is ideological certainty -- no matter whose ideology happens to be at issue.


GRAPHIC: Drawing (Drawing by Dusan Petricic)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Review

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BOOK REVIEWS (90%); VOTERS & VOTING (90%); LIBERALISM (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); POLITICS (89%); POLITICAL PARTIES (89%); CONSERVATISM (89%); WRITERS (89%); TAX LAW (83%); HUMANITIES & SOCIAL SCIENCE (78%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (78%); MAMMALS (76%); CASE STUDIES (75%); POLITICAL SCIENCE (72%); RELIGION (50%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (50%) 

COMPANY: YALE UNIVERSITY PRESS (58%)

ORGANIZATION: YALE UNIVERSITY (91%); UNIVERSITY OF CALIFORNIA BERKELEY (55%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS611310 COLLEGES, UNIVERSITIES & PROFESSIONAL SCHOOLS (58%); SIC2731 BOOKS: PUBLISHING, OR PUBLISHING & PRINTING (58%)

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (56%) Matt Bai; 00126600 (Prof) Hacker; Paul Pierson

GEOGRAPHIC: SAN FRANCISCO BAY AREA, CA, USA (79%) CALIFORNIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (96%)

LOAD-DATE: December 11, 2005



218 of 607 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 11, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 3; Column 5; Money and Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 10

LENGTH: 121 words

HEADLINE: When the Bubble Bursts

 BODY:

To the Editor:
 Re ''The Great Global Buyout Bubble'' (DealBook, Nov. 13): 
 Unfortunately, the new episode of leveraged-buyout mania coincides with another huge debt accumulation resulting from the residential real estate bubble.
Both bubbles are the product of the Federal Reserve's stimulative monetary policy of 2001 to 2004. As a result, the economy is burdened by extremely heavy debt, which significantly increases vulnerability to recession. Because of the overleveraging of the total economy, I fear that a stimulative Fed policy after the bursting of the current bubbles would not be as successful. The debt strain has the potential to increase the length and depth of the next recession.

Neil Naftalin
Minneapolis, Nov. 15

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); PUBLIC POLICY (90%); ECONOMIC BUBBLE (90%); RECESSION (90%); BUYINS & BUYOUTS (90%); REAL ESTATE BUBBLE (90%); INTEREST RATES (89%); LEVERAGED BUYOUTS (88%); ECONOMIC POLICY (87%); MONETARY POLICY (87%); REAL ESTATE (87%); BANKING & FINANCE (87%); CENTRAL BANKS (87%); DIVESTITURES (86%); RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (85%) Mergers, Acquisitions and Divestitures; Housing; Prices (Fares, Fees and Rates); Credit; Interest Rates; Mortgages; United States Economy

ORGANIZATION: FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM (59%) Federal Reserve System

PERSON: Neil Naftalin

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: December 11, 2005



219 of 607 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 11, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 12; Column 1; Automobiles; BEHIND THE WHEEL; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1176 words

HEADLINE: Plan B9 From Outer Space

BYLINE: By JEFF SABATINI

 BODY:
WHEN I started the Subaru B9 Tribeca for the first time, I almost expected to hear it say ''Take me to your leader.'' 
 Yes, this strange-looking midsize want-to-be S.U.V. seems more likely to have come from outer space than from any factory operated by Fuji Heavy Industries, Subaru's Japanese parent. To wit: not only is its grille design as unfamiliar as it is ugly, but the way in which the gaping maw has also attached itself to the 2006 Subaru Impreza could only be the work of body snatchers.
Nevertheless, the B9 Tribeca has been anointed Subie's premier model and design template, the harbinger of things to come for the rest of the product line -- or, as a sales brochure refers to it, the ''Subaru Collection.'' 
 I have affection for this contrarian carmaker and its unsurpassed line of relatively affordable all-wheel-drive sedans and wagons, but I am at a loss to explain Subaru's continuing desire to change its image into something else, along the lines of ''BMW's from Mars.'' See, this is not the first time Subaru has tried to move upmarket by introducing a flagship U.F.O. with an astronomical price. Those with good memories will recall the SVX ''sports car'' of 1992-97, though most enthusiasts have happily forgotten.
 Subaru must have amnesia, too, or it would not have chosen to enter a crowded segment with a vehicle that is neither noteworthy nor novel, a sin all too similar to the one it committed with the SVX. Someone must have thought that being noticeable was enough, as if the B9 Tribeca could get by on its looks alone. That misguided notion makes the S.U.V.'s goofy name seem almost brilliant by comparison. (For those unwilling to do their own Googling, the B is for boxer, as in the engine design; the 9 is the internal model designation; and Tribeca is for a trendy Manhattan neighborhood that has absolutely nothing to do with the vehicle.) 
 The B9 Tribeca is built on a modified Outback wagon structure, and shares the 3-liter horizontally opposed six-cylinder engine, five-speed automatic transmission, all-wheel-drive system and electronic stability control of the Outback 3.0 R VDC Limited. Despite the similarity of its underlying hardware, the B9 Tribeca offers a much more engaging driving experience than the Outback. The steering feels heavier and more direct, thanks to 18-inch wheels; the suspension is notably firmer.
 The good news stops there, as the portly 4,200-pound Tribeca often feels as though it is caught in Jupiter's gravitational field. The S.U.V. weighs some 600 pounds more than its wagon forebears, and the extra ballast strains the 250-horsepower engine. The transmission does its best to assist, often downshifting to keep the high-strung engine near its 4,200-r.p.m. torque peak, where it generates an underwhelming 219 pound-feet. A rocket ship this is not.
 Highway fuel economy also drops significantly. The E.P.A. rates the B9 Tribeca at 23 m.p.g., which is 3 less than Outbacks with the same engine. My actual mileage, over 400 miles of combined city and highway driving, was a scant 15.5 m.p.g. 
 Just as Subaru's H-6 engine is more suited to its stablemate, it is difficult to make a statistical case that really favors the B9 Tribeca, at least by typical S.U.V. standards. Passenger room is marginally larger than in the Outback, and though cargo volume grows more noticeably, the extra room is in the vertical plane -- with the seats down, the Outback's load floor is actually five inches longer. Ground clearance is equal at 8.4 inches. 
 The B9 Tribeca's standard towing capacity is just 2,000 pounds, though an optional towing package can increase this to 3,500. A stock six-cylinder Outback, on the other hand, can tow up to 3,000 pounds, and even the four-cylinder Outback 2.5 wagon is capable of pulling 2,700. 
 The one thing the Outback does not offer is seven-passenger seating. Putting aside the argument of whether any midsize seven-passenger S.U.V. is actually useful, understand that the B9 Tribeca's available third-row seats are not. If forced to ride back there, prepare yourself for close encounters of the third-row kind, since the split 50-50 bench is both cramped and hard to get to.
 Subaru also offers a five-passenger B9 Tribeca that starts at $31,320. This is about $2,000 more than many of its all-wheel-drive competitors, including the Ford Explorer at $29,400, the Chevrolet TrailBlazer at $29,660, the Honda Pilot at $28,745 and the Nissan Murano at $29,655. 
 The seven-passenger Tribeca has a base price of $33,020.
 If you want features like leather upholstery, a six-CD changer or a navigation system, the price goes up like a booster rocket, as these are available only on the more expensive Limited series. A rear-seat DVD entertainment system is also offered, though only on the seven-passenger models. My loaded test vehicle had all of those options, as reflected in its stratospheric sticker price of $38,320.
 Figure in some sales tax, and it is possible to spend over $40,000 at your Subaru dealer, something of a shock given the brand's roots as ''inexpensive and built to stay that way.'' 
 Or to look at it another way -- one that I am sure Subaru would prefer -- you can load up a seven-passenger B9 Tribeca with everything including a roof rack that can carry six pairs of skis, and still come out $3,000 under the starting price of a BMW X5. But you'd still be driving an S.U.V whose rear profile is reminiscent of the Old Man of the Mountain in New Hampshire. And even if the styling is your idea of futuristic and cutting edge, the B9 Tribeca is no more a BMW than the Legacy is a 5 Series. 
 It's not that the B9 Tribeca is a bad S.U.V. It is just a thoroughly typical one, with enough warts and shortcomings that Subaru might as well have designed it to be a minivan. At least then you would have been able to use the rearmost seat. Maybe if the thing had landed on dealer lots six years ago (the long-in-the-tooth X5 made its debut as a 2000 model) the B9 Tribeca might have even been interesting. But today the most distinctive thing about Subaru's S.U.V. is that it is light-years late to market. 
 That said, the one overwhelmingly positive aspect is the cockpit, which makes other Subaru interiors look rudimentary by comparison. The dashboard features metallic-look accents swooping horizontally from each door like a pair of wings. These meet in the center below a navigation and information display screen, then flow down through the climate and stereo controls into the center console. The effect is gorgeous and modern, if somewhat alien.
 While the B9 Tribeca's dashboard might be a welcome development for the brand on the whole, this new S.U.V. has little to do with Subie's core identity. If the B9 Tribeca truly does represents the future of Subaru, the WRX enthusiasts howling about their baby's new corporate face will be the least of the company's problems. Parked on dealer lots next to Outbacks and Impreza WRX's, the B9 Tribeca is a figurative -- if not literal -- white elephant. 

INSIDE TRACK: Lost in space.


GRAPHIC: Photos: SUBARU B9 TRIBECA -- Based on the Outback wagon, the 2006 model offers more seats, more luxury, more weight and a more provocative design inside and out. (pg. 1)
 Its name says New York, but the Tribeca resides in a crowd of S.U.V.'s. (pg. 4)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MOTOR VEHICLES (90%); AUTOMOBILE MFG (78%); SEDANS (78%); AUTOMOTIVE MFG (76%); SPORTS CARS (75%); ELECTRONIC TRACTION & STABILITY CONTROL (73%); AUTOMAKERS (73%) Automobiles; Reviews

COMPANY: FUJI HEAVY INDUSTRIES LTD (90%)

ORGANIZATION: Subaru of America Inc

TICKER: 7270 (TSE) (90%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS336111 AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING (90%); SIC3711 MOTOR VEHICLES & PASSENGER CAR BODIES (90%)

PERSON: Jeff Sabatini

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (78%) NEW YORK, USA (78%); JUPITER (75%) UNITED STATES (78%)

LOAD-DATE: December 11, 2005



220 of 607 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 11, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 10; Column 1; Job Market; HOME FRONT; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 702 words

HEADLINE: When Two Sisters Are Better Than One

BYLINE: By Joseph P. Fried. 
This column about the local economy appears every other week. E-mail address: homefront@nytimes.com

 BODY:
TOGETHER again.
 Karen and Karla Bausman came into the world two minutes apart, grew up at close quarters as twin sisters and then pursued separate careers that often kept them thousands of miles apart.
Now, the 47-year-old twins are at close quarters again, working 10 feet apart in the Lower Manhattan office of their jointly owned business. 
 The business is Karen Bausman & Associates, an architectural firm. Their partnership is fairly new, having begun 18 months ago. But the firm is not new. It dates to 1995, when Karen Bausman, an architect who had already been in practice with another partner for a dozen years and had won prestigious professional honors, decided to form a solo practice. 
 By 1995, Karla Bausman, who is not an architect, was well into her career in the corporate world. She had spent six years as public relations director at Calvin Klein Cosmetics, and in 1996 became director of corporate communications for Coty Inc., the fragrance and cosmetics company.
 ''We had operations in 29 countries, and I had the responsibility for the financial communications of all the operations,'' she said recently of her Coty years. That involved traveling more than 100,000 miles a year and being away from New York City, her base, as often as she was there. ''It was exhilarating but exhausting,'' she said, adding that the desire to find a balance in her personal and professional life was among the reasons she left Coty -- and the corporate ranks altogether -- in 2000. 
 After three years of consulting work, on projects that included the development of businesses overseas, Karla joined Karen in her firm as an owner on a 50-50 basis. The thought, the women recalled, was that although Karla was not an architect, her business experience would help the firm prosper.
 ''We were doing well,'' Karen said of the firm in the years before her sister joined it. But Karen said that Karla saw opportunities that ''I was not focused on'': the design of government buildings in New York City.
 Karla recalled: ''The practice was primarily focused on private clients. I saw the opportunity to balance the portfolio, adding public work to private work.'' 
 As a result of Karla's efforts, a firm that has largely designed privately commissioned projects across the country, including homes and cultural and entertainment buildings, is now in a good position to gain contracts to design public libraries, firehouses, police stations and other structures in New York under a ''design and construction excellence initiative'' for city-financed buildings announced by Mayor Michael R. Bloomberg. 
 Early this year, the firm was one of 24 named to a roster of preferred architects for city projects costing up to $10 million. It is awaiting its first commission under the program, while ''throwing our hat in the ring'' for other public sector projects too, Karla said. In addition to seeking new business, she has taken on management of the firm, which has eight employees in its studio at Varick and Houston Streets, and administration of its projects, freeing Karen to spend more time on design work.
 A current major project, Karen said, is work on an assembly hall, dormitories and other buildings that will be part of a new International Institute of Philosophy and Ethics on the grounds of the City of Ten Thousand Buddhas, a 488-acre Buddhist community near Ukiah, Calif. The firm is working on the project in association with the international architectural firm Hellmuth, Obata & Kassabaum.
 Karen said she expected her firm's revenue to be about $2.25 million this year, up from $1.25 million in 1996, the firm's first full year.
 In 1994, Karen was awarded a Rome Prize in Design Arts by the American Academy in Rome for her body of work, including residential buildings and interiors, at her first firm, a partnership with Leslie Gill that they formed soon after graduating in 1982 from Cooper Union.
 The Bausman twins grew up in Macungie, Pa., near Allentown, in a family of five children. They are fraternal twins, but that did not make it easy to distinguish them on first sight. 
 Karla, who was born two minutes earlier, offered help. ''I'm three-quarters of an inch taller,'' she said.


GRAPHIC: Photo: TWIN LEADERS -- From left, Karla and Karen Bausman at the office of their architectural firm in Manhattan. The firm's revenues are expected to be $2.25 million this year. (Photo by Ruby Washington/The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: COSMETICS & TOILETRIES COMPANIES (90%); TWINS & MULTIPLE BIRTHS (90%); ARCHITECTURAL SERVICES (89%); PUBLIC RELATIONS (88%); CITY GOVERNMENT (76%); TOILETRIES MFG (73%); EXECUTIVES (73%); COSMETICS (73%); PUBLIC LIBRARIES (65%); POLICE FORCES (65%); CONSULTING SERVICES (64%); LIBRARIES (50%) Architecture; Public Relations and Publicity

COMPANY: COTY INC (84%)

ORGANIZATION: Bausman, Karen & Associates

INDUSTRY: NAICS325620 TOILET PREPARATION MANUFACTURING (84%); SIC2844 PERFUMES, COSMETICS, & OTHER TOILET PREPARATIONS (84%)

PERSON: MICHAEL BLOOMBERG (50%) Joseph P Fried; Karla Bausman; Karen Bausman

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (93%) NEW YORK, USA (93%) UNITED STATES (93%) New York City

LOAD-DATE: December 11, 2005



221 of 607 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 11, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 14; Column 1; The City Weekly Desk; Pg. 13

LENGTH: 528 words

HEADLINE: When North Meets Nascar

 BODY:
The International Speedway Corporation -- which owns more than half of the 22 tracks that play host to Nascar's immensely popular and profitable racing circuit -- recently invited civic leaders and important politicians from Staten Island to a race in Florida. This clever interchange of Southern and Northeastern cultures was part of Nascar's strategy to persuade Staten Island that big-time stock-car racing is good clean family fun and an economic gold mine and that therefore Nascar should be allowed to build an 80,000 seat track on the island. 
 There is, however, one huge obstacle to this plan. It has to do with the very thing Nascar promotes -- cars. Staten Island traffic is bad enough as it is, and adding thousands more vehicles to the flow on weekends (when the races would be run) would make it insufferable. Weekend backups now rival weekday rush hours as the island's population, which has more than doubled in the last four decades to nearly 500,000, continues to grow.
Nascar says it plans to bring in fans from all around the New York area. There are plenty of those. Nascar is the nation's fastest-growing sport. But Nascar's traffic plan is far from convincing.
 The plan rests partly on the argument that the raceway would be used for Nascar events just three weekends a year. That does not take into account nonrace uses for the track, nor does it account for the fact that Nascar races -- which attract thousands of groupies who follow the circuit from track to track -- tend to be weeklong happenings. 
 The raceway would have 8,400 parking spots, forcing most people to use a planned system of ferries and buses -- all very counterintuitive considering what drives Nascar fans: wheels, wheels, wheels. The fans party in, on and around their cars, pickups and, in many cases, recreational vehicles. This in turn presents other concerns, including impacts on air quality. 
 The proposed raceway must survive a land review process and win city approval before it can move forward. It would be built in Bloomfield, on 677 acres, part of which is classified as brownfields from years of industrial use, and part of which is marsh and wetlands that must be protected by law.
 The real problem, though, is the island's relatively primitive road system -- mostly paved-over paths set down centuries ago by American Indians, then used by farmers and other early settlers. The meandering layout makes even simple traffic control measures, like timed stoplights, virtually impossible. The West Shore of the island, where the raceway would be, is near the Goethals and Bayonne Bridges, throwbacks to a time when one lane of traffic in either direction seemed sufficient. 
 Nascar wants to come to New York because it has the largest media market, and because potential sponsors and advertisers -- which pony up millions to back one driver and car -- are as close as Wall Street and Madison Avenue. Racing supporters say a track, and a proposed neighboring shopping area, would bring jobs to Staten Island. That may be so, but speedway backers need to offer better reasons why islanders should want the disruption and a far better plan for addressing it. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Editorial

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: AUTO RACING (91%); NASCAR RACING (91%); CITY LIFE (90%); SPORTS & RECREATION FACILITIES & VENUES (90%); SPORTS & RECREATION EVENTS (89%); SPORTS FANS (78%); TRANSPORTATION PLANNING (77%); MOTOR VEHICLES (76%); TRAFFIC SIGNALS (74%); ISLANDS & REEFS (72%); PARKING SPACES & FACILITIES (71%); WETLANDS (64%); HIGHWAYS & STREETS (50%) 

COMPANY: INTERNATIONAL SPEEDWAY CORP (95%)

ORGANIZATION: International Speedway Corp; National Assn of Stock Car Auto Racing

TICKER: ISCA (NASDAQ) (95%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS711219 OTHER SPECTATOR SPORTS (95%); NAICS711212 RACETRACKS (95%); SIC7948 RACING, INCLUDING TRACK OPERATIONS (95%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (95%) NEW YORK, USA (95%); FLORIDA, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (95%) New York City; Staten Island (NYC)

LOAD-DATE: December 11, 2005



222 of 607 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 11, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 14; Column 1; The City Weekly Desk; NEIGHBORHOOD REPORT: NEW YORK UP CLOSE; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 487 words

HEADLINE: An Irish Paper Wants the Mother Country to Read All About It

BYLINE: By JAKE MOONEY

 BODY:
When The Irish Echo was founded in 1928, more than 200,000 Irish-born people lived in New York, a result of a wave of migration that started 80 years earlier amid famine, joblessness and British colonial rule. Since the paper's founding, that number has shrunk steadily, but The Echo, which is a weekly based in Midtown Manhattan with a circulation of 20,000 in the United States, most of it in New York, has continued to chronicle the lives of the Irish who left home for a new life across the Atlantic. 
 Now, for the first time, the newspaper is focusing on those headed back. Responding to a strong Irish economy that has natives returning and Irish-Americans moving to the island for the first time, the paper printed 5,000 copies of its Nov. 30 issue in Ireland for local distribution.
According to Sean MacCarthaigh, the managing editor, the move was welcomed in Ireland as the latest sign of the country's technology-fueled resurgence. ''This is a New York paper, and this is the first time we've ever, ever been printed anywhere else,'' Mr. MacCarthaigh said. ''It's treated in Ireland as part of a socioeconomic story, which is a transformation of the Irish economy to the point that now for the first time pretty much ever, Ireland now has immigrants as well as emigrants.''
 Ireland's jump into the European Union in 1973, along with aggressively pro-business economic policies, has transformed it from one of the poorest countries in Europe to one of the richest in the world. 
 The country's turnaround, Mr. MacCarthaigh said, gained momentum in the mid-90's, when companies like I.B.M. began setting up large operations on the island. Since then, the number of jobs in the country has doubled, and because anyone with an Irish-born parent or grandparent is eligible for citizenship, many Irish-American employees of these companies have found it relatively easy to relocate. The ride is swelled by independent businesspeople who work on both sides of the ocean.
 ''It's quite incredible -- you meet these fellows and they're shuttling back and forth,'' said Mr. MacCarthaigh, a 41-year-old Dublin native. ''They treat the flight from J.F.K. to Dublin the way we treat the Long Island Rail Road.''
 He added: ''These people are our readers, and they've said to us, 'We want to stay in touch with America.' ''
 Not that technology workers are the only Irish people interested in news from New York. Mr. MacCarthaigh also cited what he called the country's ''army of inveterate shoppers.'' One article described a wave of bargain hunters planning pre-Christmas trips from Ireland, armed with the strong euro and fleeing Ireland's 21 percent sales tax.
 In response, The Irish Echo prints a weekly guide to stateside sales, complete with reminders to tip taxi drivers. As Mr. MacCarthaigh put it, ''We try to give them shortcuts so that the moment they arrive, they're sort of an instant New Yorker.'' JAKE MOONEY


GRAPHIC: Photo (Photo by Tony Cenicola/The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CAUCASIAN AMERICANS (78%); ECONOMIC NEWS (74%); PUBLIC POLICY (74%); IMMIGRATION (73%); EUROPEAN UNION (73%); ISLANDS & REEFS (69%); RELOCATIONS (69%); URBAN RAIL SYSTEMS (60%); CITIZENSHIP (51%) 

ORGANIZATION: EUROPEAN UNION (54%) Irish Echo (NYC Newspaper)

PERSON: sean maccarthaigh; Jake Mooney

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%); DUBLIN, IRELAND (88%) NEW YORK, USA (96%); ATLANTIC OCEAN (79%) UNITED STATES (96%); IRELAND (93%); EUROPE (92%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (79%) Ireland ; New York City

LOAD-DATE: December 11, 2005



223 of 607 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 11, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 4; Column 6; Editorial Desk; Pg. 11

LENGTH: 257 words

HEADLINE: U.N. Reform

 BODY:

To the Editor:
 Ruth Wedgwood (Op-Ed, Dec. 5) argues that United Nations reform would benefit from a jolt to the organization's ''monopoly'' under the guise of ''competitive multilateralism.'' 
 In fact, Chapter VIII of the United Nations Charter provides for ''regional arrangements or agencies'' to deal with ''matters relating to the maintenance of international peace and security.'' Organizations like the European Union and the African Union do already handle many political, security, economic and human rights issues that affect their members.
In an increasingly complex world, the United Nations welcomes this form of burden-sharing. But none of these agencies can seriously compete with the United Nations as a source of universal legitimacy, or even as an organizer and coordinator of global peacekeeping, peace building and humanitarian relief. 
 NATO, for instance, is now playing a valuable role in Afghanistan, but neither it nor the African Union -- even less the fledgling Community of Democracies -- could contemplate taking over the eight peacekeeping missions that the United Nations currently has deployed in Africa.
 Certainly the United States should support other multilateral organizations. But it must also persevere in its efforts to build consensus within the United Nations to enact the ambitious reform agenda proposed by the secretary general and endorsed by all world leaders at last September's summit meeting.

Shashi Tharoor
U.N. Under Secretary General
for Communications and Public Information
New York, Dec. 6, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (91%); UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (90%); LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); PEACEKEEPING (90%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (74%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (74%); TALKS & MEETINGS (73%); HUMAN RIGHTS (70%); EUROPEAN UNION (70%) 

ORGANIZATION: UNITED NATIONS (94%); AFRICAN UNION (83%); EUROPEAN UNION (57%); NORTH ATLANTIC TREATY ORGANIZATION (56%) United Nations

PERSON: Shashi Tharoor; Ruth Wedgwood

GEOGRAPHIC: AFRICA (93%); UNITED STATES (79%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (71%); AFGHANISTAN (53%)

LOAD-DATE: December 11, 2005



224 of 607 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 11, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 4; Column 5; Editorial Desk; Pg. 11

LENGTH: 111 words

HEADLINE: A Passage to India: Asphalt and Dust

 BODY:

To the Editor:
 As a Chicagoan who is preparing to visit my grandparents in Chennai, India, I read your series about India's highways with alarm. 
 As India develops its economy, it can ill afford to ape the United States when it comes to urban transportation. It should look to Japan or Germany, or better yet, to Bogota, Colombia, or Curitiba, Brazil, in terms of bus systems, bike paths and pedways.
In this era of high oil prices, encouraging car-buying among India's city-dwelling residents is folly. Sustainable urban development requires mobility solutions for all city residents, not just those who own cars. 

Dave Ramaswamy
Offenbach am Main, GermanyDec. 5, 2005 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); CITY LIFE (87%); CITIES (87%); URBAN BUS SYSTEMS (87%); PETROLEUM PRODUCTS (86%); OIL & GAS PRICES (83%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (74%); MOTORCOACHES & BUSES (53%) Oil (Petroleum) and Gasoline; Automobiles

PERSON: Dave Ramaswamy

GEOGRAPHIC: BOGOTA, COLOMBIA (69%) TAMIL NADU, INDIA (92%) INDIA (97%); UNITED STATES (92%); JAPAN (92%); BRAZIL (92%); COLOMBIA (92%); GERMANY (90%) India

LOAD-DATE: December 11, 2005



225 of 607 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 11, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 4; Column 5; Editorial Desk; Pg. 11

LENGTH: 100 words

HEADLINE: A Passage to India: Asphalt and Dust

 BODY:

To the Editor:
 No country with a population as large as India's has enough land to have everybody drive a car, even if everybody could afford one. The celebrated Golden Quadrilateral should have been a high-speed railroad, not a superhighway for an affluent minority.
India, like the United States today, doesn't produce much and lives off imports. Sooner or later, the foreign capital bankrolling India's boom will pull out. The lesson is that no country has a real economy unless it can feed its own population and manufacture most of what it uses.

Geri A. Mellgren-Kerwin
Burbank, Calif., Dec. 5, 2005 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); HIGH SPEED TRAINS (84%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (74%) Roads and Traffic; Automobiles; Railroads

PERSON: Geri A Mellgren-Kerwin

GEOGRAPHIC: CALIFORNIA, USA (79%) INDIA (94%); UNITED STATES (92%) India

LOAD-DATE: December 11, 2005



226 of 607 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 11, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 4; Column 4; Editorial Desk; Pg. 11

LENGTH: 140 words

HEADLINE: A Passage to India: Asphalt and Dust

 BODY:

To the Editor:
 India has already reached the jet age and the atomic age but has lagged behind in the infrastructure needed for an increasing volume of truck and car traffic. In essence, its new highway will bring rural India from bullock cart to the automobile age, and spread the prosperity of the big cities. 
 As an American citizen of Indian background, I have traveled on several Indian highways, which should really be called sloways.
These ''highways'' are winding roads with soft shoulders, and there are bullock carts, hand carts, scooters and auto-rickshaws. Overloaded trucks and cars pass from both sides, leading to accidents and fatalities. Women walk with loads of hay or firewood on their heads, and you see shepherds driving a herd of cattle or goats right on the road.

Parthas Narasimhan, M.D.
New Hyde Park, N.Y., Dec. 4, 2005


GRAPHIC: Drawing (Drawing by Jesse Lefkowitz)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: VEHICLE TRAFFIC (90%); LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); ROAD & BRIDGE CONSTRUCTION (90%); MOTOR VEHICLES (88%); CITY LIFE (88%); HIGHWAYS & STREETS (87%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (74%); TRENDS (72%); RURAL COMMUNITIES (71%); ECONOMIC NEWS (59%) Roads and Traffic; Rural Areas; Automobiles; Economic Conditions and Trends; Urban Areas

PERSON: Parthas (Dr) Narasimhan

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (79%) INDIA (95%); UNITED STATES (79%) India

LOAD-DATE: December 11, 2005



227 of 607 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 11, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 1; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk; Second Front; Pg. 55

LENGTH: 1443 words

HEADLINE: Never Sleeps, But It Douses The Lights

BYLINE: By ANTHONY DePALMA

 BODY:
More than 11,000 traffic lights and ''Don't Walk'' signals in New York City have been switched to light-emitting diodes that use 90 percent less energy than conventional fixtures.
 More than 180,000 energy-guzzling refrigerators in public housing projects have been replaced with new ones that use a quarter of the power of the old ones.
By law, the city government can now purchase only the most efficient cars, air-conditioners and copy machines, and soon, computers will be added to the list. New York has one of the largest hybrid bus fleets in the country, and some of the first hybrid taxis. 
 For years, New York has been the city that not only never sleeps, but the city that hardly ever remembers to turn the lights out. On the coldest days of winter, New Yorkers raise their windows to let out the heat. In the dog days of summer, a husky could freeze in the open doorway of a Fifth Avenue boutique. 
 But now, measures like more efficient traffic lights and refrigerators are speeding up a long trend making New York one of the most energy-efficient cities in the nation -- and officials in cities like Portland and Seattle that might, in the public mind, seem more environmentally conscious are taking notice. 
 Environmentalists and urban planners from around the nation hail some of New York City's efforts at energy efficiency as models for doing more with less and, importantly, doing it without asking sacrifices of anyone. 
 ''I'm not aware of any other municipalities going to that extreme,'' said Dana L. Banks, a senior program manager at Portland Energy Conservation Inc., which works on energy-efficiency programs throughout the Northwest. ''New York is looking for every single opportunity it can to save energy it can find.''
 To be sure, not every one of New York's attempts to improve efficiency has succeeded. One measure to make computers more efficient became bogged down in politics and will not be put into practice until 2008. But most indications suggest that the city's wasteful reputation is changing.
 ''For people who look closely at energy, the idea of New York being a callous and wasteful place is long dead and buried,'' said David Hamilton, director of global warming and energy programs for the Sierra Club. ''When it comes to following up on new ideas and new technologies and staying ahead of the curve in terms of being smart and economical, New York is clearly among the leaders in the country.'' 
 Efficiency is actually a grim necessity in New York. Despite efforts at conservation, demand for electricity in the city has been increasing by 1.5 percent a year; there simply is not enough room to build all the additional power plants that would be needed to meet unlimited demand for energy. Use has to be curtailed, and the city feels it has to lead by example. 
 Though the savings represent just a portion of the 5 billion kilowatt-hours of electricity the entire city uses in a year, the innovation and ease of the efficiency measures have attracted attention. New York's energy diet is based on a simple formula -- a blend of local legislation, state assistance and an awareness of the city's own position as an 800-pound gorilla in the energy market. 
 ''Eventually what happens here starts to happen around the country,'' said Ashok Gupta, director of the air and energy program for the Natural Resources Defense Council. ''The market that New Yorkers provide is clearly an important factor in moving the rest of the country. That's the way markets work.'' 
 And that market dynamic helps make New York an energy efficiency laboratory. Environmental groups like the council expend much of their own energy to help shape legislation in New York because they realize that is an efficient way to kick-start national programs. Manufacturers are also attuned to New York's latest trends and needs because the market is simply too big to ignore. 
 ''The city is such a huge consumer of these products that we should set the tone,'' said Councilman James F. Gennaro of Queens, chairman of the Council's Environmental Protection Committee. ''We want to make New York City the most efficient entity it can be.'' 
 Sometimes energy is wasted simply because its costs are hidden. At the New York City's public housing projects, tenants do not pay for electricity; the Housing Authority does. About the biggest energy gluttons in the authority's 181,000 apartments were the old refrigerators, some of which were built in the early 1970's. But tenants did not buy them, and the Housing Authority did not control how they were used. 
 With help from an energy-efficiency program run by the New York Power Authority, the Housing Authority began replacing the old refrigerators several years ago with new ones that use only a quarter as much electricity. The last of them were installed early this year. 
 ''What's different here is that we are promoting the idea of energy efficiency, using less energy and not necessarily saying that anyone has to do without,'' said Eugene W. Zeltman, president of the New York Power Authority. ''If we use energy more wisely there will be more energy for people to consume and less energy for us to produce.''
 The New York Power Authority has undertaken 1,116 energy efficiency projects in New York and Westchester County, including a pilot program to adapt traffic lights to use light-emitting diodes. 
 The new lights are brighter, cheaper to use, and last 10 times longer than conventional fixtures. After the Power Authority helped modify the ones in Queens, the New York City Department of Transportation was so pleased with the results that it did the same in the other boroughs. By last February, the signals at all 11,600 intersections in the city had been upgraded. Installation cost $28.2 million -- but the city is saving $6 million a year in energy and maintenance costs. 
 Earlier this year City Council passed a package of bills requiring the use of clean fuels and the purchase of energy-efficient vehicles. The city will buy substantially more hybrid cars over the next few years and must increase the fuel efficiency of its cars and trucks by 20 percent within a decade. 
 Just this month the Council passed a bill that would require the landlords of any building that receives a tax break to purchase only refrigerators, air-conditioners and other appliances that are certified as being efficient under the federal government's Energy Star program.
 ''I'm impressed with what they're doing,'' Steven S. Nicholas, director of Seattle's Office of Sustainability and Environment, said of New York's efforts. ''They've put these issues on the radar screen.''
 A package of bills still before the Council would apply efficiency standards to computers the city purchases. 
 Chris Calwell, policy and research director for Ecos Consulting of Portland, Ore., helped the Council draft that bill to require computers use highly efficient power packs. Although the savings in individual machines would be small, the tens of thousands of computers in the city would add up to a substantial amount of wasted energy that could be captured. And less electricity means less pollution from power plants. 
 ''The city should be commended for taking a really significant first step,'' Mr. Calwell said. But he said the Council gave in to pressure from the manufacturers who argued that it would take time to get the power supply manufacturers in China and Taiwan geared up to produce sufficient numbers of the new energy-efficient power packs. As a result, the deadline to put the new standards into effect was pushed back from next year to 2008. 
 New York is already a leader in energy-efficient green office buildings, like 7 World Trade Center, which recycles rainwater and uses it in toilets and for irrigation, and computer-controlled heating and lighting. 
 Mayor Michael R. Bloomberg wants the remaining tax-delinquent housing stock in the city's hands made available to developers with energy-saving building designs.
 And the Enterprise Foundation, which encourages forward-thinking urban development, has helped provide funds for 474 energy-efficient apartments in small- and medium-scale projects in New York City, second in number only to Los Angeles.
 ''Counter to what most non-New Yorkers might think, New York is a very progressive city for green building,'' said Jim Himes, director of the Enterprise Foundation office in New York. The mass transit system, multifamily housing, mixed neighborhoods and the fact that developments never go up on virgin land anymore, all make building in New York very energy efficient.
 ''It's easier to be green here,'' Mr. Himes said.


GRAPHIC: Photos: Energy-efficient refrigerators at Carver Houses in East Harlem in 2003. (Photo by New York Power Authority)(pg. 58)
 (pg. 55)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ENERGY EFFICIENCY & CONSERVATION (90%); ENERGY DEVELOPMENT PROGRAMS (90%); CITY LIFE (89%); CITIES (89%); ELECTRONIC DIODES (78%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (78%); CITY GOVERNMENT (78%); LIGHT EMITTING DIODES (78%); ELECTRIC POWER PLANTS (77%); ENVIRONMENTALISM (77%); ENERGY CONSUMPTION (77%); ENERGY DEMAND (77%); POWER PLANTS (72%); ELECTRICITY TRANSMISSION & DISTRIBUTION (72%); ENERGY & UTILITY CONSTRUCTION (72%); LAND USE PLANNING (72%); ENVIRONMENTAL & WILDLIFE ORGANIZATIONS (70%); ENVIRONMENT & NATURAL RESOURCES (70%); PHOTOCOPIERS (70%); GLOBAL WARMING (60%); PUBLIC HOUSING (57%); MOTORCOACHES & BUSES (55%) Energy and Power; Energy Efficiency; Law and Legislation

PERSON: Anthony Depalma

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%) NEW YORK, USA (98%) UNITED STATES (98%) New York City; New York City

LOAD-DATE: December 11, 2005



228 of 607 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 11, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 1; Column 1; The Arts/Cultural Desk; Pg. 61

LENGTH: 2338 words

PERSON: Richard Pryor

HEADLINE: Richard Pryor, Who Turned Humor of the Streets Into Social Satire, Dies at 65

BYLINE: By MEL WATKINS

 BODY:
Richard Pryor, the iconoclastic standup comedian who transcended barriers of race and brought a biting, irreverent humor into America's living rooms, movie houses, clubs and concert halls, died Saturday. He was 65. 
 Mr. Pryor, who had been ill with multiple sclerosis, suffered a heart attack and died at a hospital in Los Angeles, his wife, Jennifer Lee Pryor, told CNN.
 Mr. Pryor's health had been in decline for many years. Episodes of self-destructive, chaotic and violent behavior, often triggered by drug use, repeatedly threatened his career and jeopardized his life. ''I couldn't escape the darkness,'' he acknowledged, but he was able to put his demons at the service of his art.
 Mr. Pryor's brilliant comic imagination and creative use of the blunt cadences of street language were revelations to most Americans. He did not simply tell stories, he brought them to vivid life, revealing the entire range of black America's humor, from its folksy rural origins to its raunchier urban expressions. 
 At the height of his career, in the late 1970's, Mr. Pryor prowled the stage like a restless cat, dispensing what critics regarded as the most poignant and penetrating comedic view of African-American life ever afforded the American public. He was volatile yet vulnerable, crass but sensitive, streetwise and cocky but somehow still diffident and anxious. And he could unleash an astonishing array of dramatic and comic skills to win acceptance and approval for a kind of stark humor. 
 ''Pryor started it all,'' the director and comedian Keenen Ivory Wayans said. ''He made the blueprint for the progressive thinking of black comedians, unlocking that irreverent style.''
 For the actor Eddie Murphy, Richard Pryor was simply ''better than anyone who ever picked up a microphone.'' The playwright Neil Simon called him ''the most brilliant comic in America.''

An Innovative Approach
 Mr. Pryor's body language conveyed the ambivalence -- at once belligerent and defensive -- of the black male's provisional stance in society. His monologues evoked the passions and foibles of all segments of black society, including working-class, church-going people and prostitutes, pimps and hustlers. 
 He unleashed a galaxy of street characters who traditionally had been embarrassments to most middle-class blacks and mere stereotypes to most whites. And he presented them so truthfully and hilariously that he was able to transcend racial boundaries and capture a huge audience of admirers in virtually every ethnic, economic and cultural group in America. In 1998, he received the Kennedy Center's award for humor, the Mark Twain Prize.
 Mr. Pryor's crossover appeal derived largely from his innovative approach to comedy -- what Rolling Stone magazine called ''a new type of realistic theater.'' It was essentially comedy without jokes -- re-enactments of common human exchanges that not only mirrored the pretensions of the characters portrayed but also subtly revealed the minor triumphs that allowed them to endure and even prevail over the bleak realities of everyday living.
 ''Comedy,'' he said, ''is when you are driving along and see a couple of dudes and one is in trouble with the others and he's trying to talk his way out of it. You say, 'Oh boy, they got him,' and you laugh. I cannot tell jokes. My comedy is not comedy as society has defined it.''
 In his autobiography, ''Pryor Convictions,'' written in 1995 with Todd Gold, he allows Mudbone, the down-home raconteur who was perhaps Mr. Pryor's most unforgettable character and in many ways his alter ego, to comment, ''the truth is gonna be funny, but it's gonna scare . . . folks.''
 In fact, Mr. Pryor's often harsh observations and explicit language did offend some audiences. But he insistently presented characters with little or no distortion. ''A lie is profanity,'' he explained. ''A lie is the worst thing in the world. Art is the ability to tell the truth, especially about oneself.''

A Childhood of Characters
 Richard Pryor, the only child of Leroy Pryor and Gertrude Thomas Pryor, was born in Peoria, Ill., on Dec. 1, 1940, and raised in a household where, as he wrote, ''I lived among an assortment of relatives, neighbors, whores and winos -- the people who inspired a lifetime of comedic material.'' His parents and grandmother ran a string of bars and bordellos that catered to a constant influx of transients who moved in and out of town, which was such an important stop on the black and white vaudeville circuits that it inspired the expression, ''Will it play in Peoria?''
 A frail child, he learned how to use his quick wit and belligerent humor to gain respect from street gangs and bigger, more aggressive peers. But the antic behavior that served him well in the streets did not translate to the classroom, and he was expelled from school in the eighth grade despite his obvious talent and intelligence. During the remainder of his teens, he worked as a truck driver, a laborer and a factory worker, then joined the Army, where he served in Germany until he was discharged after stabbing another serviceman during a fight.
 He returned to Peoria, married, became the father of a son, Richard Jr., and, inspired by the television appearances of Redd Foxx and Dick Gregory, began performing in local nightclubs. In 1962, a variety act offered him a job as a master of ceremonies; leaving his wife and child behind, he began touring, appearing at small black nightclubs in East St. Louis, Cleveland, Chicago, Pittsburgh and Youngstown.
 In 1963, after honing his craft on the ''chitlin circuit,'' Mr. Pryor decided to take a crack at New York City. He felt ready to compete with the ''big cats'' and to try to emulate the success of Bill Cosby, the comedian he most admired. Soon, he was appearing at Greenwich Village clubs like Cafe Wha?, The Living Room, Papa Hud's and the Bitter End.
 Mr. Pryor made his national television debut on Rudy Vallee's ''On Broadway Tonight'' in 1964. He had, in his own words, ''entered the mainstream,'' presenting ''white bread,'' nonoffensive humor that freely copied the styles of other comedians, particularly Mr. Cosby. He worked the Catskills resort hotels and opened for the singer Billy Eckstine at the Apollo Theater in Harlem. Big-time television appearances followed on ''The Ed Sullivan Show'' and Johnny Carson's ''Tonight Show.'' Two years after his arrival in New York, he had a national reputation.
 Despite his growing popularity, Mr. Pryor was frustrated. ''I made a lot of money being Bill Cosby,'' he recalled, ''but I was hiding my personality. I just wanted to be in show business so bad I didn't care how. It started bothering me -- I was being a robot comic, repeating the same lines, getting the same laughs for the same jokes. The repetition was killing me.''
 In 1967, Mr. Pryor stormed off the stage of the Aladdin Hotel in Las Vegas, shouting, ''What am I doing here? I'm not going to do this anymore!''
 In his autobiography, he recalled: ''There was a world of junkies and winos, pool hustlers and prostitutes, women and family screaming inside my head, trying to be heard. The longer I kept them bottled up, the harder they tried to escape. The pressure built till I went nuts.''
 Despite resistance from club owners, booking agents and advisers, he began listening to those voices, developing new material during the next few years served straight from the black experience, even embracing the street vernacular use of the word ''nigger.'' 
 His first comedy album, ''Richard Pryor'' (1967) revealed his new direction with such routines as: ''I always wanted to go to the movies and see a black hero. I figured maybe on television they'll have it -- Look, up in the sky! It's a crow. It's a bat. No, it's Super Nigger. Able to leap tall buildings with a single bound; faster than a bowl of chitlins.''

Becoming Himself
 By 1970, he had gone underground to reassess his life and his comic approach. 
 When he returned to show business in Los Angeles, his comedy had changed radically. After seeing his revised act, Mr. Cosby said: ''Richard Pryor took on a whole new persona, his own. Richard killed the Bill Cosby in his act, made people hate it. Then he worked on them, doing pure Pryor, and it was the most astonishing metamorphosis I have ever seen. He was magnificent.''
 Some of his new material appeared on his second album, ''Craps (After Hours)'' (1971), which was recorded at the Redd Foxx Club in Hollywood. He boldly engaged sensitive racial topics, mocking police harassment of blacks and exploring differences between white and black sexual attitudes. 
 Although ''Craps'' is considered one of Mr. Pryor's best comedy albums, initial sales were dismal. Even the black audience for whom it was intended largely ignored it.
 Mr. Pryor persisted, however, developing his act and building a new following by returning to the small black clubs that he had abandoned with his initial success. He also appeared at better-known and challenging venues like the Apollo in Harlem and more cutting-edge comedy clubs downtown like The Improv.
 The routines developed on those dates provided material for his next album, ''That Nigger's Crazy'' (1974), which surprised record-industry executives with its appeal to young whites as well as blacks. Despite its X-rating because of explicit language and sexual content, the record sold more than a half-million copies and won the Grammy Award for best comedy album of the year. It was followed by another X-rated album, '' . . . Is It Something I Said'' (1975), which also went gold and won another Grammy.
 Appearances on television furthered Mr. Pryor's career. He was a popular host on ''Saturday Night Live'' in 1975, and two years later he agreed to do a series of television specials for NBC. 
 Mr. Pryor's impact was not limited to comedy performance on records and the stage. He wrote for Redd Foxx's popular television series ''Sanford and Son'' and for ''The Flip Wilson Show''; he also collaborated with Lily Tomlin on her television specials, receiving an Emmy Award for best comedy writing for ''Lily'' in 1974.
 After returning from a trip to Africa in 1979, Mr. Pryor told audiences he would never use the word ''nigger'' again as a performer. While abroad, he said, he saw black people running governments and businesses. And in a moment of epiphany, he said, he realized that he did not see anyone he could call by that name.
 He appeared in 40 films during a career that began with ''Busy Bodies'' in 1969 and concluded with a role opposite his frequent co-star Gene Wilder in ''Another You'' in 1992.
 His first starring role, in 1976, was as a race car driver in ''Greased Lightning,'' and he costarred with Gene Wilder in ''Silver Streak.'' Although he would dismiss ''Silver Streak'' as a ''stupid film,'' audiences loved his performance and he became one of Hollywood's hottest box-office draws.

Comedy Sets a Standard
 Mr. Pryor probably reached the pinnacle of his career in 1979 with his first concert film, ''Richard Pryor, Live in Concert,'' a movie, filmed during an appearance in Long Beach, Calif., that more than a quarter of a century later remains the standard by which other movies of live comedy performances are judged.
 The film, which was to inspire others to make their own comic performance movies, caught Mr. Pryor at peak form. He reflected often about his own tumultuous life, with monologues about a domestic quarrel in which he shot his wife's car, the death of his pet monkeys and a near-fatal heart attack, which ended with: ''I woke up in the ambulance, right? And there was nothin' but white people starin' at me. I say . . . I done died and wound up in the wrong heaven. Now I gotta listen to Lawrence Welk the rest of my days.''
 In addition to his wife, Mr. Pryor is survived by six children: Richard Jr., Rain, Elizabeth, Steven, Kelsey and Franklin. He was married six times and divorced five times.
 If he used his misadventures to earn fame and fortune, Mr. Pryor also frequently undercut his career and his life with his self-destructive behavior. In 1974, for example, he was sentenced to 10 days in jail, fined and put on probation after pleading guilty to a charge of willful failure to file an income tax return.
 In 1978, a court fined him $500, placed him on probation again and ordered him to seek psychiatric care and make restitution after a New Year's Day incident in which he rammed his Mercedes into a car containing friends of his wife and then shot at it with a pistol.
 In 1980, after a marathon drug binge, Mr. Pryor was critically burned in an explosion that the police said was caused by the ignition of ether being used in conjunction with cocaine. Fire Department paramedics found him walking in a daze more than a mile from his home outside Los Angeles with third-degree burns over the upper half of his body. He was hospitalized for almost two months while undergoing a series of skin grafts.
 Recovering, Mr. Pryor remained a top-box office attraction during most of the 1980's. He appeared in numerous movies and released two more films of live comedy performances, but he continued to be bedeviled by drug and health problems.
 In 1986, he was found to be suffering from multiple sclerosis, a disease that strikes at the central nervous system, and as the years passed he experienced its cruelest symptoms: vertigo, tremors, muscle weakness and chronic fatigue. 
 His performances in ''See No Evil, Hear No Evil'' (1989) and ''Another You'' (1992) with Gene Wilder revealed a frail, hesitant actor who struggled to deliver his lines. Still, in 1992, he was back at the Comedy Store in Los Angeles polishing material for a concert tour. He was no longer able to stand on stage and he delivered his monologue from an easy chair. But he was forced to cancel his tour early the next year.
 ''I realized that I had more heart than energy, more courage than strength,'' he said. ''My mind was willing, but my feets couldn't carry me to the end zone.''


GRAPHIC: Photos: Richard Pryor and Gene Wilder in ''See No Evil, Hear No Evil.'' Mr. Pryor also had a screenwriting credit on Mel Brooks's ''Blazing Saddles.''
 A scene from ''Richard Pryor Here and Now,'' a concert film from 1983. His crossover appeal derived from his innovative approach to comedy. (Photographs by Columbia TriStar)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Obituary (Obit); Biography

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: DEATHS & OBITUARIES (94%); PERFORMING ARTS CENTERS (90%); ARTISTS & PERFORMERS (90%); FILM (89%); AFRICAN AMERICANS (89%); RACE & RACISM (88%); THEATER & DRAMA (87%); ACTORS & ACTRESSES (78%); DRAMA LITERATURE (73%); WRITERS (73%); IMMUNE SYSTEM DISORDERS (72%); MULTIPLE SCLEROSIS (57%) Deaths (Obituaries); Biographical Information; Comedy and Humor

COMPANY: ROLLING STONE MAGAZINE (50%)

EDDIE MURPHY (59%) Mel Watkins

GEOGRAPHIC: CALIFORNIA, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (96%)

CATEGORY: Popular Entertainers

LOAD-DATE: December 11, 2005



229 of 607 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 11, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 1; Column 4; Metropolitan Desk; Second Front; Pg. 55

LENGTH: 1357 words

HEADLINE: In Talks Over Transit Pact, Different Chips, Same Poker

BYLINE: By STEVEN GREENHOUSE and SEWELL CHAN

 BODY:
The story is similar to what it was three years ago: five days from a contract deadline for New York City transit workers, the two sides, represented by the same powerful and colorful leaders, have dug in for intense, possibly round-the-clock negotiations. 
 But if the showdown is similar, the source of contention has shifted significantly. This time, a dispute over pensions and health benefits -- rather than wages -- has emerged as the central obstacle to a deal.
One constant then and now is that millions of transit passengers are worried and wondering about the possibility of a transit strike.
 The Metropolitan Transportation Authority has taken a hard line on benefits, saying soaring health and pension costs are the main reason for a nearly $1 billion deficit projected for 2009. 
 And the transit union also took a hard line last night when about 6,000 subway and bus workers voted, as expected, to authorize the union's board to call a strike on Friday if no settlement is reached. 
 The authority has told the transit workers that, like many state and local governments, it needs to get its benefit costs under control. 
 It has called for significant concessions, among them requiring new employees to wait until age 62 to qualify for full pensions, up from age 55 for current workers.
 ''Unless the M.T.A. finds an effective way to control the long-term growth in pension and health expenses the structural deficit becomes enormous,'' said Gary J. Dellaverson, the authority's chief negotiator.
 In contrast to its tough stance on benefits, the authority has adopted a somewhat more generous position on wages. The authority insisted on a one-year wage freeze three years ago, but in these negotiations it has offered a 3 percent raise in the first year and 2 percent in the second as part of a two-year contract. 
 Roger Toussaint, president of Local 100 of the Transport Workers Union, representing 33,700 subway and bus workers, has angrily rejected the proposed concessions, noting that the authority had a $1 billion surplus this year. He said the authority's proposal for a higher retirement age would drive a wedge in his union by treating new workers worse than current ones.
 ''We have no intention of giving up our unborn, ,'' he said.
 The two sides are primed for intense and possible round-the-clock talks before the contract expires at 12:01 a.m. Friday. Emboldened by the strike authorization vote, union leaders said last night that they have in no way ruled out a walkout, though barred by law. Under a 1967 state law, individual workers can be fined two days' pay for each day on strike, and the union could face additional fines. 
 Last night, transit workers overflowed a meeting hall in the Jacob K. Javits Convention Center, where they first heard the Rev. Jesse Jackson and then voted overwhelmingly to authorize a strike.
 As union members waited in a 200-yard line that snaked into the hall, many voiced sharp anger at the authority and its proposals. The union's board called for raises of 8 percent a year, with many union members denouncing the authority's proposed 5 percent raise over two years, when many municipal workers have received double-digit raises, although in longer contracts.
 ''Their offer stinks -- I wouldn't offer that to my enemy,'' said Anthony Robinson, a track inspector, who said he favored a walkout if the authority did not retreat significantly from its positions.
 Using a megaphone, Mr. Toussaint spoke to 2,000 transit workers who were unable to squeeze into the main hall for the strike vote. When he said, ''No contract, no work,'' they thundered applause and waved red union bandannas.
 He called for a huge union demonstration at Grand Central Terminal on Tuesday. ''We need to give them a taste of how incensed, insulted and disgusted we are,'' he said.
 In response to the union vote, Tom Kelly, an M.T.A. spokesman, said , ''The union appears to be all too willing to jeopardize the well-being of the city it serves as well as the financial security of its members in support of goals it has not even specified.''
 As was the case three years ago, two forceful figures -- Mr. Toussaint and Peter S. Kalikow, the authority's chairman -- will be bargaining feverishly against the deadline. 
 Mr. Kalikow, 63, a real-estate developer appointed by Gov. George E. Pataki, has not yet joined the bargaining, but is nonetheless expected to make decisions on some pivotal issues in the final hours of the talks, as he did in resolving the dispute three years ago. 
 Mr. Kalikow, who is expected to resign by January 2007, when a new governor takes office, has tried to burnish the authority's image and maintain friendly relations with labor, all while grappling with the perennial threat of deficits.
 On the other side of the negotiating table is Mr. Toussaint, a 49-year-old native of Trinidad who was a track-maintenance worker and won control of the union five years ago as head of a dissident slate that promised to be more aggressive than past union leaders. 
 But he now faces dissenters of his own: five of the union's seven vice presidents have accused him in a federal lawsuit of trying to squelch free speech. The dissenters have sought to be more militant than Mr. Toussaint, pressuring him to take tough stances on pensions and other matters.
 Mr. Toussaint said large raises were needed because raises in the current contract trailed inflation. The contract gave the union a much improved health plan, however. Before overtime, the transit workers' base pay averages $47,000.
 The authority is alarmed that its pension contributions for the transit workers have more than tripled since 2002, rising to $453 million this year, partly because of a sluggish stock market. The authority says its health care outlays for the transit workers are expected to total $380 million this year, up from $262 million three years ago. 
 ''Benefits are a much more important subject today than they were in the past because of the general problem of the underfunding of pension plans and rising health care costs,'' said Richard Ravitch, who was chairman of the authority during the last transit strike, in 1980.
 To reduce its health care spending, the authority is demanding that new employees, unlike current transit workers, pay 2 percent of their wages toward health coverage.
 Mr. Dellaverson said the authority, in seeking to control what he says are unsustainable increases in pensions and health costs, is fighting a battle faced by many states, counties and cities.
 In New York, Mayor Michael R. Bloomberg wants the city's municipal unions to agree to a less generous pension plan for future hires.
 Since 1994, most transit workers have been eligible for a pension equal to half their pay when they have 25 years of experience and reach age 55.
 Under the authority's pension proposal, which would apply only to future employees, workers could not receive that 50 percent pension until they reached age 62 and worked 30 years. The union has proposed a far more generous plan: full pensions once workers have 20 years on the job and reach age 50, a system similar to one in the early 1970's.
 ''We're just asking for the same pensions that the uniformed services have,'' Mr. Toussaint said. ''Transit work is hard, dirty work.''
 Some labor experts say that the authority proposed increasing the retirement age to 62 as a bargaining chip to pressure the union to withdraw its demand to lower the retirement age to 50. Union officials insist that there is no way the authority will get its way on raising the age to 62 because that would require legislative approval and the Democratic-controlled State Assembly isvery friendly to unions. 
 The authority pays the entire cost of the standard health benefits package provided to most transit workers. The plan covers the 33,700 workers along with 20,000 spouses, domestic partners and dependent children. 
 In addition to calling for new employees to pay 2 percent of their wages toward health insurance, the authority wants current workers to shoulder higher co-payments for doctors' visits and prescription drugs.


GRAPHIC: Photos: Members of Local 100 of the Transport Workers Union arrive for a meeting yesterday. (Photo by Ting-Li Wang/The New York Times)(pg. 55)
Members of the Transport Workers Union yesterday leaving the Jacob K. Javits Convention Center.
 Roger Toussaint, president of Local 100 of the Transport Workers Union said workers will strike if negotiations with the M.T.A. fail. (Photographs by Ting-Li Wang/The New York Times)(pg. 58) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: URBAN TRANSIT SYSTEMS (91%); LABOR UNIONS (90%); TALKS & MEETINGS (90%); STRIKES (89%); WAGES & SALARIES (89%); RETIREMENT AGE (78%); PENSION & RETIREMENT PLANS (78%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (78%); MANAGED CARE ORGANIZATIONS (76%); RETIREMENT & RETIREES (76%); COLLECTIVE BARGAINING (76%); PERSONAL FINANCE (71%); BUDGET DEFICITS (69%); FINES & PENALTIES (60%) Transit Systems; Strikes; Organized Labor; Labor; Pensions and Retirement Plans; Health Insurance and Managed Care; Transit Systems; Subways; Buses

ORGANIZATION: Transport Workers Union; Metropolitan Transportation Authority

PERSON: Sewell Chan; Steven Greenhouse

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (93%) NEW YORK, USA (93%) UNITED STATES (93%) New York City

LOAD-DATE: December 11, 2005



230 of 607 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 11, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 1; Column 4; Metropolitan Desk; Second Front; Pg. 55

LENGTH: 1525 words

HEADLINE: Stalemate on Minimum Tax Would Cost Region's Households

BYLINE: By FORD FESSENDEN

 BODY:
Rob Cantor was doing well financially, or so he thought. College tuition for his two daughters was devouring his annual bonus, not to mention the $5,000 to $7,000 tax refund he got back every year from the federal government. But with just a few years of tuition left, he allowed himself to dream of flush days ahead.
 Even when most of his usual tax refund disappeared in 2004, he was unfazed. ''Last year, I only got $1,000, and I thought, hmmm,'' said Mr. Cantor, 54, a software engineer who lives in Teaneck, N.J. ''But my wife had gone back to school and is now a physician's assistant, and her salary substantially increased, so we were O.K.''
This year, though, his accountant called after preparing their return and said, ''You're not going to like this.'' 
 ''I thought, maybe my refund is down to $200,'' said Mr. Cantor. ''But he said, 'You owe $8,000.' I was floored.''
 Mr. Cantor and his wife, Susan Kirschenbaum, had lost many of their itemized deductions to the alternative minimum tax, a complicated calculation once aimed at the very rich but now creeping steadily down to the middle class as family income has risen. 
 It has long been known that the New York metropolitan region, with its wealthy enclaves, high taxes and rising home values, is one of the areas hardest hit by a tax formula that essentially does away with deductions. But a new statistical analysis shows that about 400,000 households in New York City and the suburbs in New York, New Jersey and Connecticut pay the alternative minimum tax -- one of every eight payers of the tax in the nation, according to figures from the forecasting firm economy.com. The region is home to about 1 of every 14 taxpayers in the nation. For the average taxpayer in the $100,000 to $200,000 income bracket, the alternative minimum tax means an additional $2,200 in federal income taxes. 
 As Congress looks for ways to reduce deficits and reform the tax code, the middle class deductions that Mr. Cantor and hundreds of thousands of others in the metropolitan area have relied on are under a microscope. A temporary fix that has exempted millions of families from paying the alternative minimum tax expires this year. 
 The House and Senate, in intense negotiations last week on an overall tax package, passed extensions, though different versions. The Senate version sets a higher exemption and would keep an additional 75,000 metropolitan area households -- and a total of 600,000 nationwide -- from being subject to the alternative tax. 
 If the two houses cannot agree and the temporary fix is not extended, another 15 million taxpayers, more than 2 million of them in and around New York, may see an increase in their 2006 tax -- which will show up on the returns filed in 2007 -- the economy.com analysis shows.
 ''The breakdown of people who are hit by the tax is like a demographic profile of the population in the New York area,'' said Len Burman, co-director of the Tax Policy Center. 
 But even if the exemption passes, taxpayers like Mr. Cantor may face another threat to their deductions. A presidential advisory panel proposed last month doing away with the alternative minimum tax, and suggested making up the revenue by eliminating the deduction for state income taxes for everyone, and sharply cutting back deductions for mortgage interest as well. 
 No place in the country has more people taking those deductions than the suburbs of New York: 55 percent of households in Nassau County, for instance, claim more than the standard deduction, higher even than in superrich Marin County, Calif., and way above the national average.
 ''The tax system is broken, and any kind of reform will involve winners and losers,'' said Mr. Burman. 
 President Bush's advisory panel agreed that the tax was bad policy and should be abolished, and suggested a trade-off: abolish a number of popular middle-class deductions, including those for state income and property taxes. It would also sharply limit the tax savings on mortgage interest. Those ideas make the real estate industry apoplectic, especially around New York.
 ''It is grossly unfair geographically,'' said Kathleen Murphy, a real estate agent in Northport, N.Y. ''Homeowners are like deer in the headlights now. They don't know what to expect from this market. It's not a marketplace where you want to add variables that detract from homeownership.''
 Abolishing the alternative tax and making up that revenue by curbing state tax and mortgage interest deductions could add more New York area households to the list of tax losers, according to Mark Zandi, chief economist at economy.com. 
 That seems unlikely to happen, though. It appears that Congress and Mr. Bush would be wary of such change. 
 Howard Neustadt, a projection engineer, is one of those who would be adversely affected, and he says the deductions are critical to him. Several weeks ago, he sold his home in Carmel, N.Y., and has signed a contract to buy one in Ossining, N.Y., for $560,000. The move will shorten his commute, and the math made just enough sense: even though his property taxes and mortgage interest will more than double, deductions for those expenses will save about $10,000 in taxes, making the new house affordable, if only barely.
 ''We could not afford this house without those deductions, and if the government does change this, we'd probably have to sell it,'' said Mr. Neustadt, 45, who has a combined income, with his wife, of $125,000. 
 The alternative minimum tax formula is complicated, but basically starts to snare people with incomes approaching $100,000 who have big deductions, like the five-figure real estate taxes that are becoming more common in the New York suburbs. The majority of people with incomes over $200,000 pay it.
 The tax was enacted in 1969 to keep the rich from completely escaping taxes by disallowing certain deductions. A taxpayer calculates the tax the usual way, but then also calculates the alternative minimum tax by adding back exemptions for dependents, along with deductions for state income and property taxes, certain home equity interest, medical expenses, stock options and a litany of more- obscure items. An exemption that ranges from $29,000 to $58,000 is subtracted, and a flat tax rate of 26 or 28 percent is applied to the balance, which the taxpayer pays if it is higher than the tax calculated the normal way.
 ''We thought it would only affect people in the high-income ranges,'' said Pat Roeder, an Eastchester divorce financial analyst, who had an alternative minimum tax bill of $3,000 last year. She and her husband, Paul Chrystal, a contractor, earn about $150,000, but they are hardly rich, she said. 
 ''We live in a modest-size house in a nice neighborhood,'' she said. ''We get away on weekends sometimes, but we haven't taken a vacation in five years.''
 As middle class family incomes have risen into realms once inhabited only by the rich, the number of those subject to the alternative tax has increased. In 2003, it was 2.3 million people. The growth has been greatest in areas where property taxes and state income taxes are the highest.
 ''Five years ago, five percent of my clients were paying the A.M.T.,'' said Keith Amchin, Mr. Cantor's accountant. ''Now, it's 20 to 25 percent.''
 Eugene Sidoti, a plastic surgeon, has four children and a home in Armonk, N.Y., all of which were helping to keep his federal tax bill down. But no longer. 
 ''Until maybe four or five years ago, I never owed anything at the end of the year,'' said Dr. Sidoti. ''And suddenly I'd get hit with big numbers, tens of thousands of dollars. I've nowlost all my deductions, but now I see others who make far less falling into the category.''
 An analysis for The New York Times by economy.com shows that the alternative minimum tax hits taxpayers everywhere, but is concentrated in suburban areas like DuPage County, in Illinois, and Orange County, in California. Of the 25 counties with the highest proportion of alternative minimum tax payers, though, 10 are in New York City or its suburbs: Manhattan, Nassau, Westchester, Putnam and Rockland in New York; Bergen, Somerset, Morris and Hunterdon in New Jersey; and Fairfield in Connecticut.
 ''It reflects, first, the high level of income in these regions, and second, that the taxpayers use deductions liberally in part because of the state and local tax levels,'' said Mr. Zandi, the economy.com economist.
 Eventually, economists say, the alternative minimum tax will engulf the majority of payers in the New York area. Its unpopularity extends beyond just those who have to pay it. ''The A.M.T. is horrible policy,'' Mr. Burman said. ''It's unfair, it's inefficient, and pointlessly complex.''
 For Mr. Cantor, already engulfed, the loss of his deductions has changed his outlook considerably. He had not yet had to borrow money for his daughters' college tuition, he said, and was looking forward to the possibility of an early retirement when they graduate. He now believes he will have to borrow to get his second daughter through school. ''I've got to pay that off,'' he said. ''I'm going to be working for a while.''


GRAPHIC: Photo: Rob Cantor and Susan Kirschenbaum of Teaneck, N.J., have seen their tax bill soar because of the alternative minimum tax. (Photo by Norman Y. Lono for The New York Times)(pg. 59)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TAXES & TAXATION (94%); TUITION FEES (90%); PERSONAL FINANCE (90%); TAX DEDUCTIONS (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (89%); TAX LAW (89%); MIDDLE INCOME PERSONS (88%); CITIES (86%); FAMILY (86%); WAGES & SALARIES (78%); TAX RELIEF (77%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (77%); LEGISLATION (72%); TAX REFORM (71%); PERSONAL & FAMILY INCOME (70%); STATISTICS (69%); INCOME TAX (67%); HOME PRICES (64%) Taxation; Alternative Minimum Tax; Tax Credits, Deductions and Exemptions; Taxation

PERSON: Ford Fessenden

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%) NEW YORK, USA (94%); NEW JERSEY, USA (93%); CONNECTICUT, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%) New York City Metropolitan Area

LOAD-DATE: December 11, 2005



231 of 607 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 11, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 1; Column 6; National Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1611 words

HEADLINE: Newly Bankrupt Raking In Piles Of Credit Offers

BYLINE: By TIMOTHY EGAN

DATELINE: TACOMA, Wash., Dec. 9 

 BODY:
As one of more than two million Americans who rushed to a courthouse this year to file for bankruptcy before a tough new law took effect, Laura Fogle is glad for her chance at a fresh start. A nurse and single mother of two, she blames her use of credit cards after cancer surgery for falling into deep debt.
 Ms. Fogle is broke, and may not seem to be the kind of person to whom banks would want to offer credit cards. But she said she had no sooner filed for bankruptcy, and sworn off plastic, than she was hit with a flurry of solicitations from major banks.
''Every day, I get at least two or three new credit card offers -- Citibank, MasterCard, you name it -- they want to give me a credit card, at pretty high interest rates,'' said Ms. Fogle, who is 41 and lives here. ''I've got a stack of these things on my table. It's tempting, but I've sworn them off.'' 
 If it seems odd to Ms. Fogle that banks would want to lend money to the newly bankrupt, it is no mystery to the financial community, which charges some of the highest interest rates to these newly available customers. 
 Under the new law, which the banking industry spent more than $100 million lobbying for, they may be even more attractive because it makes it harder for them to escape new credit card debt and extends to eight years from six the time before which they could liquidate their debts through bankruptcy again.
 ''The theory is that people who have just declared bankruptcy are a good credit risk because their old debts are clean and now they won't be able to get a new discharge for eight years,'' said John D. Penn, president of the American Bankruptcy Institute, a nonprofit clearinghouse for information on the subject. 
 Credit card companies have long solicited bankrupt people, on a calculated risk that income from the higher interest rates and late fees paid by those who are trying to get their credit back will outweigh the losses from those who fail to make payments altogether. The companies also directed many of those customers toward so-called secured cards, which require a cash deposit.
 But the new law makes for an even better gamble for lenders, consumer groups say. It not only makes bankrupt debtors wait eight years to clear their debts again, but it also requires many of those who do go back into bankruptcy to pay previous credit card bills that may have been excused under the old law.
 Bankers defend the practice of soliciting the newly bankrupt, saying it gives them a chance to build a new credit history.
 ''The people coming out of bankruptcy need an opportunity to get back on their feet,'' said Laura Fisher, a spokeswoman for the American Bankers Association, the industry's largest trade group. 
 ''If you take away the opportunity to get credit,'' Ms. Fisher said, ''it's like taking away the want ads from a job-seeker.''
 But consumer groups say the new law has put millions of Americans at risk of being in a continuous debt loop through their credit cards. And while the banks have taken a short-term financial hit because of the new filings -- leaving banks holding the bills -- they will benefit in the long run because the new law makes it much easier to make money on people who live near the edge every month on their credit cards, some consumer groups say.
 Credit cards are the most profitable part of the banking industry, with late fees and high interest charges helping make them so. Last year, more than five billion solicitations for new cards were sent out, nearly double the number from eight years ago.
 ''The whole business model of the credit card industry is built around outstanding debt,'' said Ellen Schloemer, a researcher at the Center for Responsible Lending, a nonprofit group that tracks lower-middle-class financial issues, based in Durham, N.C. ''This is the only industry that calls people deadbeats when they pay all their bills every month.''
 Among bankers, policies differ in how to approach the newly bankrupt. Bank of America does not give credit cards to people who have filed for debt protection, said Betty Riess, a bank spokeswoman. 
 However, because there is a delay between a bankruptcy petition filing and a credit report showing the debt consolidation, the bank may still be sending offers to someone who has filed, Ms. Riess said.
 Citigroup, whose credit card offers have piled up in Ms. Fogle's home, has its own internal credit rating system that does not always rule out the bankrupt.
 ''We use direct mail to find many of our new customers,'' said Samuel Wang, a Citigroup spokesman, in an e-mail message. 
 As of the end of October, 2,010,567 people had filed for bankruptcy protection this year, a modern record, federal bankruptcy court officials say. In just over two weeks of October, more than 600,000 people filed petitions, leading to long lines outside courthouses across the country, and clerks swamped with petitions. 
 The debtors were rushing to beat an Oct. 17 deadline when the most sweeping changes in bankruptcy law in a quarter-century took effect. 
 Most of the newly bankrupt filed under Chapter 7 of the code, which allows them to expunge many unsecured debts. The new law makes it much more difficult to erase debt; it increases the cost of filing and adds requirements like credit counseling.
 The banking industry worked in Congress for nearly 10 years to pass the law, and critics say it gave them everything they wanted to increase profits from people prone to debt. Bankers say the law makes it harder for people to abuse the system. 
 ''The hidden agenda of those who wrote the new law was death by a thousand cuts,'' said Travis B. Plunkett, legislative director of the Consumer Federation of America, which opposed the law.
 Opponents, including a group of bankruptcy law professors, argued that the changes gave the banking industry too much of an advantage. 
 ''In our view, the fundamental change over the last 10 years has been the way that credit is marketed to consumers,'' the bankruptcy professors wrote in a letter to the Senate this year. 
 ''Credit card lenders have become more aggressive in marketing their products, and a large, profitable market has emerged in subprime lending. Increased risk is part of the business model.''
 Ms. Fogle would seem to be a perfect candidate for long-term debt to credit cards. Though she works regularly as a nurse at Good Samaritan Hospital here, earning $16 an hour, and has health insurance, she said a health emergency pushed her into debt. Last year, she needed surgery for uterine cancer, which caused her to lose days of work and income. Credit cards made up the difference, and soon she was $15,000 in debt. 
 She filed for protection of the courts in late August, and her debts are now removed. ''My plan is to lay off credit cards until I can really afford them,'' she said. ''But it's tempting. I would like to have one in case of emergency.''
 Ms. Fogle said she was trying to stick to a disciplined new pattern with her finances. ''I try to buy only what I need, instead of what I want,'' she said. ''But there are small things that I want -- a latte, every now and then, taking my kids to the movies.''
 The credit card offers inform Ms. Fogle that she is pre-approved, but at higher interest rates -- 23 percent or more, which is typical for offers to the newly bankrupt. 
 ''It's obvious what they're trying to do here -- start people off with a fresh credit card at a much higher rate than before,'' she said. 
 Nearly 60 percent of all credit card holders, about 85 million Americans, carry a balance -- that is, they do not pay off the entire debt, according to the bankers' association. 
 The average debt among those with a monthly balance is $9,000, said the Consumer Federation of America in a recent report. Paying just the monthly minimum -- usually 2 percent of the balance -- on $9,000, it would take 42 years to pay off the debt, at a typical 18 percent interest rate, the consumer group calculated. Since that study, some banks have raised the minimum to 4 percent.
 Opponents of the new bankruptcy law argue that it did not put new restrictions on credit solicitation and will turn the courts and the government into private collection agencies for bankers. 
 While bankruptcy filings increased 17 percent over the last eight years, credit card profits went up 163 percent to $30.2 billion, according to a report filed with the House Judiciary Committee by opponents of the new law. 
 ''In the eight years since the credit industry first came to Congress seeking relief from the rising rate of personal bankruptcy filings, the extent of credit has not been curtailed, nor have the industry profits been diminished due to bankruptcy filings,'' Congressional opponents wrote in their report while the bill was under consideration. 
 Americans owe $800 billion in credit card debt, more than triple the amount from 1989, and a 31 percent increase from five years ago, according to a recent report, ''The Plastic Safety Net,'' by the Center for Responsible Lending, and Demos, a research group based in New York. 
 The study found that a third of low- and middle-income American households used credit cards for basic expenses -- rent, groceries and utilities -- in any 4 of the last 12 months. 
 Those with the worst credit card debt were people ages 50 to 64, who owed $9,124 on average, the study found. 
 ''The people I'm seeing right now, they're mostly middle or lower middle class,'' said Jack Burtch, a bankruptcy lawyer in Washington State. ''In a good many of the cases, credit cards are what got them into trouble. And I don't see how credit cards will get them out of it.''


GRAPHIC: Photo: Laura Fogle, a nurse who lives in Tacoma, Wash., filed for bankruptcy, but that hasn't stopped credit lenders from seeking her business. (Photo by Kevin P. Casey for The New York Times)(pg. 47)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (93%); CREDIT CARDS (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); LEGISLATION (90%); PAYMENT CARDS & SERVICES (89%); PERSONAL DEBT (89%); BUSINESS INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (89%); LIQUIDATIONS (78%); SECURED CARDS (77%); COMMERCIAL BANKING (76%); BANKING & FINANCE SECTOR PERFORMANCE (76%); FINANCIAL RISK MANAGEMENT (73%); INTEREST RATES (73%); ECONOMIC NEWS (73%); NONPROFIT ORGANIZATIONS (66%); LOBBYING (65%); SINGLE PARENTS (57%) Credit and Money Cards; Bankruptcies; Law and Legislation; Credit and Money Cards

PERSON: Timothy Egan

GEOGRAPHIC: TACOMA, WA, USA (84%) WASHINGTON, USA (91%) UNITED STATES (94%) United States

LOAD-DATE: December 11, 2005



232 of 607 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 11, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 1; Column 3; Foreign Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1682 words

HEADLINE: A Record Amazon Drought, and Fear of Wider Ills

BYLINE: By LARRY ROHTER

DATELINE: MANAQUIRI, Brazil 

 BODY:
The Amazon River basin, the world's largest rain forest, is grappling with a devastating drought that in some areas is the worst since record keeping began a century ago. It has evaporated whole lagoons and kindled forest fires, killed off fish and crops, stranded boats and the villagers who travel by them, brought disease and wreaked economic havoc.
 In mid-October, the governor of Amazonas State, Eduardo Braga, decreed a ''state of public calamity,'' which remains in effect as the drought's impact on the economy, public health and food and fuel supplies deepens. But other Brazilian states have also been severely affected, as have Amazon regions in neighboring countries like Peru, Bolivia and Colombia.
With hundreds of riverside settlements cut off from the outside world, the Brazilian Armed Forces have for three months mounted what officials describe as the biggest relief operation that they and civil defense agencies have carried out together. Nearly 2,000 tons of food and 30 tons of medicine have already been airlifted by plane and helicopter to affected communities just in Amazonas State, the region's largest. 
 ''There have been years before in which we've had a deficit of rainfall, but we've never experienced drops in the water levels of rivers like those we have seen in 2005,'' said Everaldo Souza, a meteorologist at the Amazon Protection System, a Brazilian government agency in Manaus, the nine-state region's main city. ''It has truly been without precedent, and it looks like it is only going to be December or January, if then, that things return to normal.''
 Scientists say the drought is most likely a result of the same rise in water temperatures in the tropical Atlantic Ocean that unleashed Hurricane Katrina. They also worry that if global warming is involved, as some of them suspect, it may be the beginning of a new era of more severe and frequent droughts in the region that accounts for nearly a quarter of the world's fresh water.
 ''The Amazon is a kind of canary-in-a-coal-mine situation,'' said Daniel C. Nepstad, a senior scientist at the Woods Hole Research Center in Massachusetts and the Amazon Institute of Ecological Research in Belem. 
 ''We have no idea of the game we have played into by running this worldwide experiment of pumping so much greenhouse gases into the atmosphere,'' Mr. Nepstad said. Even more than in other parts of the world, people who live in the world's largest rain forest depend on water for transportation, food, sewage removal -- in short, just about everything, so the drought has touched nearly every aspect of their lives. 
 ''I am very frightened,'' said Jair Souto, the mayor of a sleepy market town, Manaquiri, that started seeing signs of drought in September. ''One thing goes wrong, and the entire system follows.''
 In Acre State in western Brazil, parched trees turned to tinder, and the number of forest fires recorded tripled to nearly 1,500 at its peak in September compared with a year earlier. The resulting smoke, which may itself have intensified the drought by impeding the formation of storm clouds, was so thick on some days that residents took to wearing masks when they went outdoors.
 On the Madeira River, a main trade artery for products including soybeans and diesel oil, navigation had to be suspended when water levels fell to barely one-tenth of their rainy season level. Peasant farmers have watched their crops rot because they cannot ship them to market, and schools have shut down now that students can no longer get to class even in small boats.
 ''The water level wasn't but two fingers high, and the channel was choked in the grass that sprang up, so you couldn't even paddle a canoe,'' Rivaldo Castro Serrao, a peasant farmer in a hamlet on the Purus River, Sao Lazaro, said in late November as an army helicopter was delivering supplies to the 41 families living there. ''With the fish all dead and our watermelon and banana crop all rotted, we'd be starving if it weren't for the food packages the government brings.''
 As water levels dropped, areas where the river normally flowed free instead became stagnant pools, the ideal breeding ground for mosquitoes. As a result, malaria, always a problem in the region, has become more prevalent and has further strained limited health care resources.
 A vast majority of communities rely on the river to carry away human waste. With sewage now accumulating near the settlements, the risk of cholera and other diseases is expected to rise with water levels when the rainy season, which is starting in some parts of the basin, finally arrives in earnest. Around larger towns like Manaquiri, peasants who fled the drought looking for aid and still cannot return home have formed floating slums. Horacio de Almeida Ramos, for example, has been marooned in Manaquiri since September, when river levels began falling as much as 20 inches a day. In October, the teeming schools of fish in the lagoon suddenly died off, and by November, the entire lagoon had dried up, leaving boats here stranded and outlying communities isolated. 
 So Mr. Ramos lives, with his wife and their seven children, ranging in age from 2 to 15, in the canoe that brought them here and is now beached beside the pier. ''We're stuck here until the lagoon fills up again, living off charity and whatever make-work I can find,'' he said resignedly. ''We had to abandon all our crops, so I don't know what it's going to be like when we eventually go back.''
 Even as the drought begins to subside, scientists are still debating what caused it. The explanation accepted most widely pins primary responsibility on higher water temperatures in tropical regions of the Atlantic Ocean, the same phenomenon being blamed for the increase in the number of hurricanes forming in the Northern Hemisphere this year.
 ''A warmer Atlantic not only helps give more energy to hurricanes, it also aids in evaporating air,'' said Luiz Gylvan Meira, a climate specialist at the Institute for Advanced Studies at the University of Sao Paulo. ''But when that air rises over the oceans in one region, it eventually has to come down somewhere else, thousands of miles away. In this case, it came down in the western Amazon, blocking the formation of clouds that would bring rain to the headwaters of the rivers that feed the Amazon.''
 Whether the increases in deforestation registered in the Amazon in recent years have also played a role is less clear. The Brazilian government, often criticized for not doing enough to stop the depredations of loggers and ranchers, argues there is no direct connection, attributing the drought to larger external forces beyond the country's control.
 ''There are a lot of peculiar things happening on a large scale, like the tsunami, hurricanes and now this drought without precedent,'' Ciro Gomes, the minister of national integration, said in October, during a tour of the affected region. ''We should all be concerned and launch an alert to the world that irresponsible management of natural resources needs to cease, the sooner the better.''
 In fact, some of the areas hardest hit by the drought are those that have done the most to limit or control deforestation. Here in Amazonas, which is larger than France, Germany, Britain and Italy combined, officials say that 98 percent of their forest remains intact but that they are suffering more than neighboring states where deforestation has been rampant.
 But river-dwellers old enough to remember the era before deforestation began on a large scale say that the cutting down of trees along rivers and lakes has aided in the accumulation of silt. As a result, they say, navigation channels that remained open even in the most severe of previous dry seasons are now blocked and choked.
 Research also suggests that the forest itself, and consequently the entire ecosystem, has been made more vulnerable by the drought. When deprived of an adequate ration of rainfall, trees instead drain water from the soil and curb the growth of their trunks, which are vital to their role in pulling immense quantities of carbon dioxide out of the air.
 ''Because droughts remain registered in the soil for up to four years, the situation is still very critical and precarious, and will remain so,'' Mr. Nepstad said. Where there are ''forests already teetering on the edge,'' he added, the prospect of ''massive tree mortality and greater susceptibility to fire'' must be considered.
 While scientists largely agree that higher temperatures in the Atlantic are responsible for the severity of this year's drought, they are still searching for an explanation for that phenomenon. It could be just a one-time disturbance, or it could be more permanent, perhaps brought on by greenhouse gas emissions.
 ''Yes, a global warming effect would explain increases in ocean temperatures, but no one is saying that yet, because it is still very early, and we don't yet have enough data,'' said Carlos Nobre, director of Brazil's National Institute of Space Research, which monitors climatic patterns in the Amazon. ''Droughts like this one are very rare, but one consequence of a warmer planet would be that they occur with more frequency, which is something we are going to have to be watching for.''
 Local governments in the Amazon do not have the luxury of awaiting the results of that research, and they fear that the drought this year may not be an aberration. So they have already begun taking as many steps as their limited budgets will permit to prepare for a recurrence.
 In a region where water has always been abundant and taken for granted, programs are under way to build wells and cisterns. Warehouses to stock food, medicine and fuel are being built, in anticipation that communities may again be left isolated in the near future.
 ''We have become the victims of a phenomenon we did not provoke,'' said Mr. Braga, the governor of Amazonas. ''What is happening is not our fault. We didn't heat up the atmosphere or chop down our trees. But we are paying the price with the suffering of our people.''


GRAPHIC: Photos: Men in Manaquiri, Brazil, towed a boat that was stuck in the dry crater that remained of a lake. The drought also has killed fish and crops. (Photo by Andre Vieira/Polaris, for The New York Times)(pg. 1)
Sao Lazaro residents, above, received food from the government after the lake where they once fished dried up in the worst drought in the Amazon region. The drought has left hundreds of settlements isolated.
 Diana Lima dos Santos of Sao Sebastiao do Miraaua went home after washing clothes in the Solimoes River, which shriveled in the drought. (Photographs by Andre Vieira/Polaris, for The New York Times)(pg. 6)Map of Brazil highlighting Amazonas: In Amazonas, the governor declared a ''state of public calamity.'' (pg. 6)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: NATURAL DISASTERS (90%); RAIN FORESTS (90%); RIVERS (90%); DROUGHT (90%); CLIMATOLOGY (89%); SCIENCE NEWS (86%); SCIENCE & TECHNOLOGY (86%); GLOBAL WARMING (86%); HURRICANES (78%); ECOLOGY & ENVIRONMENTAL SCIENCE (78%); ENVIRONMENTAL RESEARCH (78%); METEOROLOGY (78%); CLIMATE CHANGE (78%); EARTH & ATMOSPHERIC SCIENCE (78%); DISEASES & DISORDERS (76%); SEWERAGE SYSTEMS (73%); HURRICANE KATRINA (73%); FOREST FIRES (73%); CITY GOVERNMENT (73%); FIRES (72%); DEFENSE DEPARTMENTS (68%); RESEARCH INSTITUTES (68%); HELICOPTERS (67%); GREENHOUSE GASES (62%) Weather; Drought; Global Warming; Weather

PERSON: Larry Rohter

GEOGRAPHIC: MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%); ATLANTIC OCEAN (79%) BRAZIL (96%); UNITED STATES (79%); PERU (79%); COLOMBIA (79%) Brazil; Amazon River Basin

LOAD-DATE: December 11, 2005



233 of 607 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 11, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 1; Column 1; Foreign Desk; THE REACH OF WAR: ELECTIONS; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1611 words

HEADLINE: Politics, Iraqi Style: Slick TV Ads, Text Messaging and Gunfire

BYLINE: By ROBERT F. WORTH and EDWARD WONG; Abdul Razzaq al-Saiedi and Khalid al-Ansary contributed reporting for this article.

DATELINE: BAGHDAD, Iraq, Dec. 10 

 BODY:
After putting up 100,000 posters across Iraq to promote his political party, Hamid Kifai discovered this week that they had all been torn down, even the ones on the front of his own campaign headquarters in the south. 
 ''They have made it impossible for us to compete,'' said Mr. Kifai, a stocky, talkative Shiite candidate who spent his entire $50,000 war chest on the posters and has nothing left. ''This is not democracy.''
It is democracy, but in a distinctly Iraqi style. This country is in the final days of a campaign that is at once more ruthless and more sophisticated than anything yet seen here. 
 Candidates have been killed, even as slick television spots run throughout the day, showing office-seekers who soberly promise to defeat terrorism and revive the economy. Cellphone users routinely get unexpected text messages advertising one candidate or another. Thousands of posters decorate the capital's gray blast walls, including one that shows a split face -- half Saddam Hussein, half Ayad Allawi -- in a blunt effort to smear Mr. Allawi, a former prime minister, and his secular coalition. 
 ''Who does this man remind you of?'' the poster asks.
 In a sense, it is the first full-scale political contest here since the fall of Mr. Hussein. The Sunni Arabs, who largely boycotted the January election, are now campaigning fiercely, and voter turnout is expected to be considerably higher as a result. All told, 226 political groups will compete in the elections, representing more than 7,000 candidates. 
 The winners will form Iraq's first full-term government since the war began, and face the task of unifying an increasingly fractious and violent nation. Any American plan to reduce troop levels will depend on the success of that effort.
 So far, the campaign has been as turbulent as any endeavor in Iraq. In the past two weeks alone, 11 people associated with Mr. Allawi's group have been killed, including one of its leading candidates in southern Iraq. On Tuesday, gunmen stormed five northern offices belonging to the Kurdistan Islamic Union, killing two party members and wounding 10. It is often hard to distinguish political killings from the terrorism that has become a part of daily life here, but in both cases, the parties have accused rivals of carrying out the attacks. 
 ''I think these negative tactics will backfire,'' said Azzam Alwash, an ebullient 47-year-old civil engineer who is co-director of the campaign for Mr. Allawi's coalition. Like almost all of his counterparts in these elections, he has no prior experience in the field, though he oversees 80 campaign workers with a budget of $2.5 million. He toils in a ''war room'' in Mr. Allawi's Baghdad headquarters, where staff members work 18-hour days and coordinate satellite offices in all of Iraq's provinces.
 ''Our posters got pulled down too, so we decided the best way was with TV, radios and newspapers,'' Mr. Alwash said. Like many other groups, Mr. Allawi's has its own newspaper and enough money to pay for plenty of television and radio time. About 6 of the nearly 20 Iraqi television stations -- and about half of the 200 Iraqi newspapers -- are owned by parties. Rates for political spots on the larger Baghdad stations run as high as $3,000 per minute. 
 At his own desk, Mr. Alwash clicked on an Internet link and a song began to play: a campaign tune recorded last month by Elham al-Madfai, one of Iraq's best-known singers. The words, written in 1941, are about a doctor who can solve all the patient's problems. Every time the word doctor comes up in the song, the accompanying video shows a smiling Mr. Allawi. 
 ''We're playing it all over our radio stations,'' Mr. Alwash said.
 Like Mr. Kifai, Mr. Alwash says he believes the culprit in the poster-tearing -- and other incidents involving underhanded tactics -- is the United Iraqi Alliance, a religious Shiite group whose main parties now control the government. ''We have videos and photographs of police defacing our posters and putting up posters for 555,'' Mr. Alwash said, referring to the Shiite alliance by its ballot number.
 Redha Jowad Taki, a spokesman for the Shiite coalition, said it condemned the removal of posters. Some of its own had also been torn down, he said, and four of its campaign volunteers had been killed while putting up posters. 
 The campaign is being conducted with few real rules. Technically, the Independent Electoral Commission of Iraq is in charge, but it has little money to investigate the more than 80 violations that have been reported in the last month, said Safwat Rashid Sidqi, a commissioner. Last year, the commission fined the Shiite alliance about $1,500 for campaigning after the 48-hour cutoff point before the vote, a pittance for a party with deep pockets. 
 Money has become a campaign issue too, though there are no limits on spending or contributions, and no public funding. Critics of Mr. Allawi, a White House favorite, accuse him of taking American government money, while enemies of the Shiite alliance say that group gets much of its financing from Iran. Both groups deny the charges, though the sources of their large war chests remain mysterious.
 One of the more promising aspects of the election is the participation by Sunni Arabs, who largely boycotted the vote to elect the 275-member National Assembly last January. Many are risking their lives by campaigning in areas where the Sunni-led insurgency is at its worst. 
 Hatem Mukhlis, the leader of the Assembly of Patriots, a secular Sunni party, has been traveling three or four times a week from Baghdad to Salahuddin Province, an insurgent stronghold whose capital is Tikrit, Mr. Hussein's hometown. 
 ''My father upgraded Tikrit with money and schools,'' said Mr. Mukhlis, a doctor who lived in the United States for 20 years and met with President Bush at the White House before the war. ''They remember my father for the services he provided the people.''
 Mr. Mukhlis said he hoped the people of Salahuddin would view him in the same light as his father, a respected military officer. He said he has opened up a printing press in Tikrit, and started two mobile health clinics that roam the province in white vans. 
 Like many other candidates, he has also set up a Web site, www.almalaf.net, to get out his message. On Friday, the home page showed a photo of Ibrahim al-Jaafari, the Shiite prime minister, next to the bruised back of a male detainee, alluding to the Sunni Arabs' fears that government-sponsored militias are abducting, torturing and killing Sunnis. 
 The headline on the site talked about ''secret documents'' linking Mr. Jaafari to incidents of torture. 
 The Web site has other draws. At the bottom of the home page, Mr. Mukhlis has posted photos of Miss Egypt and Miss Puerto Rico in bikinis.
 Several American groups are teaching Iraqi politicians the basics of campaigning and helping them polish their messages. Chief among them are the International Republican Institute and the National Democratic Institute, both democracy-promotion groups with financing from the American government and ties to the two major American parties. They run workshops, help coordinate media campaigns and give lessons in organizing volunteers and conducting polls. 
 Still, these campaigns could never be mistaken for American ones. The sheer number of political groups and competing messages make it hard for Iraqis to distinguish one party from another. There are few debates or substantive discussions of the issues in this campaign, which is still mostly rooted in personalities and appeals to ethnic or sectarian loyalties. 
 Because of the risk of drawing attacks by insurgents or rivals, political rallies and barnstorming speeches are virtually unheard of. Mosques are about the only accessible public spaces here, posing an obstacle for the more secular parties. Some secular candidates, including Mr. Allawi, have accused the Shiite alliance of using religious imagery in their posters to suggest that voting for their own groups is a religious duty. 
 Especially in southern Iraq, the parched Shiite heartland, the power of the religious hierarchy is often impossible to separate from politics. 
 One local group, the Islamic Coalition, includes six parties that are loyal to ayatollahs from the Shiite holy city of Karbala. In the past two weeks, the coalition's posters have popped up everywhere there. Some carry images of the group's two main spiritual leaders, Ayatollah Sadiq Shirazi, who lives in the Iranian holy city of Qum, and the Ayatollah Hadi Muderassi, of Karbala. 
 Clerics who follow these ayatollahs tell their congregations to vote for the coalition. Ayatollah Shirazi's organization finances a local university, satellite channel and radio station, all of which have given exposure to the coalition's candidates. 
 One option for more secular candidates is alliances with tribal leaders, who often have the clout to deliver a substantial number of votes. 
 On Thursday afternoon, Sheik Abdul Karim Mahoud al-Muhammadawi, a candidate and the leader of a small party, received several dozen such leaders in the courtyard of a house in eastern Baghdad. For hours, the men sat in two long rows, sipping tea and asking Sheik Muhammadawi for his views on various topics. He responded at length. 
 Afterward, Ali Feisal al-Lami, the sheik's campaign manager, explained that some of the men indicated they would urge their followers to vote for the sheik's candidates. 
 Private networks like these are crucial in Iraq's hierarchical society, Mr. Lami said. Similar networks exist among devotees of Iraq's leading Shiite ayatollahs, he added.


GRAPHIC: Photos: CAMPAIGN GOES ON -- Workers posted signs under guard last week in Baghdad, top
a candidate, in white, was photographed at a rally, center
and staff members monitored advertisements and television campaigning. (Photographs by Joao Silva for The New York Times, top and center
Scott Nelson/World Picture News, for The New York Times)(pg. 1)
 In Baghdad, as posters went up, many were defaced. Above, remnants of signs for Ayad Allawi, a former prime minister, and his secular coalition. (Photo by Scott Nelson/World Picture News, for The New York Times)(pg. 38)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); BROADCAST ADVERTISING (90%); TEXT MESSAGING (90%); TELEVISION ADVERTISING (90%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING (90%); POLITICS (90%); ELECTIONS (90%); POLITICAL ORGANIZATIONS (89%); MUSLIMS & ISLAM (89%); TERRORISM (88%); MILITARY WEAPONS (79%); PRIME MINISTERS (78%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (78%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (78%); POLITICAL ADVERTISING (78%); RELIGION (76%); BUDGETS (76%); BOYCOTTS (73%); MOBILE & CELLULAR COMMUNICATIONS (68%); MOBILE & CELLULAR TELEPHONES (68%) Legislatures and Parliaments; Elections; Terrorism; United States Armament and Defense; United States International Relations; Political Advertising; Finances

PERSON: SADDAM HUSSEIN (58%) Robert F Worth; Edward Wong; Ayad Allawi

GEOGRAPHIC: BAGHDAD, IRAQ (94%) IRAQ (97%); UNITED STATES (93%); IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (79%) Iraq; Iran; Iraq

LOAD-DATE: December 11, 2005



234 of 607 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 11, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 1; Column 1; Foreign Desk; THE REACH OF WAR; Pg. 35

LENGTH: 462 words

HEADLINE: Insurgents Attack Afghan Police Station, Killing 6 Officers

BYLINE: By CARLOTTA GALL

DATELINE: KABUL, Afghanistan, Dec. 10 

 BODY:
Afghan police officers suffered heavy casualties when they came under attack by suspected Taliban insurgents overnight in a police station in southern Afghanistan, police officials said Saturday. 
 Six policemen were killed and two were wounded in the fighting, which lasted from midnight until 3 a.m., according to the police. Three other police officers were also killed Friday in two other attacks. 
The largest attack occurred in the Garmser district of Helmand Province, one of the most lawless parts of Afghanistan and the biggest opium poppy-growing region.
 The Afghan police in particular have suffered heavy attacks in Helmand, where, according to the police, Taliban insurgents have joined forces with drug smugglers and criminal gangs to carry out strikes against government officials. 
 Even before the latest attacks, 55 soldiers and police officers had been killed this year in Helmand Province alone, according to Fazel Ahmad Shirzad, who runs the counternarcotics program in Helmand. Eighteen Afghan police officers were killed in an attack on Oct. 10 and six more in an attack on Oct. 22. Ten to 15 civilians, including election candidates, mullahs and tribal elders have also been killed there in recent months. 
 The American military also reported heavy fighting against Taliban militants in the neighboring provinces of Uruzgan and Kandahar last week.
 Armed militants, widespread corruption and the pervasive drug trade still threaten to undermine the development of democracy in Afghanistan despite its recent parliamentary elections, the European Union election-observer mission said in a report released Saturday in Kabul, the capital. 
 The elections were an accomplishment, the report said, but were marred by irregularities, fraud and the killings of eight election candidates. 
 Several factors still threaten democratic development, the report said. ''The illegal opium economy funds illegal armed groups and feeds corruption. Insecurity and lack of governance feed off each other and also create conditions where illegal opium cultivation can thrive,'' it said. 
 In the Garmser attack, dozens of Taliban fighters in 10 vehicles stormed the police station in the district center. 
 ''They came from across the border'' with Pakistan, said Col. Muhammad Ayub, the deputy police chief of Helmand Province. ''They had Landcruiser cars and we are sure they went back across the border,'' he said in a telephone interview. ''Our police chief is there investigating.'' The police fought back and killed eight Taliban and wounded five more, he said. 
 Two different Taliban spokesmen claimed responsibility for the attack in telephone calls with news agencies. They claimed to have killed 10 policemen in the attack and said one Taliban fighter died. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: WAR & CONFLICT (92%); POLICE FORCES (92%); TALIBAN (92%); MILITARY OPERATIONS (90%); CONTROLLED SUBSTANCES CRIME (90%); TERRORIST ATTACKS (90%); REBELLIONS & INSURGENCIES (90%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (90%); ELECTIONS (90%); ILLEGAL DRUGS (89%); WOUNDS & INJURIES (89%); OPIUM (89%); DRUG TRAFFICKING (89%); CORRUPTION (88%); TERRORISM (78%); FRAUD & FINANCIAL CRIME (78%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (76%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (76%); INVESTIGATIONS (74%); DRUG POLICY (74%); SMUGGLING (74%); MILITARY WEAPONS (74%); INTERVIEWS (71%); SUBSTANCE ABUSE (69%); ARMED FORCES (69%); RELIGION (52%); EUROPEAN UNION (50%) Terrorism; United States International Relations; United States Armament and Defense; Drug Abuse and Traffic; Attacks on Police

ORGANIZATION: EUROPEAN UNION (54%) Taliban (Afghan Group)

PERSON: Carlotta Gall

GEOGRAPHIC: KABUL, AFGHANISTAN (92%); KANDAHAR, AFGHANISTAN (79%) AFGHANISTAN (95%); UNITED STATES (93%); PAKISTAN (79%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (75%) Afghanistan; Helmand Province (Afghanistan)

LOAD-DATE: December 11, 2005



235 of 607 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 11, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 1; Column 4; Foreign Desk; Pg. 40

LENGTH: 939 words

HEADLINE: Climate Debate: Incremental Gains 

BYLINE: By ANDREW C. REVKIN

DATELINE: MONTREAL, Dec. 10 

 BODY:
Where do they go from here?
 Ever since the first international meeting on the changing atmosphere in 1988, negotiations over what to do about rising levels of heat-trapping smokestack and tailpipe gases have proceeded at a pace similar to that of climate change itself.
The two-week United Nations conference that ended here on Saturday was no exception. And as the delegates return to their own countries, with modest, last-minute agreements to keep talking about how to move beyond existing environmental treaties, many scientists and others who keep track of climate change say much more urgent action is needed. 
 Summing up that view, James Hansen, director of NASA's Goddard Institute for Space Studies, said at a conference in San Francisco this week that a continuation of ''business as usual'' would result in so much warming as to ''constitute a different planet.'' 
 He said that a host of actions could be taken now to keep the temperature increase out of the danger zone, including big cuts in emissions of methane, a greenhouse gas emitted by everything from pipeline leaks to landfills, and shifts to more efficient vehicle designs. 
 But he and other experts who see warming as a threat have begun to worry that existing efforts, both within and outside of international agreements, may not work in time.
 In Montreal, progress was measured in the tiniest of increments. It was really two meetings in one, aimed limiting global warming under a pair of separate but related international agreements -- the 1992 Framework Convention on Climate Change and its offspring document, the Kyoto Protocol.
 The first pact, in force for 189 countries, has voluntary goals for cutting emissions that were exceeded long ago. 
 The Kyoto agreement, an addendum to the convention agreement that took effect this year, added binding, measurable targets and timetables for cutting emissions, but just for the three dozen industrialized countries of nearly 160 nations in all, that ratified it.
 In Montreal, the parties to the Kyoto treaty, under pressure mainly from Europe and environmental groups, agreed to start talking about what comes after its terms expire in 2012. 
 But they did not set a hard deadline, only a goal of finishing talks ''as soon as possible'' so that new restrictions -- if they agree on any -- take effect right after the old ones expire.
 The United States, which has not ratified Kyoto, spent much of the meeting opposing language aimed at starting fresh talks on ways to increase the effectiveness of the original Framework Convention. 
 In the wee hours of Saturday morning, the United States finally agreed to allow new discussions, but only after everyone consented to a huge escape clause saying any talks will be ''open and nonbinding,'' and ''will not open any negotiations leading to new commitments.''
 Developing countries, which have always been excused from any obligations under both treaties, showed hints that they might be willing to help in the fight to cut emissions, although with no firm targets.
 Then the gavel cracked at dawn.
 In subsequent news conferences, weary warriors from the talks, including Margaret Beckett, Britain's environment minister and head of the European Union delegation, proclaimed success, saying that a bigger, subtler shift had occurred behind the scenes -- a shift in tone from obstruction to cooperation -- particularly among poorer countries.
 ''For those who actually take part in these negotiations this is a substantial achievement,'' she said. 
 She said the Kyoto treaty has created markets for carbon credits, which are earned by cutting emissions, that would now expand to developing countries under several agreements completed in Montreal. That should be an engine promoting energy efficiency and innovations, she said.
 ''There is growing recognition of the costs of not taking action,'' Mrs. Beckett said, ''and of the opportunities that come with taking action itself.'' 
 But an enormous roadblock remains: the continuing standoff between the largest developing nations, China and India, and the established industrial giants. 
 The developing countries have repeatedly refused to commit themselves to greenhouse-gas limits until the established industrial states make meaningful progress. By contrast, the United States, the biggest source of the heat-trapping gases, insists on movement from these emerging economic competitors before it considers cuts.
 While the United States Senate passed a resolution earlier this year calling for mandatory limits, the House has shown no signs of movement. As Senator John McCain, the Arizona Republican who has been pushing for modest curbs on greenhouse gases, put it in a recent interview, ''Democracy isn't very good at addressing incremental problems.''
 Groups of scientists and engineers have called for far more aggressive investments in research on new technologies that could generate energy without emissions.
 But investments on that scale are unlikely to come without a big shift in national priorities, which are still focused more on homeland security than energy security. 
 In the meantime, emissions have risen, and so has the globe's average temperature. It reached a temporary modern peak in 1998 when the Pacific Ocean had one of its periodic natural hot spells, El Nino. 
 Now, even with no Nino in sight, 2005 is nearly a sure bet to be the warmest year in recorded history, Dr. Hansen said.
 One of the other achievements listed by the negotiators as the conference ended was a new financial contribution to a pot of money for developing countries -- to help them adapt to warming.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News Analysis

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CLIMATOLOGY (90%); CONFERENCES & CONVENTIONS (90%); CLIMATE CHANGE (90%); TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (90%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (90%); AIR QUALITY REGULATION (89%); EMISSIONS (89%); ENVIRONMENTAL TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (89%); GLOBAL WARMING (89%); INTERNATIONAL LAW (89%); TALKS & MEETINGS (78%); ENVIRONMENTAL & WILDLIFE ORGANIZATIONS (77%); ENVIRONMENT & NATURAL RESOURCES (77%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (77%); SPACE & AERONAUTICS AGENCIES (77%); GREENHOUSE GASES (77%); METHANE (77%); DEVELOPING COUNTRIES (77%); SCIENCE & TECHNOLOGY (75%); UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (72%); LANDFILLS (70%); RESEARCH INSTITUTES (70%); PIPELINE TRANSPORTATION (66%) Weather; Global Warming; United States International Relations; Treaties; Weather

ORGANIZATION: EUROPEAN UNION (59%); UNITED NATIONS (58%)

PERSON: Andrew C Revkin; Margaret (Min) Beckett

GEOGRAPHIC: MONTREAL, QC, CANADA (90%) QUEBEC, CANADA (90%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%) CANADA (91%); UNITED STATES (91%); CHINA (79%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (79%); UNITED KINGDOM (79%) European Union; India; China; Montreal (Quebec); Great Britain

LOAD-DATE: December 11, 2005



236 of 607 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 11, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 1; Column 5; National Desk; Pg. 52

LENGTH: 580 words

HEADLINE: In Study, a History Lesson On the Costs of Hurricanes

BYLINE: By KENNETH CHANG

DATELINE: SAN FRANCISCO, Dec. 8 

 BODY:
To better understand the potential for catastrophic damage from future hurricanes, scientists are looking to the past. 
 And the future looks very expensive, the scientists said this week at a meeting of the American Geophysical Union. With wealth and property values increasing, and more people moving to vulnerable coasts, by the year 2020 a single storm could cause losses of $500 billion -- several times the damage inflicted by Hurricane Katrina.
Roger A. Pielke Jr., director of the Center for Science and Technology Policy Research at the University of Colorado, presented preliminary results of a study that retraced the path of hurricanes from the past 105 years and calculated the havoc they would wreak on the present-day United States landscape. 
 Dr. Pielke said the traditional way of looking at the damage inflicted by past hurricanes -- calculating the value of property destroyed and adjusting for inflation -- was misleading. ''Something else is going on,'' he said. ''That something else is society is changing underneath.''
 Using a database of information about property and people in 168 counties along the Gulf of Mexico and the Eastern Seaboard, Dr. Pielke and his collaborators, Christopher Landsea of the National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration and Joel Gratz of the University of Colorado, calculated the damage that would occur today from the winds and storm surges of past hurricanes. Their numbers, all adjusted for inflation to 2004 dollars, generally do not include damage from inland flooding.
 Hurricane Katrina, which devastated New Orleans and southwestern Mississippi in August, is No. 2 on the list, with an estimated $80 billion in damage. The researchers plan to refine their numbers on this year's hurricanes before publishing their study.
 No. 1 is a storm that received little attention in the historical comparisons that followed Hurricane Katrina: the Great Miami Hurricane of 1926. Similar to Hurricane Katrina in size and ferocity, it caused about $760 million in damage, in 2004 dollars. But if a hurricane of that magnitude followed the same track today, it would leave behind $130 billion of devastation across a Miami area that is far more crowded than it was in 1926, the scientists said.
 Similarly, the hurricane that hit Galveston, Tex., in 1900 would cause $53 billion in damage today, and Hurricane Andrew, which caused a record $25.5 billion in damage when it hit Florida in 1992, would cause $51 billion in damage if it hit today.
 The study is an update of similar calculations that Dr. Pielke and Dr. Landsea published in 1998. In that study, they found that a storm on the scale and path of the Great Miami Hurricane would cause $63 billion in damage, in 1998 dollars. The doubling in losses, to $130 billion now, largely reflects a growing population and greater individual wealth.
 ''I was quite surprised at the magnitude of increase of losses,'' Dr. Pielke said. ''Not only are there more people, but they all have more possessions.''
 If current trends continue, a Great Miami Hurricane would cause $500 billion in damage in 2020 -- the rise consisting only of additional property, not any consideration of inflation.
 Dr. Pielke said he hoped the numbers would help officials make decisions about how to rebuild from hurricane damage and help them understand that disasters of similar magnitude were all too likely in the future. ''This is not a one-off type of event,'' he said. ''It's not just Katrina.''


GRAPHIC: Chart: ''Power to Destroy''Researchers have retraced the paths of hurricanes since 1900 to estimate how much destruction they would cause if they hit today.HURRICANEDAMAGE, IN BILLIONS1. 1926 -- Great Miami: $129.72. 2005 -- Katrina: 80.03. 1900 -- Galveston: 53.14. 1992 -- Andrew: 50.85. 1915 -- Storm 2: 50.26. 1938 -- New England: 35.07. 1944 -- Storm 9: 34.38. 1928 -- Lake Okeechobee: 30.39. 1960 -- Donna: 23.910. 1969 -- Camille: 19.2(Source by Roger Pielke, University of Colorado)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: WEATHER (91%); HISTORY (90%); HURRICANES (90%); SCIENCE POLICY (90%); SCIENCE NEWS (90%); SCIENCE & TECHNOLOGY (90%); GEOLOGY & GEOPHYSICS (90%); RESEARCH INSTITUTES (90%); HURRICANE KATRINA (89%); NATURAL DISASTERS (78%); OCEANOGRAPHY (78%); TROPICAL STORMS (78%); EARTH & ATMOSPHERIC SCIENCE (78%); RESEARCH REPORTS (78%); REAL ESTATE (77%); REAL ESTATE VALUATIONS (77%); TALKS & MEETINGS (77%); POPULATION GROWTH (77%) 

ORGANIZATION: AMERICAN GEOPHYSICAL UNION (91%); UNIVERSITY OF COLORADO (84%); NATIONAL OCEANIC & ATMOSPHERIC ADMINISTRATION (55%) Center for Science and Technology Policy Research; American Geophysical Union

PERSON: Kenneth Chang; Roger A Jr Pielke

GEOGRAPHIC: MIAMI, FL, USA (94%); GALVESTON, TX, USA (92%); NEW ORLEANS, LA, USA (79%) FLORIDA, USA (94%); TEXAS, USA (92%); MISSISSIPPI, USA (79%); GULF OF MEXICO (79%); SOUTHEAST USA (79%); ATLANTIC OCEAN (79%); LOUISIANA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: December 11, 2005



237 of 607 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 11, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 1; Column 1; National Desk; Pg. 51

LENGTH: 658 words

HEADLINE: Democratic Panel Calls for More Early Contests in '08

BYLINE: By ADAM NAGOURNEY

 BODY:
A Democratic Party commission recommended a major revision in its presidential nominating system on Saturday, calling for one or two states to hold nominating caucuses before the first-in-the-nation New Hampshire primary in January 2008. 
 The proposal was in response to rising concerns that the Democratic presidential selection process had offered undue influence to voters who were not ''fully reflective of the Democratic electorate or the national electorate,'' the commission said. It was referring to Democrats in New Hampshire and in Iowa, which holds a caucus two weeks before the New Hampshire primary. 
The recommendation, voted on in Washington by a 40-member commission on the nominating system, was immediately denounced by New Hampshire Democrats, who face the prospect that their role in the presidential process will be diluted.
 However, it enjoyed the overwhelming support of the commission -- including representatives from Iowa, which would continue to hold the first caucus -- and Democrats said it was likely that significant changes would be approved when the Democratic National Committee meets this spring in New Orleans.
 Supporters of the current system said these two small stages in Iowa and New Hampshire, where potential Democratic candidates for 2008 are already making appearances, had permitted little-known and underfinanced candidates to compete.
 Under the proposal, the party's Rules and Bylaws Committee would recommend one or two states to hold caucuses in the two weeks between the Iowa caucus and the New Hampshire primary, with the goal of increasing the demographic, geographic and economic diversity of voters in the early part of the nominating process. Democrats said those two states would almost certainly be in the West and Southwest, two areas seen as increasingly competitive in the general election.
 Because both states would hold caucuses, New Hampshire would continue to hold the first presidential primary.
 In making its recommendation, the commission noted that Iowa and New Hampshire accounted for 1.4 percent of the nation's population, and that African-Americans made up just 2.2 percent of Iowa's population and less than 1 percent of New Hampshire's.
 New Hampshire Democrats warned that the proposal would give an upper hand to wealthy candidates who could handle the challenge of waging campaigns in four states and to establishment organizations like unions that had traditionally played a decisive role in helping candidates turn out support in caucuses.
 ''The commission has recommended a very bad plan,'' said Kathleen Sullivan, chairwoman of the New Hampshire Democratic Party. ''It is my belief that it makes the nominating process much more narrow and less democratic. You will have a Democratic nominee chosen in three weeks in January of 2008.''
 Senator Tom Harkin, Democrat of Iowa, offered measured praise for the plan, noting that it ''preserves Iowa's first-in-the-nation status.''
 Still, he said, ''I am concerned that the proposal will further frontload the process, and I hope that the rules committee will work to minimize this effect when they meet.'' 
 The proposal drew decidedly unenthusiastic responses from potential Democratic presidential candidates appearing Saturday in Lake Buena Vista, Fla.
 ''I think it's important for Iowa and New Hampshire to maintain their status because having lived through this, I know how important the grass-roots campaigning is in both places to strengthening candidates and making them better for the general election,'' John Edwards, the former North Carolina senator and 2004 vice-presidential candidate, told reporters after a speech there.
 Gov. Tom Vilsack of Iowa, who is considering a run for president, was critical of the proposals.
 ''It might well happen, but it's not something we support,'' he told The Associated Press. ''Iowa and New Hampshire do their jobs well. I'm confident Iowa is gong to stay first.''


GRAPHIC: Photo: Alexis Herman and Representative David E. Price of North Carolina, leaders of a panel on the Democratic presidential nominating process. (Photo by Susan Walsh/Associated Press)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: POLITICAL PARTIES (92%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (91%); PRIMARY ELECTIONS (90%); CAUCUSES (90%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); POLITICS (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); ELECTIONS (78%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (76%); DEMOGRAPHIC GROUPS (76%); APPROVALS (73%); AFRICAN AMERICANS (73%); POPULATION & DEMOGRAPHICS (69%) 

COMPANY: DEMOCRATIC NATIONAL COMMITTEE (55%)

ORGANIZATION: DEMOCRATIC NATIONAL COMMITTEE (55%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS813940 POLITICAL ORGANIZATIONS (55%); SIC8651 POLITICAL ORGANIZATIONS (55%)

PERSON: TOM HARKIN (58%); DAVID E PRICE (58%) Adam Nagourney

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW ORLEANS, LA, USA (79%) NEW HAMPSHIRE, USA (98%); IOWA, USA (96%); NORTH CAROLINA, USA (79%); LOUISIANA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (98%) New Hampshire

LOAD-DATE: December 11, 2005



238 of 607 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 11, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 8; Column 1; Sports Desk; Sports of The Times; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 805 words

HEADLINE: At World Cup, U.S. Will Call a Boisterous Port City Home

BYLINE: By GEORGE VECSEY. 
E-mail: geovec@nytimes.com

DATELINE: Hamburg, Germany 

 BODY:
THE United States has come a long way since 1998, at least in soccer.
 Back in that World Cup in France, the Yanks were isolated in a chateau out in the middle of the vineyards, watching the geese swagger around the grounds. Then they experienced the German players swaggering around them in their opening match.
Did the virtual quarantine help sink the Americans? Nobody can say for sure. In 2002, however, with Bruce Arena in charge, he made sure the team was ensconced in the heart of one of the host cities, Seoul, South Korea. Coincidence or not, the Americans managed to reach the quarterfinals, where they essentially outplayed Germany in a 1-0 loss. 
 Now the Americans will be back for their fifth straight World Cup. For the first three games, in June, they have chosen to stay in this old boisterous port city of the Hanseatic League.
 They may not have a lot of time here, since their draw has them playing the Czech Republic in Gelsenkirchen, Italy in Kaiserslautern and then Ghana in Nuremberg, all to the south.
 A few hours after the draw in Leipzig on Friday night, it seemed like a good idea for a journalist to hop a high-speed train to Hamburg. 
 On a raw December afternoon, there was a Bundesliga match yesterday between two high-placed rivals, HSV, the local powerhouse, and Hertha Berlin. HSV scored twice in the early minutes and held on for a 2-1 victory, their seventh straight game without a loss.
 At the end, the HSV players sat on the damp grass in front of one rabid section while fans serenaded them. It was a touching ritual, something like the Bleacher Bums of Yankee Stadium chanting the names of the Bombers' starting lineup. 
 Although security bristled at the train station and stadium, the crowd had a holiday feel, with thousands of women and children among the 80,000 fans. 
 There is a great soccer tradition in Hamburg. On June 22, 1974, this city was the site of the only World Cup meeting between West Germany and East Germany. 
 ''We lost, 1-0,'' Ole von Beust, first mayor of the city-state of Hamburg, recalled Friday. Von Beust described the rivalry between the two German nations as complicated, but added, ''People in Hamburg like fair play and they are patriotic.'' 
 That match did not merely involve a soccer rivalry. For better or worse, it was between two ideologies, two economic systems. Jurgen Sparwasser's goal in the 78th minute allowed East Germany to win the group, although some people thought the West German team profited from an easier grouping in the second round. Those things have been known to happen in this sport. 
 The West German captain, Franz Beckenbauer, was not amused, publicly scolding his teammates and warning them to ''stop fooling around,'' which they did, winning the final over a flamboyant team from the Netherlands. 
 The United States was barely on the soccer map in 1974, but now it has a few credentials, even though they did not give the Americans one of the top eight seedings this past week. Not many coaches get to a second World Cup with the same team, but Arena used his experience in inspecting Munich, Berlin and Hamburg. 
 ''There's an American consulate there,'' Arena said of Hamburg. ''There's a lot of English spoken there. Berlin might have been a little big and Munich might have been a little old, but Hamburg seemed just right.''
 Von Beust (Germans address him as Herr Burgomeister) is thrilled with the Yanks' decision. ''It will make Hamburg more popular in the United States,'' he said in English. ''People know the hamburger -- but they do not know Hamburg.''
 Many Americans know Hamburg as the place four lads from Liverpool got their start, playing in a cellar club in the early 60's. Others know it as a salty port with strip clubs and sex shows and ethnic restaurants. 
 This city of 1.7 million residents has a long and deep connection with the outside world, having sent sailboats into the cold North Sea in search of fish and other goods. But that's not why Arena chose Hamburg. 
 ''I like the center of town,'' he said the other day. ''I want our players to have the atmosphere of the World Cup. The American players would lose their minds -- and so would the coach -- if they were out in the countryside.''
 He knows all about the debacle in 1998, when the players went stir crazy, out in the vineyards. In 2002, Arena based the American team at a superb Marriott hotel on the south side of the Han River, atop an underground mall. With security concerns after 9/11, the players stayed close to home -- including the coach.
 Arena confessed the other day that he never saw Seoul except for the bus rides to practice and games. In fact, he added, he never even changed American money into Korean money. He promised, however, to get out and about in Hamburg. The players will have more to stare at than geese.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: SPORTS & RECREATION EVENTS (90%); SPORTS (90%); SOCCER (90%); SOCCER TOURNAMENTS (90%); SPORTS & RECREATION (90%); STADIUMS & ARENAS (89%); SPORTS AWARDS (89%); ATHLETES (78%); TALKS & MEETINGS (72%); TRAINS (71%); CHILDREN (67%); HIGH SPEED TRAINS (66%); RAIL STATIONS & TERMINALS (66%) Soccer; Sports of the Times (Times Column); World Cup

PERSON: George Vecsey

GEOGRAPHIC: HAMBURG, GERMANY (96%); BERLIN, GERMANY (79%); SEOUL, KOREA, REPUBLIC OF (57%) NUREMBERG, GERMANY (57%) GERMANY (99%); UNITED STATES (94%); FRANCE (92%); KOREA, REPUBLIC OF (79%); GHANA (79%); CZECH REPUBLIC (79%) Hamburg (Ger)

LOAD-DATE: December 11, 2005



239 of 607 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 11, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 2; Column 1; Arts and Leisure Desk; ARCHITECTURE; Pg. 35

LENGTH: 1944 words

HEADLINE: Bilbao? Please, That Was So Eight Years Ago

BYLINE: By ROBIN POGREBIN

 BODY:
TERENCE RILEY did not set out to mount a sprawling exhibition on architecture in Spain. In his mind, the country would figure briefly in a show he was organizing at the Museum of Modern Art about stadiums, auditoriums and theaters around the world. Tentatively titled ''Being There,'' that show was to take note of the remarkable array of new places of public assembly and spectacle around the globe, upending predictions that such buildings would become obsolete in a post-millennial technological age.
 But as he traveled through Spain last February looking at various projects before heading on to other European cities, Mr. Riley, the museum's chief curator of architecture and design, changed his mind. ''I had this revelation of sorts,'' he recalled. ''I began to realize that, as interesting as these projects were, they actually did not go together.''
 ''I began to worry,'' he said. And then Mr. Riley realized that the show was right in front of him: an explosion of inventive architecture in a country that had long shunned experimental forms. From the Barajas Airport Terminals in Madrid with its vast wings of wavy steel, to the Santa Caterina Market in Barcelona with an undulating roof of riotous color, so much of what he was seeing was compellingly original. 
 Powered by a democratic awakening after decades of Fascist rule and by the dividends of European Union membership, Spain, he saw, was clearly outpacing its European siblings in the breadth and daring of its new architecture. 
 The resulting exhibition, which opens on Feb. 12, will be Mr. Riley's swan song. Declaring that it was time for a change, he announced last month that he would step down in March after 14 years at the Modern. 
 The Spanish show, which is among the more ambitious in his tenure, could have a significant impact on Mr. Riley's legacy as an heir to Philip Johnson, the first to hold his position. 
 It wasn't easy to frame his Spanish show historically, Mr. Riley said, given that there were so many points of reference -- from the end of Franco's 35-year dictatorship in 1975, to Spain's entry into the European Union in 1986 to the Barcelona Olympics in 1992, to the opening of Frank Gehry's Guggenheim Museum in Bilbao in 1997.
 The popular success of Mr. Gehry's turbulent titanium-clad museum turned a depressed post-industrial town into a bustling tourist destination. That turnaround, Mr. Riley said, prompted other cities in Spain to ask, ''Why not us?''
 ''Local mayors have been emboldened, risk has been incentivized,'' he said. ''Post-Gehry, there is this whole attempt to make the country more open to cultural tourism.'' 
 Spain now holds architectural competitions for all new public buildings. And an organization called Europan 8, which fosters architectural competitions for people under 40, has given young architects a boost; a bright orange housing project in Seville by Fuensanta Nieto and Enrique Sobejano, which will be included in the show, was a Europan 8 winner. Also in Seville is Jurgen Mayer H.'s Metropol Parasol, which features mushroomlike structures in a grid formation framing a plaza; it is expected to be completed in 2007.
 Construction has eclipsed tourism as the largest economic sector in the country, Mr. Riley said. And Spain is overflowing with architectural publications. 
 ''What I really wanted to do was capture this excitement of how much stuff is happening right now,'' he said. 
 To test his idea, Mr. Riley asked several pathbreaking architects what projects they were working on in Spain. Zaha Hadid had three; Jean Nouvel, five; Jacques Herzog and Pierre de Meuron, seven. Richard Rogers has designed the Barajas airport terminals in Madrid, with Estudio Lamela.
 Other leading architects in the show include Rem Koolhaas, Thom Mayne, Rafael Moneo, Alvaro Siza and Mr. Gehry -- all of whom, like Ms. Hadid, Mr. Herzog and Mr. Meuron, are winners of the prestigious Pritzker Prize for architecture. 
 When the Modern approached him, Mr. Nouvel applauded the notion of focusing on Spain. ''He said Spain is just a unique environment,'' Mr. Riley recalled, ''and I started to think about why.''
 Mr. Riley's love affair with Spain actually began three decades ago, while he was studying architecture for a year in Rome. He took the train to Barcelona to see Ricardo Bofill's new Walden 7 housing project, a labyrinthine complex of tiled buildings. It was 1975: Franco died that November. 
 ''Spain seemed like such an exotic country,'' Mr. Riley said. ''It was interesting to go behind the Franco curtain and see contemporary design.''
 He has since been to Spain perhaps 25 times, he said, sometimes simply for a Mediterranean vacation but often for work. Three of his department's exhibitions traveled to the Museum of Contemporary Art in Barcelona, and Mr. Riley is involved with the Mies van der Rohe Foundation, also in that city. And he was on the jury that chose Mr. Nouvel's design for an expansion of the Reina Sofia museum in Madrid, a project completed this fall.
 The addition, an assemblage of glass and steel structures with a triangular bladelike roof, is one of 18 completed projects in the show; and Mr. Riley included 35 buildings that are or will soon be under construction. 
 ''It's not retrospective at all,'' he said, adding: ''It's interesting how unnostalgic these projects are for some notion of old Spain. There is a freedom of expression that's evidently available to these people now, and they're using it.''
 There is Mr. Koolhaas's conference center in Cordoba, with its continuous open-air promenade establishing the building as a linear viewing platform overlooking the river and historic center. Toyo Ito's Relaxation Park in Torrevieja, Alicante, an inland salt marsh that evokes an abandoned natural landscape; and an expansion of the Valencia Institute of Modern Art clad in a metal screen, by Kazuyo Sejima and Ryue Nishizawa.
 The Congress and Exhibition Center in Avila by Francisco Mangado exploits its rugged topography like a sculpture emerging from the granite terrain. 
 The Parador de Alcala de Henares, near Madrid, is a renovated monastery turned cooking school and hotel by Aranguren & Gallegos. The Hotel Habitat, in Barcelona, designed by Enric Ruiz-Geli of Cloud 9, is draped in a mesh matrix of LED-solar hybrid cells that illuminate at night; its projected completion date is 2007.
 Mr. Gehry is represented in the show by his hotel of titanium ribbons at the Marques de Riscal Winery in Elciego, La Rioja, which resembles a crouched sea creature. The hotel substitutes cooking classes and wine tasting for beach repose as a model of relaxation. ''The people there are really turned on to architecture,'' Mr. Gehry said about the Spanish public. 
 Spain's architectural boom is, of course, closely related to its economic upturn. In joining the European Union, the country became eligible for funds intended to equalize the standard of living in member countries. Spain received $110 billion to improve rail lines and build new airports, highways and bridges.
 On another level, the country is playing catch-up, seeking to compensate for years of architectural conservatism that had left it out of step with design-savvy neighbors like France, Italy and the Netherlands. 
 ''You have a country that has had a certain cultural and social deficit from the Franco years,'' Mr. Riley said. But the gulf between Spain and its northern neighbors stretches back much further. 
 ''In the 18th and 19th century, it clung to this Counter-Reformation definition of itself,'' Mr. Riley said. ''It became the anti-modern state, autocratic and orthodox. This is a serious attempt by these cities to address the deficit between them and other countries in Europe.''
 This context gives Spain's renaissance an explosive quality -- a sense of pent-up energy unleashed. The country is rebelling against its traditional roots, opening itself up to a range of aesthetic possibilities and allowing its varied cultural strains -- Moorish, Christian, Roman, Celtic-Iberian -- to find vivid expression. 
 ''When the clamps come off and you give up on a unified country, you get this incredible platform for contemporary culture, driven less by these overarching nationalized narratives and more by these individual and regional expressions,'' Mr. Riley said. ''Then Spain is a very fertile place for contemporary architecture.''
 While an abiding belief in the power of the individual runs deep in Spanish culture, Mr. Riley said, it was captured mainly in literature (''Don Quixote'') and painting (El Greco, Velazquez), but rarely in architecture until now. 
 Several of the projects included in the show are vastly ambitious, like La Ciudad de la Cultura de Galicia, a complex of six cultural buildings designed by Peter Eisenman that would surround the original medieval town center of Santiago de Compostela and is scheduled for completion in 2010.
 Casa Rural in Girona, by RCR Arquitectes is a single-family house consisting of 11 booths and several sloped gardens connected by a subterranean corridor.
 In some cases, such projects are groundbreaking not so much for their design as for the effect they will have on their surroundings, Mr. Riley explained. ''While the whole rest of the world is desperate to get an icon,'' he said, these are ''building blocks'' to energize cities. Examples include a town hall in Murcia by Mr. Moneo, a tennis center in Madrid by Dominique Perrault and a health center in Ibiza by Mario Corea and Lluis Moran. 
 The country is using architecture ''to stabilize neighborhoods and maintain a sense of urban life,'' he said. Instead of centralizing social services, education and medical services in Barcelona in large, hulking structures, for example, smaller eye-catching versions of them are scattered within each of the city's 41 traditional barrios, enlivening the neighborhoods and enriching the city's architectural fabric. And then there are the projects that draw attention purely because of their design, like the performing arts school in Tenerife by GPY Arquitectos, a melange of stone and wood partly exposed to the open air that harnesses the city and the Atlantic as backdrop.
 In Toledo, the architectural firm Martinez Lapena-Torres created a six-stage escalator set into the hillside whose ocher concrete retaining structure contorts and folds to provide shelter and dynamic views for ascending visitors. Torre Agbar in Barcelona, an illuminated phallic tower by Mr. Nouvel, recalls the steeples of Gaudi's Sagrada Familia church. Spaniards have ''come to love'' it, Mr. Riley said. ''Initially, they thought it was a joke.''
 In narrowing his selections for the exhibition, Mr. Riley said, he visited 40 cities, 60 different architecture firms and 100 buildings or construction sites. When he felt that the decision was a tossup, he opted for interesting generational or geographical choices.
 Eventually, he got the list from 600 to 100 and then to the final 53, of which 70 percent were designed by local architects. 
 Unlike China, he said, where most of the big commissions are going to foreign architects these days, Spain is turning enthusiastically to its own as well as to outsiders. ''There is a very good and healthy mix,'' he said. 
 Because of the range of work currently cropping up throughout Spain, Mr. Riley said, it is almost impossible to isolate any single aesthetic trend. ''It's not surprising that you find a swing away from architecture as an alphabet of kings towards architecture as a form of personal expression,'' he said. ''You don't see a national style. I don't think there is a national style.''


GRAPHIC: Photos: Terence Riley, above left, has focused on important new buildings in Spain for a show next year at the Modern. Top, Casa Rural by RCR Arquitectes
above, Jurgen Mayer H.'s Metropol Parasol, for Seville
and left, the Habitat Hotel in Barcelona by Cloud 9, with Acconci Studio and Ruy Ohtake. (Photographs courtesy the Museum of Modern Art)
 (Photo by Hiroko Masuike for The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: EXHIBITIONS (90%); MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (90%); ARCHITECTURAL SERVICES (78%); DESTINATIONS & ATTRACTIONS (78%); EUROPEAN UNION (78%); STADIUMS & ARENAS (77%); LEISURE TRAVEL (75%); MILLENNIUM (71%); OLYMPICS (70%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (70%); TOURISM (60%); AIRPORTS (51%) 

ORGANIZATION: EUROPEAN UNION (54%) Museum of Modern Art (NYC)

PERSON: FRANK GEHRY (79%) Robin Pogrebin; Terence Riley

GEOGRAPHIC: BARCELONA, SPAIN (93%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); MADRID, SPAIN (79%) BASQUE COUNTRY, SPAIN (93%); CATALONIA, SPAIN (93%); NEW YORK, USA (79%) SPAIN (99%); EUROPE (92%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (90%); UNITED STATES (79%) Spain

LOAD-DATE: December 11, 2005



240 of 607 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 11, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 6; Column 3; Magazine; Pg. 87

LENGTH: 496 words

HEADLINE: Republican Elitism

BYLINE: By Noam Scheiber

 BODY:
For more than a generation, the most popular maneuver in the conservative playbook has been to denounce academic and cultural elites. In the 1960's, William F. Buckley Jr. quipped that he'd rather ''be governed by the first 2,000 names in the Boston telephone book than by the 2,000 members of the Harvard faculty.'' In 2003, David Frum, a conservative columnist and former Bush speechwriter, denounced the ''American elite'' for its ''combination of guilt and self-doubt.'' ''With his 'axis of evil' speech,'' he continued, ''President Bush served notice to the world: he felt no guilt and no self-doubt.'' 
But this year, many conservatives put the elite-baiting aside and began trafficking in their own elitist pronouncements. Even in the relatively rarefied world of appellate judges and academic economists, John Roberts (Harvard College, Harvard Law School), Samuel A. Alito Jr. (Princeton, Yale Law School) and Ben Bernanke (Harvard and M.I.T., Princeton professor) stand out for their impressive credentials. When George Bush nominated them to important offices, Frum and his fellow conservative commentators saluted their impeccable qualifications even as they denounced the nomination of the relatively uncredentialed Harriet Miers (Southern Methodist University, S.M.U. School of Law).
 Of course, for all their insistence that businessmen and ordinary citizens understand the realities of American life better than highly credentialed professionals, conservatives have spent decades building a credentialed professional elite of their own. Ambitious conservatives have attended top graduate schools, taken positions at prestigious research groups and law firms, written important books and papers. They've waited patiently for the day when they could take their places at the highest levels of government -- when, say, a second-term Republican president would enjoy majorities in both houses of Congress. 
 Now that the day has finally come, conservatives don't want the opportunity fumbled -- and certainly not in favor of a few presidential cronies. For Bush ''to take a hazard on anything other than a known quantity of the highest intellectual and personal excellence,'' Frum wrote in the aftermath of the Miers nomination, would be ''simply reckless.'' Responding to Bush's request that conservatives trust his assessment of Harriet Miers, George F. Will thundered: ''He has neither the inclination nor the ability to make sophisticated judgments about competing approaches to construing the Constitution. Few presidents acquire such abilities in the course of their pre-presidential careers, and this president, particularly, is not disposed to such reflections.'' So much for the idea that what Bush knows in his heart is more important than what intellectuals know in their heads.
 Conservatives still may not want the Harvard faculty running the country. But it turns out they'd be perfectly happy with alumni of the Harvard Republican Club. Noam Scheiber

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CONSERVATISM (91%); LAW SCHOOLS (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); GRADUATE & PROFESSIONAL SCHOOLS (90%); US PRESIDENTS (89%); LAWYERS (87%); CONSERVATIVE MEDIA (78%); POLITICS (78%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (76%); WRITERS (72%); LEGAL SERVICES (72%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (69%); JUDGES (68%) United States Politics and Government; Conservatism (US Politics)

ORGANIZATION: SOUTHERN METHODIST UNIVERSITY (54%)

PERSON: SAMUEL ALITO (58%); BEN BERNANKE (55%); JOHN ROBERTS (52%) Noam Scheiber

GEOGRAPHIC: BOSTON, MA, USA (92%) MASSACHUSETTS, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: December 11, 2005



241 of 607 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 11, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 3; Column 5; Money and Business/Financial Desk; MARKET WEEK; Pg. 9

LENGTH: 442 words

HEADLINE: The Fed Wears Its Feelings On Its Sleeve

BYLINE: By CONRAD DE AENLLE

 BODY:
THE Federal Reserve is a modern, sensitive central bank that likes to communicate how it feels. Its well-telegraphed signals to the market leave virtually no doubt that it will execute a 13th consecutive quarter-point increase in its benchmark interest rate this week; the debate among investors is whether the accompanying statement will reveal a change in mood about further increases. 
 Recent statements by the Fed have repeated that it will tighten credit ''at a pace that is likely to be measured.'' If that phrase is omitted, it will indicate that the end of the tightening cycle is near, said John K. Lynch, chief market analyst at Evergreen Investments.
''We've arrived at the point where no one cares what the Fed does and everyone cares what they say,'' Mr. Lynch said.
 He said that he expected the statement to drop the ''measured'' reference this week and that there would be a measurable brightening of Wall Street's outlook as a result. ''It will be a very positive development for equity markets,'' he predicted.
 His guess is that the phrase will be replaced with ''some sort of nuance saying future policy actions will be contingent upon data.'' That would be Fedspeak suggesting that central bankers believe that inflation pressures have become less acute and that the Fed is less inclined to raise rates without concrete evidence otherwise, although there is probably one more increase in store.
 Mr. Lynch points to several signs that inflation has become less of a concern. For example, energy prices have moderated and productivity is improving, helping to reduce the cost of labor for each unit of economic output.
 Mr. Lynch also predicted the imminent demise of the word-parsing exercise that investors undergo every six weeks or so, when rate decisions are announced. Alan Greenspan's expected replacement as chairman, Ben S. Bernanke, has said that he favors explicit inflation targets.
 If Mr. Bernanke puts them into effect, Mr. Lynch said, it will be less important for investors to try to discern what is on his mind than it has been with Mr. Greenspan. Actions will again speak louder than words.
 ''Bernanke wants to have a target just for that reason,'' he said. ''Investors in the global financial marketplace will no longer be sifting through nebulous commentary.''

DATA WATCH -- Evidence that inflationary pressures are abating may come in the days after the Fed meeting -- in reports on import and consumer prices for November. A Bloomberg News poll forecasts that import prices, to be announced on Wednesday, will show a decline of 0.5 percent. On Thursday, consumer prices are predicted to show a 0.4 percent drop.


GRAPHIC: Graph tracks Federal Funds Target Rate since 2004.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (91%); CENTRAL BANKS (91%); IMPORT TRADE (89%); CONSUMER PRICE INDEX (89%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); BANKING & FINANCE (89%); INFLATION (89%); PUBLIC POLICY (78%); INTEREST RATES (77%); STATISTICS (77%); BONDS (77%); MARKET RESEARCH & ANALYSIS (74%); EMPLOYMENT COSTS (72%); IMPORT PRICES (68%); POLLS & SURVEYS (68%); PRODUCTIVITY (68%) Stocks and Bonds; Interest Rates; Credit; United States Economy

COMPANY: WELLS FARGO & CO (56%); BLOOMBERG LP (50%)

ORGANIZATION: FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM (59%) Federal Reserve System

TICKER: WFC (NYSE) (56%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (56%); SIC6712 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (56%); NAICS519130 INTERNET PUBLISHING & BROADCASTING & WEB SEARCH PORTALS (50%); NAICS519110 NEWS SYNDICATES (50%); NAICS511120 PERIODICAL PUBLISHERS (50%)

PERSON: BEN BERNANKE (78%); ALAN GREENSPAN (58%) Conrad De Aenlle

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: December 11, 2005



242 of 607 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 11, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 14NJ; Column 1; New Jersey Weekly Desk; ON POLITICS; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 947 words

HEADLINE: For a Train Tunnel, Still Very Little Light

BYLINE: By Patrick McGeehan. 
Patrick McGeehan covers regional transportation for The New York Times.

 BODY:
IN Trenton and Albany, the race is on to build a new rail tunnel to Manhattan.
 New Jersey's governor-elect, Jon S. Corzine, and his lame-duck counterpart in New York, George E. Pataki, have been talking about their tunnel visions a lot in the last few months. Each has extolled the benefits a new tunnel could provide and has pushed hard in Washington to line up the billions of dollars in federal funds that a new tunnel would require.
 Their efforts could demonstrate the astonishing power of bipartisan, bistate cooperation, if only they were campaigning for the same tunnel. But, of course, they are not. 
 Mr. Corzine is pressing the case for a commuter train tunnel under the Hudson River, whose potential benefits to the residents of northern New Jersey who work in New York City and rely on New Jersey Transit trains are obvious. But Mr. Pataki's heart beats for a different mega-project, a direct rail link that would shorten the trip between Lower Manhattan and Kennedy International Airport.
 Caught in the middle, as usual, is the Port Authority of New York and New Jersey, the shared piggy bank of the two states' governors. If either of the tunnels is to be built, the Port Authority will have to supply a large chunk of the local financing -- at least $1 billion for each tunnel. With both projects relying on the same source of money and each estimated to cost about $6 billion, reasonable people may assume that a tough choice will soon have to be made.
 Anthony R. Coscia, the Port Authority chairman, who himself lives in northern New Jersey, has repeatedly said that the Hudson River tunnel should be the priority, but Mr. Pataki, who controls half of the seats on the authority's board, has taken a more munificent stance. ''I support both,'' he said in May, though he specifically called for the Port Authority to spend $1 billion on the link to J.F.K.
 Last month, Mr. Pataki lined up another source of money when he persuaded Congress to allow New York officials to use $2 billion in tax incentives intended for the rebuilding of Lower Manhattan to finance the airport link. By one method of counting, that would take Mr. Pataki halfway to his goal and put his project well ahead of the Hudson tunnel, which has not lined up any significant funds.
 But arranging giant infrastructure projects is nowhere near that simple. Handicapping the prospects for the two tunnels is complicated by the need for various environmental approvals, estimates of the economic effects and good old-fashioned politics. It is far too soon to say whether either, both or neither of the tunnels will be built.
 ''I don't see the two as being mutually exclusive,'' Mr. Coscia said in a recent interview. ''It's premature to make that comparison because the projects are at very different stages of their development.''
 In short, Mr. Coscia said, the backers of the Hudson tunnel have already laid out a convincing case for the relief it could provide to a jam-packed commuting network that is rapidly approaching full capacity. Plus, Mr. Corzine and Senator Frank R. Lautenberg successfully placed the necessary language in federal legislation this summer that made the Hudson tunnel eligible for what is know in Washington as ''full funding.''
 That does not mean that the federal government will pay the whole bill for the tunnel. Most likely, it will cover less than half. Still, the authorization was a big step for its backers.
 Mr. Corzine ''wasn't actually able to deliver the money, but he raised the profile'' of the Hudson tunnel, said Martin E. Robins, director of the Alan M. Voorhees Transportation Center at Rutgers University. ''The election of Jon Corzine couldn't be a better piece of news for the project.''
 In contrast, Mr. Robins said, the J.F.K. link hasn't been studied. Its benefits have not been quantified, nor has its potential effect on the environment been assessed, he said. Then again, it has a $2 billion commitment from Congress and is a pet project for Mr. Pataki, who may be heading into his last year as governor but just may run for president in 2008. Because it would not be built until well after 2008, its fate is likely to rest in the hands of Mr. Pataki's successor.
 ''One of the problems is that New York has a very sizable and diverse agenda of projects that need funding,'' Mr. Robins said, pointing to the $17 billion project to complete a subway under Second Avenue and a $3.8 billion plan to connect the Long Island Rail Road to Grand Central Terminal.
 ''You've got maybe about four heavyweight projects in the passenger-rail area all jockeying for position,'' he said. ''And at the federal level, there are many other competitors out there.''
 The backers of the Hudson tunnel could hold a big advantage now in having a period of relative political stability in New Jersey and a single-minded focus on one big project, Mr. Robins said. But all of the momentum they have picked up could be wiped out if Mr. Corzine cannot quickly find a way to replenish the state's Transportation Trust Fund, he said.
 That fund, which is on pace to be left with only enough money to cover its debt payments after June 30, could serve as a crucial source of supplemental financing for the Hudson tunnel, as it did for the Hudson-Bergen Light Rail system, Mr. Robins said.
 Speaking hypothetically about the potential costs and sources of financing for the tunnel, he said: ''If you think of it as a $6 billion project and they get $1 billion from the Port Authority and $3 billion from the feds, where's the rest of the money going to come from? You always want to have another source that's available to you that can help you get over the hump.''

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BRIDGES & TUNNELS (90%); URBAN TRANSIT SYSTEMS (90%); URBAN RAIL SYSTEMS (90%); PORT AUTHORITIES (90%); CITY GOVERNMENT (88%); GOVERNORS (78%); TRANSPORTATION INFRASTRUCTURE (78%); TRAINS (78%); INTERVIEWS (78%); INFRASTRUCTURE (69%); AIRPORTS (67%); TAX LAW (60%); TAX INCENTIVES (50%) 

COMPANY: PORT AUTHORITY OF NEW YORK & NEW JERSEY (68%)

ORGANIZATION: Port Authority of New York and New Jersey; New Jersey Transit

INDUSTRY: NAICS485999 ALL OTHER TRANSIT & GROUND PASSENGER TRANSPORTATION (68%); SIC4119 LOCAL PASSENGER TRANSPORTATION, NEC (68%)

PERSON: JON CORZINE (90%) Jon S (Sen) Corzine; George E (Gov) Pataki

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%); TRENTON, NJ, USA (92%); ALBANY, NY, USA (91%) NEW JERSEY, USA (97%); NEW YORK, USA (96%) UNITED STATES (97%) New Jersey; New York City

LOAD-DATE: December 11, 2005



243 of 607 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 11, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 4; Column 2; Editorial Desk; Pg. 12

LENGTH: 1573 words

HEADLINE: It Takes a Potemkin Village

BYLINE: By Frank Rich

 BODY:
WHEN a government substitutes propaganda for governing, the Potemkin village is all. Since we don't get honest information from this White House, we must instead, as the Soviets once did, decode our rulers' fictions to discern what's really happening. What we're seeing now is the wheels coming off: As the administration's stagecraft becomes more baroque, its credibility tanks further both at home and abroad. The propaganda techniques may be echt Goebbels, but they increasingly come off as pure Ali G.
 The latest desperate shifts in White House showmanship say at least as much about our progress (or lack of same) in Iraq over the past 32 months as reports from the ground. When President Bush announced the end of ''major combat operations'' in May 2003, his Imagineers felt the need for only a single elegant banner declaring ''Mission Accomplished.'' Cut to Nov. 30, 2005: the latest White House bumper sticker, ''Plan for Victory,'' multiplied by Orwellian mitosis over nearly every square inch of the rather ''Queer Eye'' stage set from which Mr. Bush delivered his oration at the Naval Academy. 
And to no avail. Despite the insistently redundant graphics -- and despite the repetition of the word ''victory'' 15 times in the speech itself -- Americans believed ''Plan for Victory'' far less than they once did ''Mission Accomplished.'' The first New York Times-CBS News Poll since the Naval Academy pep talk, released last Thursday, found that only 25 percent of Americans say the president has ''a clear plan for victory in Iraq.'' Tom Cruise and evolution still have larger constituencies in America than that. 
 Mr. Bush's ''Plan for Victory'' speech was, of course, the usual unadulterated nonsense. Its overarching theme -- ''We will never accept anything less than complete victory'' -- was being contradicted even as he spoke by rampant reports of Pentagon plans for stepped-up troop withdrawals between next week's Iraqi elections and the more important (for endangered Republicans) American Election Day of 2006. The specifics were phony, too: Once again inflating the readiness of Iraqi troops, Mr. Bush claimed that the recent assault on Tal Afar ''was primarily led by Iraqi security forces'' -- a fairy tale immediately unmasked by Michael Ware, a Time reporter embedded in that battle's front lines, as ''completely wrong.'' No less an authority than the office of Iraq's prime minister, Ibrahim al-Jaafari, promptly released a 59-page report documenting his own military's inadequate leadership, equipment and training. 
 But this variety of Bush balderdash is such old news that everyone except that ga-ga 25 percent instantaneously tunes it out. We routinely assume that the subtext (i.e., the omissions and deliberate factual errors) of his speeches and scripted town meetings will be more revealing than the texts themselves. What raised the ''Plan for Victory'' show to new heights of disinformation was the subsequent revelation that the administration's main stated motive for the address -- the release of a 35-page document laying out a ''National Strategy for Victory in Iraq'' -- was as much a theatrical prop as the stunt turkey the president posed with during his one furtive visit to Baghdad two Thanksgivings ago. 
 As breathlessly heralded by Scott McClellan, this glossy brochure was ''an unclassified version'' of the strategy in place since the war's inception in ''early 2003.'' But Scott Shane of The New York Times told another story. Through a few keystrokes, the electronic version of the document at whitehouse.gov could be manipulated to reveal text ''usually hidden from public view.'' What turned up was the name of the document's originating author: Peter Feaver, a Duke political scientist who started advising the National Security Council only this June. Dr. Feaver is an expert on public opinion about war, not war itself. Thus we now know that what Mr. McClellan billed as a 2003 strategy for military victory is in fact a P.R. strategy in place for no more than six months. That solves the mystery of why Lt. Gen. Martin Dempsey of the Army, who is in charge of training Iraqi troops, told reporters that he had never seen this ''National Strategy'' before its public release last month. 
 In a perfect storm of revelations, the ''Plan for Victory'' speech fell on the same day that The Los Angeles Times exposed new doings on another front in the White House propaganda war. An obscure Defense Department contractor, the Lincoln Group, was caught paying off Iraqi journalists to run upbeat news articles secretly written by American Army personnel and translated into Arabic (at a time when American troops in harm's way are desperate for Arabic translators of their own). One of the papers running the fake news is Al Mutamar, the Baghdad daily run by associates of Ahmad Chalabi. So now we know that at least one P.R. plan, if not a plan for victory, has been consistent since early 2003. As Mr. Chalabi helped feed spurious accounts of Saddam's W.M.D. to American newspapers to gin up the war, so his minions now help disseminate happy talk to his own country's press to further the illusion that the war is being won. 
 The Lincoln Group's articles (e.g., ''The Sands Are Blowing Toward a Democratic Iraq'') are not without their laughs -- for us, if not for the Iraqis, whose intelligence is insulted and whose democratic aspirations are betrayed by them. But the texts are no more revealing than those of Mr. Bush's speeches. Look instead at the cover-up that has followed the Los Angeles Times revelations. The administration and its frontmen at once started stonewalling from a single script. Mr. McClellan, Pentagon spokesmen, Senator John Warner and Donald Rumsfeld all give the identical answer to the many press queries. We don't have the facts, they say, even as they maintain that the Lincoln Group articles themselves are factual. 
 The Pentagon earmarks more than $100 million in taxpayers' money for various Lincoln Group operations, and it can't get any facts? Though the 30-year-old prime mover in the shadowy outfit, one Christian Bailey, fled from Andrea Mitchell of NBC News when she pursued him on camera in Washington, certain facts are proving not at all elusive. 
 Ms. Mitchell and other reporters have learned that Mr. Bailey has had at least four companies since 2002, most of them interlocking, short-lived and under phantom names. Government Executive magazine also discovered that Mr. Bailey ''was a founder and active participant in Lead21,'' a Republican ''fund-raising and networking operation'' -- which has since scrubbed his name from its Web site -- and that he and a partner in his ventures once listed a business address identical to their Washington residence. This curious tale, with its trail of cash payoffs, trading in commercial Iraqi real estate and murky bidding procedures for lucrative U.S. government contracts, could have been lifted from ''Syriana'' or ''Glengarry Glen Ross.'' While Mr. Rumsfeld and Mr. McClellan valiantly continue their search for ''the facts,'' what we know so far can safely be filed under the general heading of ''Lay, DeLay and Abramoff.''
 The more we learn about such sleaze in the propaganda war, the more we see it's failing for the same reason as the real war: incompetence. Much as the disastrous Bremer regime botched the occupation of Iraq with bad decisions made by its array of administration cronies and relatives (among them Ari Fleischer's brother), so the White House doesn't exactly get the biggest bang for the bucks it shells out to cronies for fake news. 
 Until he was unmasked as an administration shill, Armstrong Williams was less known for journalism than for striking a deal to dismiss a messy sexual-harassment suit against him in 1999. When an Army commander had troops sign 500 identical good-news form letters to local newspapers throughout America in 2003, the fraud was so transparent it was almost instantly debunked. The fictional scenarios concocted for Jessica Lynch and Pat Tillman also unraveled quickly, as did last weekend's Pentagon account of 10 marines killed outside Falluja on a ''routine foot patrol.'' As the NBC correspondent Jim Miklaszewski told Don Imus last week, he received calls within hours from the fallen's loved ones about how the marines had been slaughtered after being recklessly sent to an unprotected site for a promotion ceremony.
 Though the White House doesn't know that its jig is up, everyone else does. Americans see that New Orleans is in as sorry shape today as it was under Brownie three months ago. The bipartisan 9/11 commissioners confirm that homeland security remains a pork pit. Condi Rice's daily clarifications of her clarifications about American torture policies are contradicted by new reports of horrors before her latest circumlocutions leave her mouth. And the president's latest Iraq speeches -- most recently about the ''success'' stories of Najaf and Mosul -- still don't stand up to the most rudimentary fact checking. 
 This is why the most revealing poll number in the Times/CBS survey released last week was Mr. Bush's approval rating for the one area where things are going relatively well, the economy: 38 percent, only 2 points higher than his rating on Iraq. It's a measure of the national cynicism bequeathed by the Bush culture that seeing anything, even falling prices at the pump, is no longer believing.


GRAPHIC: Drawing (Drawing by Barry Blitt)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); ELECTIONS (89%); NAVIES (88%); MILITARY OPERATIONS (88%); MILITARY SCHOOLS & ACADEMIES (87%); PRIME MINISTERS (78%); US PRESIDENTS (78%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (78%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (78%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (78%); VOTERS & VOTING (74%); POLLS & SURVEYS (72%); ARMED FORCES (66%); MILITARY WEAPONS (65%) United States International Relations; United States Armament and Defense; New York Times/cbs News Poll; Public Opinion

ORGANIZATION: UNITED STATES NAVAL ACADEMY (73%) United States Naval Academy (Annapolis, Md)

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (79%); TOM CRUISE (50%); FRANK RICH (50%) Frank Rich; George W (Pres) Bush

GEOGRAPHIC: ANNAPOLIS, MD, USA (55%) MARYLAND, USA (79%); MARYLAND USA (55%) UNITED STATES (96%); IRAQ (95%) Iraq

LOAD-DATE: December 11, 2005



244 of 607 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 11, 2005
Correction Appended 
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 1; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 2193 words

PERSON: Eugene J. McCarthy

HEADLINE: Eugene J. McCarthy, Senate Dove Who Jolted '68 Race, Dies at 89 

BYLINE: By FRANCIS X. CLINES

 BODY:
Eugene J. McCarthy, the sardonic Senate dove who stunned the nation by upending President Lyndon B. Johnson's re-election drive amid the Vietnam War turmoil of 1968, died early yesterday. He was 89.
 A courtly, sharp-witted presence in capital politics for half a century, Mr. McCarthy, a Minnesota Democrat, died in his sleep at an assisted-living home in the Georgetown neighborhood of Washington, where he had lived for the last several years.
His son, Michael B. McCarthy, said the cause was complications of Parkinson's disease.
 Eugene McCarthy left his mark in a generation's skepticism toward war and the willfulness of political leaders. 
 ''There is only one thing to do -- take it to the country!'' Senator McCarthy angrily declared in a Capitol corridor 15 months before the 1968 election, after hearing the Johnson administration make its case for the legality of the war. 
 Mr. McCarthy, a man of needling wit, triggered one of the most tumultuous years in American political history. With the war taking scores of thousands of American and Vietnamese lives, he rallied throngs against this ''costly exercise in futility'' and stoked a fiery national debate over the World War II model of an all-powerful presidency. He challenged Johnson in a primary, and the president, facing almost certain defeat, ended up withdrawing from the race.
 Mr. McCarthy was a disarming presence on the stump as he mixed a wry tone and a hard, existential edge in challenging the White House, the Pentagon and the superpower swagger of modern politicians.
 An acid-tongued campaigner, Mr. McCarthy was sometimes a puzzlement, veering from inspired speechifying to moody languishing. But he was the singular candidate of the Vietnam War protest, serving up politics and poetry, theology and baseball in a blend that entranced the ''Clean for Gene'' legions who flocked to his insurgent's call.
 ''We do not need presidents who are bigger than the country, but rather ones who speak for it and support it,'' he told them. His supporters were delighted by what they saw as his candor, yet some were troubled by the diffidence that marked his public persona.
 ''I'm kind of an accidental instrument, really,'' he said, ''through which I hope that the judgment and the will of this nation can be expressed.''

A Self-Styled Outcast
 Typically, he only frustrated his followers when he allowed that he was at least ''willing'' to be president and, yes, might even be an ''adequate'' one. Questions arose about his passion on the campaign as he built a reputation as an unapologetic contrarian.
 In his 1968 challenge and for decades thereafter, Mr. McCarthy played the self-outcast of the Democratic Party, even shunning Jimmy Carter to endorse Ronald Reagan, the Republican candidate for president in 1980. He was a chronic presidential campaigner, running in 1972, 1976 and 1988, 18 years gone from the Senate. He endorsed trade protectionism, the strategic defense initiative advocated by Reagan that was often referred to as Star Wars and, most passionately, the junking of the two-party establishment whose rules he came to despise.
 ''It's much easier for me to understand politicians who don't walk away from it,'' he said when, at age 71, he once more knew he could not win but ran anyway, hectoring the latest Beltway incumbents. 
 Mr. McCarthy stayed busy writing poetry and books about the decline of American politics, and kept his eye on Washington from his farmhouse in bucolic Rappahannock County, Va., 70 miles to the west, on 14 acres set amid the Blue Ridge Mountains.
 ''I think he has a rejection wish,'' Maurice Rosenblatt, a Washington lobbyist who was a longtime friend, once said of the senator's perplexing mix of quixotic impulse and lethal hesitancy. ''He wants to reject others and be rejected by them.''
 But others, conceding his quirks, rated Mr. McCarthy the one stand-up, cant-free politician of their generation. ''Besides his conscience, there is his civility,'' Joe Flaherty wrote in the antiwar heyday of The Village Voice.
 Mr. McCarthy delighted in commenting obliquely on politics and himself by reciting poetry on the hustings. His more zealous volunteers yearned for clarion calls, not pentameter. But this was not the style of a man steeped in the Thomistic tangents of his training as a Roman Catholic college professor.
 Standing a lean 6-foot-4, gray-haired and dryly smiling, the candidate McCarthy gave a memorable rendering of Yeats (''An Irish Airman Foresees His Death'') in suggesting why he ran:
 Nor law, nor duty bade me fight,
 Nor public men, nor cheering crowds,
 A lonely impulse of delight
 Drove to this tumult in the clouds.
 As a speaker, Mr. McCarthy was an original but hardly stem-winding presence. ''Usually the cheers were greater when he came in than when he finished speaking,'' noted the poet Robert Lowell, who frequently traveled with the candidate.
 Mr. McCarthy, once a semiprofessional baseball player, liked to burnish a kind of knuckleball oddness. In one of his own later poems, ''Lament for an Aging Politician,'' he wrote: 
 I have left Act I, for involution
 And Act II. There, mired in complexity
 I cannot write Act III.
 He identified simplistic partisanship as the ultimate enemy in the domestic strife over the Vietnam War. Invoking Whitman's call to human goodness -- ''Arouse! for you must justify me'' -- candidate McCarthy's basic message to Americans was Daniel Webster's dictum to never ''give up to party what was meant for mankind.''

A Soft-Spoken Campaigner
 As crowds rallied to him, he promised no new deals or frontiers. Rather, he slowed his baritone for a plain definition of patriotism: ''To serve one's country not in submission but to serve it in truth.''
 He showed more passion as contrarian than as dogged campaigner. At the 1960 Democratic National Convention, Senator McCarthy showed that speaker's fire so longed for by his later followers when he boldly nominated Adlai E. Stevenson, a twice-defeated presidential candidate, one more time despite -- or because of -- John F. Kennedy's lock on the nomination.
 ''Do not reject this man who made us all proud to be Democrats,'' rang Mr. McCarthy's electrifying loser's plea.
 In Congress, Mr. McCarthy was an unabashed liberal unafraid to take on Senator Joseph R. McCarthy of Wisconsin and his alarmist warnings about the Communist menace. More often, as he restlessly paced the backs of committee rooms or brought a tome to read during hearings, Eugene McCarthy was viewed by peers as something of a ruminator and a curmudgeon.
 Yet he was the one who dared to step forward and bell the White House cat when other Democrats would only complain. Grasping the unpopularity of the deepening war, he sought to make a party issue of it, announcing his primary candidacy against President Johnson, a fellow Democrat, in the hope of building pressure for a policy change.
 ''There comes a time when an honorable man simply has to raise the flag,'' declared the senator, a onetime novice monk whose political role model was Sir Thomas More, the English statesman martyred in resisting Henry VIII's seizure of church power.
 Mocked by Johnson loyalists as a mere ''footnote in history,'' Mr. McCarthy prevailed well enough in his time to observe, after driving Johnson into retreat, ''I think we can say with Churchill, 'But what a footnote!' ''
 Senator McCarthy's challenge was intended to prod, more than destroy, the president. But in unnerving Johnson in office, he shook Senator Robert F. Kennedy of New York from his irresolution about challenging the president. The critical moment came in the New Hampshire primary of March 1968, when Mr. McCarthy beat the pundits' predictions and won 42 percent of the vote. Johnson, despite his incumbent's grip, could score only 49 percent.
 Within days, Senator Kennedy entered the race, embittering McCarthy supporters, not to mention their champion. Two weeks later, Johnson pre-empted greater popular rejection and astonished the nation by suddenly announcing in a postscript to a televised speech that he would not seek re-election and would devote his energies to ending the war.

The Chicago Convention
 The year's tumult continued. Kennedy was assassinated in June in California as he edged out the McCarthy forces in a key round of the antiwar competition. The Democrats staggered to their convention in Chicago, where civic mayhem erupted. 
 The party machine forced the nomination of Vice President Hubert H. Humphrey to face Richard M. Nixon, over the objections of war protesters, including draft-ripe college students. Many demonstrators were beaten in the streets by the Chicago police of Mayor Richard J. Daley, a party stalwart.
 ''I can still smell the tear gas in the Hilton Hotel,'' Mr. McCarthy said in an interview nearly 30 years later. ''I said before the vote we were not going to win, and there was no point in having the student delegations in the streets thinking we could.''
 ''The party hasn't recovered from Chicago; sort of its integrity was lost,'' he contended in his ninth decade, saying that modern issues of importance were being sidestepped as candidates ran to the drumbeat of the focus group for the office of ''Governor of the United States.''
 Robert Kennedy's brother, Senator Edward M. Kennedy of Massachusetts, said in a statement yesterday: ''Gene's name will forever be linked with our family. In spite of the rivalry with Bobby in the 1968 campaign, I admired Gene enormously for his courage in challenging a war America never should have fought. His life speaks volumes to us today, as we face a similar critical time for our country.''
 Mr. McCarthy viewed himself as the classic ''messenger who brought the bad news'' to the party, never to be forgiven. He withheld his endorsement of Humphrey until a week before the 1968 election, using the intervening time to demand antiwar concessions, but also, in a characteristic display of aloofness, to cover the World Series for Life magazine.
 Baseball was his metaphor for politics and life. ''We know Nixon's stuff,'' he said well before Nixon resigned in disgrace from the presidency. ''He's got a slider. And he's thrown a spitter so many years he's got seniority rights on it.''
 Eugene Joseph McCarthy, of Irish-German descent, was born March 29, 1916, in Watkins, Minn., the son of Michael J. and Anna Baden McCarthy. He graduated from St. John's University in Collegeville, Minn., in 1935 and then earned a master's degree in economics and sociology at the University of Minnesota. He taught social science in Minnesota high schools for several years, then economics and education at St. John's and sociology at the College of St. Thomas in St. Paul.
 The young McCarthy thought he might want to be a Benedictine monk, but he left the monastery after a nine-month novitiate trial. He later married a fellow teacher, Abigail Quigley. They had four children. Soon after the 1968 campaign, the McCarthys separated after 24 years of marriage. They never divorced.
 In addition to Michael McCarthy, of Seattle, Mr. McCarthy is survived by two daughters, Ellen A. McCarthy of Bethesda, Md., and Margaret A. McCarthy of Takoma Park, Md.; and six grandchildren. He is also survived by a brother, Austin McCarthy of Wilmer, Minn.; and a sister, Marian Enright of Walnut Creek, Calif. A daughter, Mary A. McCarthy, died in 1990, Michael McCarthy said.

Public Figure, Private Man
 Mr. McCarthy remained active until the last few months. In January, he published a 173-page paperback collection of essays and poems, ''Parting Shots From My Brittle Bow: Reflections on American Politics and Life.''
 Stirred to politics by the Democratic-Farmer-Labor Party, Mr. McCarthy was elected to the House of Representatives in 1948 and served five terms before being elected to the Senate, where he served 12 years.
 In the 1968 campaign, Mr. McCarthy was the sort of candidate who could accept with equanimity a critic's charge that he ran ''against the powers of the presidency.''
 In manner, he was faulted for arrogance; in strategy, for not broadening his antiwar constituency with stronger ties to blacks and the working poor, as Robert Kennedy did. The McCarthy civil rights record was considered exemplary, yet when asked about the issue at a rally, he dismissively advised his questioner to look up his record.
 ''Record, hell! Tell us what you feel!'' the citizen shot back at the candidate.
 Although his image was warm and witty on television, Mr. McCarthy stepped back from playing the candidate who engaged by self-revelation. Abigail McCarthy, respected in her own career as a writer, once said, ''The essential thing about Gene is that he's a private person, and in an all-confessional age, that's considered almost treachery.''
 The senator who defied his president and party was confessional in his reliance on Thomas More as ''the first modern man, the first political man.''
 ''He was forced to make a kind of individual and personal choice at a time when there was great upheaval,'' Mr. McCarthy noted with satisfaction as he tried to explain himself to a nation also in upheaval.


CORRECTION-DATE: January 16, 2006

 CORRECTION:
An obituary on Dec. 12 and in some copies on Dec. 11 about former Senator Eugene J. McCarthy misspelled the name of the hometown of his surviving brother, Austin McCarthy. It is Willmar, Minn., not Wilmer. This correction was delayed by an editing lapse.

GRAPHIC: Photos: Senator Eugene J. McCarthy campaigned in Philadelphia in 1968. His candidacy led President Lyndon B. Johnson to withdraw from the race. (Photo by Jefferson Siegel)
 Mr. McCarthy, shown here in 1996, ran several times for president. (Photo by Paul Hosefros/The New York Times)(pg. 60)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Obituary (Obit); Biography

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: DEATHS & OBITUARIES (92%); WAR & CONFLICT (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); ELECTIONS (90%); VIETNAM WAR (90%); POLITICS (89%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (89%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (78%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (78%); POLITICAL PARTIES (78%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (78%); PROTESTS & DEMONSTRATIONS (77%); DISEASES & DISORDERS (75%); WORLD WAR II (73%); POLITICAL PROTESTS (73%); POLITICAL DEBATES (73%); PARKINSONS DISEASE (70%); BASEBALL (67%); ASSISTED LIVING SERVICES (56%); LONG TERM HEALTH CARE (56%); RELIGION (50%) Deaths (Obituaries); Biographical Information; Presidential Election of 1968; Vietnam War

ORGANIZATION: Congress (Us)

RONALD REAGAN (79%); JIMMY CARTER (58%) Lyndon Baines (1908-73) Johnson

GEOGRAPHIC: PENNSYLVANIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%); VIET NAM (90%) Minnesota; United States

CATEGORY: Politics and Gov't (U.S.)

LOAD-DATE: December 11, 2005



245 of 607 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 11, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 1; Column 1; Foreign Desk; Pg. 9

LENGTH: 591 words

HEADLINE: Accepting Nobel, ElBaradei Urges a Rethinking of Nuclear Strategy

BYLINE: By WALTER GIBBS

DATELINE: OSLO, Dec. 10 

 BODY:
The world should stop treating the nuclear ambitions of Iran and North Korea as isolated cases and instead deal with them in a common effort to eliminate poverty, organized crime and armed conflict, the director general of the United Nations' nuclear monitoring agency said Saturday in accepting the 2005 Nobel Peace Prize.
 The director general, Mohamed ElBaradei, said a ''good start'' would be for the United States and other nuclear powers to cut nuclear weapon stockpiles sharply and redirect spending toward international development. 
''More than 15 years after the end of the cold war, it is incomprehensible to many that the major nuclear weapon states operate with their arsenals on hair-trigger alert,'' Dr. ElBaradei, 63, said.
 Despite some disarmament, he continued, the existence of 27,000 nuclear warheads in various hands around the world still hold the prospect of ''the devastation of entire nations in a matter of minutes.''
 Feelings of insecurity and humiliation, exaggerated by today's nuclear imbalance, are behind the spread of bomb-development programs at the national level, said Dr. ElBaradei, who has led the International Atomic Energy Agency since 1997. No less dangerous, he added, are the presumed efforts of extremist groups to acquire nuclear materials. With goods, ideas and people moving more freely than ever, the containment of nuclear technology must be part of a broad global effort, he said.
 ''We cannot respond to these threats by building more walls, developing bigger weapons or dispatching more troops,'' he said. ''These threats require primarily multinational cooperation.'' Dr. ElBaradei said the manufacture and sale of nuclear fuel for power generation, which can also be enriched to make bombs, should be placed under multinational control, with his agency operating as a ''reserve fuel bank'' for accredited nations. 
 The Norwegian Nobel Committee divided the 2005 award between Dr. ElBaradei and the atomic energy agency as a whole. Dr. ElBaradei and Yukiya Amano, the agency's board chairman, were awarded diplomas and medals in a colorful ceremony before more than 1,000 dignitaries at Oslo City Hall.
 The committee chairman, Ole Danbolt Mjos, lauded Dr. ElBaradei and his agency for resisting ''heavy pressure'' in 2003 to fall in line with an American contention that Iraq had an active nuclear weapons program despite the failure of the agency's inspectors to find hard evidence. ''As the world could see after the war in Iraq, the weapons that were not found proved not to have existed,'' Mr. Mjos said.
 In what appeared to be an allusion to that episode, Dr. ElBaradei said: ''Armed with the strength of our convictions, we will continue to speak truth to power, and we will continue to carry out our mandate with independence and objectivity.''
 For the Nobel committee, this year's choice of winners was a return to basics after last year's untraditional award to Wangari Maathai, a Kenyan environmentalist whose tree-planting campaigns are only tangentially related to war and peace. When Alfred Nobel, the Swedish industrialist who helped develop dynamite, died in 1897, he left money in his will to honor someone each year ''who shall have done the most or the best work for fraternity between the nations, for the abolition or reduction of standing armies and for the holding and promotion of peace congresses.''
 Dr. ElBaradei and the agency will split this year's prize money of 10 million Swedish kronor (about $1.3 million) and have promised their shares to charitable causes.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: NUCLEAR WEAPONS (92%); MILITARY WEAPONS (92%); WAR & CONFLICT (90%); ARMS CONTROL & DISARMAMENT (90%); AWARDS & PRIZES (90%); NOBEL PRIZES (89%); NUCLEAR POWER PLANTS (89%); NUCLEAR ENERGY (89%); ENERGY & UTILITY POLICY (87%); ENERGY DEPARTMENTS (78%); ELECTRIC POWER PLANTS (78%); COLD WAR (78%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (77%); ORGANIZED CRIME (77%); IRAQ WAR (77%); BOMBS & EXPLOSIVE DEVICES (76%); WEAPONS DECOMMISSIONING (76%); POVERTY & HOMELESSNESS (73%); UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (72%); ACCREDITATION (62%) Nobel Prizes; Atomic Weapons; United States Armament and Defense; United States International Relations

ORGANIZATION: INTERNATIONAL ATOMIC ENERGY AGENCY (82%); UNITED NATIONS (58%) International Atomic Energy Agency

PERSON: MOHAMED ELBARADEI (91%) Walter Gibbs; Mohamed Elbaradei

GEOGRAPHIC: OSLO, NORWAY (86%) UNITED STATES (94%); IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (93%); IRAQ (93%); KOREA, DEMOCRATIC PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF (92%); NORWAY (86%) Iraq; Iran; North Korea

LOAD-DATE: December 11, 2005



246 of 607 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 11, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 8; Column 5; Sports Desk; Sports of The Times; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 854 words

HEADLINE: Congress Takes a Pass On the Needs Of Boxers

BYLINE: By SELENA ROBERTS. 
E-mail: selenasports@nytimes.com

 BODY:
IN a revealing display of selective jock infatuation, politicians are running for fantasy league commissioners over the presidency, turning in their reservations at the Capital Grille to be barflies at a sports pub, ditching their drive time with Rush Limbaugh to tune in ''Mike and the Mad Dog.''
 Sports are generally the everyday man's diversion from winter fuel costs and a spiraling war, but look who's craving a distraction: 
 Senator Arlen Specter recently morphed into Paulie from Philly when he ranted about the injustice done to Terrell Owens by his beloved Eagles. ''They've really blacklisted the guy,'' Specter fumed, adding, ''I don't think it is fair. And I'm not a supporter of Terrell Owens.''
 A more appropriate N.F.L. issue for Congress might be how Commissioner Paul Tagliabue has impersonated the FEMA goof Mike Brown while botching the Saints' relocation after Hurricane Katrina. 
 Representative Joe Barton of Texas decided that last week was a fine time to haul in college bowl officials to face the House Subcommittee on Commerce, Trade and Consumer Protection. On cue, he unleashed his cheerleader within when he wanted his chant of ''We're No. 1'' to be validated by an improved Bowl Championship Series.
 A more pressing college issue for Congress would be how a state university like Colorado can allow Gary Barnett to survive a recruiting sex scandal, but pay him a $3 million severance fee only after Texas exposed his dark side as a lousy coach.
 Specter and Barton are part of a trend set by politicians who spent the past year pushing through steroid hearings in an effort to restore the wholesome scent of apple pie to baseball.
 But apparently politicians hop only on sports bandwagons that cruise through the heartland of moral values and star-spangled voters, through the mainstream streets of Pop Warner parents and soccer moms.
 In mid-November, weeks after Congress mugged for the cameras as it meddled to put a pure swing back into baseball, it quietly failed to show up for the neediest cause in sports: boxers. 
 The House voted, 233 to 190, against forming a United States Boxing Commission within the Commerce Department. 
 In effect, politicians voted against overseeing the health and safety of athletes who do not have leagues to protect them but who do have unscrupulous promoters to exploit them. 
 In effect, they voted against the establishment of a national database of injuries to help save boxers who have been left vulnerable to inaccurate, unchecked and fraudulent medical records.
 Congress demanded stiffer drug testing in baseball, but politicians chose not to build a federal agency that could make a C. T. scan mandatory for every boxer in a sport of cauliflower ears and concussive blows.
 The vote was a surprise. In May, the Senate gave the nod to a similar bill designed by Senator John McCain -- the man who wielded ''The Natural'' Wonder Boy stick over baseball for two years -- so a boxing commission seemed like a sure thing to pass. 
 What happened? Internal politics could have been at work -- as in who backed out on a favor for whom in the House -- but in the end, boxing didn't have a sexy name like Owens to raise attention or the all-American allure of baseball to rally conservatives or the rabble-rousing siren of college football to lift its profile.
 Boxing was once again relegated to a shady outcast lost beneath cigar smoke.
 ''Without such a federal body, I don't know how boxing is going to better itself,'' said Dr. Margaret Goodman, who recently resigned as Nevada's chief ringside doctor after the deaths of two boxers in the state. ''It'll just stay in the underground, or as they say, the black lights of boxing. It will stay that way because no one understands.''
 Dr. Goodman gets it. She remains on the state boxing commission's medical advisory board, but she left the ringside disillusioned with the infighting and the lack of uniform safety measures in her sport. 
 She might have stayed had a federal agency been born. One day, she hopes McCain will win this fight. If so, it will be for the nameless young boxer who cannot speak for himself and for the faceless aging boxer who cannot speak without a slur. Perhaps one day boxers won't be defeated by the demographic bias against them.
 ''I think people are used to hearing about these big-money fighters that make $20 million a fight, and they don't see them as being in need of oversight,'' Goodman said. ''And then the other boxers who fight in the club shows, I think a lot of people think, well, these kids are lucky they have something to do. They come from lower socio-economic backgrounds and they don't have the education, and they kind of write them off. And I think it's time we stop writing them off.''
 They have to be seen to be recognized. As it is, politicians are too distracted to help boxers on the fringe of society, too consumed by such world events as the B.C.S. title game. 
 ''College football is not just an exhilarating sport, but a billion-dollar business that Congress cannot ignore,'' as Barton explained.
 The B.C.S. isn't a needy cause. Boxers are. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY SPORTS (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); BASEBALL (89%); SPORTS (89%); SPORTS & RECREATION (89%); BOXING (86%); SPORTS & RECREATION EVENTS (78%); COMMERCE DEPARTMENTS (78%); HURRICANES (73%); YOUTH SPORTS (73%); DISASTER & EMERGENCY AGENCIES (73%); FRUITS & VEGETABLES (71%); STEROIDS (69%); CONSUMER PROTECTION (69%); HURRICANE KATRINA (68%); DRUG TESTING (68%); CONSUMER LAW (66%); SCANDALS (64%); MEDICAL RECORDS (60%); AMERICAN FOOTBALL (50%); SEX SCANDALS (50%) Boxing; Sports of the Times (Times Column)

ORGANIZATION: PHILADELPHIA EAGLES (57%); NEW ORLEANS SAINTS (56%)

PERSON: ARLEN SPECTER (78%); JOE BARTON (58%); RUSH LIMBAUGH (57%) Selena Roberts

GEOGRAPHIC: TEXAS, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: December 11, 2005



247 of 607 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 11, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 3; Column 5; Money and Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 2831 words

HEADLINE: Can This Man Reprogram Microsoft? 

BYLINE: By STEVE LOHR

DATELINE: Redmond, Wash. 

 BODY:
THINK back to Round 1 of the Internet, when things really got rolling in 1995. The computing landscape was shifting, and a cool, fast-growing young company symbolized the new order: Netscape. At the time, Microsoft looked to be a lumbering old war horse, trapped in the yesteryear of desktop personal computer software, word processors, spreadsheets and operating systems. It seemed, in other words, so 1980's.
 But, of course, Microsoft emerged a winner. It embraced the Internet and vanquished the Netscape threat with hard work, ingenuity and strong-arm tactics that a federal court ruled violated the nation's antitrust laws. Microsoft's shares soared to a record high at the end of 1999. 
The Internet, Round 2, is now under way. Again, the computing terrain is changing remarkably, helped along by free software like Linux and the spread of high-speed Internet access. Today, all kinds of computing experiences can be delivered as services over the Internet, often free and supported by advertising. Clever Internet software can now turn flat, view-and-read Web pages into snappy services that look and respond to a user's keystrokes much like the big software applications that reside on a PC hard drive. New companies are even sprouting up to offer Web-based word processors and spreadsheets, products long regarded as mature -- and long dominated by Microsoft's desktop programs.
 Champions of the Internet services model range from I.B.M. to start-ups. But the totemic company in this next big evolutionary step in computing is Google, the Internet search power whose ambitions appear to be growing as fast as its profits. 
 And Microsoft? It once more finds itself surrounded by doubt and dismissed as a laggard. Some of its own senior engineers have defected to Google and elsewhere, and its stock price has barely budged in three years, despite solid earnings growth, because others appear to be winning the race for the future. 
 The familiar pattern of a decade ago begs the question that Bill Gates was asked when he met last month with a group of executives and journalists from The New York Times: Will you do to Google what you did to Netscape?
 Mr. Gates, the Microsoft co-founder and chairman, paused, looked down at his folded hands and smiled broadly, as if enjoying a private joke. ''Nah,'' he replied, ''we'll do something different.''
 The man whom Mr. Gates is counting on to make a difference is Ray Ozzie, a soft-spoken 50-year-old who joined the company just eight months ago. He has the daunting task of galvanizing the troops to address the Internet services challenge, shaking things up and quickening the corporate pulse. 
 The forces arrayed against Microsoft, analysts say, may well prove more formidable than ever. ''The problem Microsoft faces today is that there is a totally different model emerging for how software is created, distributed, used and paid for,'' said George F. Colony, the chairman of Forrester Research, a technology consultant. ''That's why it's going to be so difficult for Microsoft this time.''
 Yet there are optimists. Big industry shifts, they say, create opportunity. Inevitably, they note, Internet computing erodes Microsoft's power to set technology standards, but the company can still benefit as the overall market expands. That's what happened in the 1990's. They say that if Microsoft shrewdly devises, for example, online versions of its Office products, supported by advertising or subscription fees, it may be a big winner in Internet Round 2. 
 ''There's a tremendous opportunity for Microsoft to expand its business,'' said Richard Sherlund, an analyst at Goldman Sachs, who has a buy recommendation on the company. ''But Microsoft had better be sure it is the one that capitalizes before others cannibalize their business.''
 AT first blush, Mr. Ozzie, whose title is chief technical officer, seems an unlikely person to meet the threat of Google and its brethren. He has only a small staff and no direct control over Microsoft's vast product groups. ''It's soft power,'' Mr. Ozzie said in an interview here last week, referring to the foreign-policy concept that influence need not be measured in bombs and battleships.
 And few doubt Mr. Ozzie's influence. ''Ray Ozzie is someone with a tremendous technical reputation and an outsider, who Bill Gates trusts, and he's come in and said things have to change,'' said Michael A. Cusumano, a professor at the Sloan School of Management at the Massachusetts Institute of Technology. 
 Mr. Ozzie is a software wizard whose geek gene was evident early. Growing up in suburban Chicago, he had a passion for Heathkits, which were do-it-yourself projects for electronics hobbyists. He was constantly building radios, tape players and other electronics gear, recalled Jack Ozzie, his younger brother. ''There was always a smell of solder in the back bedroom,'' said Jack, who is a software engineer.
 At the University of Illinois at Urbana-Champaign in the early 1970's, Mr. Ozzie wandered into the building that housed Plato, a computer system with terminals linked to a mainframe in a network that, remarkably for its time, had instant messaging, e-mail and online discussions. Mr. Ozzie became a senior programmer on the Plato system.
 Mr. Ozzie recalled that he was ''forever changed'' by his experience with Plato. It gave him, he said, ''a peek at what the Internet would ultimately become. It was a microcosm, an online community in an era when there weren't online communities.''
 In the 1980's, Mr. Ozzie applied that perspective to the new technology of the day: personal computers. At the time, PC's were mainly stand-alone machines for word processing, spreadsheet calculations and desktop publishing. Mr. Ozzie recognized that PC's could also be powerful tools for communications and collaboration. He led the team that created Lotus Notes, an early program for corporate e-mail and sharing information in digital workspaces, anticipating the kind of computing that would become commonplace only later with the rise of the Internet and the Web. In 1995, I.B.M. paid $3.5 billion for Lotus Development Corporation and the prize was Lotus Notes. 
 In 1997, Mr. Ozzie founded Groove Networks to make advanced collaboration software using Internet peer-to-peer technology, well before the arrival of Napster and peer-to-peer networks for sharing music. Groove was a technological triumph, but not a big commercial success. Microsoft bought Groove this year to pick up its technology -- and Mr. Ozzie. 
 Years ago, when Mr. Ozzie was a Microsoft competitor, Mr. Gates called him one of the world's great programmers. So, in Microsoft's engineering culture, Mr. Ozzie brings a lot of clout to his job. 
 He hit the ground quickly after he arrived in April. At first, he said, some executives told him that it was a big company and that he should get to know it for a year or so before deciding what to focus on. ''That lasted about two weeks,'' he said.
 In meetings of senior executives, the subject of how to cope with the Internet services shift in computing, how to turn it into an opportunity for Microsoft, was a constant theme -- and one that deeply interested Mr. Ozzie. ''Within a month, Ray was putting his thoughts on software-as-services on paper,'' noted Jeff Raikes, president of Microsoft's business division, which includes the Office products and corporate software.
 Mr. Ozzie then spent the next few months meeting with people across the company to see what work was being done in product groups. Simultaneously, he was devising a plan to help Microsoft capitalize on Internet services by blending the new technology -- and economic models -- with Microsoft's traditional software business.
 In late October, Mr. Ozzie presented his ideas in a seven-page, 5,000-word memo, ''The Internet Services Disruption.'' At first, it was e-mailed to fewer than 100 senior managers and engineers at Microsoft. But they passed it along to colleagues, and by early November it had leaked out to the press; copies are now posted on the Web. Microsoft has used such memos over the years to educate its corporate troops and to stir them up to combat major competitive challenges.
 In a two-page note that accompanied the Ozzie memo, Mr. Gates compared it to one he wrote in 1995, ''The Internet Tidal Wave,'' which assessed the Internet challenge of a decade ago. Microsoft, he wrote in the introduction to the Ozzie memo, was at similar crossroads. ''This coming 'services wave' will be very disruptive,'' Mr. Gates wrote, and later emphasized, ''The next sea change is upon us.''
 The Ozzie memo analyzes the Internet services trend, the competition and Microsoft's strengths and shortcomings, and it suggests how the company must change. The document is also a call to action: ''It's clear that if we fail to do so, our business as we know it is at risk,'' Mr. Ozzie wrote. ''We must respond quickly and decisively.''
 The memo is peppered with technical acronyms, and rivals are named. While Microsoft is progressing on several fronts, Mr. Ozzie wrote, ''a set of very strong and determined competitors is laser-focused on Internet services and service-enabled software.''
 ''Google is obviously the most visible here,'' he added.
 There is an implicit critique of Microsoft's software-building practice of relying so much on product cycles measured in years. The last major release of Windows -- XP -- was in 2001, while the next one, Vista, has been scheduled for next year after repeated delays. The memo chastises no product by name, but it extols the virtues of speed and simplicity in software design.
 ''Complexity kills,'' Mr. Ozzie wrote. ''It sucks the life out of developers, it makes products difficult to plan, build and test, it introduces security challenges, and it causes end-user and administrator frustration.''
 HIS comments all but echo those of some estranged engineers who have left Microsoft recently. Mark Lucovsky, a former senior engineer at Microsoft who joined Google, wrote in his blog earlier this year, ''Microsoft used to know how to ship software, but the world has changed.'' The companies to watch, Mr. Lucovsky wrote, have ''embraced the network, deeply understand the concept of 'software as a service' and know how to deliver incredible value to their customers efficiently and quickly.''
 Mr. Ozzie is understandably careful in what he writes and says; his role at Microsoft is mainly to lead and encourage rather than to criticize. He emphasizes the importance of Microsoft's big desktop products like Windows and Office, and he says that Internet services should be seen primarily as a way to continually update and improve its offerings. Those updates and improvements, he said, should make Microsoft software teams happier by moving their work into the marketplace faster.
 ''People like to have fun doing what they're doing, and people who build software have fun by having people use their stuff,'' Mr. Ozzie said in the interview.
 Yet Microsoft will also selectively offer Web services that do over the Internet some of what Office and Windows do on the desktop. The company took measured steps in that direction last month, when it introduced Windows Live and Office Live. Windows Live lets consumers manage their e-mail, instant messaging, blogs, photos and podcasts in one site. Office Live enables small businesses to set up Web sites and e-mail systems, and to provide collaboration sites for teams. Both will be supported by advertising and perhaps some subscription fees.
 In the future, Mr. Ozzie suggests, Microsoft will go further, offering parts of Office -- like Word, Excel or PowerPoint -- as Web services. ''I think there are potentially different or enhanced ways that we can take things that have traditionally been done with the Office suite and offer that to customers,'' Mr. Ozzie said. ''That's absolutely what we're focused on.''
 The new approach, it seems, is a striking departure from Microsoft's longtime practice of bundling more and more software features into its big integrated products. The bundling has not been merely a design preference, but also a business strategy. With more than 90 percent of the desktop PC market for operating systems and office productivity applications, Microsoft has bundled outstanding programs with mediocre ones, and all of them typically became the industry standards.
 But Internet services represent a more open, competitive model. ''Software itself is going to be free, and you get paid for services that are supported either by ads or by subscription charges,'' said Mitchell Kapor, the founder of Lotus Development who is president of the Open Source Applications Foundation, which develops free software for personal information like calendars and contacts. ''For Microsoft, this is a bigger challenge than the rise of the Internet itself in 1995.''
 RECENT innovations have enabled Web-based software to look and respond more like desktop applications. Offering Internet alternatives to traditional PC programs are a new breed of start-ups, including Writely.com, for word processing; NumSum, for spreadsheets; and Zimbra and Scalix, both e-mail. I.B.M. has Web-based software called WorkPlace that is used by millions of workers. And Salesforce.com has built a fast-growing business by supplying customer relationship management software as an Internet service.
 ''No piece of software will replace Microsoft's Outlook, Word or Excel, but Web services will eat away at core areas of its Office suite over the next couple of years,'' said Marc Benioff, chief executive of Salesforce.com.
 If that happens, Microsoft's business could be battered. Mr. Colony of Forrester Research predicts that Microsoft's profit margins, under pressure from Internet services, could fall by 40 percent or so over the next four years. A wild card is the hand that Google will play beyond search and how successful it may be. Mr. Colony, for example, says he thinks that Google will make a big difference. ''I believe Google will revolutionize the software business,'' he wrote in a recent report.
 Google has desktop search software and a Web-based e-mail service, two offerings aimed at parts of Microsoft's stronghold. How much further it plans to go in providing alternatives to Microsoft's software is uncertain, though it certainly looks interested.
 Google was among the companies that attended a meeting last month at I.B.M.'s headquarters in Armonk, N.Y., of the Open Document Foundation, a group formed to agree on freely available formats for word processing, spreadsheets and other office documents; the idea is to come up with alternatives to Microsoft's proprietary Office formats. And for the last few months, Google has talked with Wyse Technology, a maker of so-called thin-client computers (without hard drives). 
 The discussions are focused on a $200 Google-branded machine that would likely be marketed in cooperation with telecommunications companies in markets like China and India, where home PC's are less common, said John Kish, chief executive of Wyse. ''Google is on a path to developing a stack of software in competition with the Microsoft desktop, and one that is much more network-centric, more an Internet service,'' Mr. Kish said. ''And this fits right into that.''
 For his part, Mr. Ozzie is curious about the plans at Google but is by no means obsessed by it. Google, he said, is ''obviously a very strong technology company, and we'll see what they do with that.''
 Yet Mr. Ozzie's view is that Microsoft's fate is in its own hands. If it charts its technology and business plans wisely, harnessing the talents of its army of smart people, he said, it should grow and prosper in this next wave of Internet computing. He speaks of a thriving ''ecosystem'' of open competition in which developers and customers have many choices and in which Microsoft's future is not in crushing rivals but in becoming an attractive choice.
 In the past, Microsoft executives have decried free software, with its collaborative open-source development style, as akin to communism, if not downright evil. Not Mr. Ozzie. ''I consider open-source software to be part of the environment, like the Internet,'' he said. ''It's not the enemy and it's not going to go away. It's great for developers.
 ''And if we don't keep continually updating our offerings and develop better offerings,'' Mr. Ozzie added, ''then shame on us.''
 The Microsoft strategy, he said, has to be to develop tools and technology that make it easier to build software for the Internet-services era and easier for users to have more productive and enjoyable computing experiences. In a sense, it's a reinvention of old Windows vision of computing, but in a very different competitive context from the desktop world that Microsoft ruled.
 The new game plan, Mr. Ozzie said, is ''obviously not an altruistic thing, but it doesn't even resemble the environment of old.''


GRAPHIC: Photos: Ray Ozzie, whom Bill Gates has called one of the world's great programmers, aims to help Microsoft move beyond selling packaged software to delivering continuously updated software and services through the Internet. (Photo by Kevin P. Casey for The New York Times)(pg. 1)
 Marc Benioff of Salesforce.com predicts that the online delivery of software services ''will eat away at core areas'' of Microsoft's products. (Photo by Peter DaSilva for The New York Times)(pg. 4)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: COMPUTER SOFTWARE (93%); COMPUTER OPERATING SYSTEMS (90%); INTERNET & WWW (90%); COMPUTER NETWORKS (89%); PERSONAL COMPUTERS (78%); WORD PROCESSING SOFTWARE (78%); DESKTOP COMPUTERS (78%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING (73%); COMPANY EARNINGS (68%); SEARCH ENGINES (64%); ANTITRUST & TRADE LAW (55%) Computers and the Internet; Computer Software; Advertising and Marketing; Computers and the Internet

COMPANY: GOOGLE INC (92%); MICROSOFT CORP (90%)

ORGANIZATION: Forrester Research; Google Inc

TICKER: GOOG (NASDAQ) (92%); MSFT (NASDAQ) (90%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS519130 INTERNET PUBLISHING & BROADCASTING & WEB SEARCH PORTALS (92%); NAICS511210 SOFTWARE PUBLISHERS (90%); SIC7372 PREPACKAGED SOFTWARE (90%)

PERSON: BILL GATES (89%); MARC BENIOFF (56%) Ray Ozzie; George F Colony; Steve Lohr

GEOGRAPHIC: WASHINGTON, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: December 11, 2005



248 of 607 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 11, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 6; Column 3; Magazine; Pg. 72

LENGTH: 446 words

HEADLINE: Global Savings Glut, The

BYLINE: By Michael Steinberger

 BODY:
That the United States, with a current account deficit equivalent to more than 6 percent of its gross domestic product, is living beyond its means is not in dispute. And, at least until recently, there was general agreement among economists that the shortfall was mainly due to American profligacy, in the form of record federal budget deficits and a household savings rate that has now officially hit zero. 
In March, however, the received wisdom was challenged by a formidable figure with a penchant for airing provocative views: Ben Bernanke, who was then a governor of the Federal Reserve and early next year will most likely replace Alan Greenspan as the central bank's chairman. In a speech to the Virginia Association of Economics, Bernanke suggested that the primary cause of the current account deficit was not America's excessive spending but rather the rest of the world's excessive thrift -- what he coined, memorably, a ''global saving glut.''
 Bernanke pointed out that Japan, Germany and other advanced industrialized nations have been squirreling away money to help support aging populations and that because of a paucity of attractive domestic investments, a sizable share of those savings has been put to work in the United States. More important, a number of developing countries have greatly increased their savings, and a lot of this money has also come to the United States -- through, among other things, vast purchases of U.S. Treasury securities. 
 According to Bernanke, all this foreign investment helped inflate and sustain the stock-market bubble of the late 1990's. It has also helped keep long-term interest rates low, which in turn has produced a significant rise in property values and another surge in household wealth. In short, foreigners needed a place to park their savings, the United States became the depository of choice and this enormous inflow of investment put lots of cash in the pockets of Americans -- cash they chose to spend rather than save. 
 Although Bernanke is universally admired for his intellectual acuity, his hypothesis has met with some skepticism. Critics note that the global savings rate as a proportion of global output has been gradually declining for more than three decades. More cynical observers suggest that Bernanke's argument is simply a clever attempt by a Bush administration appointee to deflect blame for the rapid deterioration in America's finances. 
 Whatever the reasons for global economic imbalances, most economists agree that a readjustment is inevitable. Should the day of reckoning arrive, the task of mitigating the pain is going to fall mainly on Bernanke's shoulders. Michael Steinberger

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC NEWS (92%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (91%); CURRENT ACCOUNT BALANCE (90%); GROSS DOMESTIC PRODUCT (90%); SAVINGS RATES (89%); CENTRAL BANKS (89%); FOREIGN INVESTMENT (88%); BUDGET DEFICITS (78%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (78%); BUDGETS (78%); REAL ESTATE (77%); TRENDS (77%); TALKS & MEETINGS (77%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (76%); TREASURY SECURITIES (75%); NATIONAL DEBT (73%); AGING TRENDS (73%); ECONOMIC BUBBLE (72%); DEVELOPING COUNTRIES (72%); INTEREST RATES (71%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (70%); AGING (52%); INTELLIGENCE & COGNITION (50%) Economic Conditions and Trends; Foreign Investments

ORGANIZATION: FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM (59%) Federal Reserve System

PERSON: BEN BERNANKE (90%); ALAN GREENSPAN (55%) Michael Steinberger; Ben Bernanke

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (96%); JAPAN (79%); GERMANY (71%)

LOAD-DATE: December 11, 2005



249 of 607 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 12, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 2; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1967 words

HEADLINE: Trade Talks Now Expected to Focus on Exports of Poorest Nations

BYLINE: By KEITH BRADSHER

DATELINE: HONG KONG, Dec. 11 

 BODY:
Recognizing that little progress can be expected on intractable issues like farm subsidies, officials at global trade talks scheduled to begin here on Tuesday now appear likely to focus heavily on increasing exports from the world's poorest countries.
 Pascal Lamy, director general of the World Trade Organization, and John Tsang, Hong Kong's trade minister and chairman of the W.T.O. ministerial conference here, have called with increasing emphasis in the last few days for a detailed agreement eliminating all duties and quotas on the exports of at least 32 of the world's poor countries.
The move to focus on trade by the poor is drawing support from the European Union and Japan, as well as from some of the more economically viable developing nations. It comes as efforts for a deal on agricultural subsidies have stumbled. 
 But this emphasis on poor countries poses potential difficulties for the Bush administration, which has raised concerns while accepting that some kind of agreement is needed on trade relations with the poorest among third world economies. 
 The administration faces pressure from Southern states like North Carolina on cotton, particularly garments. While the United States allows duty-free, quota-free imports of garments from many poor countries in Latin America and Africa, industry groups in textile-producing states and their political allies in Congress oppose the elimination of duties on garments from Bangladesh, a poor nation that is one of the world's largest exporters of clothing. 
 Industry groups and some Southern politicians also oppose deep cuts in cotton subsidies that help American farmers compete with producers in the poorest sub-Saharan countries, like Mali and Chad, though some limited cuts have been made. 
 The United States did support an initial agreement this past Tuesday to allow poor nations greater access to generic drugs in health crises.
 But American officials have been calling for a stronger focus here on the W.T.O.'s longer-term goal of removing barriers to global farm trade, and not just discussions on trade with poor countries. 
 The agriculture negotiations have stalled, largely because of a reluctance by the European Union to accept steep cuts in domestic subsidies. 
 Trade officials met in Geneva in November, but failed to broker a deal on subsidies ahead of the Hong Kong meeting. Those talks ended with a warning that failing to move ahead on agriculture risked jeopardizing the progress made in other trade discussions since July 2004.
 The White House trade representative, Rob Portman, said on Friday that ''Hong Kong will not be a time for us to make some major breakthroughs that the United States had hoped for, but we do hope that we can make incremental progress and establish building blocks that would go toward even more progress early in the new year.'' 
 He added that the United States was moving to address West African concerns about cotton subsidies, and that the United States expected some form of duty-free, quota-free access to be agreed upon for many goods from the poorest countries. 
 The European Union began allowing duty-free, quota-free imports in 2001 for most goods from these nations, and is now offering to eliminate its remaining barriers by 2009 on the imports of bananas, sugar and rice. Japan is also offering a broad elimination of quotas and duties on imports from these countries, although it is seeking exemptions for rice and shoe imports. 
 Depending on what definition or threshold is used for the world's poorest countries, 32 to 49 such countries could benefit. The Group of 7 leading industrial nations, the World Bank and the International Monetary Fund are all preparing plans to provide extra aid to help these countries' more vulnerable industries adjust to international competition. 
 Mr. Tsang and Mr. Lamy have each said that further progress is needed this week on broader issues like liberalizing global farm trade, lowering tariffs on industrial goods and increasing international competition in service industries like banking, insurance and transportation. But they are also calling for early understandings among ministers on trade issues involving the poor countries, and for turning these understandings into an actual agreement. 
 ''I have placed development issues at the top of the agenda right from the outset,'' Mr. Tsang said Sunday afternoon, ''and I would like to see an early harvest of the key development issues'' at the meetings this week, ''or at least see that we have made substantial progress in resolving them.'' 
 Objections from West African nations over the American cotton subsidies, together with others from Botswana over talks on streamlining customs procedures, brought negotiations to a standstill at the most recent W.T.O. ministerial conference two years ago in Cancun, Mexico. 
 But some nations in Africa and the Caribbean have objected to a global dismantling of limits on exports from poor countries. These nations, many of them former colonies with special relationships to their old capitals, already enjoy duty-free access to European or American markets and do not want to see rivals like Bangladesh become more competitive by winning duty-free treatment. 
 Economic development issues have been central to the current round of global trade talks since they began at a ministerial conference in Doha, Qatar, in 2001. Further complicating any agreement is the W.T.O.'s ever-growing membership; Saudi Arabia became the organization's 149th member on Sunday. 
 A march here against the W.T.O. and corporate influence here on Sunday by several thousand protesters included representatives from a wide range of activist groups, many with conflicting aims -- illustrating the difficulty of reaching a deal on economic development issues. 
 A large contingent from Thailand, Indonesia, India, the Philippines and other developing nations carried purple banners calling for better pay for migrant workers. But Kat Chan, 45, a Hong Kong office cleaner, also marched to call for a ban on migrant workers. ''Cleaning workers from other countries will come and we'll lose our jobs,'' she said, ''or we'll have to work very long hours at very low wages.''
 Despite warm, sunny skies, the march drew barely half the 7,000 people expected. Organizers put the crowd at 4,000 while the police estimated it at 3,200. No violence was reported, and a police spokeswoman said no arrests had been made. 
 Some of the demonstrators came from the poor countries at the center of discussions here. Yasmin Mita, a rural activist from Bangladesh, wore a sari and held a protest banner as part of a contingent from the Coalition of Agricultural Workers International. Ms. Mita said through a translator that she opposed a W.T.O. agreement because she thought it would lead to larger-scale agriculture with more intensive pesticide use. ''It is going to affect agriculture and also women,'' she said. 
 When a single Greenpeace protester chained himself in 1993 to the secretariat gates of the old General Agreement on Tariffs and Trade, the protester surprised trade officials who had seldom attracted attention from activists before. 
 Sunday's march showed how much has changed. The W.T.O. has tried to take this into account, particularly since Mr. Lamy, a Frenchman who until recently was the European Union's top trade official, became director general on Sept. 1. 
 For the first time, the W.T.O. is allowing delegates from advocacy groups to enter the conference itself, and 2,000 such delegates have been issued security passes -- although the trade ministers will still be allowed to gather secretly in groups when they wish to do so.

 Other: $3,890

SERVICES TRADE 2004
TOTAL = $2,125 BILLION

United States: $318
Germany: $172
China: $134
France: $110
Other: $1,391

WORLD MERCHANDISE TRADE 2004
 TOTAL = $8,907 BILLION

Importers

United States: $1,526
Germany: $717
China: $561
France: $466
Britain: $464
Japan: $455
Italy: $351
Netherlands: $319
Belgium: $286
Canada: $280
Other: $3,482

SERVICES TRADE 2004
TOTAL = $2,125 BILLION

United States: $260
Germany: $193
Britain: $136
Japan: $134
Other: $1,402

PARTICIPANTS
Trade ministers from 149 countries and customs territories

AGENDA
Make progress toward the first global trade pact since the creation of the World Trade Organization in 1995. The Hong Kong ministerial conference continues the development round of negotiations that began four years ago in Doha, Qatar.

UNITED STATES
DEADLINE
The Bush administration's current trade negotiating authority from Congress expires on June 30, 2007; renewing it is likely to fail, given the objections from many in the United States against a further loosening of trade. So most negotiators see the expiration of the final authority as the final deadline. Given the need to submit an agreement and its related legislation far enough in advance for a vote by that date, the practical deadline for a comprehensive international trade agreement is the end of 2006.

TOPICS
AGRICULTURE

The main goal of this round of negotiations is to lift barriers to farm trade, but this is also proving the most elusive goal. The agriculture talks fall into three broad categories.

EXPORT SUBSIDIES -- Rich countries have been using export subsidies to dump excess food below cost in poor countries, bankrupting many farmers there. Negotiators agreed in July 2004 to phase out all export subsidies, although the schedule for doing so is under debate.

TRADE-DISTORTING SUBSIDIES -- Trade-distorting domestic subsidies have proved more troublesome, with the French in particular blocking deep cuts. The United States offered this autumn to make slightly deeper cuts, but that offer has been criticized by agricultural exporters and activist groups as too little, too late.

MARKET ACCESS -- The market access talks involve reducing tariffs, which are taxes on imports, and quotas, which are numerical limits on imports. Here again the European Union, and especially the French, have opposed deep cuts.

COTTON -- In a largely separate but highly emotional dispute, West African nations are pressing the United States to comply with a W.T.O. panel ruling that American cotton subsidies are not legal under existing W.T.O. rules.

INDUSTRIAL
GOODS
These talks mainly involve lowering tariffs on manufactured products, as most quotas have already been eliminated. Tariffs in big industrial nations are already lower than in poor nations, but the detailed formula for further reductions is hotly debated. Brazil and India still protect their markets from imports and have resisted deep cuts in tariffs. Many countries worry that lower tariffs will mainly benefit China, which has surging exports in many industries.

SERVICES
Fewer than half the members of the W.T.O.--73--have bothered to submit initial offers for how they might reduce restrictions on foreign competition in their markets for services like banking and insurance, and only 30 have submitted revised offers to take account of other countries' offers.

TRADE
FACILITATION
These rules are aimed at relieving bureaucracy and corruption at border crossings by streamlining customs procedures. Such disputes, and a dispute over cotton, derailed the last ministerial conference in 2003 in Cancun, Mexico.

ENVIRONMENT
Many environmentalists want countries to be able to restrict the import of goods that are produced in environmentally destructive ways in other countries. But many exporters oppose this, and the idea has received little serious discussion among trade ministers.

AID FOR TRADE
The World Bank, International Monetary Fund and the Group of 7 industrial nations have all said that they will provide aid for poor countries to help them adjust to any new trade rules that may be negotiated.

(Keith Bradsher and Dylan Loeb McClain/The New York Times)(pg. C3)

GRAPHIC: Photos: Demonstrators in Hong Kong yesterday, anticipating the start of World Trade Organization talks with a theater of the streets. (Photo by Bobby Yip/Reuters)(pg. C1)
 Protesters against further globalization marched in Hong Kong yesterday with a monster effigy of the W.T.O. (Photo by Bullit Marquez/Associated Press)(pg. C3)Chart: '' Hong Kong, Here They Come''Overview of the World Trade Organization meeting in Hong Kong starting Tuesday. Figures are in billions.WORLD MERCHANDISE TRADE 2004TOTAL = $8,907 BILLIONMachinery and transportation equipment: $3,474All other manufactured goods, including iron and steel: $3,096Fuel and raw ore: $1,281Agriculture: $783Other: $273SERVICES TRADE 2004TOTAL = $2,125 BILLIONTravel: $625Transportation: $500Other: $1,000WORLD MERCHANDISE TRADE 2004TOTAL = $8,907 BILLIONExportersGermany: $912United States: $819China: $593Japan: $566France: $449Netherlands: $358Italy: $349Britain: $347Canada: $317Belgium $307

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: INTERNATIONAL TRADE (90%); EXPORT TRADE (90%); TRADE DEVELOPMENT (90%); EMERGING MARKETS (90%); TALKS & MEETINGS (90%); AGRICULTURAL TRADE (90%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (90%); DEVELOPING COUNTRIES (90%); AGRICULTURAL SUBSIDIES (89%); COTTON FARMING (89%); GLOBALIZATION (78%); IMPORT TRADE (78%); GOVERNMENT GRANTS & SUBSIDIES (78%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (78%); NONTARIFF BARRIERS (78%); POOR POPULATION (78%); EUROPEAN UNION (76%); CONFERENCES & CONVENTIONS (76%); COMMERCE DEPARTMENTS (73%); TEXTILES (71%); FARMERS & RANCHERS (70%); AGRICULTURE (68%); TEXTILE MFG (65%); GENERIC DRUGS (51%) Terms not available from NYTimes

ORGANIZATION: WORLD TRADE ORGANIZATION (91%); EUROPEAN UNION (56%)

PERSON: PASCAL LAMY (57%); ROB PORTMAN (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NORTH CAROLINA, USA (79%); SOUTHEAST USA (79%) HONG KONG (98%); UNITED STATES (97%); EUROPE (92%); JAPAN (92%); NETHERLANDS (79%); MALI (79%); SWITZERLAND (79%); CHINA (79%); SUB SAHARAN AFRICA (79%); BELGIUM (79%); WESTERN AFRICA (79%); LATIN AMERICA (79%); AFRICA (79%); FRANCE (79%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (71%)

LOAD-DATE: December 12, 2005



250 of 607 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 12, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk; E-COMMERCE REPORT; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 999 words

HEADLINE: Is That Item Sold Out? Know Before You Go

BYLINE: By Bob Tedeschi

 BODY:
FORGET about shopping in your underwear. The Web's brighter promise could be how it will change the way you shop in your overcoat.
 Take the latest innovation from Google, which has become Silicon Valley's answer to Willy Wonka. The search engine's shopping service, Froogle, began testing a feature late last month that allows you to check whether certain local stores have particular items in stock, saving you a wasted trip if they do not.
It seems like a marriage made in shopping heaven, uniting the power of the Web to deliver information over the Internet with consumers' overwhelming preference to browse for consumer goods at malls and on Main Street. And it may well be -- but retail executives and analysts say the wedding date is probably a long way off. 
 The reason, they say, is that the Web cannot deliver information that does not exist. And Sucharita Mulpuru, a retail analyst with Forrester Research, said that ''very, very few'' retailers today had systems in place that would let them track inventory moment by moment.
 ''The positioning of Froogle's local shopping service is that it's supposed to save you time, but I'd question that,'' Ms. Mulpuru said.
 Many big merchants can provide reliable stock data on a daily basis, once the store closes, ''and that's marginally useful during most times of the year,'' Ms. Mulpuru said. ''But during the holiday season, when there are a lot of people chasing a handful of popular items, the store's inventory is constantly churning. So in areas where you want it most -- with hot sellers during the holiday season -- that's where this service is most difficult to provide.''
 The problem is that stores may have an electronic record of items that have been unloaded from trucks, and another record of those that have been sold. But in between, items can be stolen, misplaced by employees or simply not put on shelves, so the retailer's electronic count can differ significantly from what is available to shoppers.
 And even if retailers minimize theft or misplaced goods, there is still the matter of getting that data to the Web quickly. Because many retailers have decentralized technology systems -- where the stores hold the data until day's end, then send it to the corporate headquarters -- it is impossible to tell shoppers with any certainty that the iPod everyone wants is really in stock right now.
 In that respect, Google was a bit ahead of itself in suggesting that Froogle users ''can now find that must-have gift at a store in their neighborhood without running all over town.''
 Earlier this month, for instance, a Froogle search for an iPod Nano at a Midtown Manhattan ZIP code, 10036, yielded a page full of products and prices at Radio Shack, Best Buy and CompUSA, among others. When one user clicked on the items, he found that the offers had expired. ShopLocal.com, the company that fed Froogle the information about the iPod on behalf of those stores, said there was a problem ''on Froogle's end,'' accounting for the posting of expired items.
 More to the point, perhaps, ShopLocal said it made no guarantees that items it posted on Froogle were in stock, although ''it is customary for retailers to offer sales on items they have a good supply on,'' said Melissa Severin, a ShopLocal spokeswoman.
 Google is not the only online service introducing services like this. Last month, CNet also introduced a feature that allows shoppers to find out where to buy popular electronics items in local stores. In that service, Channel Intelligence, a company in Celebration, Fla., takes once-daily inventory feeds from four retailers and sends them to CNet.
 Erik Weigel, associate vice president for comparison shopping at CNet, said the service was started with about 1,500 popular items from Best Buy, Circuit City, CompUSA and Office Max. Mr. Weigel said he had not heard any complaints from shoppers who made a fruitless trip to a store after seeing an item in stock on his Web site. ''But we'll continue to watch the situation, and see if there's any need to do more frequent updates,'' he said.
 Ms. Mulpuru of Forrester Research said electronics retailers were better equipped than other stores to provide accurate data on stock levels, because many have more sophisticated technology systems.
 Circuit City is a good example. According to Fiona Dias, senior vice president and chief marketing officer of Circuit City Direct, which includes CircuitCity.com, the company has had an inventory tracking system in place at all its stores since the mid-1980's.
 That system, initially used to direct shoppers to nearby stores if one location was out of a particular item, helped Circuit City in 1999 to offer customers the ability to pick up Web orders from local stores. Such systems are extremely expensive. Ms. Dias and others suggested it would take tens of millions of dollars, and perhaps as much as $100 million, to build similar technology from scratch today.
 Ms. Dias said that more than half the company's Web orders were picked up at local stores, with few glitches. To make sure that items are available for online shoppers when they arrive at the store, the stores show an item as sold out on the Web even though there may be two or three left at the store.
 As for whether the company may suffer if consumers grow skeptical of such services because of other companies' lack of technological expertise, Ms. Dias said: ''If anything, this will show off the pretenders -- the people who claim they have inventory, and maybe they did. We'll be seen as the company that can do it, versus the guys who think they can do it.''
 Indeed, Google is hoping that simply because it is offering the service, retailers may look to sharpen their inventory tracking technology. ''Until now, what would the incentive have been? How useful was that data?'' asked Sonya Boralv, a Google spokeswoman. ''If it is a transformative technology, maybe this is the best thing to come along for real-time inventory management.''


GRAPHIC: Photo: Fiona Dias of Circuit City says the company has used an inventory tracking system since the mid-1980's. (Photo by Jay Paul for The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: INTERNET & WWW (90%); RETAILERS (90%); MARKET RESEARCH & ANALYSIS (77%); WEDDINGS & ENGAGEMENTS (75%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (74%); SEARCH ENGINES (72%) Terms not available from NYTimes

COMPANY: GOOGLE INC (85%); FORRESTER RESEARCH INC (56%)

TICKER: GOOG (NASDAQ) (85%); FORR (NASDAQ) (56%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS519130 INTERNET PUBLISHING & BROADCASTING & WEB SEARCH PORTALS (85%); NAICS541910 MARKETING RESEARCH & PUBLIC OPINION POLLING (56%); SIC8732 COMMERCIAL ECONOMIC, SOCIOLOGICAL, & EDUCATIONAL RESEARCH (56%)

GEOGRAPHIC: SILICON VALLEY, CA, USA (90%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%) CALIFORNIA, USA (90%); NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (90%)

LOAD-DATE: December 12, 2005



251 of 607 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 12, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Editorial Desk; Pg. 26

LENGTH: 353 words

HEADLINE: Remaking the French Ghettos

 BODY:
The rioting that recently engulfed the impoverished suburbs of Paris recalls the riots that plagued America's inner cities in the 1960's. The new policies being developed by the French government -- job training, dropout prevention and antidiscrimination measures -- echo some of the policies America adopted back then. But the French program that is likely to make the most difference in the riot-torn areas became law two years ago. 
 The French urban renewal program, which calls for razing many of the high-rise buildings in the suburban ghettos to create more livable mixed-income housing, was a welcome departure from policies that isolated immigrants in crime-ridden communities. The United States learned this lesson the hard way, after many of its great cities were damaged by massive public housing projects that were originally seen as places for working families but then deteriorated into drug-infested reservations for the poorest of the poor. In almost every city, public housing frightened away the middle class, drove down local property values and limited the horizons of the families who lived in them.
 It was clear by the 1970's that high-density public housing projects were toxic for cities and the families they housed. Congress eventually created a program that encouraged cities to raze the projects and replace them with more habitable scattered housing. The poor who did not find places in these developments often received vouchers that allowed them to move elsewhere. As a result, several American cities have seen some of the worst housing projects in the country give way to vibrant new communities.
 The United States has unfortunately taken a piecemeal approach to this issue, gradually choking off money to one of the most successful urban renewal plans in the nation's history. The French, however, have jumped headlong into the process, committing themselves to transforming all of their ghettos. If the French government stays the course, and beats back narrow-minded opposition, the renewal program could yield fine results for the communities that were epicenters of the recent riots.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Editorial

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PUBLIC HOUSING (91%); URBAN DEVELOPMENT (91%); ECONOMIC NEWS (91%); SLUM DWELLINGS (90%); HOUSING ASSISTANCE (90%); RIOTS (90%); CITY LIFE (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); CITIES (90%); FAMILY (90%); SUBURBS (90%); POOR POPULATION (78%); LEGISLATION (77%); REAL ESTATE (76%); HISTORY (71%); REAL ESTATE VALUATIONS (70%) Terms not available from NYTimes

GEOGRAPHIC: PARIS, FRANCE (90%) ILE-DE-FRANCE, FRANCE (92%) UNITED STATES (96%); FRANCE (93%)

LOAD-DATE: December 12, 2005



252 of 607 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 12, 2005
Correction Appended 
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; The Arts/Cultural Desk; Pg. 24

LENGTH: 2335 words

PERSON: Richard Pryor

HEADLINE: Richard Pryor, Who Turned Humor of the Streets Into Social Satire, Dies at 65

BYLINE: By MEL WATKINS; Reprinted from yesterday's late editions.

 BODY:
 Popular Entertainers
Richard Pryor, the iconoclastic standup comedian who transcended barriers of race and brought a biting, irreverent humor into America's living rooms, movie houses, clubs and concert halls, died Saturday. He was 65. 
 Mr. Pryor, who had been ill with multiple sclerosis, suffered a heart attack and died at a hospital in Los Angeles, his wife, Jennifer Lee Pryor, told CNN.
 Mr. Pryor's health had been in decline for many years. Episodes of self-destructive, chaotic and violent behavior, often triggered by drug use, repeatedly threatened his career and jeopardized his life. ''I couldn't escape the darkness,'' he acknowledged, but he was able to put his demons at the service of his art.
 Mr. Pryor's brilliant comic imagination and creative use of the blunt cadences of street language were revelations to most Americans. He did not simply tell stories, he brought them to vivid life, revealing the entire range of black America's humor, from its folksy rural origins to its raunchier urban expressions. 
 At the height of his career, in the late 1970's, Mr. Pryor prowled the stage like a restless cat, dispensing what critics regarded as the most poignant and penetrating comedic view of African-American life ever afforded the American public. He was volatile yet vulnerable, crass but sensitive, streetwise and cocky but somehow still diffident and anxious. And he could unleash an astonishing array of dramatic and comic skills to win acceptance and approval for a kind of stark humor. 
 ''Pryor started it all,'' the director and comedian Keenen Ivory Wayans said. ''He made the blueprint for the progressive thinking of black comedians, unlocking that irreverent style.''
 For the actor Eddie Murphy, Richard Pryor was simply ''better than anyone who ever picked up a microphone.'' The playwright Neil Simon called him ''the most brilliant comic in America.''

An Innovative Approach
 Mr. Pryor's body language conveyed the ambivalence -- at once belligerent and defensive -- of the black male's provisional stance in society. His monologues evoked the passions and foibles of all segments of black society, including working-class, churchgoing people and prostitutes, pimps and hustlers. 
 He unleashed a galaxy of street characters who traditionally had been embarrassments to most middle-class blacks and mere stereotypes to most whites. And he presented them so truthfully and hilariously that he was able to transcend racial boundaries and capture a huge audience of admirers in virtually every ethnic, economic and cultural group in America. In 1998, he received the Kennedy Center's first award for humor, the Mark Twain Prize, whose winners since have included Whoopi Goldberg, Bob Newhart and, this year, Steve Martin. Mr. Pryor also won five Grammy Awards for his comedy albums.
 Mr. Pryor's crossover appeal derived largely from his innovative approach to comedy -- what Rolling Stone magazine called ''a new type of realistic theater.'' It was essentially comedy without jokes -- re-enactments of common human exchanges that not only mirrored the pretensions of the characters portrayed but also subtly revealed the minor triumphs that allowed them to endure and even prevail over the bleak realities of everyday living.
 ''Comedy,'' he said, ''is when you are driving along and see a couple of dudes and one is in trouble with the others and he's trying to talk his way out of it. You say, 'Oh boy, they got him,' and you laugh. I cannot tell jokes. My comedy is not comedy as society has defined it.''
 In his autobiography, ''Pryor Convictions,'' written in 1995 with Todd Gold, he allows Mudbone, the down-home raconteur who was perhaps his most unforgettable character and in many ways his alter ego, to comment, ''the truth is gonna be funny, but it's gonna scare folks.''
 In fact, Mr. Pryor's often harsh observations and explicit language did offend some audiences. But he insistently presented characters with little or no distortion. ''A lie is profanity,'' he explained. ''A lie is the worst thing in the world. Art is the ability to tell the truth, especially about oneself.''

A Childhood of Characters
 Richard Pryor, the only child of Leroy Pryor and Gertrude Thomas Pryor, was born in Peoria, Ill., on Dec. 1, 1940, and raised in a household where, as he wrote, ''I lived among an assortment of relatives, neighbors, whores and winos -- the people who inspired a lifetime of comedic material.'' His parents and grandmother ran a string of bars and bordellos that catered to transients who moved through the town, which was such an important stop on the black and white vaudeville circuits that it inspired the expression, ''Will it play in Peoria?''
 A frail child, he learned how to use his quick wit and belligerent humor to gain respect from street gangs and bigger, more aggressive peers. But the antic behavior that served him well in the streets did not translate to the classroom, and he was expelled from school in the eighth grade despite his obvious talent and intelligence. During the remainder of his teens, he worked as a truck driver, a laborer and a factory worker, then joined the Army, where he served in Germany until he was discharged after stabbing another serviceman during a fight.
 He returned to Peoria, married, became the father of a son, Richard Jr., and, inspired by the television appearances of Redd Foxx and Dick Gregory, began performing in local nightclubs. In 1962, a variety act offered him a job as a master of ceremonies; leaving his wife and child behind, he began touring, appearing at small black nightclubs in East St. Louis, Cleveland, Chicago, Pittsburgh and Youngstown.
 In 1963, after honing his craft on the ''chitlin circuit,'' Mr. Pryor decided to take a crack at New York City. He felt ready to compete with the ''big cats'' and to try to emulate the success of Bill Cosby, the comedian he most admired. Soon, he was appearing at Greenwich Village clubs like Cafe Wha?, The Living Room, Papa Hud's and the Bitter End.
 Mr. Pryor made his national television debut on Rudy Vallee's ''On Broadway Tonight'' in 1964. He had, in his own words, ''entered the mainstream,'' presenting ''white bread,'' nonoffensive humor that freely copied the styles of other comedians, particularly Mr. Cosby. He worked the Catskills resort hotels and opened for the singer Billy Eckstine at the Apollo Theater in Harlem. Big-time television appearances followed on ''The Ed Sullivan Show'' and Johnny Carson's ''Tonight Show.'' Two years after his arrival in New York, he had a national reputation.
 Despite his growing popularity, Mr. Pryor was frustrated. ''I made a lot of money being Bill Cosby,'' he recalled, ''but I was hiding my personality. I just wanted to be in show business so bad I didn't care how. It started bothering me -- I was being a robot comic, repeating the same lines, getting the same laughs for the same jokes. The repetition was killing me.''
 In 1967, Mr. Pryor stormed off the stage of the Aladdin Hotel in Las Vegas, shouting: ''What am I doing here? I'm not going to do this anymore!''
 In his autobiography, he recalled: ''There was a world of junkies and winos, pool hustlers and prostitutes, women and family screaming inside my head, trying to be heard. The longer I kept them bottled up, the harder they tried to escape. The pressure built tillI went nuts.''
 Despite resistance from club owners, booking agents and advisers, he began listening to those voices, developing new material during the next few years served straight from the black experience, even embracing the street vernacular use of the word ''nigger.'' 
 His first comedy album, ''Richard Pryor'' (1967) revealed his new direction with such routines as: ''I always wanted to go to the movies and see a black hero. I figured maybe on television they'll have it -- Look, up in the sky! It's a crow. It's a bat. No, it's Super Nigger. Able to leap tall buildings with a single bound; faster than a bowl of chitlins.''

Becoming Himself
 By 1970, he had gone underground to reassess his life and his comic approach. 
 When he returned to show business in Los Angeles, his comedy had changed radically. After seeing his revised act, Mr. Cosby said: ''Richard Pryor took on a whole new persona, his own. Richard killed the Bill Cosby in his act, made people hate it. Then he worked on them, doing pure Pryor, and it was the most astonishing metamorphosis I have ever seen. He was magnificent.''
 Some of his new material appeared on his second album, ''Craps (After Hours)'' (1971), which was recorded at the Redd Foxx Club in Hollywood. He boldly engaged sensitive racial topics, mocking police harassment of blacks and exploring differences between white and black sexual attitudes. 
 Although ''Craps'' is considered one of Mr. Pryor's best comedy albums, initial sales were dismal. Even the black audience for whom it was intended largely ignored it.
 Mr. Pryor persisted, however, developing his act and building a new following by returning to the small black clubs that he had abandoned with his initial success. He also appeared at better-known and challenging spots like the Apollo in Harlem and more cutting-edge comedy clubs downtown like the Improv.
 The routines developed on those dates provided material for his next album, ''That Nigger's Crazy'' (1974), which surprised record-industry executives with its appeal to young whites as well as blacks. Despite its X-rating because of explicit language and sexual content, the record sold more than a half-million copies and won the Grammy Award for best comedy album of the year. It was followed by another X-rated album, '' Is It Something I Said?'' (1975), which also went gold and won another Grammy.
 Appearances on television furthered Mr. Pryor's career. He was a popular host on ''Saturday Night Live'' in 1975, and two years later he agreed to do a series of television specials for NBC. 
 Mr. Pryor's impact was not limited to comedy performance on records and the stage. He wrote for Redd Foxx's popular television series ''Sanford and Son'' and for ''The Flip Wilson Show''; he also collaborated with Lily Tomlin on her television specials, receiving an Emmy Award for best comedy writing for ''Lily'' in 1974.
 After returning from a trip to Africa in 1979, Mr. Pryor told audiences he would never use the word ''nigger'' again as a performer. While abroad, he said, he saw black people running governments and businesses. And in a moment of epiphany, he said, he realized that he did not see anyone he could call by that name.
 He appeared in 40 films during a career that began with ''Busy Bodies'' in 1969 and concluded with a role opposite his frequent co-star, Gene Wilder, in ''Another You'' in 1992.
 His first starring role, in 1976, was as a race car driver in ''Greased Lightning,'' and he co-starred with Mr. Wilder in ''Silver Streak.'' Although he would dismiss ''Silver Streak'' as a ''stupid film,'' audiences loved his performance, and he became one of Hollywood's hottest box-office draws.

Comedy Sets a Standard
 Mr. Pryor probably reached the pinnacle of his career in 1979 with his first concert film, ''Richard Pryor, Live in Concert,'' filmed in Long Beach, Calif. It remains the standard by which other movies of live comedy performances are judged.
 The film, which was to inspire others to make their own comic performance movies, caught Mr. Pryor at peak form. He reflected often about his own tumultuous life, with monologues about a domestic quarrel in which he shot his wife's car, the death of his pet monkeys and a near-fatal heart attack, which ended with: ''I woke up in the ambulance, right? And there was nothin' but white people starin' at me. I say I done died and wound up in the wrong heaven. Now I gotta listen to Lawrence Welk the rest of my days.''
 In addition to his wife, Mr. Pryor is survived by six children: Richard Jr., Rain, Elizabeth, Steven, Kelsey and Franklin. He was married six times and divorced five times.
 If he used his misadventures to earn fame and fortune, Mr. Pryor also frequently undercut his career and his life with his self-destructive behavior. In 1974, for example, he was sentenced to 10 days in jail, fined and put on probation after pleading guilty to a charge of willful failure to file an income tax return.
 In 1978, a court fined him $500, placed him on probation again and ordered him to seek psychiatric care and make restitution after a New Year's Day incident in which he rammed his Mercedes into a car containing friends of his wife and then shot at it with a pistol.
 In 1980, after a drug binge, Mr. Pryor was critically burned in an explosion that the police said was caused by the ignition of ether being used in conjunction with cocaine. Paramedics found him walking in a daze more than a mile from his home outside Los Angeles with third-degree burns over the upper half of his body. He was hospitalized for almost two months while undergoing a series of skin grafts.
 Recovering, Mr. Pryor remained a top-box office attraction during most of the 1980's. He appeared in numerous movies and released two more films of live comedy performances, but he continued to be bedeviled by drug and health problems.
 In 1986, he was found to be suffering from multiple sclerosis, a disease that strikes at the central nervous system, and as the years passed he experienced its cruelest symptoms: vertigo, tremors, muscle weakness and chronic fatigue. 
 His performances in ''See No Evil, Hear No Evil'' (1989) and ''Another You'' (1992) revealed a frail, hesitant actor. Still, in 1992, he was back at the Comedy Store in Los Angeles polishing material for a concert tour. He was no longer able to stand onstage and he delivered his monologue from an easy chair. But he was forced to cancel his tour early the next year.
 ''I realized that I had more heart than energy, more courage than strength,'' he said. ''My mind was willing, but my feets couldn't carry me to the end zone.''


CORRECTION-DATE: December 17, 2005

 CORRECTION:
The obituary of the comedian Richard Pryor on Monday and in some copies on Sunday misidentified his last movie and misstated the date of an earlier one. His last movie was ''Lost Highway,'' in 1997, not ''Another You.'' ''Another You'' was released in 1991, not 1992.

GRAPHIC: Photo: Richard Pryor with Gene Wilder in ''See No Evil, Hear No Evil.'' (Photo by Columbia TriStar)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Obituary (Obit); Biography

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ARTISTS & PERFORMERS (91%); PERFORMING ARTS CENTERS (90%); DEATHS & OBITUARIES (90%); AFRICAN AMERICANS (89%); RACE & RACISM (88%); ACTORS & ACTRESSES (78%); DRAMA LITERATURE (73%); IMMUNE SYSTEM DISORDERS (72%); MUSIC (72%); THEATER & DRAMA (71%); WRITERS (68%); ENTERTAINMENT & ARTS AWARDS (67%); MULTIPLE SCLEROSIS (57%) Terms not available from NYTimes

EDDIE MURPHY (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: CALIFORNIA, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (96%)

LOAD-DATE: December 12, 2005



253 of 607 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 12, 2005
Correction Appended 
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; National Desk; Pg. 25

LENGTH: 2204 words

PERSON: Eugene Joseph McCarthy

HEADLINE: Eugene J. McCarthy, Senate Dove Who Jolted '68 Presidential Race, Dies at 89

BYLINE: By FRANCIS X. CLINES; Reprinted from yesterday's late editions.

 BODY:
 Politics and Gov't (U.S.)
Eugene J. McCarthy, the sardonic Senate dove who stunned the nation by upending President Lyndon B. Johnson's re-election drive amid the Vietnam War turmoil of 1968, died early Saturday. He was 89.
 A courtly, sharp-witted presence in capital politics for half a century, Mr. McCarthy, a Minnesota Democrat, died in his sleep at an assisted-living home in the Georgetown neighborhood of Washington, where he had lived for the last several years.
His son, Michael B. McCarthy, said the cause was complications of Parkinson's disease.
 Eugene McCarthy left his mark in a generation's skepticism toward war and the willfulness of political leaders. 
 ''There is only one thing to do -- take it to the country!'' Senator McCarthy angrily declared in a Capitol corridor 15 months before the 1968 election, after hearing the Johnson administration make its case for the legality of the war. 
 Mr. McCarthy, a man of needling wit, triggered one of the most tumultuous years in American political history. With the war taking scores of thousands of American and Vietnamese lives, he rallied throngs against what he called a ''costly exercise in futility'' and stoked a fiery national debate over the World War II model of an all-powerful presidency. He challenged Johnson in a primary, and the president, facing almost certain defeat, ended up withdrawing from the race.
 Mr. McCarthy was a disarming presence on the stump as he mixed a wry tone and a hard, existential edge in challenging the White House, the Pentagon and the superpower swagger of modern politicians.
 An acid-tongued campaigner, Mr. McCarthy was sometimes a puzzlement, veering from inspired speechifying to moody languishing. But he was the singular candidate of the Vietnam War protest, serving up politics and poetry, theology and baseball in a blend that entranced the ''Clean for Gene'' legions who flocked to his insurgent's call.
 ''We do not need presidents who are bigger than the country, but rather ones who speak for it and support it,'' he told them. His supporters were delighted by what they saw as his candor, yet some were troubled by the diffidence that marked his public persona.
 ''I'm kind of an accidental instrument, really,'' he said, ''through which I hope that the judgment and the will of this nation can be expressed.''

A Self-Styled Outcast
 Typically, he only frustrated his followers when he allowed that he was at least ''willing'' to be president and, yes, might even be an ''adequate'' one. Questions arose about his passion on the campaign as he built a reputation as an unapologetic contrarian.
 In his 1968 challenge and for decades thereafter, Mr. McCarthy played the self-outcast of the Democratic Party, even shunning Jimmy Carter to endorse Ronald Reagan, the Republican candidate for president in 1980. He was a chronic presidential campaigner, running in 1972, 1976 and 1988, 18 years gone from the Senate. He endorsed trade protectionism, the strategic defense initiative advocated by Reagan that was often referred to as Star Wars and, most passionately, the junking of the two-party establishment whose rules he came to despise.
 ''It's much easier for me to understand politicians who don't walk away from it,'' he said when, at age 71, he once more knew he could not win but ran anyway, hectoring the latest Beltway incumbents. 
 Mr. McCarthy stayed busy writing poetry and books about the decline of American politics, and kept his eye on Washington from his farmhouse in bucolic Rappahannock County, Va., 70 miles to the west, on 14 acres set amid the Blue Ridge Mountains.
 ''I think he has a rejection wish,'' Maurice Rosenblatt, a Washington lobbyist who was a longtime friend, once said of the senator's perplexing mix of quixotic impulse and lethal hesitancy. ''He wants to reject others and be rejected by them.''
 But others, conceding his quirks, rated Mr. McCarthy the one stand-up, cant-free politician of their generation. ''Besides his conscience, there is his civility,'' Joe Flaherty wrote in the antiwar heyday of The Village Voice.
 Mr. McCarthy delighted in commenting obliquely on politics and himself by reciting poetry on the hustings. His more zealous volunteers yearned for clarion calls, not pentameter. But this was not the style of a man steeped in the Thomistic tangents of his training as a Roman Catholic college professor.
 Standing a lean 6 feet 4 inches, gray-haired and dryly smiling, the candidate McCarthy gave a memorable rendering of Yeats (''An Irish Airman Foresees His Death'') in suggesting why he ran:

PNor law, nor duty bade me fight,
 Nor public men, nor cheering crowds,
 A lonely impulse of delight
 Drove to this tumult in the clouds.

 As a speaker, Mr. McCarthy was an original but hardly stem-winding presence. ''Usually the cheers were greater when he came in than when he finished speaking,'' noted the poet Robert Lowell, who frequently traveled with the candidate.
 Mr. McCarthy, once a semiprofessional baseball player, liked to burnish a kind of knuckleball oddness. In one of his own later poems, ''Lament for an Aging Politician,'' he wrote: 

 I have left Act I, for involution
 And Act II. There, mired in complexity
 I cannot write Act III.

 He identified simplistic partisanship as the ultimate enemy in the domestic strife over the Vietnam War. Invoking Whitman's call to human goodness -- ''Arouse! for you must justify me'' -- candidate McCarthy's basic message to Americans was Daniel Webster's dictum to never ''give up to party what was meant for mankind.''

A Soft-Spoken Campaigner
 As crowds rallied to him, he promised no new deals or frontiers. Rather, he slowed his baritone for a plain definition of patriotism: ''To serve one's country not in submission but to serve it in truth.''
 He showed more passion as contrarian than as dogged campaigner. At the 1960 Democratic National Convention, Senator McCarthy showed that speaker's fire so longed for by his later followers when he boldly nominated Adlai E. Stevenson, a twice-defeated presidential candidate, one more time despite -- or because of -- John F. Kennedy's lock on the nomination.
 ''Do not reject this man who made us all proud to be Democrats,'' rang Mr. McCarthy's electrifying loser's plea.
 In Congress, Mr. McCarthy was an unabashed liberal unafraid to take on Senator Joseph R. McCarthy of Wisconsin and his alarmist warnings about the Communist menace. More often, as he restlessly paced the backs of committee rooms or brought a tome to read during hearings, Eugene McCarthy was viewed by peers as something of a ruminator and a curmudgeon.
 Yet he was the one who dared to step forward and bell the White House cat when other Democrats would only complain. Grasping the unpopularity of the deepening war, he sought to make a party issue of it, announcing his primary candidacy against President Johnson, a fellow Democrat, in the hope of building pressure for a policy change.
 ''There comes a time when an honorable man simply has to raise the flag,'' declared the senator, a onetime novice monk whose political role model was Sir Thomas More, the English statesman martyred in resisting Henry VIII's seizure of church power.
 Mocked by Johnson loyalists as a mere ''footnote in history,'' Mr. McCarthy prevailed well enough in his time to observe, after driving Johnson into retreat, ''I think we can say with Churchill, 'But what a footnote!' ''
 Senator McCarthy's challenge was intended to prod, more than destroy, the president. But in unnerving Johnson in office, he shook Senator Robert F. Kennedy of New York from his irresolution about challenging the president. The critical moment came in the New Hampshire primary of March 1968, when Mr. McCarthy beat the pundits' predictions and won 42 percent of the vote. Johnson, despite his incumbent's grip, could score only 49 percent.
 Within days, Senator Kennedy entered the race, embittering McCarthy supporters, not to mention their champion. Two weeks later, Johnson pre-empted greater popular rejection and astonished the nation by suddenly announcing in a postscript to a televised speech that he would not seek re-election and would devote his energies to ending the war.

The Chicago Convention
 The year's tumult continued. Kennedy was assassinated in June in California as he edged out the McCarthy forces in a key round of the antiwar competition. The Democrats staggered to their convention in Chicago, where civic mayhem erupted. 
 The party machine forced the nomination of Vice President Hubert H. Humphrey to face Richard M. Nixon, over the objections of war protesters, including draft-ripe college students. Many demonstrators were beaten in the streets by the Chicago police of Mayor Richard J. Daley, a party stalwart.
 ''I can still smell the tear gas in the Hilton Hotel,'' Mr. McCarthy said in an interview nearly 30 years later. ''I said before the vote we were not going to win, and there was no point in having the student delegations in the streets thinking we could.''
 ''The party hasn't recovered from Chicago; sort of its integrity was lost,'' he contended in his ninth decade, saying that modern issues of importance were being sidestepped as candidates ran to the drumbeat of the focus group for the office of ''governor of the United States.''
 Robert Kennedy's brother, Senator Edward M. Kennedy of Massachusetts, said in a statement on Saturday: ''Gene's name will forever be linked with our family. In spite of the rivalry with Bobby in the 1968 campaign, I admired Gene enormously for his courage in challenging a war America never should have fought. His life speaks volumes to us today, as we face a similar critical time for our country.''
 Mr. McCarthy viewed himself as the classic ''messenger who brought the bad news'' to the party, never to be forgiven. He withheld his endorsement of Humphrey until a week before the 1968 election, using the intervening time to demand antiwar concessions, but also, in a characteristic display of aloofness, to cover the World Series for Life magazine.
 Baseball was his metaphor for politics and life. ''We know Nixon's stuff,'' he said well before Nixon resigned in disgrace from the presidency. ''He's got a slider. And he's thrown a spitter so many years he's got seniority rights on it.''
 Eugene Joseph McCarthy, of Irish-German descent, was born March 29, 1916, in Watkins, Minn., the son of Michael J. and Anna Baden McCarthy. He graduated from St. John's University in Collegeville, Minn., in 1935 and then earned a master's degree in economics and sociology at the University of Minnesota. He taught social science in Minnesota high schools for several years, then economics and education at St. John's and sociology at the College of St. Thomas in St. Paul.
 The young McCarthy thought he might want to be a Benedictine monk, but he left the monastery after a nine-month novitiate trial. He later married a fellow teacher, Abigail Quigley. They had four children. Soon after the 1968 campaign, the McCarthys separated after 24 years of marriage. They never divorced. She died in 2001.
 In addition to Michael McCarthy, of Seattle, Mr. McCarthy is survived by two daughters, Ellen A. McCarthy of Bethesda, Md., and Margaret A. McCarthy of Takoma Park, Md.; and six grandchildren. He is also survived by a brother, Austin McCarthy of Wilmer, Minn.; and a sister, Marian Enright of Walnut Creek, Calif. A daughter, Mary A. McCarthy, died in 1990, Michael McCarthy said.

Public Figure, Private Man
 Mr. McCarthy remained active until the last few months. In January, he published a 173-page paperback collection of essays and poems, ''Parting Shots From My Brittle Bow: Reflections on American Politics and Life.''
 Stirred to politics by the Democratic-Farmer-Labor Party, Mr. McCarthy was elected to the House of Representatives in 1948 and served five terms before being elected to the Senate, where he served 12 years.
 In the 1968 campaign, Mr. McCarthy was the sort of candidate who could accept with equanimity a critic's charge that he ran ''against the powers of the presidency.''
 In manner, he was faulted for arrogance; in strategy, for not broadening his antiwar constituency with stronger ties to blacks and the working poor, as Robert Kennedy did. The McCarthy civil rights record was considered exemplary, yet when asked about the issue at a rally, he dismissively advised his questioner to look up his record.
 ''Record, hell! Tell us what you feel!'' the citizen shot back at the candidate.
 Although his image was warm and witty on television, Mr. McCarthy stepped back from playing the candidate who engaged by self-revelation. Abigail McCarthy, respected in her own career as a writer, once said, ''The essential thing about Gene is that he's a private person, and in an all-confessional age, that's considered almost treachery.''
 The senator who defied his president and party was confessional in his reliance on Thomas More as ''the first modern man, the first political man.''
 ''He was forced to make a kind of individual and personal choice at a time when there was great upheaval,'' Mr. McCarthy noted with satisfaction as he tried to explain himself to a nation also in upheaval.


CORRECTION-DATE: January 16, 2006

 CORRECTION:
An obituary on Dec. 12 and in some copies on Dec. 11 about former Senator Eugene J. McCarthy misspelled the name of the hometown of his surviving brother, Austin McCarthy. It is Willmar, Minn., not Wilmer. This correction was delayed by an editing lapse.

GRAPHIC: Photo: Senator Eugene J. McCarthy campaigning for president in Philadelphia in 1968. The surprising success of his candidacy led President Lyndon B. Johnson to withdraw from the race. (Photo by Jefferson Siegel)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Obituary (Obit); Biography

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: WAR & CONFLICT (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); DEATHS & OBITUARIES (90%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); POLITICS (90%); ELECTIONS (90%); VIETNAM WAR (90%); PROTESTS & DEMONSTRATIONS (77%); DISEASES & DISORDERS (75%); POLITICAL PROTESTS (74%); POLITICAL DEBATES (74%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (73%); WORLD WAR II (72%); PARKINSONS DISEASE (70%); BASEBALL (66%); ASSISTED LIVING SERVICES (56%); LONG TERM HEALTH CARE (56%); RELIGION (50%) Terms not available from NYTimes

GEOGRAPHIC: PENNSYLVANIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (93%); VIET NAM (88%)

LOAD-DATE: December 12, 2005



254 of 607 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 12, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Editorial Desk; Pg. 27

LENGTH: 732 words

HEADLINE: Big Box Balderdash

BYLINE: By Paul Krugman

 BODY:
I think I've just seen the worst economic argument of 2005. Given what the Bush administration tried to put over on us during its unsuccessful sales pitch for Social Security privatization, that's saying a lot.
 The argument came in the course of the latest exchange between Wal-Mart and its critics. A union-supported group, Wake Up Wal-Mart, has released a TV ad accusing Wal-Mart of violating religious values, backed by a letter from religious leaders attacking the retail giant for paying low wages and offering poor benefits. The letter declares that ''Jesus would not embrace Wal-Mart's values of greed and profits at any cost.''
You may think that this particular campaign -- which has, inevitably, been dubbed ''Where would Jesus shop?'' -- is a bit over the top. But it's clear why those concerned about the state of American workers focus their criticism on Wal-Mart. The company isn't just America's largest private employer. It's also a symbol of the state of our economy, which delivers rising G.D.P. but stagnant or falling living standards for working Americans. For Wal-Mart is a huge and hugely profitable company that pays badly and offers minimal benefits. 
 Attacks on Wal-Mart have hurt its image, and perhaps even its business. The company has set up a campaign-style war room to devise responses. So how did Wal-Mart respond to this latest critique? 
 Wal-Mart can claim, with considerable justice, that its business practices make America as a whole richer. The fact is that Wal-Mart sells many products more cheaply than traditional stores, and that its low prices aren't solely or even mainly the result of the low wages it pays. Wal-Mart has been able to reduce prices largely because it has brought genuine technological and organizational innovation to the retail business.
 It's harder for Wal-Mart to defend its pay and benefits policies. Still, the company could try to argue that despite its awesome size and market dominance it cannot defy the iron laws of supply and demand, which force it to pay low wages. (I disagree, but that's a subject for another column.)
 But instead of resting its case on these honest or at least defensible answers to criticism, Wal-Mart has decided to insult our intelligence by claiming to be, of all things, an engine of job creation. Judging from its press release in response to the religious values campaign, the assertion that Wal-Mart ''creates 100,000 jobs a year'' is now the core of the company's public relations strategy.
 It's true, of course, that the company is getting bigger every year. But adding 100,000 people to Wal-Mart's work force doesn't mean adding 100,000 jobs to the economy. On the contrary, there's every reason to believe that as Wal-Mart expands, it destroys at least as many jobs as it creates, and drives down workers' wages in the process. 
 Think about what happens when Wal-Mart opens a store in a previously untouched city or county. The new store takes sales away from stores that are already in the area; these stores lay off workers or even go out of business. Because Wal-Mart's big-box stores employ fewer workers per dollar of sales than the smaller stores they replace, overall retail employment surely goes down, not up, when Wal-Mart comes to town. And if the jobs lost come from employers who pay more generously than Wal-Mart does, overall wages will fall when Wal-Mart moves in.
 This isn't just speculation on my part. A recent study by David Neumark of the University of California at Irvine and two associates at the Public Policy Institute of California, ''The Effects of Wal-Mart on Local Labor Markets,'' uses sophisticated statistical analysis to estimate the effects on jobs and wages as Wal-Mart spread out from its original center in Arkansas. 
 The authors find that retail employment did, indeed, fall when Wal-Mart arrived in a new county. It's not clear in their data whether overall employment in a county rose or fell when a Wal-Mart store opened. But it's clear that average wages fell: ''residents of local labor markets,'' the study reports, ''earn less following the opening of Wal-Mart stores.''
 So Wal-Mart has chosen to defend itself with a really poor argument. If that's the best the company can come up with, it's going to keep losing the public relations war with its critics. Maybe it should consider an alternative strategy, such as paying higher wages.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: SOCIAL SECURITY (90%); PRIVATIZATION (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); US SOCIAL SECURITY (90%); DISCOUNT & CLUB STORES (90%); JOB CREATION (89%); RETAILERS (89%); WAGES & SALARIES (89%); RELIGION (89%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (78%); COMPANY STRATEGY (77%); LIVING STANDARDS (73%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (72%); BROADCAST ADVERTISING (71%); PUBLIC RELATIONS (64%) Terms not available from NYTimes

COMPANY: WAL-MART STORES INC (95%)

TICKER: WMT (NYSE) (95%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS452910 WAREHOUSE CLUBS & SUPERCENTERS (95%); NAICS452112 DISCOUNT DEPARTMENT STORES (95%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (95%)

LOAD-DATE: December 12, 2005



255 of 607 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 12, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 3; Foreign Desk; Pg. 13

LENGTH: 926 words

HEADLINE: Political Activism Begins To Take Hold in Kyrgyzstan

BYLINE: By ETHAN WILENSKY-LANFORD

DATELINE: BISHKEK, Kyrgyzstan, Dec. 11 

 BODY:
In the remote hamlet of Tamga, residents frustrated by corruption and the sorry legacy of a chemical spill did something that would have been unthinkable in Kyrygzstan not long ago: they rose up.
 For 10 days last month, they blocked the road to a gold mine where almost two tons of cyanide spilled into the Barskoon River more than seven years ago. Another group surrounded a power plant, threatening to cut off electricity to the Kumtor mine, owned by Centerra Gold in Toronto.
The protests were inspired by the public upheaval in March that toppled this country's long-serving ruler, President Askar Akayev. Like the events in March, they appear -- at least for now -- to have succeeded. 
 The government that replaced Mr. Akayev's promised to pay $3.7 million in compensation that local residents considered long overdue for the suffering the spill has caused in Tamga and neighboring Barskoon, situated about 150 miles east of here on the shore of Lake Ysyk-Kol.
 Protesters say that corrupt elements of Mr. Akayev's government intercepted earlier payments and that the new president, Kurmanbek Bakiyev, gave his personal guarantee that the compensation money would be paid in full. 
 ''And if they again steal from us, we will not believe them the next time,'' Jekshen Shamaraliyev, a leader of the protests, said in an interview in Tamga. ''We will close everything up. Then we will block all production at Kumtor.''
 More than eight months after what has been called both a popular revolution and a coup, Kyrgyzstan is taking small yet determined steps toward embracing the fundamentals of democracy. Political activism like that in Tamga has emerged as a legitimate form of expressing dissent -- one that might have been ignored under Mr. Akayev's rule. A prominent new political party has been established, calling for sweeping constitutional changes to cement the country's course toward democracy.
 Still, basic problems remain that many worry could undo the gains made last March. Reports of corruption in the new government persist, and organized crime appears to continue.
 Mr. Bakiyev has introduced a draft constitution that would guarantee that both he and Parliament would serve out their terms of office in full -- without running the risk of impeachment or recall. At the same time, he appears to support efforts to disband Parliament in order to encourage support for his constitution, which does little to limit the powers of the president. 
 ''Bakiyev and others signed certain pledges to limit presidential powers,'' said David Mikosz, the country director for the International Foundation for Electoral Systems, an organization financed by the United States government. ''Now he seems to argue that due to disorders and destabilization in the country, he needs those powers.''
 Mr. Akayev had amended the Constitution in 2003 to establish unchallenged presidential authority. His changes weakened Parliament's ability to impeach the president, even in the event of criminal wrongdoing. All candidates form president who ran in the election this summer promised to make improvements in the Constitution.
 One political party, Erkindik, which means freedom, is petitioning Mr. Bakiyev to dissolve Parliament. It claims to have collected the 300,000 signatures needed by law to force a referendum to recall Parliament, and reportedly has done so with the support of regional officials. The Parliament is made up mostly of lawmakers elected under Mr. Akayev's reign. It is probable that a referendum to dissolve Parliament will pass if put before the nation.
 Although it is nominally up to the Central Election Commission to validate the signatures, Mr. Mikosz said Parliament feared that Mr. Bakiyev could influence the decision, and was therefore inclined to support his draft constitution, granting him power similar to that enjoyed by Mr. Akayev. 
 His critics -- and there are more and more -- say Mr. Bakiyev has betrayed the ideals of the March protests that overthrew Mr. Akayev. 
 Roza Otunbayeva, who was very critical of the Akayev presidency and active in the spring revolution, was forced out as foreign minister this summer. She subsequently lost a special election to fill a seat in Parliament held by a powerful businessman who was shot in June, with accusations that he had organized pro-Akayev protests last spring. His nephew won, after an attack on Ms. Otunbayeva's campaign headquarters.
 ''He ran away -- Akayev -- and then we put in Bakiyev,'' Ms. Otunbayeva said in an interview in October. 
 ''We have realized now that this is absolutely the same,'' she added. ''The system will not improve at all, will not change, because of this Constitution, which is authoritarianism injected in our system.'' 
 Azimbek Beknazarov, another former opposition leader active in the uprising last spring who has since been cast aside by Mr. Bakiyev, won a seat in Parliament in recent by-elections, indicating that a vibrant new opposition is forming. 
 Mr. Bakiyev is promising -- albeit vaguely, critics say -- to push forward changes in Parliament to strengthen political parties, a necessary step to promote democracy. As a result, lawmakers have begun organizing themselves into a left, right and center, for the first time ever in this country.
 Mr. Bakiyev has expressed hope that Kyrgyzstan's gross domestic product will increase by 8 percent in 2006. A more visible economic indicator, though, is Beta Stores, the landmark department store in downtown Bishkek, which was gutted by rioters in March. It has yet to reopen.


GRAPHIC: Map of Kyrgyzstan highlighting Tamga: Residents of Tamga demand compensation for a chemical spill. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PROTESTS & DEMONSTRATIONS (90%); CHEMICAL ACCIDENTS (90%); CORRUPTION (90%); INDUSTRIAL ACCIDENTS (90%); POLITICAL CORRUPTION (78%); GOLD MINING (77%); POLITICAL ORGANIZATIONS (76%); ELECTRIC POWER PLANTS (76%); INTERVIEWS (75%); CYANIDES (73%); ORGANIZED CRIME (73%); POWER PLANTS (71%); LAKES (71%) Terms not available from NYTimes

COMPANY: CENTERRA GOLD INC (58%)

TICKER: CG (TSX) (58%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS212221 GOLD ORE MINING (58%); SIC1041 GOLD ORES (58%)

PERSON: KURMANBEK BAKIYEV (75%)

GEOGRAPHIC: KYRGYZSTAN (94%); UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: December 12, 2005



256 of 607 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 12, 2005
Correction Appended 
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Foreign Desk; Pg. 10

LENGTH: 1082 words

HEADLINE: Finland Rekindles Interest in Nuclear Power

BYLINE: By LIZETTE ALVAREZ

DATELINE: HELSINKI, Finland 

 BODY:
Finland is nothing if not pragmatic and law abiding.
 So when Finland, a country with a long memory of the Chernobyl disaster in 1986 and considerable environmental bona fides, chose to move ahead this year with the construction of the world's largest nuclear reactor, the nuclear industry portrayed it as a victory, one that would force the rest of Western Europe to take note.
 But the decision to build the reactor, Olkiluoto 3, Europe's first in 15 years, was not taken quickly or lightly. The proposal, which was fiercely opposed by the Green Party, wound its way through nearly every committee in Parliament, was the subject of intense lobbying and was exhaustively covered by Finland's numerous newspapers. Ultimately, the 1,600 megawatt reactor was approved in 2002 by a vote of 107 to 92. Construction began this year in Olkiluoto, a small island on Finland's southwestern shore. The plant is scheduled to open in 2009. 
 ''There was only one question that has been discussed more in Parliament, and that was Finland's E.U. membership,'' said Anneli Nikula, vice president for corporate communications at Teollisuuden Voima Oy, the Finnish power group that is building Olkiluoto 3 and operates two of Finland's four existing reactors. ''All the facts were on the table.''
 Now, with continued spikes in gas and fuel prices, fears about overdependence on foreign oil and the growing threat of global warming, Finland's decision to embrace nuclear energy appears prescient. A number of countries that have turned away from nuclear power in recent decades, including the United States, are reconsidering their options and freshening up languishing proposals to build nuclear plants. Others with a renewed interest in nuclear energy include Britain, Bulgaria, the Czech Republic, Switzerland, Hungary and Slovakia.
 ''There is an expectation that others will follow, both because of the way the decision was made and the boosting of confidence in being able to get through all the oppositional fear-mongering,'' said Ian Hore-Lacy, the director of public communications for the World Nuclear Association, an industry lobbying group.
 The United States, which has not had a nuclear plant on order since 1978, is experiencing a groundswell of interest. Taking the first step in a long process, Constellation Energy, a Baltimore-based holding company, announced in late October that it would apply to the Nuclear Regulatory Commission for permission to construct and operate a pressurized water reactor like the kind being built in Finland, possibly in upstate New York or Maryland. The Finnish reactor, designed by Areva, the French state-controlled nuclear power group, is being built by Framatome ANP, a joint venture of Areva and Siemens, a Germany company.
 In addition, President Bush signed into law an energy bill in August that offers billions of dollars in research and development funds and construction subsidies to companies willing to build new nuclear plants. Several utility companies have applied for early site permits, a preliminary step toward building reactors.
 Worldwide, the resurgent interest in nuclear power is even more pronounced. Twenty-three reactors are under construction this year in 10 countries, most of them in Asia, which has aggressively pursued nuclear energy. India is building eight reactors. China and Taiwan are building a total of four reactors and are planning eight more. Russia is building four and South Korea is planning eight.
 The Finnish government first sought approval to build its fifth nuclear reactor in 1993, while memories of the Chernobyl catastrophe lingered. Few were willing to accept the risks.
 Twelve years later, a skittish and uncertain energy market has changed everything. Global warming, Finland's dependence on foreign sources of natural gas and oil, and the potential impact of high electricity prices on Finland's crucial energy-intensive industries have managed to trump concerns about nuclear energy's safety and waste. That same shift is occurring in many other countries as well, with a few notable holdouts, including Germany, Sweden and Belgium.
 At the same time, the nuclear industry, which says its newer reactors are safer and more affordable, deftly reframed the debate, focusing on the potential benefits to the economy and environment. Finland takes seriously its commitment under the Kyoto Protocol to lower carbon dioxide emissions, which are produced in large quantities by burning oil, coal and gas, a position that weighed heavily in the reactor's favor.
 ''The climate change debate was not here 10 years ago,'' said Oras Tynkkynen, a Green Party member of Parliament who opposed the reactor and accused the government of failing to pursue renewable energy -- wind power, for example -- as a solution. ''Now all they say is we have this terrible problem with climate change and we need to do something about it. It's hard to refute in 15 seconds.''
 Nuclear energy's selling points were timely: it does not create emissions, unlike coal, oil and gas, and provides predictable electricity prices, a major bonus for Finnish industries, nuclear proponents said.
 ''The only viable alternative, if we want to maintain the structure of the economy, maintain our industries and meet our Kyoto targets, is nuclear,'' said Juha Rantanen, the chief executive officer of Outokumpu, one of the world's largest steel producers and one of Finland's biggest energy users. ''We can't have a declining economy. We face huge challenges and an aging population. Something had to be done.''
 Environmentalists, however, argued that nuclear reactors could never be entirely safe. They are always radioactive, and their waste remains toxic for 100,000 years.
 But the designers of Areva's pressurized water reactor, which is costing $3.5 billion to build, helped counter those arguments. In the event of a core meltdown, they said, the nuclear material would flow into a separate enclosure for cooling. They also said that the reactor is being built with enough concrete to withstand the impact of an airliner. 
 In the end, Finland's largest trade union supported the project, basically sealing the deal.
 Environmentalists, who argue that building more nuclear reactors simply allows the government to put off serious investment in alternative energy, are now confronting possible plans for a sixth reactor in Finland. ''It makes life nice for 10 years,'' Mr. Tynkkynen said. ''But in the long term it causes trouble.''


CORRECTION-DATE: December 14, 2005

 CORRECTION:
An article on Monday about the planned expansion of nuclear power in Finland misstated the business of a large Finnish industrial company that supports the expansion and is one of the country's biggest users of energy. The company, Outokumpu, is a leading producer of stainless steel, not steel in general.

GRAPHIC: Photo: Finland's construction of a nuclear plant on the island of Olkiluoto has encouraged other countries to reconsider the use of nuclear energy. (Photo by John McConnico for The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: NUCLEAR ENERGY (91%); NUCLEAR POWER PLANTS (90%); LOBBYING (89%); HOLDING COMPANIES (89%); NATURAL GAS & ELECTRIC UTILITIES (89%); POWER PLANTS (89%); CHERNOBYL NUCLEAR DISASTER (78%); LEGISLATION (78%); ENERGY REGULATION (77%); RESEARCH & DEVELOPMENT (77%); NUCLEAR SCIENCE (77%); REAL ESTATE DEVELOPMENT (77%); ENERGY & UTILITY CONSTRUCTION (77%); ELECTRICITY TRANSMISSION & DISTRIBUTION (74%); ENERGY & UTILITY LAW (72%); ENERGY DEPARTMENTS (72%); APPROVALS (70%); JOINT VENTURES (60%); GLOBAL WARMING (50%) Terms not available from NYTimes

COMPANY: AREVA NP SAS (74%); TEOLLISUUDEN VOIMA OY (68%); AREVA SA (58%); SIEMENS AG (58%)

TICKER: AREVA (PAR) (58%); SIN (SWX) (58%); SIE (LSE) (58%); SIE (FRA) (58%); SIE (BIT) (58%); SI (NYSE) (58%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS237990 OTHER HEAVY & CIVIL ENGINEERING CONSTRUCTION (74%); NAICS237130 POWER & COMMUNICATION LINE & RELATED STRUCTURES CONSTRUCTION (74%); SIC1629 HEAVY CONSTRUCTION NEC (74%); SIC1623 WATER, SEWER, PIPELINE, & COMMUNICATIONS & POWER LINE CONSTRUCTION (74%); SIC4911 ELECTRIC SERVICES (68%); NAICS562211 HAZARDOUS WASTE TREATMENT & DISPOSAL (58%); NAICS335312 MOTOR & GENERATOR MANUFACTURING (58%); NAICS335311 POWER, DISTRIBUTION & SPECIALTY TRANSFORMER MANUFACTURING (58%); NAICS334416 CAPACITOR, RESISTOR, COIL, TRANSFORMER & OTHER INDUCTOR MANUFACTURING (58%); NAICS236210 INDUSTRIAL BUILDING CONSTRUCTION (58%); NAICS212291 URANIUM-RADIUM-VANADIUM ORE MINING (58%); NAICS335110 ELECTRIC LAMP BULB & PART MANUFACTURING (58%); NAICS334513 INSTRUMENTS & RELATED PRODUCTS MANUFACTURING FOR MEASURING, DISPLAYING & CONTROLLING INDUSTRIAL PROCESS VARIABLES (58%); NAICS334413 SEMICONDUCTOR & RELATED DEVICE MANUFACTURING (58%); NAICS334210 TELEPHONE APPARATUS MANUFACTURING (58%)

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: HELSINKI, FINLAND (79%); BALTIMORE, MD, USA (51%) MARYLAND, USA (92%); NEW YORK, USA (79%) FINLAND (95%); EUROPE (94%); UNITED STATES (92%); WESTERN EUROPE (92%); UKRAINE (91%); SWITZERLAND (79%); BULGARIA (79%); HUNGARY (79%); SLOVAKIA (79%); CZECH REPUBLIC (79%); FRANCE (79%)

LOAD-DATE: December 12, 2005



257 of 607 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 12, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 5; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1066 words

HEADLINE: A Transit Strike Still Unlikely, But Emotions Increase Chances

BYLINE: By STEVEN GREENHOUSE

 BODY:
It almost seems scripted.
 Thousands of transit workers resoundingly authorize a strike, and the Metropolitan Transportation Authority talks tough in demanding concessions.
Then the two sides move into the Grand Hyatt hotel for round-the-clock bargaining. And once again millions of subway and bus riders are wondering whether a strike will shut down the nation's largest transit system when the union's contract expires at 12:01 a.m. Friday.
 It's as if a whole city of opera lovers were watching ''Tosca,'' transfixed by the drama, even though they know what happens in each act, and how it all ends. 
 But. 
 Even though there has not been a transit strike since 1980, even though state law bars such walkouts and even though union and management say a strike is unlikely, a strike is always possible, and this year the chances appear higher than usual.
 ''A settlement is the rational thing, but people don't always behave in a rational manner,'' said John H. Mollenkopf, director of the Center for Urban Research at the City University Graduate Center.
 The potential for irrationality -- others use the words intransigence or hotheadedness -- seems slightly higher in this December's negotiations than in the transit talks three years ago, when the two sides stopped the clock and then announced a settlement 19 hours after the strike deadline. 
 This time around, the bargaining stew seems somewhat more volatile because the transportation authority is demanding sizable concessions on pensions and health coverage, saying that it needs to worry about future deficits even though it has a budget surplus of nearly $1 billion. Many transit workers believe the authority is sitting on a pile of money, and they are looking for generosity from the authority, not demands for givebacks.
 Also, some labor experts say, the authority's chief negotiator, Gary J. Dellaverson, has seemed to draw some lines in the sand, for instance, on getting newly hired workers to pay 2 percent of their wages toward health coverage (members currently make no contributions to their coverage).
 By pushing those demands so publicly, some veteran labor negotiators say, Mr. Dellaverson may have put the transportation authority in a position where it might have a hard time backing away from them as the deadline approaches.
 Adding to the explosiveness of the mix, Roger Toussaint, president of the union representing 33,700 transit workers, is feeling a lot of pressure from dissidents to be more militant and to reject any concessions. 
 Perhaps it was the anger of the moment, but when Mr. Toussaint spoke to thousands of workers at the Jacob K. Javits Convention Center on Saturday night after they authorized a strike, there was an unusual twist. Holding a megaphone, he began a well-known labor chant by yelling, ''What do we want?''
 But many of the workers responded not with the word he expected, ''Contract,'' but rather with the defiant word ''Strike.''
 There are people who see reasons for anger on both sides.
 Noting that the transportation authority's annual pension contributions have tripled since 2002, to $453 million, Mr. Dellaverson said: ''Maintaining this level of contributions to support this level of pension benefits over the long term is unsustainable.''
 Joshua B. Freeman, author of a history of New York labor unions, ''Working-Class New York,'' said: ''There are probably a number of demands that the M.T.A. put on the table, that if it doesn't take them off can lead to a strike.''
 Over the next few days, there will be a lot of heat and tension at the bargaining table and in news conferences, but compromises are inevitable.
 The union has demanded raises of 8 percent a year, and the transportation authority has proposed raises of 3 percent the first year and 2 percent the second. The union can be expected to lower its sights on wage increases, and the authority can be expected to raise its offer. 
 The union is demanding that the age for a full pension be lowered to 50 from the current 55, while the transportation authority is demanding that it be raised to 62. 
 Of course, one side or the other might refuse to budge from its age demand -- and that could lead to a strike --but some labor experts say it is more likely that the two sides will withdraw their demands on changing the pension age.
 ''You understand that there are going to be compromises because I don't think anyone wants a strike,'' said Richard Ravitch, who served as the authority's chairman in 1980, when it took an 11-day transit strike.
 Mr. Ravitch said he thought he had choreographed a deal with John E. Lawe, the union's president. They had agreed that Mr. Lawe would take the authority's supposed final offer to the union's board, fully expecting the board to reject it. Then Mr. Ravitch was to sweeten the ''final'' offer to presumably clinch a deal. 
 But when Mr. Lawe went to the transit workers' board, which included many of his opponents, it was so angry that it rejected Mr. Ravitch's offer, made no counteroffer, and called a strike. 
 This time, too, there are many angry union members, who complain that the last contract did not keep up with inflation, and who feel that the authority's new wage proposal would leave them further behind.
 ''Their offer is garbage -- they're asking for too many givebacks,'' said Mike Simmons, a bus driver for 26 years. ''Their offer of 3 percent and 2 percent is nothing considering the surplus they have. If they don't improve their offer, yeah, I would go on strike. Sometimes you have to take a stand.''
 But the price for going out on strike could be a high one. 
 Not only might a work stoppage anger the public, but it would also violate a 1967 state law. Under that act, the Taylor Law, the union could face huge fines and the workers could lose two days' pay for each day on strike.
 The union might also have to worry that Mayor Michael R. Bloomberg and Gov. George E. Pataki might push to crack down on the union if it strikes because neither is looking to curry favor with the union now that neither plans to run for re-election. 
 ''The union will put itself at real risk if it strikes because of the Taylor Law sanctions, particularly in the current environment,'' said Bruce McIver, a former chief negotiator for the transportation authority. ''So I think from the union's perspective, there's a lot of pressure not to strike.''

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News Analysis

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: URBAN TRANSIT SYSTEMS (92%); LABOR DISPUTES & NEGOTIATIONS (90%); URBAN BUS SYSTEMS (90%); STRIKES (90%); CITY LIFE (90%); LABOR UNIONS (89%); HEALTH INSURANCE (86%); WAGES & SALARIES (78%); BUDGETS (77%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (75%); RECRUITMENT & HIRING (73%); CITIES (73%); COLLECTIVE BARGAINING (69%); RESEARCH INSTITUTES (66%) 

COMPANY: HYATT HOTELS CORP (58%)

ORGANIZATION: Metropolitan Transportation Authority; Transit Workers Union

TICKER: H (NYSE) (58%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS721110 HOTELS (EXCEPT CASINO HOTELS) & MOTELS (58%); SIC6519 LESSORS OF REAL PROPERTY, NEC (58%)

PERSON: Steven Greenhouse

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%) NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%) New York City

LOAD-DATE: December 12, 2005



258 of 607 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 12, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 3; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 695 words

HEADLINE: For the Yonkers Raceway, Every Race Unrun Is a Winner 

BYLINE: By JENNIFER STEINHAUER

 BODY:
As business arrangements go, Yonkers Raceway might just be the envy of horse racing tracks across the nation: It has not run a race for months, but it is doing as well as ever.
 Despite running no races since June, when it closed to install video lottery terminals and make some renovations, the track continues to be paid millions of dollars a year from four Off Track Betting Corporations in the state, including $3 million from the corporation operated by New York City alone.
 Yonkers Raceway officials acknowledge that the arrangement -- which stems from a deal made in Albany -- is unorthodox. But they are not terribly interested in hearing complaints about it. ''I'm not arguing that it's right or wrong,'' said Robert J. Galterio, the raceway's general manager. ''I'm just arguing that they have the responsibility to pay.'' 
 How Off Track Betting Corporation of New York City came to make annual payments to a nonfunctioning racetrack -- in a year in which the organization, which makes its money through bets on televised races and which is set to lose at least $10 million this year -- is a story not inconsistent with the troubled state of the wider racing business in New York State. 
 After all, the New York Racing Association, the quasi-governmental agency that runs the state's thoroughbred and harness tracks, is so near bankruptcy that it recently tried to sell off the artwork hanging on the walls of some of its buildings.
 As for the Yonkers track, which has been operating since 1899, it has, like many tracks, endured sagging fortunes for years. And for its part, the Off Track Betting operation in New York City has been bleeding cash for just as long.
 One of Off Track Betting's efforts to increase revenues over the years was to broadcast thoroughbred races from tracks across the country, instead of just the harness racing offered at tracks in New York. As part of the deal struck with the State Legislature in 2003 to do so, Off Track Betting was allowed to broadcast fewer races from Yonkers and another harness track, Monticello, but pay the tracks the same as before.
 It was, in the end, all Off Track Betting's idea. But as with many of the corporation's plans to make money or improve its image, things did not quite go as planned. Almost immediately, Yonkers began to run fewer races. It was not hard to see why. It was going to be paid the same amount no matter how many races it ran.
 Then, in June, the Yonkers Raceway closed to put in the video lottery terminals, the state's latest idea to increase business at the tracks, and make improvements. It plans to reopen next year.
 Not everyone was pleased with the Yonkers track for taking Off Track Betting money but not providing any races for the Off Track Betting customers to watch. 
 ''The taxpayers of New York City are subsidizing the city of Yonkers,'' said David B. Cornstein, the chairman of the board of the New York City's Off Track Betting, which must pay Yonkers $3 million this year. ''It's a disgrace.''
 Recriminations were immediate. Off Track Betting officials set their sights on State Senator Nicholas A. Spano, a Westchester Republican who some see as the protector of the race track's interests. 
 Racing ''is the only industry in which we allow this nonsensical thing to go on,'' said State Senator John D. Sabini, the ranking Democrat on the Senate's racing committee. ''I am stupefied that Yonkers would do this, and I would suspect Nick Spano had his hand in it.''
 Lawmakers and Off Track Betting officials also find it relevant that Kenneth Bruno, the son of the State Senate majority leader, is Yonkers Raceway's lobbyist, although Mr. Galterio said he saw no connection.
 Lawsuits have ensued involving various racing interests in the state seeking relief from the Off Track Betting payments to Yonkers.
 In response to critics like Mr. Sabini, Mr. Spano said he had no regrets about protecting the raceway, one of Yonkers's largest employers. ''I will continue to work as hard as I can to make sure the track remains economically viable,'' he said. ''I am proud of the fact that they think I am the protector of Yonkers Raceway, because in fact I am.''

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: HORSE RACING (90%); GAMING (90%); HORSES (90%); SPORTS & RECREATION FACILITIES & VENUES (90%); LOTTERIES (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (76%); SPORTS (73%); SPORTS & RECREATION (73%); NONGOVERNMENTAL ORGANIZATIONS (66%) 

COMPANY: NEW YORK RACING ASSOCIATION INC (54%)

ORGANIZATION: Off-Track Betting Corp (NYC)

INDUSTRY: SIC7948 RACING, INCLUDING TRACK OPERATIONS (54%)

PERSON: Jennifer Steinhauer; Nicholas A (Sen) Spano

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (91%); ALBANY, NY, USA (72%) NEW YORK, USA (95%) UNITED STATES (95%) New York State; New York City; Yonkers (NY)

LOAD-DATE: December 12, 2005



259 of 607 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 12, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section D; Column 1; Sports Desk; PRO BASKETBALL; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1344 words

HEADLINE: The Sound Of the N.B.A.'s Dress Code: Ka-Ching

BYLINE: By LORNE MANLY

 BODY:
When the National Basketball Association instituted a business-casual dress code this season, plenty of grumbling ensued among players, commentators and fans alike. 
 Do not count Bruce Teilhaber among the disgruntled.
As members of the Toronto Raptors descended on the three levels of his family shoe store in downtown Atlanta the other day, Teilhaber came to the telephone to offer his take on the new dress code. For decades, Friedman's Shoes had been a favorite destination for teams visiting the hometown Hawks. Few stores, after all, carry shoes in sizes 7 1/2 to 22 (a measurement just right for the feet of Shaquille O'Neal). 
 But the new dress code has increased an already thriving specialty trade. Two days earlier, Teilhaber recounted, the store's van unloaded players from the Miami Heat after picking them up at the Four Seasons Hotel. Prodded by Alonzo Mourning and Gary Payton, Heat veterans and long-time snazzy dressers, the players spent more than $20,000 that day on dress shoes that average about $250 but can soar to $750 for alligator shoes. On similar visits last year, Heat players dropped half as much, many steering clear of the dress shoes for less expensive sneakers. 
 ''If a player's wearing a $3,000 suit, what's he going to wear with that?'' Teilhaber said before quickly answering his own question. ''He's not going to wear $99 shoes.''
 The haberdashers and purveyors of fine dress shoes who cater to outsized professional athletes are certainly enjoying the trickle-down economics of the N.B.A. They are now selling to players who previously stuck to T-shirts and sneakers, while returning customers are upgrading their wardrobes.
 Elevee Fine Clothing in Van Nuys, Calif., now dresses about three quarters of the N.B.A.'s players, up from about half before the institution of the dress code. Bespoke Apparel, with boutiques outside St. Louis and Atlanta, is enjoying a 150 percent bump in business. Couture in San Francisco is getting more business from players on the nearby Golden State Warriors. And the Pacific Shoe Corporation is seeing increased orders (and hundreds of thousands more dollars) for its Mezlan brand, which is in demand by the players. 
 The N.B.A. has long had its share of natty dressers, from the funkadelic stylings of Darryl Dawkins to the more understated, even elegant attire of Michael Jordan and Kevin Garnett. Some teams, like the Knicks, already adhered to strict dress codes. But the league and its commissioner, David Stern, determined that the N.B.A.'s image -- battered by the melee last year in Auburn Hills, Mich., between the Detroit Pistons and Indiana Pacers that spilled into the stands -- could use some sprucing up. 
 As of Nov. 1, the baggy jeans, throwback jerseys and do-rags favored by players like Allen Iverson are off limits when on team or league business. Suits are not mandatory, but the players must wear dress slacks, khakis or dress jeans with a dress shirt and appropriate shoes. Sneakers, sandals, flip-flops or work boots are not considered appropriate. When players do not dress for a game but sit on the bench or in the stands, the demands become a bit stricter. A sport coat, dress shoes or boots, and socks become part of the uniform.
 Accessories are not spared the withering gaze of the fashion arbiters at league headquarters, either. Players are no longer allowed to wear sunglasses while indoors, and headphones are welcome only on the team bus or plane, or in the locker room. Chains, pendants or medallions cannot be worn over a player's clothes
 The penalty for noncompliance: a fine. 
 For a California kid partial to jeans like Luke Walton of the Los Angeles Lakers, the new code meant an extreme makeover, fast. ''I grew up with hippie parents, so I don't know much about the fashion world,'' said Walton, whose father, Bill, is a former All-Star and a television commentator. 
 Being 6 feet 8 inches limited Walton's clothing options. But teammates steered him to Elevee, a custom clothier in the San Fernando Valley whose clients include Vince Carter of the Nets and Carmelo Anthony of the Denver Nuggets and whose suits range in price from $1,600 to $6,000 (or higher depending on the fabric). More than $15,000 later, Walton had picked out -- with the help of Elevee's in-house designers -- five suits, several velvet blazers and corduroy jackets, and custom-made ties and pocket squares. 
 Mike O'Brien, Elevee's chief executive, said revenue from N.B.A. players had increased threefold this season, although he declined to provide specific figures. He used to divide the league's players in two: the dressers and those who preferred sweatsuits, sneakers and throwback jerseys. ''Now, we're getting dressers buying more suits,'' he said. ''And the guys who didn't buy suits are now in the market.''
 The code, he added, ''converted the whole league into dressers.''
 On some teams, the veterans have welcomed the new code as just another schooling (and hazing) experience they can impart to rookies. Last Tuesday, Jason Richardson and Baron Davis, dapper veterans on the Warriors, took the team's three rookies to Couture in San Francisco's Union Square. There the rookies -- Ike Diogu, Monta Ellis and Aaron Miles -- were razzed for their clothing choices, particularly Diogu, who was wearing sweatpants and a cheap I Like Ike T-shirt. As Richardson and Davis peppered their teammates with fashions dos and don'ts -- ''They needed a lot of help,'' Richardson said -- the rookies picked out a selection of $1,500 suits and other accoutrements.
 ''To fit these guys is a real challenge,'' said David Yahid, the owner of Couture. Because of their distinct physiques -- wide chests and shoulders that often go with narrow waists, for example -- athletes can rarely buy off the rack, even at a big and tall shop. ''Most athletes have a big round booty and big thighs, so nothing fits them,'' Yahid said. 
 David R. Corbitt of Bespoke Apparel, where suits start at $1,100 and hit nearly $10,000 for a pure, light cashmere tailoring, said the gaudiness of previous years had been blunted. ''The older players are upgrading to a newer, a little more conservative look,'' he said. 
 Shirts possess a wider, more British spread. And thicker stripes for ties are very popular. ''People are tired of the small and narrow,'' Corbitt said.
 Corbitt, who dressed the rapper Hammer back in his heyday and has the football player Deion Sanders as a client, urges his customers to eschew the outlandish. ''Your reds and pinks and purples, leave those to the gangsters,'' he said.
 But understated is a relative concept, particularly for some younger players. ''It's a teaching process,'' Corbitt said. ''Their jeans have been hanging off their hips for years.''
 For companies like J A Apparel, owner of the well-known Joseph Abboud brand, the arrival of the N.B.A. dress code has not directly translated into more business, but it has provided another marketing opportunity. As part of an existing endorsement deal, the company provides Stephon Marbury of the Knicks with a new outfit for each game. Now, through Marbury, Joseph Abboud is providing a free suit for each of the Knicks, and fittings are scheduled for Dec. 22. The company plans, with league approval, to send a letter to every N.B.A. team offering to outfit its players, particularly the younger ones who may become the trendsetters of tomorrow.
 ''N.B.A. players are cultural icons,'' said Marty Staff, the president and chief executive of J A Apparel.
 Men will look at these chiseled men in flattering clothes by Joseph Abboud and ''absolutely say I want to look like that.'' 
 Staff added, ''We call it image transfer.''
 The clothiers and shoe-store owners can also envision a different sort of transfer, one to the man behind the new dress code.
 ''I want to send Stern a pair of alligators, if I can find a pair his size,'' Teilhaber said.
 The consummate shoe salesman paused, searching his memory as he mentally reviewed David Stern's few visits to the store. ''He has a wide foot,'' he added.


GRAPHIC: Photos: It doesn't take just big feet to fill these size 22's at Friedman's Shoes
a well-heeled buyer is needed as well. (Photo by Erik S. Lesser for The New York Times)
Shaquille O'Neal on a day he didn't dress for a game. (Photo by Getty Images)(pg. D1)
 The designer Jhoanna Wiegman holding jeans custom made for the Heat's Shaquille O'Neal at Elevee Fine Clothing, which dresses many N.B.A. players. Below, an order at Elevee, complete with a fabric sample, for a custom-made jacket. (Photographs by Ann Johansson for The New York Times)(pg. D3)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BASKETBALL (92%); FOOTWEAR (90%); WORKPLACE DRESS CODES (90%); MEN'S CLOTHING STORES (78%); SPORTS (78%); FASHION & APPAREL (78%); HAUTE COUTURE (78%); SPORTS & RECREATION (78%); SHOE STORES (77%); RETAILERS (77%); DESTINATIONS & ATTRACTIONS (71%) Basketball

COMPANY: KAS BANK NV (58%)

ORGANIZATION: NATIONAL BASKETBALL ASSOCIATION (94%); TORONTO RAPTORS (58%); ATLANTA HAWKS (57%); MIAMI HEAT (56%)

TICKER: KA (AMS) (58%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (58%); SIC6021 NATIONAL COMMERCIAL BANKS (58%)

PERSON: SHAQUILLE O'NEAL (88%); MICHAEL JORDAN (79%); KEVIN GARNETT (58%) Lorne Manly

GEOGRAPHIC: ATLANTA, GA, USA (91%); TORONTO, ON, CANADA (90%); SAN FRANCISCO, CA, USA (79%); DETROIT, MI, USA (79%) GEORGIA, USA (91%); ONTARIO, CANADA (90%); CALIFORNIA, USA (86%); MICHIGAN, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (91%); CANADA (90%)

LOAD-DATE: December 12, 2005



260 of 607 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 13, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Editorial Desk; Pg. 33

LENGTH: 776 words

HEADLINE: Off the Rails

BYLINE: By Nicole Gelinas. 
Nicole Gelinas is a contributing editor to the Manhattan Institute's magazine, City Journal.

 BODY:
THE Transport Workers Union, representing the city's nearly 34,000 subway and bus workers, is threatening to call a strike this Friday if the Metropolitan Transportation Authority doesn't sign a contract to its liking. Such a strike would be illegal: public employees in New York State are forbidden from walking out on the job. 
 And not only would a strike be illegal, it would be unjustified. The authority is a generous employer by any standard. Its employees take home bigger paychecks and more lavish benefits than most of the city's private employees. The authority is not looking to drastically slash those salaries and benefits. It is merely proposing to increase worker productivity and to cut back modestly on its own pension and health-benefit obligations. 
Subway operators and token clerks are blue-collar workers, but their paychecks match those of middle-class workers, even ones in New York City. According to the authority, the average subway or bus operator earns nearly $63,000 per year. The average subway conductor earns about $54,000. The average station agent earns about $51,000. A subway cleaner earns about $40,000.
 Compare these numbers with salary figures in New York's private sector. According to the state comptroller, the average New York City worker earns about $60,000 a year. This number includes workers on Wall Street, whose six-figure salaries distort the picture. Take out well-paid finance-industry workers, and the average worker in New York earns just $49,000. What about workers without a college education? Most factory workers, health care employees and restaurant and retail workers in the city earn under $35,000. 
 And the transit union workers have one thing most people in the private sector don't: job security. During this round of contract negotiations, the authority isn't proposing layoffs. It is asking only for the kind of flexibility that private-sector employers demand. For example, the authority wants to train subway operators to work as conductors and vice versa. In exchange, workers would get a 3 percent raise the first year and 2 percent the second (with the second year's raise contingent on the workers' cutting back the number of sick days they take to 2002 levels). Their above-average paychecks would increase in line with inflation.
 The union leadership calls this offer unacceptable -- but in truth, it's unlikely that the union would strike just for a couple of more percentage points in salary and a few extra sick days. It's the authority's modest proposals concerning pension and health benefits that have the leadership and the rank and file angry. Roger Toussaint, president of Local 100 of the Transport Workers Union, has called the proposals ''an insult to our members.'' 
 What does the authority want that's so insulting? Most union members are now eligible to retire, at age 55, after 25 years on the job, at half their annual pay; the authority wants to raise the age to 62 for new employees. (Mr. Toussaint calls this ''selling out our unborn.'') Union members now pay nothing toward their own health-insurance premiums; the authority wants new workers to contribute about 2 percent of their pretax wages before overtime toward those health benefits. Most employees in the private sector would love to be similarly insulted. 
 These proposals for health care and pension benefits are what would provoke a strike. But the authority is simply trying to rein in runaway costs so that it can maintain adequate service for the city's transit riders. 
 The transit authority's pension costs for subway and bus workers have tripled since 2002, to about $450 million, and will keep escalating as workers continue to retire long before private workers can. Health benefits are up more than 40 percent since 2002, to about $400 million this year; these costs will continue to rise as well. 
 By 2008, the authority -- that is, riders and taxpayers -- will spend more than $1 billion annually on these escalating costs. This amounts to about one-third of the total fares the authority will earn that year from city subways and buses and is partly why it projects an $800 million deficit in two years. Worse, since the authority has limited financial resources and already shoulders a historically high debt burden, money that goes toward paying overly generous benefits takes away from investment in New York's public-transit network.
 If the Transport Workers Union goes on strike this week, many New Yorkers will have ample opportunity to reflect as they walk to work or sit in traffic. They should think about which side -- the authority or the union -- has acted unreasonably.


GRAPHIC: Drawing (Drawing by Paul Rodgers)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: WAGES & SALARIES (92%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (91%); PUBLIC TRANSPORTATION (90%); LABOR UNIONS (90%); URBAN TRANSIT SYSTEMS (90%); LAYOFFS (78%); GOVERNMENT CONTROLLERS & AUDITORS (78%); FACTORY WORKERS (78%); CITY LIFE (78%); COLLECTIVE BARGAINING (78%); LABOR SECTOR PERFORMANCE (76%); MOTORCOACHES & BUSES (73%); PRODUCTIVITY (73%); STATISTICS (72%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (72%); RESTAURANTS (69%); SICK LEAVE (66%) Terms not available from NYTimes

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%) NEW YORK, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: December 13, 2005



261 of 607 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 13, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Editorial Desk; Pg. 32

LENGTH: 350 words

HEADLINE: Taking Care of Last-Minute Business

 BODY:
In the rush before Congress's holiday break, the competition for space on the legislative calendar is fierce. But before they leave the capital, House and Senate leaders need to hold a vote on a bill to bolster unemployment benefits for the people left unemployed by Hurricanes Katrina and Rita. 
 To its credit, the House committee in charge of the matter unanimously passed a good bill last week. For hurricane victims receiving federal disaster unemployment benefits, generally the self-employed, the bill would guarantee at least $135 a week. That's 50 percent of the national average for unemployment benefits -- hardly a windfall. But it would mean a lot to the nearly 101,000 people in Louisiana who currently receive $98 a week, on average. Some 30,000 recipients in Mississippi, Texas and Alabama tend to fare better than their Louisiana counterparts, but they would also be helped if their weekly benefits fell below the new proposed minimum.
The bill would also commit the federal government to extending hurricane-related unemployment benefits for an additional 26 weeks, if needed, when those benefits start to expire toward the end of February. We hope that many of the people who still lack jobs because of the hurricanes will be back at work by then. But if not, the least the country can do is give them the peace of mind of knowing that they won't be cut off.
 The House bill to improve disaster unemployment benefits is utterly noncontroversial. But its lack of controversy appears to be a disadvantage. In the waning days of this Congressional session, divisive, headline-grabbing measures -- like tax cuts and oil drilling in the Arctic National Wildlife Refuge in Alaska -- are eclipsing bipartisan efforts. 
 The House speaker, Dennis Hastert, and the Senate majority leader, Bill Frist, mustn't let that continue. Using special procedures for unopposed bills, both the House and the Senate could pass the House's disaster-unemployment bill by week's end, and the president could then sign it into law. There is still time to do this before Christmas, but there is no time to waste.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Editorial

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: UNEMPLOYMENT INSURANCE (92%); HURRICANES (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); LEGISLATION (90%); HOLIDAYS & OBSERVANCES (78%); SELF EMPLOYMENT (77%); HURRICANE KATRINA (77%); UNEMPLOYED PERSONS (77%); WEATHER (77%); CHRISTMAS (73%); POLITICAL PARTIES (73%); TAX LAW (73%); TROPICAL STORMS (72%); TAXES & TAXATION (72%); WILDLIFE (50%); WILDLIFE CONSERVATION (50%) Terms not available from NYTimes

GEOGRAPHIC: LOUISIANA, USA (92%); ALASKA, USA (92%); MISSISSIPPI, USA (79%); TEXAS, USA (79%); ALABAMA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (92%); ARCTIC (66%)

LOAD-DATE: December 13, 2005



262 of 607 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 13, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Editorial Desk; Pg. 33

LENGTH: 709 words

HEADLINE: Trading Favors

BYLINE: By Peter Mandelson. 
Peter Mandelson is the European Union's trade commissioner.

DATELINE: HONG KONG 

 BODY:
IT suits some members of the World Trade Organization to pretend that all that is needed to unblock the current round of trade talks (which began in Doha, Qatar, in 2001 and continue here today) is for the European Union to make meaningful concessions on agriculture.
 The best that can be said about this self-serving argument is that it reflects well-intentioned but oversimplified views on the relationships among agriculture, trade and development. In reality, it is wrong on several counts. 
First, the European Union has made significant concessions on agriculture on several occasions. We are reducing support to European farmers, a major reform begun after the Doha meeting that others conveniently overlook. While the United States was busy increasing its farm subsidies last year, we broke a taboo by offering to end all our agricultural export subsidies if others would match us in their comparable programs. Barely a month has passed since we put forward new proposals to lower our average agricultural tariff by almost 50 percent; only two weeks ago we also radically reformed the European sugar market, lowering prices by more than a third. 
 It's true that the European Union needed to reform its agriculture policies. But any farm sector can absorb only so much reform at once. Unlike the nongovernmental organizations calling so vociferously for cuts in subsidies, governments have responsibilities to the citizens who elect them. The changes we have already begun are having an extensive impact on Europe's farm regions. As a result of the sugar reforms, producers in Ireland and Finland may well go out of business. We have seen no comparably bold action by any other major W.T.O. member, the United States included. 
 As the talks begin today, our fellow negotiators should be in no doubt that all the European Union's governments agree that there is no reason to move further on agricultural tariffs. They all agree that the time has come for others to respond in other areas of the Doha agenda, like lowering industrial tariffs and liberalizing service industries, to the moves we have already made. 
 And they are right. The actions we are taking and the proposals we are making in agriculture will cost a lot of jobs. Our governments need to be able to show that a global trade deal will create other, better and more jobs in Europe too. 
 A Doha deal will work only if everyone benefits. If we are to open our agricultural markets further, our companies need to find new opportunities to invest and trade in other markets and in other economic areas -- including real market opening in industrial goods and services in rapidly growing countries. Those countries need cheaper, more competitive goods and services, too, for their own development. 
 Brazil, for example, should offer to reduce import tariffs on industrial goods. Brazil should also offer greater access to foreign providers of services and help establish a more fruitful process for international negotiations on services in the future. 
 India should improve the tariff reductions it is offering on industrial goods. Both Brazil and India should recognize that there are differences between the needs of developing countries: they should consider what they can do to improve trading conditions for the poorest, for example, by themselves moving toward duty- and quota-free access. 
 The United States also needs to improve its agricultural proposal by reducing domestic subsidies and food aid programs that distort trade. It needs to improve its offer of market access for providers of services. We would be delighted if Rob Portman, the United States trade representative, followed Europe's example by granting duty- and quota-free access for imports from least developed countries, and lowering America's cotton subsidies. Europe could also use American support as we seek to stem the progressive abuse of anti-dumping suits by tightening W.T.O. rules. 
 If our W.T.O. partners take serious steps in these areas, they might have the credibility to ask Europe to revisit its agricultural policies. Until then, Europe will stand fast in the belief that at this moment it is not another move by the European Union that is needed to ensure the success of the Doha Round.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TRADE DEVELOPMENT (91%); AGRICULTURAL SUBSIDIES (90%); AGRICULTURE (90%); TALKS & MEETINGS (90%); AGRICULTURAL TRADE (90%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); EUROPEAN UNION (90%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (89%); TARIFFS & DUTIES (89%); TRADE TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (78%); IMPORT TRADE (78%); GOVERNMENT GRANTS & SUBSIDIES (78%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (78%); SUGAR MARKETS (78%); EXPORT TRADE (78%); TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (78%); NONGOVERNMENTAL ORGANIZATIONS (78%); AGRICULTURE REGULATION & POLICY (77%); AGRICULTURAL EXPORTS & IMPORTS (77%); AGRICULTURAL COMMODITY REGULATION (77%); GLOBALIZATION (73%); EXPORT PROMOTION (69%) Terms not available from NYTimes

ORGANIZATION: EUROPEAN UNION (91%); WORLD TRADE ORGANIZATION (84%)

GEOGRAPHIC: EUROPE (97%); QATAR (94%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (94%); UNITED STATES (92%); FINLAND (79%)

LOAD-DATE: December 13, 2005



263 of 607 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 13, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 5; Editorial Desk; Pg. 33

LENGTH: 751 words

HEADLINE: Where Deer and Lions Play

BYLINE: By NICHOLAS D. KRISTOF; John Tierney is on vacation.

 BODY:
The pronghorn antelope is North America's speediest animal, capable of running 60 miles per hour -- but why? Its predators don't run nearly that fast, so why would the pronghorn evolve such a capability?
 The answer is probably the cheetah. We think of cheetahs as African, but America had its own cheetahs, along with elephants, lions, camels and wild horses. Since cheetahs can run 60 or 70 m.p.h. for short bursts, and enjoy antelope steak, the pronghorns adapted.
Now comes one of the craziest -- and appealing -- ideas in the biological world: reintroducing species to the Americas. Eventually, this could allow Americans to go on camera safaris in this country and see scenes that humans haven't witnessed on this continent since about 11,000 B.C. 
 The genesis for this idea is the growing realization that Native Americans were not the fine ecological stewards we imagine. In the Americas, hunters began using effective spears about 13,000 years ago, and in only about four centuries nearly three-quarters of the large animal species had disappeared. Something like that also happened in Australia.
 So today we think of lions as African, but similar lions were once integral to the ecosystem of North America. So were five species of elephant-like creatures, along with ancient wild horses and the camelops -- a Bactrian camel with an American accent.
 So in a commentary in Nature in August, a handful of scientists led by Josh Donlan of Cornell University suggested a ''Pleistocene re-wilding'' -- the introduction of species from elsewhere that would closely resemble those in the ecosystem of the Pleistocene era, from about 1.65 million years ago until about 10,000 years ago.
 The proposal provoked gasps of horror, some from Americans who did not wish to look out their back window and see a cheetah devour a camel -- or, worse, their child. There's been such a furor about reintroducing wolves in Yellowstone that I doubt this column will go over well with Montana and Wyoming ranchers.
 But the idea is not for a Jurassic Park. Things would start slowly with less threatening creatures like the Bolson tortoise, which can weigh 100 pounds. It is now found only in Mexico but was once common in the U.S. 
 The next step would be to find a 200,000-acre ranch in the Southwest that saw an economic opportunity in working with scientists to recreate a Pleistocene ecosystem and then charging tourists to come and gawk. And, yes, such a game reserve would have a strong perimeter fence. 
 Something similar is being tried in Siberia. As the journal Science recounted in May, biologists in the Russian region of Yakutia are trying to create a Pleistocene Park by reintroducing species similar to the ones that humans killed off there long ago.
 ''Right now when people think of conservation, 1492 is the de facto benchmark,'' Mr. Donlan said. But he noted that if we really wanted to recover part of the wilderness that existed before humans helped muck up the ecosystem, we might want to go back to what is a heartbeat away in cosmic time: say, 13,000 years ago.
 Whether here or in Russia, one aim is to restore checks and balances. American grasslands suffer from an encroachment of woody shrubs, for example, perhaps because elephants no longer keep them at bay. Another goal is to save endangered species (as a result, the game reserves would be populated by cheetahs already in this country, not by newly captured ones).
 To me, as an avid backpacker, another advantage is that this re-wilding might entice Americans away from their televisions and connect them with nature. This might also provide a new economic base -- safari tourism -- for sparsely populated areas of the Great Plains. More than 1.5 million people a year visit Wild Animal Park in San Diego, and even more might visit a Pleistocene reserve on, say, private land in North Dakota.
 There are a million reasons why none of this may be feasible, and it's always ecologically dangerous to tinker with nature. But some of the biggest human tinkering came when we helped to exterminate large animals 13 millenniums ago, and it's reasonable to explore whether to bring some of their relatives back.
 This proposal could also be a boon for environmentalism. At a time when environmentalism defines itself largely by what it is against, re-wilding provides a positive vision. What could be bolder than giving our children the first glimpse in 13,000 years of an America as it was before humans introduced high technology like spears? 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: WILD CATS (90%); ANIMALS (90%); MAMMALS (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); SCIENCE NEWS (89%); SCIENCE & TECHNOLOGY (89%); ECOLOGY & ENVIRONMENTAL SCIENCE (78%); WILDLIFE CONSERVATION (78%); ZOOLOGY (78%); BIOLOGY (78%); NATIVE AMERICANS (73%); RUNNING (58%) Terms not available from NYTimes

ORGANIZATION: CORNELL UNIVERSITY (54%)

GEOGRAPHIC: WYOMING, USA (79%); MONTANA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (95%); NORTH AMERICA (93%); AUSTRALIA (79%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (65%)

LOAD-DATE: December 13, 2005



264 of 607 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 13, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 3; Metropolitan Desk; Corrections; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 102 words

 BODY:
An article on Dec. 4 about problems in a New York State program to clean up abandoned industrial sites and turn them into usable properties misattributed a quotation criticizing the State Department of Environmental Conservation's criteria in determining the eligibility of sites. It was Mathy Stanislaus, a director of the nonprofit New Partners for Community Revitalization -- and not Linda Shaw of a group that represents developers -- who said, ''There are swaths of areas around the Bronx River, in many cases in low- or moderate-income neighborhoods, where those sites are not eligible as defined by D.E.C.'' 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Correction

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ENVIRONMENTAL DEPARTMENTS (90%); PROPERTY VACANCIES (88%); ENVIRONMENT & NATURAL RESOURCES (85%); NONPROFIT ORGANIZATIONS (85%); URBAN DEVELOPMENT (54%); ECONOMIC NEWS (54%) Terms not available from NYTimes

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (90%) UNITED STATES (90%)

LOAD-DATE: December 13, 2005



265 of 607 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 13, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Foreign Desk; Pg. 11

LENGTH: 822 words

HEADLINE: As an Asian Century Is Planned, U.S. Power Stays in the Shadows 

BYLINE: By SETH MYDANS; International Herald Tribune

DATELINE: KUALA LUMPUR, Malaysia, Dec. 12 

 BODY:
The focus was on Myanmar Monday as a regional summit meeting began here, but the broader view was on the evolving shape of Asia as economies grow and alliances shift in the decades to come.
 When the 10 leaders of the Association of South East Asian Nations gathered for their annual meeting, they made their strongest demand yet for political and human rights reform in Myanmar.
 ''Enough of talking,'' Foreign Minister Syed Hamid of Malaysia told reporters after the meeting. ''We want to see some action.'' He said he would soon travel to Myanmar as a representative of the association, known as Asean. 
 ''We want to see something very tangible, like perhaps the release of the detained people,'' he said, in a clear reference to the pro-democracy leader Daw Aung San Suu Kyi, who is under house arrest.
 At the same time, more leaders were arriving for the first East Asia summit meeting on Wednesday, where 16 nations will inaugurate a broader association whose ambition is balanced by its lack of immediate substance.
 It will be the largest association of Asian leaders -- representing nearly half the world's population -- as well as the first to include China and India together. It will also be the first in postwar times to exclude the most powerful participant in regional affairs, the United States.
 The vision of the East Asia summit talks, as conceived by Mahathir Mohamad, then prime minister of Malaysia, who proposed it almost two decades ago, was of an exclusively East Asian grouping -- a caucus without the Caucasians, as he called it. He now says it has been diluted by the inclusion of Australia and New Zealand. 
 Although there are built-in tensions and contradictions among its members that could hobble effective action, the new group does embody a broad and, some say, necessary vision for the future.
 ''We have little choice but to construct a new architecture for East Asia,'' said former Prime Minister Goh Chok Tong of Singapore recently. ''If East Asia does not coalesce, it will lose out to the Americas and Europe.''
 The world will be a different place in 30 or 40 years, with Asia at the forefront, said Daljit Singh, a visiting senior fellow at the Institute of Southeast Asian Studies in Singapore. The new grouping is a response to this change. ''Its significance is that it symbolizes the Asian century, the coming of age, in a sense, because by 2050 Asia will have three of the four largest economies in the world,'' he said in a telephone interview.
 These three -- China, Japan and India -- will be represented at the meeting, along with the 10 Southeast Asian nations, South Korea, Australia and New Zealand. Russia will be allowed to attend as an observer.
 The exclusion of the fourth big economy, that of the United States, is also a signal of changing dynamics, Mr. Singh said, but the American presence remains strong through its close allies, Japan, Australia and New Zealand.
 Already there are tensions among the members as China continues to seek a dominant role in the region, India presses for greater influence and the Southeast Asian nations struggle not to be overwhelmed by their new partners.
 The leaders of China and South Korea are not planning to meet with Prime Minister Junichiro Koizumi of Japan because of continuing disputes over wartime atrocities.
 There has also been debate over the inclusion of Australia, New Zealand and India, which had lobbied to join the group.
 The members of the core grouping, Asean, are Brunei, Cambodia, Indonesia, Laos, Malaysia, the Philippines, Singapore, Thailand, Vietnam and Myanmar.
 This 38-year-old association is a smaller scale model for the East Asia summit meeting, with its disparities in economic strength and political structure. Acknowledging these from the start, Asean has adopted a careful, low-key policy of consensus that has blunted its effectiveness. It has begun to abandon that policy with Myanmar, which has resisted gentle pressure to ease its repressive policies and open its political process.
 The expanded 16-member grouping will account for about three billion people and one-fifth of global trade. Both these figures are expected to rise steeply in the years to come.
 But with scale comes increased diversity, bringing together nations as rich as Japan and as poor as Cambodia; as democratically open as India and as closed as the Communist leadership in Laos. Its members will be as small as Brunei, with a population of less than 400,000, and as huge as China and India.
 The expansion of the East Asia gathering to include non-Asians and close partners of the United States has defeated its purpose, said Mr. Mahathir, who stepped down as prime minister two years ago and is holding an alternative forum after the summit meeting.
 ''This so-called East Asia summit is an East Asia Australasian summit,'' he said last week. ''Australia's views do not represent the East, but the views of America.''

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TALKS & MEETINGS (90%); FOREIGN POLICY (90%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (90%); PRIME MINISTERS (89%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (89%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (89%); INTERGOVERNMENTAL TALKS (78%); STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (77%); POLITICS (76%); INTERVIEWS (76%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (70%); HOUSE ARREST (53%) Terms not available from NYTimes

ORGANIZATION: ASSOCIATION OF SOUTHEAST ASIAN NATIONS (84%)

PERSON: AUNG SAN SUU KYI (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: KUALA LUMPUR, MALAYSIA (79%) ASIA (98%); AUSTRALIA & NEW ZEALAND (94%); SOUTH-EASTERN ASIA (94%); EASTERN ASIA (94%); MYANMAR (94%); MALAYSIA (93%); INDIA (92%); CHINA (92%); AUSTRALIA (92%); SINGAPORE (92%); NEW ZEALAND (92%); JAPAN (79%); EUROPE (79%); UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: December 13, 2005



266 of 607 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 13, 2005
Correction Appended 
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 3; Foreign Desk; Shikabe Journal; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 850 words

HEADLINE: Japan Loves Its Little Villages, but Wants Fewer of Them

BYLINE: By JAMES BROOKE

DATELINE: SHIKABE, Japan 

 BODY:
Perched on the edge of the Pacific Ocean on the shores of Hokkaido, Japan's northernmost large island, Shikabe is the timeless image of a maritime village, defined by the cry of gulls, the wash of waves on sea walls and the sight of fishing boats rocking in the distant swell.
 But unlike fishing villages elsewhere in the world, Shikabe has a car and driver for the mayor. Rolling along roads as smooth as glass, the mayor, Shigeru Kawamura, proudly points out projects built in the last 15 years, paid largely with subterranean rivers of yen flowing from Tokyo, about 500 miles to the south. 
For this town of 4,856 inhabitants there is a new heated municipal swimming pool, a new multisport gymnasium, a new garbage recycling plant and a new $3.8 million park around the town's 50-foot natural geyser, the only one in Hokkaido. Work is under way on a $33 million ''hygienic management port'' designed to protect freshly landed squid, the principal catch here, from the excrement dropped by seagulls as they circle overhead. 
 But that new dock may represent the high-water mark for government spending here, and Shikabe itself may soon disappear from the map, along with hundreds of other small towns, as Tokyo seeks ways to rein in its traditional share-the-wealth spending habits.
 After years of printing government bonds to pay for projects like these, Japan now has the highest ratio of debt to gross domestic product in the industrialized world: 160 percent, compared with 65 percent for the United States in 2004. Japan's deeply rooted sense of egalitarianism will undoubtedly keep tax money flowing for years to come to hinterland villages like this one, where the number of fishermen has dropped in half, to 400, since 1985.
 But Tokyo is tightening the taps. In nearly five years of rule by Prime Minister Junichiro Koizumi, spending on public works, as measured as a percent of gross domestic product, has declined from about 6 percent in 2001 to about 4 percent today.
 In the search for further savings, Tokyo is resorting to a financial sleight of hand that is largely invisible to visitors to the countryside. It is cutting the numbers of towns and villages nearly in half.
 From 3,232 municipalities in 1999, Japan is expected to wake up on March 31 with only 1,821. As the population ages and shrinks, the government believes that larger municipalities will make for more economical spending on services. 
 To persuade thousands of mayors and city council members to vote themselves out of office, Tokyo has offered what amounts to municipal buyouts: the promise that funding will continue near current levels for a decade. For refusenik towns, there is a stick: the threat that funding will dwindle. The goal is to do away with the inefficiencies of towns with fewer than 10,000 people.
 Here on this rocky arm of Hokkaido, the number of municipalities has already shrunk to 12 from 17 a year ago as the smaller towns acquiesced.
 Shikabe, a fishing and tourism town, held off a merger with Nanae, a farming town almost six times its size. In talks, the farmers rubbed the fishermen the wrong way.
 ''All our surrounding towns and a village have merged, and we are now alone,'' Mayor Kawamura said, recalling the nearly unanimous rejection by Shikabe's council. ''We decided to go by ourselves for now.''
 Shikabe residents said their neighbors were high-handed. Then there was a fight over the name. Leaders of Nanae Town proposed Nanae City. Leaders of Shikabe, 25 miles away, proposed a more neutral solution: Onuma, or Big Swamp, in recognition of a prominent landmark. In 1929, Mount Komagatake, the volcano that dominates the landscape, erupted, blocking a local river and creating a lake and a large marsh.
 But with Tokyo's financing offer due to expire at the end of March, Shikabe is aware that another town in the region is throwing in the towel this winter and becoming a district of a larger city.
 ''Financing to local towns will be smaller and smaller in the future,'' Mr. Kawamura said, noting that Tokyo covers almost half of his town's budget. ''So we think it would be better to merge with another.''
 Hakodate, a nearby city, swallowed up three villages in the last year, swelling its population to 305,000. Hiroshi Inoue, the mayor there, sees mergers as helping to promote the region to the five million tourists who visit annually.
 ''Now with the bullet train coming here in 10 years, we have to get prepared,'' he said with a touch of Japan's old-time ''build it and they will come'' construction ethic.
 Indeed, six months ago Mr. Inoue and a determined band of regional politicians broke ground on a 10-year, $4 billion project to build a 92-mile bullet train extension from the southern main island of Kyushu to Hokkaido. 
 At $43 million a mile, the project is to bring bullet trains to Hakodate by 2016. Partly because of tenacious local support for projects like these, Mr. Koizumi has so far failed to hold to his often-stated goal of keeping the issuing of government bonds to $250 billion a year, even with the disappearance of hundreds of small towns.


CORRECTION-DATE: December 16, 2005

 CORRECTION:
The Shikabe Journal article on Tuesday, about Japan's effort to merge small towns like the fishing village of Shikabe on northern Hokkaido island, misidentified Japan's main island, which is to be linked to Hokkaido via a bullet train extension. It is Honshu, not Kyushu.

GRAPHIC: Photo: A fisherman cleaning his nets in Shikabe. The village boasts public works financed by the national government, which is becoming more frugal. (Photo by Charles Pertwee for The New York Times)Map of Japan highlighting Shikabe: Shikabe, a fishing village, has resisted merger with nearby towns.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MAYORS (90%); PUBLIC DEBT (89%); CITIES (89%); CITY GOVERNMENT (89%); PUBLIC FINANCE (88%); ECONOMIC NEWS (87%); GROSS DOMESTIC PRODUCT (87%); MARINE VESSELS (78%); POPULATION SIZE (77%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (77%); SPORTS & RECREATION FACILITIES & VENUES (74%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (72%); INFRASTRUCTURE (72%); MATERIALS RECOVERY & RECYCLING (71%); BONDS (70%); PRIME MINISTERS (66%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (66%) Terms not available from NYTimes

GEOGRAPHIC: TOKYO, JAPAN (94%) HOKKAIDO, JAPAN (93%); PACIFIC OCEAN (92%) JAPAN (97%); UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: December 13, 2005



267 of 607 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 13, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 3; Classified; Pg. 19

LENGTH: 337 words

HEADLINE: Paid Notice: Deaths
WALLACE, EMMETT

 BODY:
 WALLACE--Emmett.Born Brookline, MA December 14, 1923, died December 9, 2005, the youngest of six children born to Doretta (Lowenstein) and Arthur Wallace. A graduate from the Browne and Nichols School and received his Bachelor's degree from Cornell University, his Master's degree from The Harvard Business School and his Doctorate from Columbia University. He served in Norway under the Marshall Plan of Economic Recovery following World War II. 
He established a management consulting firm that provided services to many businesses, educational, governmental and voluntary organizations in the US and abroad. He coauthored the book 'Making it Assertively', which instructs one to deal with people in a positive and constructive manner. Emmett was very active as a Selectman for the town of Easton, CT. He loved life and cared especially for his family and close friends. Emmett will always be remembered for his many passions, which include politics, educational reform, fine food and a wonderful sense of humor. He was altogether a great humanitarian and will surely be missed. Emmett was a devoted husband of the late Jean (Rubenstein) Wells Wallace and is survived by his children: Kim Aanonsen of Greenwich, CT; Tina Kopelman of Wellesley, MA; Adrianna Bonelli of Merritt Island, FL; and Andrew Wallace of Canaan, NH. Also survived by his first wife, Anita Wallace of Oslo, Norway and seven grandchildren, sisters Priscilla Strauss of Needham, MA, Carolyn (Hooky) Darack and her husband, Melvin of Canton, MA., and brother Edward Wallace of Longmeadow, MA. He was predeceased by sister Barbara Wallace and Leveritt (Buddy) Wallace. Services will be held from The Abraham L. Green and Son Funeral Home 88 Beach Road Fairfield, CT on Wednesday, December 14, 2005 at 12:00 noon followed by a memorial gathering at the Easton Community Center, 364 Sport Hill Road, Easton, CT. Donations may be sent to The Emmett Wallace Memorial Fund (to be established) C/O Attorney Henry A. Perles 2425 Post Road Southport, CT 06890. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Paid Death Notice

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: DEATHS & OBITUARIES (94%); CALENDARS (90%); GRADUATE & PROFESSIONAL SCHOOLS (90%); CHILDREN (89%); GRANDCHILDREN (78%); BUSINESS EDUCATION (77%); EDUCATION REFORM (72%); ECONOMIC RECOVERY (71%); VOLUNTEERS (70%); WORLD WAR II (56%); CONSULTING SERVICES (56%); INTERNATIONAL ASSISTANCE (56%) Terms not available from NYTimes

ORGANIZATION: CORNELL UNIVERSITY (58%); MARSHALL PLAN (57%); COLUMBIA UNIVERSITY (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: OSLO, NORWAY (57%) MASSACHUSETTS, USA (93%); CONNECTICUT, USA (90%) UNITED STATES (93%); NORWAY (93%)

LOAD-DATE: December 13, 2005



268 of 607 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 13, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section E; Column 6; The Arts/Cultural Desk; BOOKS OF THE TIMES; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1017 words

HEADLINE: Leaders Who Build To Stroke Their Egos

BYLINE: By MICHIKO KAKUTANI

 BODY:

The Edifice Complex
How the Rich and Powerful Shape the World
By Deyan Sudjic
403 pages. Penguin Press. $27.95.
 The pyramids, Versailles, the Taj Mahal, the Kremlin, the World Trade Center: it's hardly news that the rich and powerful have used architecture to try to achieve immortality, impress their contemporaries, stroke their own egos and make political and religious statements. 
 So how artfully does Deyan Sudjic explicate this highly familiar observation? His new book, ''The Edifice Complex,'' is a fat, overstuffed jumble of the obvious and the fascinating, the tired and the intriguing -- a volume that feels less like an organic book than a series of hastily patched together essays and ruminations. It is a book in dire need of heavy-duty editing, but a book that intermittently grabs the reader's attention, making us rethink the equations between architecture and politics and money, and the myriad ways in which buildings can be made to embody everything from national aspirations and economic might to narcissistic displays of potency and ambition. 
Mr. Sudjic, the architecture critic for the London newspaper The Observer, looks at the architectural dreams of the great monsters of 20th-century history -- Hitler, Stalin and Mao -- and at the more modest fantasies of assorted tycoons and democratically elected politicians. He deconstructs the symbolism of the presidential libraries of Richard Nixon, Jimmy Carter, Ronald Reagan and George Herbert Walker Bush; looks at the dubious construction of London's Millennium Dome on Tony Blair's watch; and re-examines the debates over ground zero in New York. 
 In addition, Mr. Sudjic provides some brisk assessments of such high-profile architects as Philip Johnson, Frank Gehry and Daniel Libeskind. And he examines the propensity of many prominent architects to hire themselves out to unsavory -- and in some cases, morally reprehensible -- clients. He notes, for instance, that Walter Gropius and Le Corbusier took part in a competition to design Stalin's Palace of the Soviets and points out that Albert Speer and Mies van der Rohe ''were both ready to work'' for Hitler, the only difference being that Speer ''devoted himself entirely to realizing the architectural ambitions of his master,'' while Mies, for all his political expediency, ''was unyielding about architecture.'' 
 As for Rem Koolhaas, who declined to take part in the ground zero design competitions because of what he saw as the project's ''overbearing self-pity,'' he vigorously pursued the job of building the new headquarters of Central China Television, the propagandistic voice of the state. 
 In reviewing such cases, Mr. Sudjic comes to the conclusion that ''the totalitarians and the egotists and the monomaniacs offer architects, whatever their personal political views, more opportunities for 'important' work than the liberal democracies.'' This is not an entirely persuasive argument, given the construction of iconic buildings like Jorn Utzon's Opera House in Sydney, Australia, and Mr. Gehry's Guggenheim museum in Bilbao, Spain, on one hand, and the nightmarishly grotesque architectural plans of many tyrants, on the other.
 In the most interesting chapters in this volume, Mr. Sudjic goes over some of those dictators' plans. We see Hitler, who once contemplated becoming an architect himself, working with Albert Speer to perfect the use of architecture as propaganda -- as a tool for glamorizing his own rule while intimidating and impressing his subjects. The scale of Hitler's Chancellery was deliberately heroic -- halls that were 30 feet high and doorways that were 17 feet high. And the plans to remake Berlin as ''Germania,'' the Fuhrer's own version of Rome, were similarly outsized, with a gigantic, 1,000-foot-high dome that would have accommodated 180,000 people and grand crossing street axes (possibly based ''on Louis XIV's bedroom at Versailles, positioned at the crossing point of two of the most important roads in France'').
 Stalin's plans for Moscow were equally grandiose: his Palace of the Soviets was to be taller than the Empire State Building and topped by a gargantuan likeness of Lenin that was to be bigger than the Statue of Liberty. Stalin also set about erasing historic landmarks -- like Moscow's great 19th-century basilica -- in an effort to make his transformation of Imperial Russia into the Soviet Union irreversible. In fact, Mr. Sudjic notes that demolition can be ''almost as essential a part of the process of transformation as new building'' -- as demonstrated by Haussmann's Paris and Ceausescu's Bucharest.
 The decision by Brazil's leaders to move the national capital out of Rio de Janeiro and build a new seat of government in the empty heart of the country was, Mr. Sudjic writes, ''a deliberate attempt to create a new identity'' for the country: the use of ''an architecture entirely free of historical memories'' was meant to symbolize the rejection of ''centuries of political and cultural subservience to Europe.'' 
 In the case of the new Germany, Mr. Sudjic reports, leaders were ''less prepared to wipe out the traces of Hitler's Berlin'' than they were ready ''to eradicate the traces'' of the former Communist-controlled East Germany. Indeed the physical legacy of vanished authoritarian regimes poses a difficult question for current governments. ''Italy to this day,'' Mr. Sudjic writes, ''is full of rotting buildings, many of real quality, that were put up by the Fascists to house their party organizations. They were confiscated by the postwar government, and nobody knows what to do with them. To demolish them all both would be profligate and would represent a historical whitewash, and yet to restore them could suggest a rehabilitation of the regime that built them.'' 
 It is in raising such philosophical questions about architecture and its symbolism that ''The Edifice Complex'' is at its most original and pertinent, persuading the reader that the volume is probably worth reading -- or at least skimming -- despite the huge amounts of dross surrounding its nuggets of insight.


GRAPHIC: Photo: Deyan Sudjic (Photo by Steven A. Heller)(pg. E8)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Review

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BOOK REVIEWS (90%); ARCHITECTURAL SERVICES (89%); LITERATURE (76%); LIBRARIES (71%); LIBERALISM (71%); SPECIAL LIBRARIES (65%) Books and Literature; Reviews 

PERSON: RONALD REAGAN (79%); JIMMY CARTER (56%); GEORGE H W BUSH (56%); RICHARD NIXON (56%); TONY BLAIR (50%) Michiko Kakutani; Deyan Sudjic

GEOGRAPHIC: LONDON, ENGLAND (87%) NEW YORK, USA (79%); CENTRAL CHINA (71%) CHINA (79%); UNITED KINGDOM (79%); UNITED STATES (79%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (73%)

LOAD-DATE: December 13, 2005



269 of 607 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 13, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 5; Business/Financial Desk; MARKET PLACE; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 1292 words

HEADLINE: Energy, the Hot Deal Field, Is Likely to Get Still Hotter 

BYLINE: By HEATHER TIMMONS; Simon Romero contributed reporting from Houston for this article.

DATELINE: LONDON, Dec. 12 

 BODY:
The ConocoPhillips acquisition of the natural gas producer Burlington Resources for $35.6 billion will cap what has already been a frothy year for energy deals. Even before the deal, which was approved by the boards of the two companies Monday night, Chevron bought Unocal, Chinese and Russian companies cut deals from Venezuela to Kazakhstan, and even Warren E. Buffet, the famed value investor, bought a power company.
 But this year may be a warm-up. Bankers and analysts specializing in energy say that deal volume in 2006 could rival records set during the last fervor of mergers in the late 1990's. The reason, they say, is that the battles over the world's energy resources show no sign of easing.
Next year, high energy prices and a hunger for such assets could push the value of announced deals above $383 billion, the record set in 1999, according to PricewaterhouseCoopers. This year, that figure is expected to hit $367 billion, including the Burlington deal, according to Thomson Financial data. This time around, though, the combinations are less likely to look like Exxon's $80 billion merger with Mobil or BP's $62 billion deal for Amoco, deals that created the largest global players. 
 Instead, bankers say they expect a flurry of smaller but still influential mergers. Demand for energy is increasing with the rapid industrialization of China and India, at the same time that easy-to-extract supplies of natural resources like oil and gas are dwindling. Governments, concerned that energy resources are rapidly shrinking, but wary of pouring huge amounts of money into long-term investments, are hunting for operations already producing the energy. 
 Most energy companies, meanwhile, have been accumulating cash. The easy way to spend that cash is on acquisitions. ''Energy mergers are, and will continue to be, the hot topic,'' said Peter Roberts, a partner and energy specialist with the London office of the law firm of Jones Day, ''because they present an irresistible cocktail of satisfying geopolitical strategic aims, and the trading of a commodity -- energy -- where demand continues to grow,'' 
 Energy companies, whether publicly traded or government-owned, are embarking on a bit of a land grab, industry specialists say. They often are reaching afar to buy up gas, oil and coal fields and bidding for the companies that control pipelines and grids that might transport these resources.
 This summer, that grab for resources led to an international fracas over Unocal, which had considered a sale to a Chinese national oil company, until intense pressure from the United States government led the company to finally accept an offer from Chevron. Specialists say they think bidding wars like that will become more frequent. 
 Acquiring an energy company requires a blend of cash and shrewdness. ''This is not pure economics at play here,'' said Jonathan Grundy, a managing director at Morgan Stanley who specializes in energy deals. ''These are politically sensitive assets.'' 
 The world's top 20 energy companies are sitting on an estimated $75 billion in cash, says Rick Roberge, leader of Transaction Services, a unit of PricewaterhouseCoopers. Next year, these companies are going to be looking at ''more exploration, as well as more international and more high-risk projects,'' Mr. Roberge said. And, he added, that ''requires bigger balance sheets.'' 
 BP's purchase of Amoco in 1998 set off the last flurry of mergers among oil giants, but the strategic plays in this round of consolidation could be more complicated. We'll see ''fewer large-scale corporate deals, and more asset swaps and purchases,'' said Craig Pennington, an analyst with Schroders, an investment management firm in London. 
 High oil prices, which are pushing up the prices of publicly traded companies, are also making some acquisitions less attractive for many potential buyers.
 In the case of Burlington, however, its natural gas holdings are considered some of the most attractive in North America, and the acquisition would help Conoco diversify away from oil. 
 ''This is a great way to complement our reserves in North America,'' the Conoco chief executive, James Mulva, said Monday night. Under that deal, Burlington Resources shareholders will receive $46.50 in cash and 0.7214 share of ConocoPhillips stock for each Burlington Resources share.
 Rejecting concerns that ConocoPhillips might be overpaying for Burlington at a time of unusually high natural gas prices, Mr. Mulva said, ''we don't presume a continuation of prices at this level to make this transaction work.'' 
 Still, it is clear that ConocoPhillips is betting that energy prices, especially for natural gas, will remain elevated for years to come; natural gas accounts for about 85 percent of Burlington's production, following its aggressive investments in nontraditional exploration methods in Texas and the Rocky Mountain states. 
 Some big oil companies are also losing deals to national giants, like Cnooc of China or Lukoil of Russia. Many local governments are also looking to increase their reliance on alternatives to oil like nuclear power, natural gas or clean-burning coal. And utilities are interested in forming alliances or merging with companies that produce the sources of energy they carry, rather than risk having their earnings squeezed when their suppliers raise prices.
 This year, China National Petroleum, based in Beijing, paid more than $4 billion for Petrokazakhstan, a company in Calgary, Alberta, with assets in Kazakhstan. The price included a premium of more than 20 percent over its share price, a sum that China National Petroleum had to pay to beat bids by Indian and Russian national companies. 
 National oil companies are also showing they are willing to work together to win deals. Last week, China National Petroleum said it was pairing with the Oil and Natural Gas Corporation in India to bid for a stake in a Syrian oil company. 
 National oil companies ''are clearly playing by different rules,'' Mr. Roberge said. A publicly traded international oil company, ''can't compete with the Chinese and the Indian'' state-owned companies. 
 But Western oil companies are also being rebuffed by Europe's government-owned energy companies, as nations move to maintain control of their energy supplies. 
 As a result, unsolicited bids may become more common. This fall, Gas Natural of Spain started a hostile $28 billion bid for another Spanish energy company, Endesa, which is twice the size of Gas Natural. The deal has not yet closed, but Endesa has failed in efforts to get the European Union to step in to stop it. 
 Other possible takeover and merger candidates include ConocoPhillips; the BG Group and Centrica from Britain; Norsk Hydro of Norway; and Eni of Italy.
 Utility companies are also on the prowl. After a buying binge in the 1990's that created unwieldy conglomerates, utilities have fixed their balance sheets, and are looking at other companies that generate power. 
 Electrica Muntenia Sud, a small Romanian company that provides electricity to Bucharest, does not seem an obvious choice for an international bidding frenzy. But after the local government put a stake in the company up for sale this year, more than a dozen big energy companies eagerly went through the company's books. Ten have been short-listed and are fighting to win the deal, valued at 500 million euros ($591 million), including the AES Corporation of the United States; Enel of Italy; and E.ON of Germany. 
 Competition has been fierce throughout Europe. ''The reality is that most markets are already highly concentrated, so everyone is chasing the same small number of opportunities,'' Mr. Grundy said. ''There's a sort of feeding frenzy.'' 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (91%); PETROLEUM PRODUCTS (90%); CRUDE OIL & NATURAL GAS EXTRACTION (90%); NATURAL GAS PRODUCTS (90%); MERGERS (90%); ELECTRIC POWER INDUSTRY (89%); PETROLEUM & COAL PRODUCTS MFG (78%); NATURAL GAS EXTRACTION (78%); ACQUISITIONS (78%); ELECTRIC POWER PLANTS (78%); APPROVALS (78%); NATURAL RESOURCES (78%); OIL & GAS PRICES (78%); GASOLINE PRICES (78%); NATURAL GAS PRICES (78%); ENERGY DEMAND (78%); UTILITIES INDUSTRY (78%); DIVESTITURES (77%); MAJOR US LAW FIRMS (67%) Oil (Petroleum) and Gasoline; Gas (Fuel); Mergers, Acquisitions and Divestitures; Records and Achievements; Prices (Fares, Fees and Rates); Oil (Petroleum) and Gasoline

COMPANY: CONOCOPHILLIPS (97%); JONES DAY (81%); THOMSON FINANCIAL (69%); PRICEWATERHOUSECOOPERS (56%)

ORGANIZATION: Conocophillips; Burlington Resources Inc; China National Offshore Oil Corp; Lukoil

TICKER: COP (NYSE) (97%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS324110 PETROLEUM REFINERIES (97%); NAICS221210 NATURAL GAS DISTRIBUTION (97%); NAICS211112 NATURAL GAS LIQUID EXTRACTION (97%); NAICS211111 CRUDE PETROLEUM & NATURAL GAS EXTRACTION (97%); SIC4925 MIXED, MANUFACTURED, OR LIQUEFIED PETROLEUM GAS PRODUCTION AND/OR DISTRIBUTION (97%); SIC2911 PETROLEUM REFINERIES (97%); SIC1382 OIL & GAS FIELD EXPLORATION SERVICES (97%); SIC1321 NATURAL GAS LIQUIDS (97%); SIC1311 CRUDE PETROLEUM & NATURAL GAS (97%); NAICS541110 OFFICES OF LAWYERS (81%); SIC8111 LEGAL SERVICES (81%); NAICS541211 OFFICES OF CERTIFIED PUBLIC ACCOUNTANTS (56%); SIC8721 ACCOUNTING, AUDITING, & BOOKKEEPING SERVICES (56%)

PERSON: WARREN BUFFETT (56%) Heather Timmons; Simon Romero

GEOGRAPHIC: CHINA (94%); KAZAKHSTAN (92%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (90%); INDIA (79%); UNITED STATES (79%) China; Russia

LOAD-DATE: December 13, 2005



270 of 607 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 13, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 6; National Desk; STORM AND CRISIS: HOUSING; Pg. 30

LENGTH: 785 words

HEADLINE: Judge Orders An Extension Of FEMA Aid

BYLINE: By JODI WILGOREN

 BODY:
Calling the Federal Emergency Management Agency ''numbingly insensitive'' and ''unduly callous,'' a federal judge ruled yesterday that the agency must pay the hotel bills of hurricane evacuees until Feb. 7, handing a reprieve to thousands who faced a Thursday deadline to check out or begin picking up the tab themselves. 
 The ruling, by Judge Stanwood R. Duval Jr. of the Eastern District of Louisiana, covers 42,000 evacuee families still living in 4,000 hotels in 47 states and the District of Columbia. FEMA had previously said it would stop paying for their rooms on Dec. 15 or Jan. 7, depending on their proximity to the disaster zone. 
Judge Duval's ruling calls on FEMA to resolve quickly 84,470 applications for assistance that remain pending and mandates that hotel bills be covered for two weeks after each family receives its check.
 ''Now I have an opportunity to look for housing and to provide a home for me and my son,'' said Leonora Bartley, 44, a plaintiff in the class-action suit who testified on Friday at a hearing about her difficulties in obtaining assistance while staying at a Motel 6 in San Antonio. ''I was panicking because I was going to be homeless. My nerves was bad; I couldn't sleep.''
 Nicol Andrews, a FEMA spokeswoman, said that the agency was still reviewing the judge's decision but that the needs of evacuees remaining in hotels were a top priority.
 ''FEMA continues to reach out to those evacuees who may not yet know of federal aid they are eligible to receive,'' Ms. Andrews said in a statement. ''Our aim is to ensure that all victims of Hurricanes Katrina and Rita have housing.''
 The hotel program, which has cost $350 million so far and at its peak included 85,000 rooms across the country, has been a source of much confusion -- and controversy -- for FEMA from the start.
 At one point, the agency vastly overstated to the news media, and to Congress, the number of evacuees in hotels. Last month, it abruptly announced that it would stop paying for hotel rooms on Nov. 30, only to reverse course a week later and set the Dec. 15 and Jan. 7 deadlines. On Saturday, FEMA officials again switched gears, saying the government would cover bills for all evacuees who needed to stay until Jan. 7, but only if they called a hot line and registered individually, a requirement undone by the judge's ruling.
 ''It is unimaginable what anxiety and misery these erratic and bizarre vacillations by FEMA have caused these victims, all of whom, for at least one point in time, had the very real fear of being without shelter for Christmas,'' wrote Judge Duval, an appointee of President Bill Clinton. 
 The judge said he based his ruling on the federal law that authorized FEMA. It requires the government to ease suffering and damage caused by natural disasters. The arbitrary deadline violates that legislation, Judge Duval wrote, and discriminates against victims based on their economic status.
 ''Underlying FEMA's position is a theme that every person ultimately has to take care of him or herself,'' he wrote. ''Certainly as a general rule this is true, but perhaps that position is unduly callous under the circumstances wrought by Hurricane Katrina.''
 Local and state officials who had been scrambling to secure longer-term housing for evacuees by the looming deadline said they were relieved by the decision, though some said the extra month might still not be enough time to empty the hotels, particularly in Texas and Louisiana, where more than half the occupied rooms are located.
 ''It's certainly good news, but it doesn't fix the entire problem,'' said William J. Croft, a retired Army colonel who is heading a housing task force in Louisiana, where apartments for hotel occupants are scarce. ''It's going to take until April to provide enough housing for all the folks in the hotels.''
 Rachael Novier, a spokeswoman for Gov. Rick Perry of Texas, called Judge Duval's decision a ''welcome step,'' adding, ''We want this transition to happen as quickly and efficiently as possible, but if unmet needs remain in the coming weeks we will continue to call for more time.''
 Howard O. Godnick, a partner in the New York firm Schulte Roth & Zabel, which filed the class-action suit on behalf of evacuees, said he would monitor FEMA's processing of the pending applications and push for another extension if necessary. 
 ''I think for now it's reasonable,'' Mr. Godnick said of the Feb. 7 deadline. 
 At the Microtel Inn in Shallotte, N.C., Barb Knowles, the general manager, said she would cancel the potluck goodbye lunch she had been planning for Wednesday for the six remaining evacuee families at the hotel and start thinking about a Christmas party instead.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: JUDGES (93%); DISASTER & EMERGENCY AGENCIES (93%); SETTLEMENTS & DECISIONS (92%); NATURAL DISASTERS (90%); HURRICANES (90%); DECISIONS & RULINGS (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (90%); LITIGATION (90%); HOTELS & MOTELS (89%); APPOINTMENTS (78%); DISASTER RELIEF (78%); HURRICANE KATRINA (77%); FAMILY (76%); TESTIMONY (72%); CLASS ACTIONS (72%); TROPICAL STORMS (72%); CHRISTMAS (70%); SUITS & CLAIMS (68%); US PRESIDENTS (60%); HOMELESSNESS (51%) 

ORGANIZATION: FEDERAL EMERGENCY MANAGEMENT AGENCY (97%) Federal Emergency Management Agency

PERSON: BILL CLINTON (50%) Stanwood R Jr (Judge) Duval; Jodi Wilgoren

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW ORLEANS, LA, USA (79%) LOUISIANA, USA (93%); DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (93%) Louisiana; New Orleans (La); Mississippi; United States

LOAD-DATE: December 13, 2005



271 of 607 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 13, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 3; Business/Financial Desk; Itineraries; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 1013 words

HEADLINE: Don't Go There

BYLINE: By CHRISTOPHER ELLIOTT

 BODY:
It was a routine request for a business trip. At least that's what Ramsay Chu thought. 
 Mr. Chu, a vice president with Visa International in San Francisco, asked his travel agent to book a round-trip flight to New York in economy class and three nights at his company's preferred hotel, the Waldorf-Astoria.
But then his agent phoned him to report a problem. With the $275-a-night rooms at the Waldorf all taken, she had followed her usual practice of bumping Mr. Chu to the next room category available, which happened to cost $475. Alas, a software program that Visa had recently installed to comb through its employees' travel plans had detected this deviation from the company's price policy and stopped it. 
 Pre-trip audits are beginning to catch on in corporate America. Unlike post-trip auditing tools, they can save companies money by spotting unauthorized spending before the employee hits the road. A system like Visa's can save a company a few percentage points of its annual travel and entertainment budget, which is typically the second-largest controllable expense behind payroll.
 ''I was told that I couldn't stay at the Waldorf and that my best option was to get a room in New Jersey,'' Mr. Chu recalled. ''But that didn't make sense.'' Instead of a short walk from the Waldorf to the industry conference he planned to attend at the nearby Grand Hyatt, it meant a commute across the Hudson. In the end, he stayed with a college friend in the Chelsea neighborhood of Manhattan and rode a cab to the conference.
 Programs that snare business travelers who reserve a plane ticket in business class instead of economy class, or a room in a five-star resort instead of the no-tell motel, are controversial for all the obvious reasons -- and a few that aren't. Travelers often resent the added scrutiny and see the system as an example of bean counters running amok.
 But even within the corporate travel industry, early audits are the subject of some debate. Many travel executives say that such audits are unnecessary for companies that use other means to enforce their policies. Some developers of expense-management software dismiss the audits as a waste of time and money, though they concede that improvements in the technology could some day make the programs more attractive.
 ''Very few companies have access to these tools,'' said Heidi Skatrud, a vice president for Runzheimer International, a consulting firm specializing in corporate travel. ''But I think more will be looking at it in the future. And as they become available, you're going to see more companies adding pre-trip audits.''
 It is unclear how many companies have the systems. But Mr. Chu is in a unique position to judge the effectiveness of his company's programs: not only has he experienced the audit firsthand, he also happens to be the custodian of Visa International's pre-trip auditing system, which is supplied by Ariba Inc., a software developer and consulting firm. 
 ''It definitely has some advantages,'' he said of the system. ''For example, it limits the number of questionable trips or marginal trips -- the people who used to travel across the country for a one-hour meeting. You also have a solid audit trail of people and their history of travel.''
 There are disadvantages, too, he says. The system was at first mandated across the entire company, but it soon became clear that it would be impractical to audit the shorter trips that Visa USA employees typically take. So the company scaled it back to Visa International, where longer, more expensive international trips are more common. 
 Christa M. Degnan, a research director for the Aberdeen Group, sees other pitfalls. For one thing, she says, travel managers are wary of adding a new layer of bureaucracy. In addition, she said, pre-trip auditing creates unnecessary hassles for companies that already have effective cost controls in place, and it can make travel more expensive because fares might rise while an itinerary is stuck in approval limbo.
 But it does have its uses, she said. ''This is the kind of tool that would be popular with public-sector organizations or any company that is watching its expenses very closely.''
 Padmini Ranganathan, a senior product manager at Ariba, says the software has been slow to make inroads in the corporate world, with only one-fourth of her company's clients deciding to adopt it. Even so, she is quick to give a sales pitch for it. ''Pre-trip audits are part of a transformational process in corporate America,'' she said. ''It's about looking at expenses before you get to the expense reports. It's asking questions such as, Why aren't you using a preferred airline? and Why are you booking in business class? before the company has already paid for it.''
 Concur Technologies, one of the largest suppliers of expense-management software, estimates that less than 5 percent of companies with automated expense management systems have a pre-trip auditing system in place. And with good reason, says Christopher Juneau, senior director of product marketing. ''Only 10 percent of companies have chosen to automate the expense management process,'' he said. ''So there's a lot of opportunity in just automating that process first.''
 Mr. Juneau points to another flaw in pre-trip auditing that potential users might do well to mull over. The typical business itinerary changes three times, he says, and tracking all the revisions can be a bit like trying to hit a moving target.
 Some travel industry executives predict that pre-trip audits could someday become as common as post-trip audits. Henry Ijams, managing director of PayStream Advisors, which consults with companies on expense management, says that corporations will warm to the idea of the audits when they see how much money it can save them -- anywhere from 2 percent to 6 percent of their annual travel budget. 
 ''Once the traveler is out the door, it's very hard to get the money they've spent back,'' he said. ''There are not that many companies demanding pre-trip audit systems yet. But they will.''


GRAPHIC: Drawing (Drawing by Dave Ember)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: HOTELS & MOTELS (89%); TRAVEL HOSPITALITY & TOURISM (89%); BUSINESS TRAVEL SERVICES (78%); BUDGETS (77%); CONFERENCES & CONVENTIONS (74%); RESORTS (73%); TRAVEL TICKETS (72%); COMPUTER SOFTWARE (69%); PRICE MANAGEMENT (69%); TRADE SHOWS (64%); CONSULTING SERVICES (60%) Travel and Vacations; Accounting and Accountants; Travel and Vacations

COMPANY: VISA INC (93%); HYATT HOTELS CORP (58%); RUNZHEIMER INTERNATIONAL LTD (50%)

TICKER: V (NYSE) (93%); H (NYSE) (58%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS522320 FINANCIAL TRANSACTIONS PROCESSING, RESERVE & CLEARINGHOUSE ACTIVITIES (93%); NAICS721110 HOTELS (EXCEPT CASINO HOTELS) & MOTELS (58%); SIC6519 LESSORS OF REAL PROPERTY, NEC (58%); NAICS541611 ADMINISTRATIVE MANAGEMENT & GENERAL MANAGEMENT CONSULTING SERVICES (50%); SIC8742 MANAGEMENT CONSULTING SERVICES (50%)

PERSON: Christopher Elliott

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%) NEW YORK, USA (92%); CALIFORNIA, USA (92%); NEW JERSEY, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: December 13, 2005



272 of 607 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 13, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 767 words

HEADLINE: Japan Partly Lifts 2-Year Ban on U.S. Beef, Defusing Trade Dispute

BYLINE: By ALEXEI BARRIONUEVO; Martin Fackler contributed reporting from Tokyo for this article.

DATELINE: CHICAGO, Dec. 12 

 BODY:
The first shipments of American beef in two years should be exported to Japan in as little as a week, but rebuilding what had once been the largest overseas market for American ranchers could take years, meat processing companies said.
 Japan partly lifted a two-year ban on American beef on Monday, defusing a tense trade dispute. Tokyo eased the ban after months of negotiations between American and Japanese trade and farm officials, and amid threats of retaliation by members of Congress. 
Mike Johanns, the secretary of agriculture, and Rob Portman, the United States trade representative, called on Monday for other Asian countries, including South Korea and Taiwan, to lift their bans on American beef. Officials from South Korea and Taiwan said that scientific advisory bodies were expected to issue recommendations this week. 
 Japan's cabinet decided to allow the import of cattle younger than 21 months after a food-safety commission ruled last week that meat from the animals was as safe as Japanese beef. 
 Japan imposed the ban in December 2003 after the discovery of mad-cow disease in a dairy cow in Washington State. Testing has found that the younger animals did not catch the disease, formally known as bovine spongiform encephalopathy, which can be fatal to humans. The decision includes Canadian beef.
 The American beef industry now faces the challenges of winning back skeptical Japanese consumers and finding enough American cattle to satisfy Japan's requirements that the cattle's age be documented.
 ''This is great news for the marketplace, but it is not going to change anything overnight,'' said Sean McHugh, a spokesman for Swift & Company, a large meat processor. He said it could take three to four years for American companies to regain their foothold in the Japanese meat market. 
 Currently, only an estimated 5 to 10 percent of the American herd is eligible for export to Japan, Mr. McHugh said, based on the age and age-certification requirements. 
 In addition, since the ban on American beef in 2003, per-capita consumption of beef in Japan has fallen 18 percent, as high prices have driven consumers to other forms of protein like pork. Beef from Australia and New Zealand has taken most of the market share formally claimed by American beef.
 The Japanese ban has cost the American ranchers an estimated $3.1 billion over the last two years in lost sales and lower prices because of a drop in demand, said Gregg Doud, the chief economist for the National Cattlemen's Beef Association, a trade group in Washington. 
 Japan was one of more than 60 countries that initially barred American beef in 2003. According to the Agriculture Department, exports plunged to 461 million pounds in 2004, from a record 2.52 billion in 2003. Some 40 countries continue to refuse American and Canadian beef.
 Sales slumped at processors, including Tyson Foods, which reported losses in its beef business in five of the last eight quarters. Japan made up 27 percent of Tyson's international beef sales in fiscal 2003. 
 Recent polls showing that more than half of Japanese consumers are unwilling to eat American beef indicate how tough it will be to convince Japanese consumers that American products are safe. Ito-Yokado, one of Japan's largest supermarket chains, said it had no plans to resume sales of American beef because of concerns voiced by its customers.
 ''A large number of consumers still feel insecure'' about safety, said Ichiro Tanaka, a company spokesman.
 Despite the Japanese government's decision, a team of Japanese health officials will begin a tour on Wednesday of some 10 American slaughterhouses, said Lynn Heinze, a spokesman for the U.S. Meat Export Federation. The officials will ensure that measures are in place to verify animals' ages and that workers are removing brains and spinal cords, the parts most likely to carry the disease.
 Some critics of the federal mad-cow testing program criticized Japan's decision, saying the government caved in to diplomatic pressure from the United States, which steadfastly has refused to adopt the stricter testing methods that the Japanese initially demanded. 
 While Japan until recently was testing all its cattle for mad cow, the Agriculture Department has tested 548,786 cattle since June of 2004, in an enhanced testing program, or about 1 in 90 animals.
 ''From the standpoint of human and animal safety this is a disastrous decision by the Japanese,'' said John Stauber, co-author of ''Mad Cow U.S.A.,'' which was first published by Common Courage Press in 1997. ''They have taken a huge step backward.''

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BOVINE SPONGIFORM ENCEPHALOPATHY (91%); BEEF (90%); ANIMALS (90%); EXPORT TRADE (90%); TRADE DISPUTES (90%); AGRICULTURAL TRADE (90%); LIVESTOCK EXPORTS & IMPORTS (90%); MAMMALS (90%); DEREGULATION (90%); LIVESTOCK DISEASE (90%); MEATS (90%); ANIMAL SLAUGHTERING & PROCESSING (89%); AGRICULTURE DEPARTMENTS (89%); MEAT PROCESSING & PRODUCTS (89%); FARMERS & RANCHERS (89%); FOOD & BEVERAGE CONSUMPTION (78%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (78%); FOOD SAFETY REGULATION (78%); AGRICULTURAL EXPORT & IMPORT CONTROLS (78%); IMPORT TRADE (78%); BEEF CATTLE FARMING (78%); FOOD SAFETY (78%); AGRICULTURAL COMMODITY REGULATION (78%); DAIRY FARMING (77%); SALES FIGURES (77%); CONSUMPTION (77%); TRADE DEVELOPMENT (76%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (75%); FOOD BORNE ILLNESS (74%); PRODUCT RECALLS (74%); CONSUMER LAW (73%); CONSUMER PROTECTION (73%); PRODUCT SAFETY (73%); NEUROLOGICAL DISORDERS & INJURIES (72%); PORK (72%); COMPANY LOSSES (68%); MARKET SHARE (62%) Food Contamination and Poisoning; Consumer Protection; International Trade and World Market; Mad Cow Disease (Bovine Spongiform Encephalopathy); Meat; Public Opinion; Regulation and Deregulation of Industry; Food Contamination and Poisoning; Recalls and Bans of Products

COMPANY: SWIFT & CO (66%); NATIONAL CATTLEMEN'S BEEF ASSOCIATION (61%); TYSON FOODS INC (50%)

TICKER: TSN (NYSE) (50%)

INDUSTRY: SIC2013 SAUSAGES & OTHER PREPARED MEAT PRODUCTS (66%); NAICS813910 BUSINESS ASSOCIATIONS (61%); SIC8621 PROFESSIONAL MEMBERSHIP ORGANIZATIONS (61%); NAICS311615 POULTRY PROCESSING (50%); NAICS311611 ANIMAL (EXCEPT POULTRY) SLAUGHTERING (50%); SIC2048 PREPARED FEEDS & FEED INGREDIENTS FOR ANIMALS & FOWLS, EXCEPT DOGS & CATS (50%); SIC2015 POULTRY SLAUGHTERING & PROCESSING (50%)

PERSON: MIKE JOHANNS (75%); ROB PORTMAN (70%) Mike (Sec) Johanns; Rob Portman; Alexei Barrionuevo; Martin Fackler

GEOGRAPHIC: TOKYO, JAPAN (73%) WASHINGTON, USA (79%) JAPAN (97%); UNITED STATES (96%); CANADA (92%); ASIA (92%); KOREA, REPUBLIC OF (92%); AUSTRALIA & NEW ZEALAND (92%); TAIWAN (92%); AUSTRALIA (79%); SOUTH-EASTERN ASIA (79%); NEW ZEALAND (79%) Japan; Far East, South and Southeast Asia and Pacific Areas

LOAD-DATE: December 13, 2005



273 of 607 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 13, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 5; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1238 words

HEADLINE: Transit Strike Would Mean Four to a Car

BYLINE: By STEVEN GREENHOUSE and THOMAS J. LUECK; Sewell Chan and Jim Rutenberg contributed reporting for this article.

 BODY:
Mayor Michael R. Bloomberg, warning that a transit strike would seriously hurt the city's economy, announced yesterday that only cars with at least four people would be allowed to enter Manhattan south of 96th Street on weekday mornings if bus and subway workers walk off the job on Friday. 
 Starting times for city schools would be delayed by two hours to allow children time to get to school, and several streets, including much of Fifth and Madison Avenues, would be closed to all but emergency vehicles, according to an affidavit the city filed in court yesterday.
Wading forcefully into the labor dispute, Mr. Bloomberg said he hoped that a walkout would be averted and urged transit workers to follow the example of many municipal unions by exchanging productivity increases for bigger raises. 
 ''A strike would not be good for the city, a strike would not be good for the union,'' Mr. Bloomberg said during an appearance in Manhattan. ''It will cost an enormous amount of money in economic activity. There will be a lot of people who would lose their jobs during a strike.''
 In court papers filed in support of the state's request for an injunction against a strike, slowdown or sickout, the Bloomberg administration estimated that the city's businesses would lose $440 million to $660 million per day in business activity. 
 Roger Toussaint, president of Local 100 of the Transport Workers Union, representing 33,700 subway and bus workers, said the mayor should not interfere in his union's talks with the Metropolitan Transportation Authority, a state-controlled agency.
 ''Mayor Bloomberg is not part of these negotiations, and it should stay that way,'' Mr. Toussaint said as he entered the Grand Hyatt hotel for another round of talks. 
 Last night, the authority altered its earlier two-year proposal of a 3 percent increase the first year and 2 percent the second, offering instead a 27-month contract with a wage increase of 3 percent in the first year and another 3 percent effective March 16, 2007. In addition, instead of linking the second year of wage increases to reduced use of sick leave, as it proposed last week, it would impose new restrictions on sick leave unless workers reduce their use to 2002 levels. 
 The union did not immediately respond to the offer, but earlier in the evening, Mr. Toussaint restated his demand for an 8 percent wage increase in each of the next three years. 
 Local 100 has threatened to shut down the transit system if the two sides fail to reach a settlement by 12:01 a.m. Friday, when its contract expires.
 ''I'd still say there is a 50-50 possibility'' of a strike, Mr. Toussaint said, ''but there is still plenty of time to work things out.''
 In an appearance at Parsons the New School for Design, Mr. Bloomberg told reporters that the city would be firm in barring cars with fewer than four people from entering Manhattan south of 96th Street from 5 to 11 a.m. weekdays. He said the city had not completed enforcement details. 
 ''When we say cars coming in, we mean every car,'' he said. ''One of the things we learned out of 9/11 was if you start making exceptions, it becomes unfair and unenforceable. And you're going to have four in a car the same way I'm going to have to.''
 After 9/11, cars carrying only one person were barred from entering Midtown or Lower Manhattan during weekday mornings to ease traffic jams caused by security checkpoints. The next year, when negotiations over the previous transit contract stalled, the city threatened to propose the same ban on cars with fewer than four occupants.
 Mr. Bloomberg said taxis would be allowed to carry multiple fares during a strike. He also urged that New Yorkers who live far from their job arrange to sleep closer to work. 
 ''I would try to find somebody that's a friend that will let you use their couch,'' he said. ''That would be the easiest thing to do.''
 As outlined in the affidavit, the contingency plan calls for closing a number of streets to all but emergency vehicles, including Fifth and Madison Avenues from 23rd to 96th Streets as well as 26th, 29th, 49th and 50th Streets from 1st to 12th Avenues. In Lower Manhattan, portions of Nassau, Rector and Vesey Streets and Maiden Lane would be closed. 
 Giving the two sides negotiating advice, Mr. Bloomberg said: ''We've managed to come to good settlements with many of the city's unions based on productivity savings that got them significant increases in their compensation. I see no reason why the union and the M.T.A. couldn't do exactly the same thing.''
 As the deadline approaches, some commuter lines are making emergency plans. For example, the Port Authority of New York and New Jersey plans to run PATH trains from the World Trade Center stop to 33rd Street in Midtown. 
 Although city schools would open later than usual, dismissal times would remain the same, shortening the school day by two hours, the affidavit said. 
 Keith Kalb, a spokesman for Schools Chancellor Joel I. Klein, said all school employees were expected to work. 
 ''The school buses will continue to run, we will have supplies of food and fuel,'' he said. ''We have plans to notify parents should circumstances change.''
 Randi Weingarten, president of the teachers' union, the United Federation of Teachers, criticized the chancellor's decision to keep schools open. ''If there's a strike on Friday, they should close the schools,'' she said. ''It's going to be chaos.''
 The union and the transportation authority are at loggerheads over wages and the authority's demand for a less generous pension and health plan for new workers. Union members' base pay averages $47,000 a year.
 The authority says it needs concessions because it faces a $1 billion deficit beginning in 2009. The union insists that no concessions are warranted because the authority has a $1 billion surplus this year.
 Yesterday, Justice Theodore T. Jones Jr. of State Supreme Court in Brooklyn scheduled a hearing for 10 a.m. today on a motion by lawyers for the state seeking a preliminary injunction against a strike or any attempt to disrupt transit service.
 Attorney General Eliot Spitzer's office is seeking the injunction under the Taylor Law, which prohibits strikes by public employees. 
 Michael A. Cardozo, the city's corporation counsel, said the injunction was being sought to make it clear that ''severe consequences would follow'' if the transit workers went on strike. 
 Joseph F. Bruno, the city's commissioner of emergency management, said that in addition to business losses in the event of a strike, the city would lose $8 million to $12 million per day in tax revenue and would incur $10.1 million a day for police overtime. Separately, City Comptroller William C. Thompson Jr. estimated that the city would suffer $1.6 billion in economic losses during the first week of a strike.
 Outside the courtroom, Arthur Z. Schwartz, a lawyer for the transit workers, said the attorney general should not be seeking an injunction until a strike was under way or imminent. He said there was no evidence that a walkout was imminent.
 Mr. Toussaint said he was also concerned about the economic losses: ''That would be even more reason to resolve this contract.''
 Preliminary injunctions or temporary restraining orders have been issued routinely during previous transit negotiations even though the Taylor Law imposes stiff financial penalties on striking workers.


GRAPHIC: Photo: Up to 33,700 bus and subway workers could go on strike Friday. (Photo by Keith Bedford/Reuters)(pg. B6)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: URBAN TRANSIT SYSTEMS (91%); LABOR UNIONS (90%); PUBLIC TRANSPORTATION (89%); WAGES & SALARIES (89%); MAYORS (89%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (78%); LABOR DISPUTES & NEGOTIATIONS (78%); DELAYS & POSTPONEMENTS (78%); LAYOFFS (77%); STRIKES (77%); EMPLOYEE LEAVE (77%); PRODUCTIVITY (72%); INJUNCTIONS (70%); TALKS & MEETINGS (69%); SICK LEAVE (60%) 

COMPANY: HYATT HOTELS CORP (53%)

ORGANIZATION: Transit Workers Union; Metropolitan Transportation Authority; Transport Workers Union; Metropolitan Transportation Authority

TICKER: H (NYSE) (53%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS721110 HOTELS (EXCEPT CASINO HOTELS) & MOTELS (53%); SIC6519 LESSORS OF REAL PROPERTY, NEC (53%)

PERSON: MICHAEL BLOOMBERG (90%) Sewell Chan; William Bailon; Steven Greenhouse; Thomas J Lueck; Michael R (Mayor) Bloomberg; Roger Toussaint

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%) NEW YORK, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%) New York City

LOAD-DATE: December 13, 2005



274 of 607 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 13, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk; INTERNATIONAL BUSINESS; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 858 words

HEADLINE: Tokyo Exchange Struggles With Snarls in Electronics

BYLINE: By MARTIN FACKLER

DATELINE: TOKYO, Dec. 12 

 BODY:
What exactly is going on at the Tokyo Stock Exchange?
 Last month, a computer glitch shut down trading on the exchange, the world's second-largest after the New York Stock Exchange, for almost an entire day. Then last week, a typographical error by the Mizuho Securities brokerage generated a $330 million loss. On Friday, the prime minister demanded corrective steps, and regulators began an investigation.
''I can't imagine problems like these happening at the New York Stock Exchange,'' said Neil Katkov, an analyst in Tokyo for Celent, a research firm based in Boston that specializes in financial technology. The Tokyo Stock Exchange, he said, ''hasn't brought its procedures and technology up to the norms of international exchanges.'' 
 The latest electronic mix-up began last Thursday during the initial public offering of J-Com, a small recruiting company. An employee at Mizuho, a subsidiary of the Mizuho Financial Group, mistakenly typed an order to sell 610,000 shares at 1 yen, or less than a penny each, instead of an order to sell one share at 610,000 yen ($5,057) as intended, the brokerage said. 
 At that price, the sale would have been worth $3.1 billion, far more than the company's actual value. But the number of shares ostensibly being sold far exceeded the shares on offer.
 Mizuho's computer failed to catch the error, but that wasn't all. As Mizuho tried frantically to cancel the order, the computer at the Tokyo Stock Exchange blocked its efforts for about 10 minutes, the exchange said. Mizuho finally managed to buy back most of the mistaken order before investors did. 
 But investors did buy about 100,000 of the nonexistent shares. Mizuho said Thursday that the typo would cost it 27 billion yen, or about $230 million, to reimburse buyers and cancel the order. But on Monday the stock exchange raised the total loss to 40 billion yen, or $330 million, ordering Mizuho to pay investors a premium of 300,000 yen, for a total payment of 910,000 yen for each share sold. The higher sum reflected an advisory group's calculation of where J-Com shares would have traded had the market not been flooded with the mistaken sell order.
 But the exchange also said it would share the cost of the debacle with Mizuho. It was not clear, however, how much of the loss the exchange would assume.
 In a hastily called news conference late Sunday evening, the exchange's president and chief executive, Takuo Tsurushima, admitted that a failure by the exchange's computer system was also at fault. Previously, the exchange had squarely blamed Mizuho, saying that the brokerage had not only botched the trade order but also had made an error as it tried to stop the order.
 But Mr. Tsurushima also made reference to a glitch on Nov. 1 that froze trading on the Tokyo Stock Exchange for all but 90 minutes of an entire day, an unusual and embarrassing mishap for one of the world's top bourses.
 ''I feel a heavy responsibility for having caused turmoil in the market twice in such a short time,'' Mr. Tsurushima told reporters. He said he might resign, a customary gesture in Japan to take responsibility.
 The investors will get cash instead of J-Com stock, the exchange said. Cash settlements have been used in the past to compensate investors when natural disasters disrupted trading, but are rare otherwise.
 On Monday, Japan's Financial Services Agency ordered the Tokyo Stock Exchange to report on the cause of Thursday's failures. Japanese media reports said the agency may also order the exchange to completely revamp its computer system. 
 That computer system was designed by Fujitsu, the Japanese electronics company. Last month, Fujitsu said it cut the pay of its top executives as punishment for the company's role in the November failure.
 Even Prime Minister Junichiro Koizumi commented on the problem. ''We need to think more about putting safety measures in place to prevent confusion,'' he said Friday, according to the Associated Press.
 The twin mishaps have raised concerns about the reliability of the Tokyo Stock Exchange's computer system at a time when a rebound in Japan's economy is bringing record trading volumes. Critics have castigated the exchange for failing to invest in modern computer systems or upgrade the system it has.
 And some traders say the incidents point to a deeper underlying problem. They fault a bureaucratic culture of secrecy at the exchange that makes it reluctant to reveal details of its trading systems, even to brokerages. Some foreign trading firms have complained that the exchange does not respond to even routine inquiries about its systems.
 Experts say other exchanges are far more transparent and rely on give-and-take with members to detect possible problems in the complex computer systems. They say the New York Stock Exchange routinely tests its computer system with big brokerages to avoid mishaps.
 But Mr. Katkov, the Celent analyst, noted that Thursday's failure highlighted another problem: the inadequate computer systems used by Japanese financial companies. ''An advanced electronic trading system should never have let this trade out of the gate,'' he said.


GRAPHIC: Photo: The Tokyo Stock Exchange's top executives, Taizo Nishimuro, center, and Takuo Tsurushima, right, met yesterday with the economics and financial services minister, Kaoru Yosano, to apologize for their role in an error. (Photo by Yuriko Nakao/Reuters)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: STOCK EXCHANGES (94%); COMPUTER EQUIPMENT (78%); BANKING & FINANCE REGULATION (78%); SECURITIES TRADING (78%); BONDS (78%); STOCK OFFERINGS (78%); COMPUTER TRADING SYSTEMS (78%); BANKING & FINANCE AGENCIES (77%); INITIAL PUBLIC OFFERINGS (73%); SECURITIES BROKERS (72%); EXECUTIVES (68%); PRIME MINISTERS (56%) Stocks and Bonds; Computers and the Internet; Suspensions, Dismissals and Resignations; Stocks and Bonds; Biographical Information

COMPANY: MIZUHO SECURITIES CO LTD (58%); NEW YORK STOCK EXCHANGE LLC (58%); MIZUHO FINANCIAL GROUP INC (58%)

ORGANIZATION: Tokyo Stock Exchange; Mizuho Financial Group; J-Com (Japanese Co); Financial Services Agency (Japan)

TICKER: MFG (NYSE) (58%); 8411 (TSE) (58%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (58%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (58%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (58%); SIC6029 COMMERCIAL BANKS, NEC (58%)

PERSON: KAORU YOSANO (78%) Taizo Nishimuro; Takuo Tsurushima; Kaoru (Min) Yosano; Martin Fackler

GEOGRAPHIC: TOKYO, JAPAN (95%); BOSTON, MA, USA (79%) MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%) JAPAN (95%); UNITED STATES (79%) Japan

LOAD-DATE: December 13, 2005



275 of 607 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 13, 2005
Correction Appended 
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 892 words

HEADLINE: S.& P. Cuts G.M. Rating To Lowest in 52 Years 

BYLINE: By MICHELINE MAYNARD; Jeremy W. Peters contributed reporting for this article.

DATELINE: DETROIT, Dec. 12 

 BODY:
Standard & Poor's Ratings Services cut its rating on General Motors' debt two more notches into junk status on Monday, putting the automaker at the lowest level in the 52 years that S.& P. has been assessing its creditworthiness.
 And if G.M.'s financial position continues to deteriorate, Scott Sprinzen, an automobile analyst for Standard & Poor's, said, it is ''not far-fetched'' that G.M. may ultimately be forced to seek bankruptcy protection to restructure its debt and its labor contracts. 
G.M., the world's biggest auto company, reiterated Monday that it had no intention of seeking Chapter 11 bankruptcy protection. A G.M. spokesman, Jerry Dubrowski, said G.M. has ''an aggressive and well-thought-out strategy to turn around our North American business,'' which has lost more than $4 billion this year. 
 Nonetheless, the S.& P. ratings cut and bankruptcy warning threw fuel on the smoldering speculation that G.M. would be forced to seek court protection. Although other industry analysts have warned that the possibility exists, the debt-rating agency is privy to confidential G.M. information, which it uses to assess the company's risk of default. 
 The ratings agency, in a harshly worded report, cut its rating on G.M.'s corporate debt to B, from BB-, with negative implications, and reduced its rating on G.M.'s short-term debt to B3 from B2. It said its outlook for G.M.'s debt was negative, meaning it could face another downgrade in the next two years, but it removed both types of debt from CreditWatch, meaning another cut was not imminent.
 The B rating is the lowest since 1953, when S.& P. gave its first rating of AAA to the company's debt. The downgrade marks the third ratings cut in the last year for G.M., and its second descent into speculative grade. The rating is below those G.M. held during its fiscal crisis in the early 1990's. 
 By contrast, G.M. held an investment grade rating of A or higher from 1995 through 2001, when it basked in strong sales of profitable sport utility vehicles and pickup trucks. And it held the AAA rating from the 1950's through the early 1980's.
 This year, however, G.M. has been hit by a deep financial crisis. It lost money in four of the last five quarters, and through November, its market share in the United States was 26.2 percent, down 1.3 points from 27.5 percent a year ago.
 Despite all that, its chief executive, Rick Wagoner, has steadfastly rejected speculation that G.M. may have to join its biggest parts supplier, the Delphi Corporation, in seeking bankruptcy protection. 
 Mr. Wagoner points to the $19 billion in cash that G.M. has on hand, and its array of global assets that can be sold to raise cash. 
 Mr. Sprinzen said of a bankruptcy filing, ''At this juncture, it's our feeling that this isn't a far-fetched conclusion, if the deterioration we've seen over the past few quarters is continuing.''
 Mr. Dubrowski at G.M. said the company was making some progress in its turnaround efforts, noting that G.M. had reached agreement with the United Automobile Workers union on historic, though modest, savings on its annual health care costs. He added that G.M.'s plan was ''not a short-term strategy.'' 
 But Robert Schultz, an S.& P. credit analyst, said the agency was pessimistic that the turnaround plan would work, adding that the agency expected G.M. might lose $5 billion in North America this year and post a $3 billion corporate net loss for 2005.
 ''This year has witnessed a stunning collapse of G.M.'s financial performance,'' Mr. Schultz said in the report issued Monday. Although S.& P. does not consider G.M. to be at any more danger of a Chapter 11 filing than any other company with a B rating, Mr. Schultz said, ''We felt we needed to spell it out.''
 S.& P. did not cut its ratings on General Motors .Acceptance Corporation, which also are in speculative grade, but it kept the financing company on CreditWatch, meaning that a downgrade was likely. 
 On Monday, the S.& P. analysts said that they were keeping a close eye on G.M.'s efforts to sell a controlling interest in the unit. Depending on the buyer, and the amount of time that any deal could take to conclude, they said another ratings cut could occur.
 S.& P. first cut G.M.'s corporate rating into junk on May 9, reflecting fears about the company's financial outlook, and the impact that the bankruptcy filing at Delphi would have on G.M., which spun off the parts supplier in 1999.
 Delphi sought Chapter 11 protection in October, after failing to reach an agreement with G.M. on an assistance package. G.M. estimated the impact of a Delphi bankruptcy could be up to $12 billion, depending on the costs it may incur for pension and health care coverage for Delphi workers eligible to return to G.M. The companies recently accelerated their negotiations on a bailout plan.
 The Delphi bankruptcy is widely seen by analysts as the first move that could set off a dominolike wave of auto industry restructurings. John Casesa, an analyst with Merrill Lynch, said Monday that the cutbacks were long overdue.
 ''Detroit has waited so long to address these deep-rooted fundamental problems that a massive restructuring, unlike anything the industry has seen before, is inevitable,'' Mr. Casesa said. 
 He added, ''This is really about taking apart and reassembling the domestic auto industry.''


CORRECTION-DATE: December 14, 2005

 CORRECTION:
An article in Business Day yesterday about the decision by the Standard & Poor's Rating Services to cut its rating of General Motors debt misspelled the surname of the S.& P. credit analyst who said the agency was pessimistic that G.M. could turn things around. He is Robert Schulz, not Schultz. The date of the S.& P.'s downgrade of G.M.'s credit rating to below-investment-grade was also misstated. It was May 5, not May 9.

GRAPHIC: Photo: Standard & Poor's Ratings Services cut its rating on General Motors' debt two more notches into junk status. (Photo by Tom Strickland/Bloomberg News)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: FINANCIAL RATINGS (92%); CREDIT BUREAUS (92%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (91%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY LAW (90%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY COURTS (90%); CORPORATE DEBT (89%); FINANCIAL RATING DOWNGRADES (89%); AUTOMOTIVE SECTOR PERFORMANCE (78%); MOTOR VEHICLE PARTS MFG (78%); AUTOMAKERS (78%); AUTOMOBILE MFG (78%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (78%); AUTOMOTIVE MFG (78%); CORPORATE BONDS (78%); AUTOMAKER BANKRUPTCIES (78%); COMPANY PROFITS (77%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (76%); MOTOR VEHICLES (76%); US CHAPTER 11 BANKRUPTCY (75%); SALES FIGURES (75%); BUSINESS INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (75%); MARKET SHARE (73%); SPORT UTILITY VEHICLES (72%); EXECUTIVES (65%); PICKUP TRUCKS (60%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (52%) Automobiles; Ratings and Rating Systems; Bankruptcies; Credit; Labor

COMPANY: STANDARD & POOR'S FINANCIAL SERVICES LLC (94%); GENERAL MOTORS CO (58%)

ORGANIZATION: Standard & Poor's Corp; General Motors Corp

TICKER: GM (NYSE) (58%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS561450 CREDIT BUREAUS (94%); SIC7323 CREDIT REPORTING SERVICES (94%); NAICS336112 LIGHT TRUCK & UTILITY VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (58%); NAICS336111 AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING (58%)

PERSON: RICK WAGONER (78%) Rick Wagoner; Jerry Dubrowski; Micheline Maynard

GEOGRAPHIC: NORTH AMERICA (79%); UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: December 13, 2005



276 of 607 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 14, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 2; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 983 words

HEADLINE: No Sign of Progress on Farm Issue as World Trade Meeting Opens 

BYLINE: By KEITH BRADSHER

DATELINE: HONG KONG, Dec. 13 

 BODY:
With protesters chanting slogans outside, scuffling with police and even jumping into the harbor, the World Trade Organization ministerial conference began here on Tuesday with ministers quickly starting talks on agriculture and assistance to the world's poorest countries.
 But while many countries vowed to provide aid and greater export opportunities for poor countries, there was, as expected, little sign of immediate progress on the core goal of lifting global barriers to farm trade. 
The 25-nation European Union has asserted that it cannot broaden substantially the cuts it prepared for the previous, unsuccessful ministerial conference two years ago in Cancun, Mexico, and it showed little sign of changing tack quickly, despite a series of rumors to the contrary.
 France has vowed to block any expanded initiative. Christine Lagarde, the French trade minister, said Tuesday evening that after meeting with her counterparts from the group's other 24 members, she was convinced ''there would be no move, no change, no additional offer.''
 But the European Union's member nations are scheduled to gather Thursday and Friday in Brussels to discuss budget policy. Trade ministers here will be watching those talks closely to see if they produce cuts in farm subsidies that might then be matched by a more conciliatory European negotiating position. 
 Any such progress, however, would probably not provide much impetus to this week's meeting. Jim Sutton, New Zealand's trade minister, said late Tuesday night that a deal on agriculture would probably happen next year. ''It will, but not here in Hong Kong -- expectations have been suitably reduced,'' he said.
 Violent protests against globalization disrupted the W.T.O.'s Seattle conference in 1999 and the Cancun meeting; this year's conference faced protesters as well, though not to the same degree. 
 Carrying banners like ''Target W.T.O.'' and ''Smash the W.T.O. and Global Capitalism,'' the demonstrators were channeled by police down streets lined with some of Hong Kong's oldest and shabbiest apartment buildings to a broad concrete cargo dock. The dock is several hundred yards across a bay from the convention center where ministers have gathered.
 A group of South Korean farmers, angry that free trade rules might force their country to permit increased imports of inexpensive rice, carried a heavy wooden altar bedecked with silk and flowers during the march. Shortly before reaching the dock, they set the altar ablaze and tried to use it as a battering ram to pierce lines of helmeted riot police guarding the convention center.
 Police pushed back and used a skin irritant spray to halt the protesters; no immediate arrests were made for fear that detaining protesters might make matters worse, but the police plan to investigate what happened, said Alfred Ma, the chief spokesman for the Hong Kong police. Seven demonstrators were injured, three requiring hospitalization, while two police officers suffered minor cuts and bruises, Mr. Ma said. 
 Officers stood back and did nothing even when more than 100 protesters, mainly South Korean farmers, dived from the dock into the water, swimming toward the convention center. They soon turned back. The police said last week that a powerful shore current would prevent swimmers from succeeding on this route.
 Protesters from other countries focused on wages and visas for migrant workers, farm subsidies and fish tariffs. 
 The opening day of the conference seemed at times more like a foreign aid gathering than a negotiating session on global trade. 
 The European Union said Tuesday that it would increase its annual aid to very poor countries -- to $1 billion starting in 2010 from $400 million now -- to help them cope with the lost government revenue and other difficulties that may result from lowering duties.
 Japan said Friday that it would also increase aid, and the United States has hinted that it will follow suit this week.
 The European Union also criticized the World Food Program, a United Nations agency, for a newspaper advertisement critical of efforts here to limit food aid. European officials have been calling here for the United States to reduce the amount of American-grown food it gives to poor countries and donate cash instead, which may encourage poor countries' farmers to grow more.
 Industrialized countries have stepped forward in the last two days with plans to eliminate all duties and quotas on imports from 50 of the world's poorest countries, but each country has exempted a few of the most sensitive industries -- often those in which very poor countries are actually competitive.
 The United States is excluding many textiles and Canada is excluding dairy and poultry. Seiichi Kondo, a senior Japanese diplomat, said Japan was still drawing up a list of exclusions that was likely to include rice and footwear.
 American officials have also been talking frequently with representatives of West African nations regarding American cotton subsidies, which depress the prices that West African farmers receive for their crops and which a W.T.O. panel has ruled illegal. The Bush administration has eliminated some of the subsidies and wants Congress to repeal others.
 While agreements on cotton and duty-free, quota-free access for the least-developed countries would give ministers something to show for their efforts, the preoccupation here with aiding the poor is starting to draw criticism in Washington.
 ''Negotiators need to keep the focus on the biggest issues that are clogging up the works,'' especially access to overseas markets for agricultural exports, Senator Charles E. Grassley, the Iowa Republican who is the chairman of the Finance Committee, said in a statement from Washington. ''That's why I'm concerned that cotton and quota-free, duty-free proposals could become the overriding focus of the Hong Kong ministerial.''


GRAPHIC: Photo: More than 100 protesters leaped into the bay in Hong Kong yesterday to try to swim to a conference center where trade ministers were meeting. The bay has powerful currents, and the swimmers soon turned back. (Photo by Paul Hilton/European Pressphoto Agency)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TRADE DEVELOPMENT (90%); COMMERCE DEPARTMENTS (90%); CONFERENCES & CONVENTIONS (90%); TALKS & MEETINGS (90%); AGRICULTURAL TRADE (90%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (90%); EUROPEAN UNION (90%); PROTESTS & DEMONSTRATIONS (89%); RIOTS (89%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (89%); CRIMINAL INVESTIGATIONS (78%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE LAW (78%); IMPORT TRADE (78%); EXPORT TRADE (78%); GLOBALIZATION (77%); AGRICULTURAL EXPORTS & IMPORTS (77%); WOUNDS & INJURIES (75%); ARRESTS (73%); AGRICULTURAL SUBSIDIES (72%); GRAIN EXPORTS & IMPORTS (72%); BUDGETS (70%) Terms not available from NYTimes

ORGANIZATION: WORLD TRADE ORGANIZATION (84%); EUROPEAN UNION (83%)

PERSON: CHRISTINE LAGARDE (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: BRUSSELS, BELGIUM (79%); SEATTLE, WA, USA (79%) WASHINGTON, USA (79%) HONG KONG (94%); EUROPE (92%); MEXICO (92%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (92%); FRANCE (92%); BELGIUM (79%); UNITED STATES (79%); NEW ZEALAND (79%)

LOAD-DATE: December 14, 2005



277 of 607 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 14, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 4; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 280 words

HEADLINE: Text of Fed Statement on Rates

 BODY:
Following is the text of a statement released by the Federal Reserve yesterday after the Fed's monetary policy panel, the Federal Open Market Committee, decided to raise its benchmark interest rates a quarter-point:

 
 The Federal Open Market Committee decided today to raise its target for the federal funds rate by 25 basis points, to 41/4 percent. Despite elevated energy prices and hurricane-related disruptions, the expansion in economic activity appears solid. Core inflation has stayed relatively low in recent months and longer-term inflation expectations remain contained. Nevertheless, possible increases in resource utilization as well as elevated energy prices have the potential to add to inflation pressures.
 The committee judges that some further measured policy firming is likely to be needed to keep the risks to the attainment of both sustainable economic growth and price stability roughly in balance.
 In any event, the committee will respond to changes in economic prospects as needed to foster these objectives.
 Voting for the F.O.M.C. monetary policy action were: Alan Greenspan, chairman; Timothy F. Geithner, vice chairman; Susan S. Bies; Roger W. Ferguson Jr.; Richard W. Fisher; Donald L. Kohn; Michael H. Moskow; Mark W. Olson; Anthony M. Santomero; and Gary H. Stern.
 In a related action, the board of governors unanimously approved a 25-basis-point increase in the discount rate, to 51/4 percent. In taking this action, the board approved the requests submitted by the boards of directors of the Federal Reserve Banks of Boston, New York, Philadelphia, Cleveland, Richmond, Atlanta, Chicago, St. Louis, Minneapolis, Kansas City, Dallas and San Francisco.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Text

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MONETARY POLICY (93%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (91%); BANKING & FINANCE (91%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (90%); ECONOMIC POLICY (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); PUBLIC POLICY (90%); INTEREST RATES (90%); INFLATION (90%); US FEDERAL FUNDS RATES (78%); CENTRAL BANKS (78%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (77%); BOARDS OF DIRECTORS (73%); HURRICANES (71%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (71%); SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT (70%); APPROVALS (70%) Terms not available from NYTimes

ORGANIZATION: FEDERAL OPEN MARKET COMMITTEE (91%)

PERSON: ALAN GREENSPAN (58%); ROGER W FERGUSON JR (58%); TIMOTHY GEITHNER (51%)

GEOGRAPHIC: BOSTON, MA, USA (79%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (65%); ATLANTA, GA, USA (50%); PHILADELPHIA, PA, USA (50%); CHICAGO, IL, USA (50%) MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%); MISSOURI, USA (74%); NEW YORK, USA (65%); GEORGIA, USA (50%); PENNSYLVANIA, USA (50%); ILLINOIS, USA (50%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: December 14, 2005



278 of 607 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 14, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1294 words

HEADLINE: City Seeks Stiff Fines for Workers And Transit Union if They Strike

BYLINE: By STEVEN GREENHOUSE; Reporting for this article was contributed by Sewell Chan, Thomas J. Lueck, Jim Rutenberg and Rachel Metz.

 BODY:
With three days to go before a threatened transit shutdown, the Bloomberg administration stepped into the middle of the fray yesterday, asking a judge to fine the transit workers' union $1 million and each striker $25,000 on the first day of a strike and to double the fines successively each day after that.
 The city's request would mean that on the third day, the union would face a $4 million fine and each striker a $100,000 fine. Transit workers' average pay is $55,000 a year, including overtime.
The union has been negotiating with the Metropolitan Transportation Authority, a state agency, whose initial wage offers have been forcefully rejected. The contract is set to expire at 12:01 a.m. Friday. By filing the suit, the city put itself squarely in the fight. 
 ''A strike would pose enormous risks to the city and impose serious economic losses on all businesses and residents,'' said Michael A. Cardozo, the city's corporation counsel. ''The city intends to hold the union and its members responsible for their conduct to the full extent provided by law.''
 The city's suit is identical to one it filed three years ago during similar transit negotiations -- the judge never ruled on it -- and the new lawsuit came on a day of fast-moving developments.
 Earlier yesterday, a judge granted the state an injunction barring the 33,700 subway and bus workers from going on strike, which is prohibited by state law. Then, at 4 p.m., more than a thousand workers gathered outside Grand Central Terminal for a rally, one of several around the five boroughs. 
 The city's lawsuit was the target of withering criticism at the rally, suggesting a sharp intensification of tensions with City Hall.
 ''They're not going to force a lousy contract down our throats,'' Roger Toussaint, president of Local 100 of the Transport Workers Union, told the crowd. ''We have told them from the beginning that this contract will be negotiated by bargaining in good faith and not by threats and not by intimidation.''
 To end his speech, Mr. Toussaint said, ''If Mayor Bloomberg wants to know what we think about this lawsuit, I'll show you.'' With that, he tore the lawsuit into little pieces, to thunderous applause from the crowd.
 Top union and transportation authority officials resumed negotiations at 8 p.m. yesterday. In the 75-minute session, the union presented ideas on improving the health plan for workers and retirees, and then the two sides broke for the night. 
 Late Monday night, the authority altered its wage proposal, which had called for a 3 percent raise in the first year of a two-year contract and 2 percent in the second year. The new offer includes a 3 percent raise in the first 15 months and a second 3 percent raise over the last 12 months of what would be a 27-month contract.
 Under that proposal, the contract would expire in March rather than in the middle of the holiday season in December. To explain why the authority sought to change the expiration date, Tom Kelly, an authority spokesman, said, ''You get it away from this frenzy of the holidays.'' 
 Negotiations for the current contract went down to the wire in 2002. The last time the union went out was in 1980. 
 The dominant development of the day was the city's lawsuit. Justice Theodore T. Jones of State Supreme Court in Brooklyn is scheduled to hear arguments today. Officials said they were seeking the fines to reimburse the city for economic damage that the city and its businesses would suffer during a strike.
 Justice Jones also issued the preliminary injunction requested by the state barring a transit strike or slowdown. State Attorney General Eliot Spitzer filed the suit under a 1967 statute, the Taylor Law, which bars strikes by public employees, including transit workers. 
 Justice Jones did not spell out what fines he would impose if the union violated his injunction. The Taylor Law seeks to discourage and punish illegal strikes by calling for fining unions and fining workers two days' pay for every day on strike.
 The city joined Mr. Spitzer's lawsuit, asserting that it would lose $440 million to $660 million a day in business activity each day in a strike. It also said that it would lose $8 million to $12 million a day in tax revenue and that police overtime would cost $10 million a day.
 ''If there were ever irreparable harm, this is it,'' Mr. Cardozo told Justice Jones.
 By seeking huge fines, the city's lawsuit adopts the same strategy that Mayor Rudolph W. Giuliani used to discourage a strike six years ago.
 ''What the city said today is, in effect, 'Hey, judge, that's great you granted the injunction, we hope it stops the strike, but we have these independent claims,' '' Mr. Cardozo said. ''We want the union and its members to understand the economic consequences in addition to the Taylor Law penalties.''
 The union and the authority have many issues to sort out, among them the union's demand for full pensions at age 50, down from the current 55, and the authority's demand for raising the retirement age to 62 for newly hired employees. The union has demanded improved health benefits for retirees, while the authority is demanding that new workers pay 2 percent of their wages toward health insurance. Transit workers pay no premiums now for health coverage.
 At the rally, Mr. Toussaint said that what the authority was seeking to do with pensions and health coverage would make things worse for future generations of workers.
 ''This is the fight of every working person in New York,'' said Dennis Rivera, president of 1199, the health-care union. 
 Among the rally's speakers were the Rev. Jesse Jackson; the Rev. Al Sharpton; City Comptroller William C. Thompson Jr.; Brian McLaughlin, president of the New York City Central Labor Council; and Randi Weingarten, president of the teachers' union.
 Ms. Weingarten stepped up her call for Schools Chancellor Joel I. Klein not to keep the schools open in the event of a transit shutdown.
 ''Since transit negotiations generally go down to the wire, most students, parents and educators would not know if there is a strike until they wake up Friday morning,'' she wrote to Mr. Klein. ''To say there will be chaos on the first day of a transit strike is an understatement.''
 The chancellors' office said it still planned to keep schools open, with the starting hour delayed two hours, should there be a strike.
 Keith Kalb, a spokesman for the Department of Education, said: ''The right thing for our children and their families is to keep our schools open and to remain flexible. We trust the judgment of our parents to decide whether it is best to send their children to school. If we close the schools, we remove that option and make things harder on our families.''
 The authority specified plans to use Metro-North and Long Island Rail Road trains to help Bronx and Queen residents get into Manhattan. Metro-North will run dedicated shuttle trains between the Bronx and Manhattan. 
 Earlier yesterday, the authority's finance committee voted to approve the budget for 2006, which calls for spending $700 million of this year's $1 billion surplus on a combination of pension payments, holiday fare discounts and security and service improvements.
 Ed Watt, the union's secretary-treasurer, who sits on the board as a nonvoting member, denounced the action as ''a $1 billion spending spree'' and called the vote ''an insult to every single one of the more than 33,000 transit workers.''
 The authority's board is scheduled to give final approval to the budget this morning, capping a year in which the authority reaped an unexpected windfall. 
 Mr. Kelly, the spokesman, said the timing of the board meeting -- less than 48 hours before the contract deadline -- was decided weeks ago.


GRAPHIC: Photos: With three days to go before a strike deadline, transit workers rallied yesterday outside Grand Central. It was one of several rallies around the city. (Photo by Nicole Bengiveno/The New York Times)
Roger Toussaint, president of Local 100 of the Transport Workers Union, tore up a copy of a city lawsuit seeking stiff fines. (Photo by Seth Wenig/Reuters)
 Michael A. Cardozo, the corporation counsel, said the union must ''understand the economic consequences.'' (Photo by Seth Wenig for The New York Times)(pg. B7)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: FINES & PENALTIES (90%); LABOR UNIONS (90%); LITIGATION (89%); CITY GOVERNMENT (89%); DECISIONS & RULINGS (78%); URBAN TRANSIT SYSTEMS (78%); STRIKES (78%); INJUNCTIONS (78%); JUDGES (78%); OVERTIME (77%); CITIES (76%); PUBLIC TRANSPORTATION (75%); MAYORS (68%) Terms not available from NYTimes

PERSON: MICHAEL BLOOMBERG (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%) NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: December 14, 2005



279 of 607 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 14, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 2; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 246 words

HEADLINE: INSIDE

 BODY:

Early Maya Mural Found
Archaeologists in Guatemala have uncovered a masterpiece of Maya art that tests reveal to date to about 100 B.C., well before the Maya classical period that began after A.D. 250. THE ARTS, PAGE E1

Blast in New Jersey Kills 3 

Three people were killed and three others were unaccounted for after an explosion and fire consumed an apartment building in Bergenfield, N.J. Five people were injured and dozens left homeless. PAGE B1

Cut in Minimum Tax Unlikely, Lawmaker Says
As lawmakers moved into the final days of the session, Senator Bill Frist, the majority leader, said that Congress was not likely to act this year to shield millions of middle- and upper-income taxpayers from a larger bite from the alternative minimum tax. PAGE A33

U.S. Sprinting Star Barred
Tim Montgomery, the former world-record holder in the 100-meter dash, was suspended for two years for using performance-enhancing drugs. SPORTSWEDNESDAY, PAGE D3

Interest Rate Raised Again
The Federal Reserve raised its main interest rate for the 13th time in a row and said further increases might be needed to keep inflation under control. PAGE C1

Red Cross President Resigns
Marsha J. Evans, who was brought in to help restore the reputation of the American Red Cross after the Sept. 11 attacks, is leaving. PAGE A32

Low Champagne And High Caviar
Careful shoppers can find good champagne for under $30, but the last legal Beluga caviar will still cost about $200 an ounce.
 DINING, PAGE F1

GRAPHIC: Photos (Photo by Kenneth Garrett/National Geographic)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Summary

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: RELIEF ORGANIZATIONS (76%); WOUNDS & INJURIES (76%); TAXES & TAXATION (76%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (75%); ARCHAEOLOGY (73%); ANTHROPOLOGY & ARCHAEOLOGY (73%); TERRORISM (72%); POLITICAL PARTIES (70%); MIDDLE INCOME PERSONS (69%); INTEREST RATES (67%); ECONOMIC NEWS (67%); UPPER INCOME PERSONS (54%) Terms not available from NYTimes

ORGANIZATION: AMERICAN RED CROSS (73%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW JERSEY, USA (90%) UNITED STATES (90%); GUATEMALA (90%)

LOAD-DATE: December 14, 2005



280 of 607 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 14, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 4; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1501 words

HEADLINE: Bright Spot on Gulf as Casinos Rush to Rebuild 

BYLINE: By GARY RIVLIN

DATELINE: BILOXI, Miss., Dec. 9 

 BODY:
Anyone visiting this town in the days after Hurricane Katrina might reasonably have concluded that it would be a long while before slot machines were again ringing their incessant chimes. The storm destroyed 9 of 10 floating casinos in Biloxi, and the tenth suffered significant damage. 
 Yet so well financed is the gambling industry -- and so profitable the facilities that line the beaches here -- that one casino is set to open its doors to the public on Dec. 22. Another is to reopen the day after Christmas. A third, the Palace Casino, will have spent $23 million in four months to reopen by New Year's Eve, said the general manager, Keith Crosby.
All 10 Biloxi casinos have told the city they will rebuild, and most plan larger, more elaborate facilities. One, Harrah's Entertainment Inc., the world's largest gambling company, has told city officials that it plans to invest as much as $1 billion in a new resort-casino -- a figure sizable enough to catch people's attention even in Las Vegas. And a growing list of investors, looking to take advantage of a new state law allowing the first-ever land-based casinos, is seeking an audience with city officials or state regulators in Jackson. 
 For better or worse, casinos are the source of that rarest commodity along a Gulf Coast battered by Katrina: optimism. ''Legalized gaming,'' said Biloxi's mayor, A. J. Holloway, ''is going to be what saves us.''
 By contrast, inaction and uncertainty dominate the story line in New Orleans, which remains largely in stasis as businesses wonder if their customers will return and weigh the wisdom of rebuilding.
 ''It's not a question of whether the business community will take a huge hit, but how bad that hit will be,'' said Jay Lapeyre, a local businessman who, as chairman of the Business Council of New Orleans, speaks on behalf of more than 50 of the area's largest corporations. 
 Casinos, of course, can make unpleasant neighbors. Biloxi residents complain about the traffic and the noise. The gambling palaces tower over a once-quaint beach community of modest homes, as if exotic, outsize creatures crawled up from the beach and took root. One casino-hotel in this town of 55,000 stands as the tallest building in Mississippi, another reigns as the state's most expensive.
 Still, these garish Las Vegas refugees are proving resourceful, resilient neighbors by serving as an economic lifeline in a town that lost one-fifth of its housing stock and well over 10,000 jobs. 
 Elected officials and industry executives alike are bullish about a local economy they expect to grow significantly over the next few years as casinos take advantage of a Katrina-inspired change in Mississippi law that allows them to construct their gambling halls on land, as long as they build within 800 feet of the coastline. 
 Before Katrina, the state permitted operators to erect hotels, parking structures and the like on land, but the casino itself had to float on water, forcing them to place on barges elaborate two- and three-story casinos that still lie in ruins along the coast.
 Officials in Biloxi were among those aggressively lobbying in Jackson, the state capital, to allow the casinos to rebuild on land. 
 The casinos have meant a new set of problems for the city to contend with, Mayor Holloway said, including an increase in embezzlements and bankruptcies. But they have also meant jobs and tax dollars for the city government, which was on the verge of bankruptcy when voters approved a 1991 ballot initiative permitting the construction of casinos along its shores. ''The good far outweighs the bad,'' he said.
 In New Orleans, in October, Mayor C. Ray Nagin floated the idea of a downtown casino district as a quick fix to an economy in desperate need of one, but then hurriedly backed away from the idea after it was roundly criticized. Under a deal with the city, Harrah's, which has been closed since the storm, pays the city roughly $1 million a month for rights as the city's sole casino operator -- which has served as the city's ''single most reliable source of revenue'' since the storm, said the city finance director, Reginald Zeno.
 Pre-Katrina, Biloxi's casinos employed 15,000 and in the most recent fiscal year contributed $19.2 million to municipal coffers. That's more than twice the amount the city raised in property taxes, and more than 50 percent more than it collected in sales taxes -- a large portion of which were rung up inside the casinos. 
 ''The city needs the casinos to come back home and come back fast,'' said William Stallworth, a member of the Biloxi City Council who spent time in Jackson in October to make sure the law was changed.
 There seems no shortage of investors. ''Since the storm, I've had 10 to 12 developers express interest in coming to Biloxi to open a new casino,'' said Larry Gregory, executive director of the Mississippi Gaming Commission. ''I suspect we'll end up with at least three or four more new facilities operating in Biloxi over the next two years.'' 
 Mississippi's casinos pay 12 percent in taxes on their revenues, ''which is on the low side of casinos nationwide,'' said Frank J. Fahrenkopf Jr., chief executive of the American Gaming Association. Of the taxes collected, two-thirds go to the state and one-third goes to localities like school boards and city and county governments. 
 The Mississippi Gulf Coast casinos, including two in Gulfport and a third in Bay St. Louis, generated $1.4 billion in profit last year and paid $168 million in state and local taxes. Mr. Gregory predicted that, within two years, the coastal casinos would clear $2 billion and contribute more than $240 million to state and local coffers -- a prediction that might be overly conservative, said Timothy M. Hinkley, president of the Isle of Capri Casinos, a chain based in Biloxi that opened the first casino here in 1992. 
 ''This has proven to be just an incredible market,'' Mr. Hinkley said. ''I've consistently underestimated its potential.'' 
 Isle of Capri had every reason to consider abandoning its Biloxi property in the days after the storm. Mr. Hinkley estimated that the company had to shutter its doors nine times in the last 10 years in anticipation of a hurricane. And not only did Katrina destroy its existing casino, but it also rendered worthless a new $90 million barge the company was to open this month.
 Yet the Biloxi operation, though small, consistently ranks among the top one-third of the 14 properties that Isle of Capri operates across the United States. So though it is moving its corporate offices out of harm's way to St. Louis (closer to the archipelago of casinos it operates across the Midwest), the company is hardly abandoning Biloxi. 
 The Isle of Capri is working on plans for a new land-based casino that Mr. Hinkley expects to be at least twice the size of the old one. And earlier this month he met with the mayor to present a plan to build a second, 2,500-room hotel-casino that would be more than three times the size of its existing property. 
 Meantime, the company has gutted the new convention center it opened this summer to create a temporary casino it plans on opening the day after Christmas. 
 Across the road from the Isle of Capri, the Palace is doing much the same as it converts almost every square foot of the first two floors of its hotel -- everything but the front desk -- to house hundreds of slot machines and dozens of tables for blackjack, craps and other casino games. That, too, is a temporary casino, scheduled to open Dec. 30. 
 ''We're putting machines anywhere we can to get our numbers up,'' said Mr. Crosby, the Palace's general manager. 
 The Imperial Palace, the only casino that survived Katrina, has announced that it will reopen its casino on Dec. 22. Its new post-Katrina slogan: ''The luckiest casino on the coast.''
 Most of the remaining casinos will take another six to nine months to open -- probably without any federal assistance. Last week, the House overwhelmingly approved a multibillion-dollar package of tax breaks for Gulf Coast businesses that excludes casinos, liquor stores, strip clubs and country clubs.
 ''To be just one of three casinos open for six months -- these casinos will see profits you just won't believe,'' said William N. Thompson, a professor of public administration at the University of Nevada, Las Vegas. 
 But while an oligopoly will be good for the casinos, Mr. Thompson is not so sure it will be good for Biloxi and other ravaged communities along the Gulf Coast. In better times, Biloxi drew visitors from around the South and snowbirds seeking to escape Midwest winters. But given the devastation in the area, he predicts that it will be mainly locals playing inside Biloxi's casinos for the foreseeable future.
 ''It's going to take money out of the local population at a time the local population can ill afford to be gambling,'' he said. ''These are people who haven't rebuilt their homes yet. These are people out of work.''


GRAPHIC: Photos: A. J. Holloway of Biloxi said, ''Gaming is going to be what saves us.''
Kathy Messier works on slot machines at the Isle of Capri Casino in Biloxi, Miss., which ranks among the top third of the 14 properties Capri owns. (Photographs by Ozier Muhammad/The New York Times)(pg. C4)
 Technicians installing new circuit boards in slot machines at the Isle of Capri Casino in Biloxi, Miss. (Photo by Ozier Muhammad/The New York Times)(pg. A1)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: GAMING (92%); HURRICANE KATRINA (90%); CASINOS (90%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (90%); CITIES (89%); CITY GOVERNMENT (89%); HURRICANES (78%); MAYORS (78%); REAL ESTATE (77%); HOTELS & MOTELS (77%); COASTAL AREAS (77%); LODGING CONSTRUCTION (76%); ENTERTAINMENT & ARTS (76%); RESORTS (72%); CHRISTMAS (70%); EXECUTIVES (69%); LEGISLATION (66%) Terms not available from NYTimes

COMPANY: CAESARS ENTERTAINMENT CORP (91%); STASIS AS (66%); LAPEYRE SA (64%)

TICKER: CZR (NASDAQ) (91%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS721120 CASINO HOTELS (91%); NAICS713210 CASINOS (EXCEPT CASINO HOTELS) (91%); SIC7999 AMUSEMENT & RECREATION SERVICES, NEC (91%); SIC7011 HOTELS & MOTELS (91%); SIC3531 CONSTRUCTION MACHINERY & EQUIPMENT (66%); SIC2431 MILLWORK (64%)

GEOGRAPHIC: BILOXI, MS, USA (97%); NEW ORLEANS, LA, USA (92%) MISSISSIPPI, USA (97%); LOUISIANA, USA (92%); SOUTHEAST USA (79%) UNITED STATES (97%)

LOAD-DATE: December 14, 2005



281 of 607 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 14, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 5; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 741 words

HEADLINE: BUSINESS DIGEST

 BODY:

Federal Reserve Raises Rates Again And Says Its Work Is Not Finished
As expected, the Fed raised the benchmark federal funds rate on overnight bank loans to 4.25 percent from 4 percent, its 13th consecutive increase. The bank also dampened hopes that it was near the end of its campaign to tighten its monetary policy, saying its work was not finished. [Page C1.] 


Florida Utility in Talks to Acquire Constellation Energy
The parent of Florida Power and Light is in advanced talks to acquire Constellation Energy Group for more than $11 billion, according to people briefed on the negotiations. [C1.]

More Deaths Associated With a Guidant Device Reported
The Food and Drug Administration has received several new reports from the Guidant Corporation of recent patient deaths associated with short circuits in heart devices made by the company, agency records show. [C1.]

I.R.S. Examining Tax Shelters Involving Insurers
The Internal Revenue Service has been looking at a questionable tax shelter sold to big corporations that may have improperly allowed large tax deductions through murky transactions with their own private insurers. [C2.]

Delphi Workers Protest and Picket to Gain Attention
Workers at the Delphi Corporation are picketing and protesting in reaction to the company's attempt to force them to give up benefits and salary and getting attention from the chief executive, Robert S. Miller. Mr. Miller, left, told a news conference in Tokyo that he expected to reach agreements with Delphi's unions during the first quarter and had set a Jan. 20 deadline for concluding the talks. [C3.]

Casinos Leading Recovery at a Hurricane-Stricken City
Casinos are the source of that rarest commodity along a Gulf Coast battered by Hurricane Katrina: optimism. ''Legalized gaming,'' said A. J. Holloway, the mayor of Biloxi, Miss., ''is going to be what saves us.'' [A1.]

Former Chairman of Enron Proclaims His Innocence
Kenneth L. Lay, the former chairman of Enron, took his case before a crowd of well-heeled Houstonians, forcefully proclaiming his innocence and contending he was the victim of a ''wave of terror'' in a speech invoking biblical scripture and the wisdom of Winston Churchill. [C1.]

Hewlett-Packard's New Chief Says Strategy Is Unchanged
In his first appearance before Wall Street analysts yesterday, Mark V. Hurd, who took over eight months ago as the chief executive of Hewlett-Packard, delivered a clear message: the company's business strategy has not yet changed, but the management style and focus certainly have. [C3.]

Six Flags Selects a Former ESPN Executive as Its Chief
Mark Shapiro, a former ESPN executive, was named chief executive of Six Flags Inc. [C10.]

Former Executive Sues Pfizer Over His Dismissal
A former vice president at Pfizer, Peter Rost, who raised issues of possible illegal activity at the company, has filed a wrongful termination lawsuit against the drug maker. [C3.]

Pfizer has agreed to finance a study with an estimated cost of more than $100 million to examine the safety of Celebrex, its cox-2 painkiller, in arthritis patients prone to heart attack and stroke. [C3.]

New Chief Sketches a Few Plans for Havas
Vincent Bollore, who won control of the advertising company Havas last summer, warned yesterday that sales for December would decline and that full-year revenue growth would fall short of expectations. At a news conference called to announce a strategy for Havas, Mr. Bollore provided few details. But he said the company intended to keep all three of its main operating units to answer clients' desire for integrated marketing services. Advertising. [C5.]

S.E.C. Decides Against Action in Taser Case
The Securities and Exchange Commission has decided not to take action against Taser International in connection with statements about the safety of its electric stun pistols, the company said. [C8.]

Time Inc. Will Lay Off 105 Employees
The magazine publisher Time Inc. announced that it would lay off 105 employees from the business side of its operations, including several longtime high-ranking publishing executives. [C3. ]

Stocks Rally After Fed Raises Interest Rates
Stock were higher after the Federal Reserve made a long-anticipated increase in interest rates. The Dow Jones industrial average rose 55.95 points, or 0.5 percent, to 10,823.72. The Standard & Poor's 500-stock index rallied 7 points, or 0.6 percent, to 1,267.43. The Nasdaq composite index rose 4.05 points, or 0.2 percent, to 2,265. [C8.]

GRAPHIC: PhotoGraph tracks share prices (daily closes) of Havas from November through December. (Nov.: 4.04 euros -- Dec.: 3.85)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Summary

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US FEDERAL FUNDS RATES (91%); NEWS BRIEFS (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); TAXES & TAXATION (90%); PHARMACEUTICALS INDUSTRY (89%); EXECUTIVES (89%); PUBLIC POLICY (79%); ECONOMIC NEWS (78%); INTEREST RATES (78%); PUBLIC FINANCE (78%); EMPLOYMENT (77%); STRIKES (76%); NATURAL GAS & ELECTRIC UTILITIES (76%); ELECTRIC POWER PLANTS (76%); ELECTRICITY TRANSMISSION & DISTRIBUTION (76%); TALKS & MEETINGS (75%); MONETARY POLICY (74%); COMPANY STRATEGY (74%); INSURANCE (73%); ECONOMIC POLICY (73%); HURRICANES (73%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (72%); PROTESTS & DEMONSTRATIONS (71%); DISMISSALS (71%); WRONGFUL TERMINATION (71%); EMPLOYEE TERMINATION (71%); NATURAL DISASTERS (69%); HURRICANE KATRINA (69%); CARDIOVASCULAR DEVICES (69%); GAMING (69%); TAX DEDUCTIONS (68%); TAX AUTHORITIES (68%); APPOINTMENTS (67%); WAGES & SALARIES (66%); EXECUTIVE MOVES (65%); RELIGION (60%); PRESS CONFERENCES (50%) Terms not available from NYTimes

COMPANY: BOSTON SCIENTIFIC CORP (83%); SIX FLAGS ENTERTAINMENT CORP (80%); FLORIDA POWER & LIGHT CO (57%); EXELON CORP (57%); ENRON CREDITORS RECOVERY CORP (53%); HEWLETT-PACKARD CO (52%); PFIZER INC (50%)

ORGANIZATION: INTERNAL REVENUE SERVICE (56%); FOOD & DRUG ADMINISTRATION (56%)

TICKER: BSX (NYSE) (83%); SIX (NYSE) (80%); EXC (NYSE) (57%); HPQ (NYSE) (52%); PFZ (LSE) (50%); PFEB (BRU) (50%); PFE (NYSE) (50%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS339113 SURGICAL APPLIANCE & SUPPLIES MANUFACTURING (83%); NAICS339112 SURGICAL & MEDICAL INSTRUMENT MANUFACTURING (83%); NAICS334510 ELECTROMEDICAL & ELECTROTHERAPEUTIC APPARATUS MANUFACTURING (83%); SIC3845 ELECTROMEDICAL & ELECTROTHERAPEUTIC APPARATUS (83%); SIC3842 ORTHOPEDIC, PROSTHETIC, & SURGICAL APPLIANCES & SUPPLIES (83%); SIC3841 SURGICAL & MEDICAL INSTRUMENTS & APPARATUS (83%); NAICS713110 AMUSEMENT & THEME PARKS (80%); SIC7996 AMUSEMENT PARKS (80%); SIC4911 ELECTRIC SERVICES (57%); NAICS221111 HYDROELECTRIC POWER GENERATION (57%); NAICS334118 COMPUTER TERMINAL & OTHER COMPUTER PERIPHERAL EQUIPMENT MANUFACTURING (52%); NAICS325414 BIOLOGICAL PRODUCT (EXCEPT DIAGNOSTIC) MANUFACTURING (50%); NAICS325412 PHARMACEUTICAL PREPARATION MANUFACTURING (50%); NAICS325411 MEDICINAL & BOTANICAL MANUFACTURING (50%); SIC2836 BIOLOGICAL PRODUCTS, EXCEPT DIAGNOSTIC SUBSTANCES (50%); SIC2834 PHARMACEUTICAL PREPARATIONS (50%); SIC2833 MEDICINAL CHEMICALS & BOTANICAL PRODUCTS (50%)

PERSON: MARK HURD (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: BILOXI, MS, USA (79%); HOUSTON, TX, USA (79%); TOKYO, JAPAN (75%) MISSISSIPPI, USA (79%); TEXAS, USA (79%); SOUTHEAST USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%); JAPAN (75%)

LOAD-DATE: December 14, 2005



282 of 607 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 14, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 6; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 944 words

HEADLINE: Fed Gives Mixed Sign On Rates

BYLINE: By EDMUND L. ANDREWS

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Dec. 13 

 BODY:
After raising interest rates for the 13th time in a row on Tuesday, the Federal Reserve said that its work was not yet finished.
 As expected, the Fed raised the benchmark federal funds rate on overnight bank loans to 4.25 percent, from 4 percent. At the same time, it dampened the hopes of some on Wall Street that it was near the end of its campaign to control inflation by tightening its monetary policy.
 ''The committee judges that some further measured policy firming is likely to be needed,'' the policymaking Federal Open Market Committee said in a statement. 
 In a clear effort to increase its flexibility in the months ahead, the Fed left its message even more ambiguous than usual.
 For the first time since it began raising rates in June 2004, it did not refer to its monetary policy as ''accommodative,'' which has meant that interest rates were still lower than they should be to keep inflation low over the long run.
 Investors jumped at that change, because it implied that Fed officials thought rates were closer to a ''neutral'' level that neither stokes inflation nor slows economic growth. Stock and bond prices both rose after the announcement.
 But on closer scrutiny, the Fed seemed not to have changed its basic message so much as to have given itself more room to maneuver. 
 In effect, some analysts said, the Federal Reserve was keeping options open for the expected retirement on Jan. 31 of Alan Greenspan as chairman and the installation of Ben S. Bernanke as his successor.
 ''We haven't learned a lot new today,'' said Ethan Harris, chief United States economist at Lehman Brothers. ''Greenspan's last meeting is in January. I don't think it would be fair to Ben Bernanke to hand him the old directive, and say if you don't hike rates you're going to look like a wimp on inflation.''
 One big issue on Tuesday was whether the central bank would retreat from its forward-looking guidance about raising the overnight rate at a ''measured'' pace.
 As it happened, the Fed sounded a bit tougher on Tuesday. Not only did it all but promise additional ''measured'' rate increases, it also warned that inflation could be pushed higher by energy costs, a tight labor market and rising demand for manufacturing capacity.
 ''Possible increases in resource utilization as well as elevated energy prices have the potential to add to inflation pressures,'' the Fed said in its statement.
 ''The central bank seems more worried than before that resources feeding the U.S. economic expansion are getting scarce,'' Bernard Baumohl, executive director of the Economic Outlook Group, a consulting firm in Princeton Junction, N.J., wrote in a note to clients.
 Mr. Baumohl speculated that Fed officials became more nervous after the government reported that job creation jumped in November. With unemployment down to 5 percent, the jump suggested that workers might be able to bargain for higher wages. 
 Factory utilization -- the amount of manufacturing capacity being used -- has edged up to nearly 80 percent, not far from levels that lead to production bottlenecks.
 By all accounts, Fed officials are entering a more uncertain new phase, when the need to raise rates even higher is less clear but inflation remains a source of worry.
 United States economic growth has been surprisingly strong, despite the wallop of Hurricane Katrina and the steep rise in oil and natural gas prices over the last year.
 But the nation's blistering housing market, which has been behind much of the recent economic growth, shows signs of finally cooling down. Sales of existing homes have slowed, inventories of houses on the market have grown and builders are bracing for a slower pace of construction next year.
 The evidence on consumer spending, the other critical force behind recent growth, remains ambiguous. On Tuesday, the National Retail Federation estimated that retail sales climbed 0.3 percent in November. But excluding car purchases, which were increased by temporary sales promotions, retail sales declined 0.3 percent for the month.
 According to minutes from the Fed's policy meeting on Nov. 2, officials agreed that their longstanding guidance on future rate increases ''would have to be changed before long.''
 Mr. Greenspan and other Fed officials have remained confident about the outlook for continued economic growth next year. Most analysts predict that the economy will continue to expand at a fairly rapid annual pace of 3.5 percent in early part of 2006 but then slow somewhat in the second half of the year.
 Mr. Greenspan and other Fed officials have also tried to play down the idea of a ''neutral'' interest rate.
 Many analysts argue that a neutral rate is about two percentage points above the core rate of inflation, which excludes the volatile prices of food and energy. With core inflation running at about 2 percent a year, a Fed funds rate of 4.25 percent would be close to some definitions of neutral.
 But Mr. Greenspan and Mr. Bernanke have both argued that ''neutral'' means different things at different times, and may have limited value as a guide to policy.
 In a written response last week to questions posed by Senate lawmakers, Mr. Greenspan said that practical issues ''limit its usefulness.''
 As a result, Fed decisions are likely to be increasingly affected by the flow of economic data, making them less predictable.
 ''A year ago, it was not that difficult to predict six months in advance where they were going to be,'' said Jan Hatzius, a senior economist at Goldman Sachs. ''That's going to be harder when you are at 5 percent and you think the economy is going to be weak enough to get them to cut rates.''


GRAPHIC: Photo: Stocks rose after the Fed raised rates for the 13th consecutive time. (Photo by David Karp/Bloomberg News)(pg. C4)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC NEWS (91%); INTEREST RATES (91%); US FEDERAL FUNDS RATES (91%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (91%); BANKING & FINANCE (91%); ECONOMIC POLICY (90%); MONETARY POLICY (90%); PUBLIC POLICY (90%); INFLATION (90%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (89%); CENTRAL BANKS (89%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (89%); BONDS (78%); OIL & GAS PRICES (78%); MANUFACTURING OUTPUT (77%); BUSINESS FORECASTS (75%); LABOR SECTOR PERFORMANCE (73%); ENERGY & UTILITY SECTOR PERFORMANCE (71%); BOND MARKETS (70%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (66%); EXECUTIVES (63%); PLANT CAPACITY (60%) Terms not available from NYTimes

COMPANY: LEHMAN BROTHERS HOLDINGS INC (53%)

ORGANIZATION: FEDERAL OPEN MARKET COMMITTEE (57%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (53%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (53%)

PERSON: ALAN GREENSPAN (58%); BEN BERNANKE (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: December 14, 2005



283 of 607 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 14, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 3; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 1055 words

HEADLINE: News Summary

 BODY:

INTERNATIONAL A3-23

U.S. Will Inspect Iraq Jails In Attempt to Stem Abuse
American military officers will conduct inspections of hundreds of Iraqi detention centers and embed with Interior Ministry forces to try to halt a pattern of torture uncovered by raids on two Iraqi-run detention centers in Baghdad in the past month, the American ambassador pledged. A1

Turnout in the parliamentary elections is expected to be high in Tikrit, where recalcitrant Sunni Arabs boycotted the elections in January, reflecting the shift in attitude of many Sunni Arabs toward the American-engineered political process. 
 A1

The Army has approved new interrogation methods that may complicate negotiations over legislation proposed by Senator John McCain to bar cruel and inhumane treatment of detainees in American custody, defense officials said. A1

Pope Benedict XVI condemned terrorism and, in an apparent reference to charges that the United States has tortured terror suspects, lack of respect for international law. A8

Kidnapping Study Faults U.S.
Preliminary evidence suggests that American agents kidnapped people in European countries, held them there temporarily, and transferred them across the countries' borders, a European investigator said. A10

China Cloaks Recent Violence
One week after the police suppressed a demonstration in China, leaving as many as 20 people dead, a majority of the Chinese public still knows nothing of the event, as Chinese officials have tried to prevent news of the deaths from spreading. A3

Pre-Election Violence in Gaza
Palestinian gunmen stormed four election offices in the Gaza Strip and the West Bank, adding to the climate of political instability in advance of parliamentary elections. A13

U.S. 6th in Jailed Journalists
The United States has tied with Myanmar for sixth place among countries that have the most journalists behind bars, according to a new report by the Committee to Protect Journalists. A5

NATIONAL A24-33

Chief of Red Cross Resigns Amid Barrage of Criticism
Marsha J. Evans, who was brought in to help restore the reputation of the American Red Cross after the attacks on Sept. 11, said she was resigning as president of the organization, which has been barraged by fresh criticism over its response to Hurricane Katrina. A32

DeLay's Ties to Lobbyist Cited
Texas prosecutors in the criminal case against Representative Tom DeLay revealed in subpoenas that they are investigating ties between Mr. DeLay and a lobbyist who is at the center of a bribery scandal that prompted another House Republican to resign. A24

Execution Intensifies Debate
As plans were under way to hold a funeral for Stanley Tookie Williams, the former gang leader executed by lethal injection, and to scatter his ashes in a South African river, his death was stirring fresh passion on both sides of the debate over capital punishment in California. A30

Frist Warns of No Tax Shield
The Senate majority leader, Bill Frist, said Congress would not act this year to shield millions of middle- and upper-income taxpayers from a larger income tax bite as lawmakers moved into the final days of the session with many major issues hanging in the balance. A33

House Readies Immigrant Bill
House Republicans are poised this week to pass one of the toughest border security measures in more than a decade, cracking down on illegal immigrants and their employers and defying President Bush's call for a comprehensive bill that would allow millions of illegal immigrants to work in the United States. A30

SCIENCE/HEALTH

Mapping the Cancer Genome
The government is beginning a project designed to unlock the genetic abnormalities that contribute to cancer, an effort that would exceed the Human Genome Project in complexity. A31

NEW YORK/REGION B1-10

City Wants Hefty FinesIf Transit Workers Strike
The Bloomberg administration stepped from the sidelines into the middle of the fray over a threatened transit shutdown, asking a judge to fine the transit workers' union $1 million and each striker $25,000 on the first day of a strike -- and to double the fines each successive day of a strike after that. A1

Agency Faulted in Deaths
New York City's child welfare agency released reports on the deaths of two children, acknowledging crucial mistakes and missteps that might have contributed to the deaths. B1

Mister Softee Prevails
The Bloomberg administration has agreed to allow Mister Softee ice cream trucks to continue playing their jingle while trolling for customers on city streets. But the jingle must stop when the trucks are not moving. B1

EDUCATION B8

SPORTSWEDNESDAY D1-6

OBITUARIES C17

DINING IN F1-20

ARTS E1-16

Dylan to Host Radio Show
Bob Dylan has signed on to serve as host of a weekly one-hour program on XM Satellite Radio, spinning records and offering commentary on new music and other topics, starting in March. E1

Earliest Mayan Painting
Archaeologists reported that they had uncovered a masterpiece of Maya art showing an early flowering of the civilization, well before the classical period that began after A.D. 250. E1

BUSINESS DAY C1-16

Casinos Aid Biloxi's Rebirth
Casinos are serving as an economic lifeline in Biloxi, Miss., a town that lost one-fifth of its housing stock and more than 10,000 jobs in the aftermath of Hurricane Katrina. A1

New Guidant Revelations
The Food and Drug Administration has received several new reports from the Guidant Corporation of recent patient deaths associated with short-circuits in company heart devices, agency records show. C1

Fed Raises Rates Again
The Federal Reserve raised the benchmark federal funds rate on overnight bank loans to 4.25 percent from 4 percent. At the same time, it dampened the hopes of some on Wall Street that it was near the end of its campaign to control inflation by tightening its monetary policy. C1

KPMG Shelter Investigated
The Internal Revenue Service has been looking at a questionable tax shelter sold by KPMG to big corporations that may have improperly allowed large tax deductions through murky transactions with their own private insurers. C1

Business Digest C2

EDITORIAL A34-35

Editorials: Iraq's most important election; redistricting Tom DeLay; Capitol sausage makers: the senator who cried wolf, and the stealth liability provision.

Column: Maureen Dowd.

Crossword E11
Weather D8
TV Listings E15

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Summary

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: NEWS BRIEFS (90%); ELECTIONS (90%); INSPECTIONS (90%); KIDNAPPING & ABDUCTION (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); TORTURE (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); FREEDOM OF PRESS (89%); PRISONS (89%); INVESTIGATIONS (89%); JAIL SENTENCING (89%); LOBBYING (88%); TERRORISM (88%); RELIEF ORGANIZATIONS (86%); JOURNALISM (86%); CAPITAL PUNISHMENT (84%); DEFENSE DEPARTMENTS (78%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (78%); INTERROGATION OF SUSPECTS (78%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (78%); ARMIES (78%); MUSLIMS & ISLAM (78%); HUMAN RIGHTS ORGANIZATIONS (78%); SEPTEMBER 11 ATTACK (78%); CRUEL & UNUSUAL PUNISHMENT (77%); POLITICAL PARTIES (76%); POLITICS (76%); EMBASSIES & CONSULATES (74%); SUBPOENAS (74%); LEGISLATION (74%); TERRITORIAL & NATIONAL BORDERS (73%); TERRORIST ATTACKS (73%); SCANDALS (73%); CATHOLICS & CATHOLICISM (72%); APPROVALS (72%); TAX LAW (71%); BOYCOTTS (70%); BRIBERY (66%); RIVERS (64%); HURRICANES (62%); HURRICANE KATRINA (50%) Terms not available from NYTimes

PERSON: POPE BENEDICT XVI (78%); JOHN MCCAIN (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: BAGHDAD, IRAQ (92%) CALIFORNIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (98%); IRAQ (95%); CHINA (93%); ISRAEL (92%); PALESTINIAN TERRITORY, OCCUPIED (92%); EUROPE (79%); MYANMAR (79%)

LOAD-DATE: December 14, 2005



284 of 607 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 14, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Editorial Desk; Op-Chart; Pg. 35

LENGTH: 325 words

HEADLINE: The State of Iraq: An Update

BYLINE: By NINA KAMP, MICHAEL O'HANLON AND AMY UNIKEWICZ. 
Nina Kamp and Michael O'Hanlon are, respectively, a senior research assistant and a senior fellow at the Brookings Institution in Washington. Amy Unikewicz is a graphic designer in South Norwalk, Conn.

 BODY:
DESPITE President Bush's articulation of a new strategy for victory in Iraq, the American debate remains polarized. An increasing number of critics argue that the war is already lost and that we may as well withdraw, while others claim we are clearly headed to victory, and Americans would know that if only the press would stop emphasizing the negative. 
 Our judgment, based on data compiled by the American government, the news media and independent monitors, is that trends in Iraq do not support either of these extreme views. Things are in a state of continual turmoil, with many hopeful signs but also some deeply disquieting realities. In the good news category, one could place the real, if belated, progress in training Iraqi security forces, the greater availability of telephone and television services, renewed economic growth and more children in school (reading much better textbooks).
On the negative side, electricity and oil production remain below the levels of the Baathist regime, even as Iraqi expectations for improvement soar. Among Sunni Arabs, who stand to greatly increase their representation in Parliament after tomorrow's elections, passive support for the terrorists is all too common. And the insurgency remains as strong and deadly as ever.
 A sober reading of the data argues against a rapid withdrawal, which would concede the fight to the terrorists. But this does not mean we can't shift policy. We could announce a plan for substantial troop reductions (but not complete withdrawal) over the next 12 to 24 months, as most Iraqis say they desire. Together with the Iraqi government, we might create a job-training program in response to the chronically high unemployment rate. In the end, however, the most important factor may be how the new government decides to amend the Constitution, particularly in terms of ensuring equitable sharing of oil money and bringing lower-level former Baathists back into public life.


GRAPHIC: Chart tracks security indicators, economic and quality of life indicators and public opinion/politics in Iraq for November 2003, November 2004 and November 2005.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); TRENDS (78%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (78%); REBELLIONS & INSURGENCIES (77%); TEXTBOOKS (76%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (73%); MUSLIMS & ISLAM (73%); TERRORISM (66%); TELEVISION INDUSTRY (54%) Terms not available from NYTimes

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: IRAQ (96%); UNITED STATES (95%)

LOAD-DATE: December 14, 2005



285 of 607 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 14, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk; SQUARE FEET; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 1101 words

HEADLINE: With Rentals Cold, a Shift to Retail

BYLINE: By ELSA BRENNER

 BODY:
GDC Properties of Hawthorne, N.Y., a prominent Westchester real estate company that owns and develops income properties in the Eastern United States, has begun a major shift in its portfolio. It has sold many of its rental apartment complexes and is reinvesting the capital in shopping centers.
 There are two seemingly contradictory trends making this an ideal time to sell apartment buildings, the company says. For starters, demand for rental apartments has been sluggish, in part because so many people have been buying homes. But, at the same time, demand to buy apartment buildings that can be converted into condominiums has been unrelenting, and investors seem willing to pay high prices for rental complexes. 
 The offers are so attractive that ''we're being forced out of the apartment market,'' said William F. Ingraham, president of GDC Properties.
 The company builds and manages residential properties, but is not in the business of converting rentals to ownership units. For that reason, Mr. Ingraham explained, high-performing shopping centers in densely populated areas are a better investment for his company.
 In the last few months, GDC has acquired 8 shopping complexes, including 6 near Atlanta, bringing the company's total to 13. In all, it expects to realize $600 million from its sale of rental projects, and it plans to spend $500 million to add retailing centers to its portfolio.
 Shopping centers are a new area of concentration for the company, which was founded 40 years ago by the brothers Samuel and Martin Ginsburg. Their operations have evolved over the years into two parallel companies: GDC Properties and the Ginsburg Development Companies, a major home builder in Westchester, which is headed by Martin Ginsburg.
 Samuel Ginsburg said the investment company, which he heads, is ''playing it safe'' by buying only shopping complexes with well-known anchor tenants.
 In one of its largest sales transactions, GDC Properties recently disposed of Mirasol, a 209-apartment complex in Celebration, Fla., near Orlando. The apartments were sold to Lexin Capital, a private investment firm in New York City, for $84 million.
 Lexin paid GDC Properties $401,914 a unit -- which Robert W. Miller, executive vice president at CB Richard Ellis, says is the highest per-unit price ever paid for an apartment complex in central Florida -- for the fully leased development.
 Metin Negrin, the owner and president of Lexin Capital, said his company was willing to pay such a high price because Mirasol was the last rental complex left in Celebration, a community created by Disney Development 11 years ago. In the last several years, Lexin has acquired the town center in Celebration -- a shopping area -- and other apartment complexes there, and has converted them to condominiums. 
 GDC, which had 3,000 rental units several months ago when it first began putting its apartment complexes on the market, has already reduced its portfolio to 1,100, in four projects. At first, the firm planned to sell off only half of those assets and keep other properties, Mr. Ingraham said. But because sales have been so brisk and prices are at record highs, the company has decided to divest itself of more rental properties.
 Its other recent sales include Hawthorne Gates in Atlanta; the Preserve at Coconut Creek in Florida; Courtney Place in Orlando, Fla.; Courtney Village in Royal Palm Beach, Fla.; Hawthorne Place in Riverview, Fla.; and the Enclave at Doral in Miami. Other apartment properties like the Crystal Ridge Club, which has 15 buildings in Watchung, N.J., are on the market. 
 At the same time, GDC Properties has been redeploying investment dollars to retailing complexes. The 296,200-square-foot East Sandford Boulevard Shopping Center next to the Hutchinson River Parkway in Mount Vernon, N.Y., is a major purchase close to home. GDC paid $68.5 million this fall for the three-story partly enclosed concrete complex, which includes Target, Best Buy, Petco, Bed Bath & Beyond and T. J. Maxx stores. Mr. Ingraham said his company had no immediate plans to expand the shopping center, which was built for $45 million last year by G&S Investors of Bethpage, N.Y. 
 In general, the company is purchasing shopping centers in densely populated areas like Mount Vernon that draw customers from a broad region and where there is little room left for new retail construction. ''We call these areas understored,'' Mr. Ingraham said. ''There are high barriers to entry, meaning that there's not a whole lot of land left, and it's difficult to get zoning approvals.''
 While he described retailing developments as ''the most attractive alternate investment'' to rentals in the present economy, Mr. Ingraham said the company was aware that the fortunes of the housing market could change. For that reason, he added, GDC Properties is not ruling out a return to the rental market in the future.
 ''We really don't know what's going to happen next, so the idea is to strike some kind of balance between what we sell and what we keep,'' he said. Toward that end, GDC Properties is building a new residential project in Orlando, Fla.: the Ivanhoe, a 35-story twin-tower rental complex. ''But there's a possibility of a condo exit,'' Mr. Ingraham said. 
 While some real estate investors like Mr. Negrin at Lexin Capital said that the condo market might have already peaked, they say they do not anticipate a significant slowdown. Mr. Negrin noted that six months ago, many buyers of new condos were speculators who were planning to ''flip'' the units by buying and then selling in a relatively short time to realize a quick profit. And even though speculators have become more cautious, he said, the demand for condos remains intense among buyers who plan to live in the units.
 And there are signs of new life in the rental market, according to Ron Witten, president of Witten Advisors, a Dallas consulting firm in the multifamily housing market.
 ''The apartment market nationally is in the early stages of a recovery,'' Mr. Witten said, citing evidence of rising rents and increasing occupancy rates in some regions, especially where there has been growth in jobs.
 But also, he said, the spread between the costs of renting and buying comparable apartments is wide in some markets and in such markets more people are choosing to rent.
 ''The Ginsburgs and others aren't just reacting to a bad apartment market,'' Mr. Witten said. ''They are really selling because they see an opportunity to cash in on condo conversions now. Notice that they're not exiting the apartment market altogether.''


GRAPHIC: Photos: The Crystal Ridge Club, above, in Watchung, N.J., is on the market as GDC Properties cuts back on rental apartments. From left, Samuel Ginsburg, Adam Ginsburg and William F. Ingraham. (Photos by Above, Dith Pran/The New York Times
 below, Alan Zale for The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: REAL ESTATE (90%); RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (90%); MULTIFAMILY REAL ESTATE (90%); RESIDENTIAL RENTAL PROPERTY (90%); RETAILERS (90%); RETAIL PROPERTY (90%); COMMERCIAL RENTAL PROPERTY (90%); CONDOMINIUMS (89%); RESIDENTIAL CONDOMINIUMS (89%); RESIDENTIAL CO-OWNERSHIP (89%); RENTAL PROPERTY (78%); PROPERTY MANAGEMENT (78%); REAL ESTATE AGENTS (78%); RESIDENTIAL CONSTRUCTION (77%); HOME PRICES (77%); POPULATION DENSITY (74%); EXECUTIVES (73%); CITY LIFE (72%) 

COMPANY: CBRE GROUP INC (58%)

ORGANIZATION: GDC Properties

TICKER: CBG (NYSE) (58%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS531312 NONRESIDENTIAL PROPERTY MANAGERS (58%); SIC6531 REAL ESTATE AGENTS & MANAGERS (58%)

PERSON: William Ingraham; Elsa Brenner

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%) FLORIDA, USA (90%); NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (90%)

LOAD-DATE: December 14, 2005



286 of 607 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 14, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 694 words

HEADLINE: Pfizer to Finance $100 Million Safety Study of Celebrex

BYLINE: By STEPHANIE SAUL

 BODY:
Pfizer, the pharmaceutical giant, is betting big on the safety of its cox-2 painkiller, Celebrex.
 The company has agreed to finance a study with an estimated cost of more than $100 million to examine the safety of Celebrex in arthritis patients prone to heart attack and stroke.
To lead the study, Pfizer has turned to an early critic of the cox-2 painkillers, Dr. Steven E. Nissen, a cardiologist at the Cleveland Clinic. 
 Dr. Nissen announced yesterday that the clinic's cardiovascular research center would coordinate the study of about 20,000 patients. He called it the first large-scale trial to compare the safety of a cox-2 painkiller with older nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drugs in high-risk patients.
 ''This could show that celecoxib is the best drug or the worst drug,'' said Dr. Nissen, using the generic name for Celebrex. He said the study was a big gamble for Pfizer.
 The trial could provide answers for millions of patients who have various forms of arthritis. Along with their doctors, many of those patients have struggled to weigh the risks and benefits of painkillers since September 2004, when Merck voluntarily withdrew its cox-2 drug, Vioxx, after a study showed that it increased the risk of heart attacks and strokes. 
 Since then, a Pfizer cox-2 drug, Bextra, has also been withdrawn. 
 ''We're certainly very pleased that the Cleveland Clinic is heading the study and it is about to get under way, because clearly this is an important question and a very important patient population that the study is going to look at,'' said a Pfizer spokeswoman, Mariann Caprino. 
 Ms. Caprino said that it would be premature to discuss the potential costs of the study, but Dr. Nissen said that studies of this size cost at least $100 million. 
 Worldwide sales of Celebrex, the only remaining cox-2 drug marketed in the United States, have declined 45 percent since last year, but the drug still had revenue of $1.26 billion in the first nine months of this year, according to company figures. 
 The study could increase Celebrex sales by raising consumer confidence in the drug. Other companies that are developing new-generation cox-2's, including Merck, have expressed hope that the class will regain some of its luster after the risks and benefits are sorted through.
 Pfizer first said in October 2004, just weeks after the cox-2 controversy arose, that it planned to undertake a long-term study to prove Celebrex's safety.
 The idea was raised again at a meeting of a Food and Drug Administration panel in February that reviewed painkiller safety. Dr. Robert Temple, the director of medical programs for the F.D.A., and several panel members suggested a study to compare a cox-2 with other nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drugs. 
 ''It may be that at the end of this, one or the other drug will be superior,'' said Dr. Alastair Wood of Vanderbilt University, a professor of medicine and pharmacology who headed the panel and now recommends the painkiller naproxen instead of Celebrex. ''That's exactly what we need to know.'' 
 Dr. Nissen, who served on the F.D.A. panel, said he began talks with Pfizer last summer to coordinate the trial, which will involve study sites around the world. The study will not include countries of the European Union, where authorities recommend against use of Celebrex by high-risk heart patients.
 Patients in the study will have some form of arthritis along with histories including a previous heart attack, stroke, angina, coronary bypass surgery or stent procedure, Dr. Nissen said. Others will have diabetes, a known risk factor for cardiovascular disease.
 ''All the other trials that I'm aware of are really in quite low-risk patients, and so they just aren't comparable,'' he said. 
 Enrollment will begin next year and patients will be followed for about two years. One-third of the patients will be given Celebrex; one-third Motrin, or ibuprofen; and one-third will receive Aleve or Naprosyn, both brand names for naproxen. 
 The study will end when about 700 of the patients have died or had a heart attack or stroke, the number expected in such a high-risk group even without painkiller treatment.


GRAPHIC: Photo: A drug study of 20,000 patients will also include Advil and Aleve. (Photo by Tim Sloan/Agence France-Presse -- Getty Images)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: NONSTEROIDAL ANTI-INFLAMMATORY DRUGS (92%); PHARMACEUTICALS INDUSTRY (91%); DRUG SAFETY (90%); CARDIOLOGY (90%); PAIN MANAGEMENT (90%); HEART DISEASE (90%); CARDIOVASCULAR DISEASE (90%); ANTI-INFLAMMATORY AGENTS (90%); PHARMACEUTICAL PREPARATION MFG (90%); ARTHRITIS (90%); ANALGESICS (89%); ENZYME INHIBITORS (78%); STROKES (77%); MEDICAL RESEARCH (77%); ECONOMIC NEWS (74%); CONSUMER CONFIDENCE (74%); RESEARCH INSTITUTES (73%); PHYSICIANS & SURGEONS (72%); TALKS & MEETINGS (68%) 

COMPANY: PFIZER INC (98%)

ORGANIZATION: Pfizer Inc; Cleveland Clinic

TICKER: PFZ (LSE) (98%); PFEB (BRU) (98%); PFE (NYSE) (98%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS325414 BIOLOGICAL PRODUCT (EXCEPT DIAGNOSTIC) MANUFACTURING (98%); NAICS325412 PHARMACEUTICAL PREPARATION MANUFACTURING (98%); NAICS325411 MEDICINAL & BOTANICAL MANUFACTURING (98%); SIC2836 BIOLOGICAL PRODUCTS, EXCEPT DIAGNOSTIC SUBSTANCES (98%); SIC2834 PHARMACEUTICAL PREPARATIONS (98%); SIC2833 MEDICINAL CHEMICALS & BOTANICAL PRODUCTS (98%)

PERSON: Steven E (Dr) Nissen; Stephanie Saul

GEOGRAPHIC: CLEVELAND, OH, USA (90%) OHIO, USA (90%) UNITED STATES (90%)

LOAD-DATE: December 14, 2005



287 of 607 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 14, 2005
Correction Appended 
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk; Education Page; ON EDUCATION; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 1069 words

HEADLINE: How a Cleveland Suburb Spurs Black Achievement 

BYLINE: By Michael Winerip. 
E-mail: edmike@nytimes.com

DATELINE: SHAKER HEIGHTS, OHIO 

 BODY:
IT is hard to pick up an education article these days without reading about some excited governor or mayor who is busy closing the achievement gap. Test scores of minority children go up a few points, and there stands the politician on the 6 o'clock news declaring that merit pay for teachers or laptops in the classroom or the federal No Child Left Behind law is closing the gap between white and minority children.
 Here in this integrated, upper-middle-class Cleveland suburb, you would think they would be boasting. African-Americans' combined math and verbal SAT scores average 976, 110 points above the national average for black students. The number of black sixth graders scoring proficient on the state math test has nearly doubled in three years and is more than 20 percentage points above the Ohio average for blacks. 
Top black seniors get into top colleges. In recent years, Charles Inniss went to Princeton, Karelle Hall to Dartmouth, Winston Weatherspoon to Georgetown and Danielle Decatur to the University of Virginia.
 While many a politician discovered the gap in 2002, when No Child Left Behind required that test data be separated by race, Shaker Heights has battled it for decades.
 Twenty years ago, an after-school tutoring center opened at the high school. In 1990, a committee of a dozen top black male seniors, the MAC scholars (for Minority Achievement Committee), was formed to mentor struggling black underclassmen, and the program has become a national model, featured last year on CNN. Seniors like Malik Wiggins (who has an A average and works 18 hours a week at a grocery) and Kenneth Owens (who has a B+, was the football team's fullback and plans to study dentistry) continue that tradition.
 Studies show the gap starts early, so eight years ago, Shaker Heights began giving 30 minutes of extra daily instruction to kindergartners who scored poorly for reading readiness. Three years ago, Shaker Heights started after-school study circles staffed by teachers and aimed at expanding black participation in honors and advanced placement classes. In six years, the number of blacks taking honors and A.P. courses has increased 50 percent.
 ''After the CNN story, I had 50 calls,'' says Mark Freeman, the superintendent. ''They'd say, 'Can you tell us how you closed the gap?' They think we're done.'' He tells them that even here, there is a long way to go.
 While it's good that No Child Left Behind has focused attention on the gap, the law is so driven by test scores that public discussion often takes a cartoonish form, as if a stiff dose of test prep will end the gap. 
 Ronald Ferguson, a Harvard professor who has spent a decade studying the gap in 15 integrated suburbs like Shaker Heights, says it is not going away soon. In a 2003 Supreme Court decision upholding affirmative action, Justice Sandra Day O'Connor said that because of America's history of racial bias it would take 25 years more, and Professor Ferguson thinks maybe longer. ''If you were betting, it would be unwise to bet on anything less than 25 years,'' he says.
 For every positive statistic there is a sobering one. Blacks' SAT scores here are still nearly 100 points behind the national average for whites (1,068) and 246 points behind the average of whites in Shaker Heights (1,222). The average grade for a black Shaker Heights senior is C+, and it is B+ for whites. The high school is about half black, yet blacks make up 31 percent of the students in honors classes and 11 percent of those in A.P. classes. As Corbin Sykes, a MAC scholar with many A.P. courses, says, ''In all my classes except weightlifting, there's just a couple other African-Americans.''
 Professor Ferguson estimates that half the gap is economic. While many black residents here are professionals, the average black family income ($54,500) is half the white average. A black child looking for study help has parents with less academic experience (45 percent have four-year degrees versus 90 percent of whites). 
 Half of black homes have a single parent, versus 10 percent for whites. Blacks are more transient. Half the black children in the kindergarten reading-support program in 2001 had moved away by the fourth grade. 
 When Professor Ferguson compares blacks and whites of similar income, he finds whites outperform blacks (A- versus B+ at the top income). His research shows that in the same courses, blacks spend as much time on homework as whites but finish less of it. ''It's more a skills gap than effort gap,'' he says. This is why the tutoring center is open from 4 to 7 p.m. daily. Andre Smith, a MAC scholar, apologized for not talking; he was going for calculus help.
 The middle and high school study circles grew out of research at the University of California, Berkeley showing that Asian-American students tended to study in groups, while black students struggled on their own. The sixth-grade after-school program here takes 60 of the brightest black students and pairs them with six teachers. 
 ''We're giving them skills to study together,'' says Chante Thomas, a teacher. ''But we also want them to find relationships with other smart kids that they'll have the rest of their time at Shaker.''
 THE gap is about culture, too. Professor Ferguson has run seminars with teachers emphasizing the challenges black children face and the need to push them to excel. Shaker Heights tries to hire blacks -- 20 percent of teachers are black, as are three of the eight principals.
 And the gap's about child rearing. Professor Ferguson's surveys show that blacks read less to preschoolers than do whites and black students watch twice as much TV. 
 A black parent group here has sponsored many projects aimed at narrowing the gap, including a summer enrichment program started in 1997. In October, Alisa Smith opened a parent room at the high school to encourage more adult involvement. Ms. Smith, a Columbia graduate and a stay-at-home mother, and her husband, a doctor, have three children in the schools, including Andre, the MAC scholar. While she says her children have been underestimated at times because they are black, over all she is delighted with the schools.
 Ms. Smith thinks federal supporters of No Child Left Behind could learn from Shaker Heights. ''If they spent as much time funding the kinds of programs we have in Shaker, as they do on testing,'' she said, ''it would be a lot better law.''


CORRECTION-DATE: December 21, 2005

 CORRECTION:
The On Education column last Wednesday, about efforts by Shaker Heights High School in Ohio to close the racial gap in educational achievement, misstated the college at which Charles Inniss, a black Shaker Heights graduate, is a freshman. It is Swarthmore College, not Princeton, as school district officials said.

GRAPHIC: Drawing (Drawing by David Suter)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ACADEMIC STANDARDS (90%); SCHOOL PERFORMANCE (90%); US NO CHILD LEFT BEHIND ACT (90%); CHILDREN (90%); EDUCATION LAW (90%); TEACHING & TEACHERS (89%); PRIMARY SCHOOLS (89%); PRIMARY & SECONDARY SCHOOL TEACHERS (89%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (78%); HIGH SCHOOLS (78%); STANDARDIZED ACADEMIC TESTING (78%); LEGISLATION (78%); AFRICAN AMERICANS (77%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (76%); SECONDARY SCHOOLS (76%); ADVANCED PLACEMENT PROGRAMS (76%); STATISTICS (75%); DENTISTRY (73%); TEACHER COMPENSATION (72%); LAPTOP COMPUTERS (71%); MERIT PAY (71%) Education and Schools; Tests and Testing; Blacks; Law and Legislation

ORGANIZATION: UNIVERSITY OF VIRGINIA (55%)

PERSON: Michael Winerip

GEOGRAPHIC: CLEVELAND, OH, USA (93%) OHIO, USA (93%) UNITED STATES (93%) Shaker Heights (Ohio); United States

LOAD-DATE: December 14, 2005



288 of 607 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 14, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 4; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 564 words

HEADLINE: Slump? Real Estate Tax Revenue Keeps Rising

BYLINE: By MIKE McINTIRE

 BODY:
Real estate values in New York have risen so much that a modest decline in the market will not seriously disrupt the stream of revenue from property-transaction taxes that has helped balance the city's budget in recent years, according to a new report by independent analysts. 
 The report, released yesterday by the city's Independent Budget Office, a nonpartisan fiscal watchdog, suggested that the city has been understating its projected revenues from real estate and mortgage taxes. It said that these tax revenues have continued to defy expectations of a decline, and that it now appears any future slowdown will not be as pronounced as was once feared.
The rosier outlook is due as much to a quirk of the city's tax structure as it is to the region's economic vitality.
 Real estate and mortgages valued at more than $500,000 are taxed at higher rates when sold or refinanced, and with more residential and commercial properties priced above that threshold, the flow of money from that revenue stream has ballooned. Thirty-three percent of residential sales last year involved homes priced above $500,000, up from 10 percent in 2000, the report said.
 ''Barring an unprecedented fall in property values, this increase in the share of transactions subject to the higher rates is unlikely to be fully reversed,'' the report said. ''Thus, at least some of the recent tax revenue growth is probably locked in thanks to this bracket creep.''
 What is more, unlike the income tax rate, which declines when applied to lower incomes, the higher real estate transaction tax rate applies to the full sale price. So if a home sells for just a few dollars more than $500,000, the seller must pay 42 percent more in transaction taxes on the entire amount, not just the portion that exceeds the half-million-dollar mark.
 The surging real estate market has helped bail the city out of its financial troubles in recent years, and is on track to do the same next year. Just last month, Mayor Michael R. Bloomberg released updated estimates showing an extra $3.4 billion from taxes, much of it real estate related, coming in over the next two fiscal years.
 Despite the improved tax collections, the administration remained loath to change its assumptions of a looming real estate market decline and its negative effect on the city's $52 billion budget. The city still anticipates reduced revenues over the next few years, which, coupled with rising expenses, results in a projected deficit of more than $4 billion in the fiscal year that begins in 2007.
 Yesterday, Jordan Barowitz, a spokesman for the mayor, said there was nothing in the Independent Budget Office report that would prompt the administration to revise its cautionary long-term outlook.
 The report said that despite rising mortgage interest rates, which had been expected to be a drag on real estate sales, there has been little sign of a market slowdown this year.
 In the first quarter of the fiscal year that started in July, property transaction taxes totaled $404 million, or 56 percent of what the administration anticipated for the full year. Similarly, taxes on mortgages totaled $458 million, or 62 percent of the projected annual total. As a result of the steady increases, the city last month said it now expected taxes from both categories to end the fiscal year about 50 percent above what was originally expected.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: REAL ESTATE (95%); TAXES & TAXATION (93%); PROPERTY TAX (92%); REAL ESTATE VALUATIONS (90%); MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (90%); RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (90%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (90%); HOME PRICES (90%); BUDGETS (90%); HOUSING MARKET (89%); CITY GOVERNMENT (89%); COMMERCIAL PROPERTY (79%); REAL ESTATE TRANSACTIONS (79%); COMMERCIAL & RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (79%); BUDGET FORECASTS (77%); RESEARCH REPORTS (77%); SALES PROJECTIONS (76%); INCOME TAX (76%); MORTGAGE RATES (75%); INTEREST RATES (75%); ECONOMIC NEWS (75%); MORTGAGE REFINANCING (75%); MORTGAGE LOANS (70%) Taxation; Housing; Mortgages; Prices (Fares, Fees and Rates); Property Taxes; Sales; Taxation

PERSON: MICHAEL BLOOMBERG (58%) Mike Mcintire

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%) NEW YORK, USA (93%) UNITED STATES (93%) New York City

LOAD-DATE: December 14, 2005



289 of 607 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 14, 2005
Correction Appended 
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; National Desk; Pg. 33

LENGTH: 786 words

HEADLINE: Senate Leader Predicts No Action This Year on Relief From the Alternative Minimum Tax

BYLINE: By CARL HULSE

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Dec. 13 

 BODY:
Senator Bill Frist, the majority leader, said Tuesday that Congress was not likely to act this year to shield millions of middle- and upper-income taxpayers from a larger income tax bite as lawmakers moved into the final days of the session with many major issues hanging in the balance.
 In laying out what he hoped to accomplish before adjourning for the year, Mr. Frist, Republican of Tennessee, said that ''in all likelihood'' the Senate would not try to reach agreement with the House on competing $30 billion plans to reduce the impact of the alternative minimum tax. The tax, originally created to prevent the rich from escaping tax liability, is expected to reach another 15 million Americans next year because of inflation. 
Mr. Frist's position means it is likely that Congress will also delay until 2006 a larger debate over nearly $100 million in tax breaks that Republicans say are essential to economic growth. But the House and Senate have taken different approaches on tax relief, with the House extending lower tax rates on investments while the Senate balked because of opposition from Democrats and Republican moderates.
 The so-called patch for the alternative minimum tax could still be approved next year and made retroactive to cover taxes for 2006, and Republicans have indicated that they intend to take some action. The new impact of the tax on some families with incomes below $100,000 and most of those with incomes between $100,000 and $200,000 would be reflected in taxes due in 2007.
 In the House, which last week passed a separate plan to ease the alternative minimum tax in an effort to entice the Senate into tax negotiations, Representative Roy Blunt of Missouri, the acting majority leader, said he thought a deal could still be reached. But he acknowledged that Mr. Frist was the best judge of what would be possible in the Senate.
 Democrats attacked the decision, saying the Republican majority was stalling action on one piece of tax relief that benefited the less affluent.
 ''This should have been our No. 1 tax priority and instead, because of right-wing ideological objectives, the middle and upper class will suffer and only the very, very wealthy will benefit,'' said Senator Charles E. Schumer, Democrat of New York.
 The signal on the alternative minimum tax came as lawmakers engaged in furious closed-door negotiations as they tried to resolve difficult legislative disputes over budget cuts, military spending and policy, hurricane relief, avian flu readiness and the antiterror USA Patriot Act.
 Leaders in the House and Senate conceded that they were struggling to reach an agreement on up to $50 billion in budget cuts over five years that Republicans have been hoping to trumpet as evidence of a renewed commitment to controlling spending. Strong resistance in the House to using the legislation to open the Arctic National Wildlife Refuge in Alaska to oil drilling was looming as a main impediment, but there were a host of smaller but still significant differences.
 ''By definition, this bill has a huge number of moving parts, all of which create different constituencies that are for them or against them,'' said Senator Judd Gregg, Republican of New Hampshire and chairman of the Budget Committee.
 Mr. Blunt agreed that moving a budget-cutting measure through the House that included the Alaska drilling would be difficult, though he did not rule it out. He also raised the prospect that the cuts and other contentious legislation could be delayed until next year while Congress took care of must-pass spending issues. 
 Mr. Blunt, noting that it was just the end of the first session approaching, said, ''Whatever we don't get done now, it is still going to be there in late January.''
 But Mr. Gregg said he believed it would be unwise to delay the budget cuts, and Mr. Blunt and others said they were still hopeful of winning approval of the measure.
 In another decision intended to ease opposition to the budget bill, Republicans retreated on a mining law provision that critics said could lead to large-scale sale of public lands in the West. Representative Jim Gibbons, the Nevada Republican who wrote the provision, disputed that claim and said he would instead pursue mining law changes next year.
 The testy atmosphere in the waning days of the session was reflected in some gamesmanship. The House, angry over a health spending measure that named two buildings at the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention in Atlanta for Senators Arlen Specter, a Republican, and Tom Harkin, a Democrat, the authors of the measure, voted to rename the buildings for Rosa Parks and Mother Teresa. The Senate is not expected to consider the measure speedily.

CORRECTION-DATE: December 16, 2005

 CORRECTION:
An article on Tuesday about a possible delay in Congressional action on the alternative minimum tax misstated the amount of taxes in other measures that Congress may also not take up until 2006. It is $100 billion, not $100 million.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TAXES & TAXATION (95%); POLITICAL PARTIES (91%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); UPPER INCOME PERSONS (90%); MIDDLE INCOME PERSONS (90%); TAX INCENTIVES (90%); TAX LAW (90%); TAX RELIEF (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); INCOME TAX (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (89%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (89%); LEGISLATION (89%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (89%); BUDGETS (89%); BUDGET CUTS (75%); APPROVALS (74%); US PATRIOT ACT (74%); PERSONAL & FAMILY INCOME (73%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (69%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (67%); DEFENSE SPENDING (60%); AVIAN INFLUENZA (50%); HURRICANES (50%); WILDLIFE (50%); WILDLIFE CONSERVATION (50%) Taxation; Alternative Minimum Tax; Law and Legislation

PERSON: CHARLES SCHUMER (59%); ROY BLUNT (59%) Carl Hulse; Bill (Sen) Frist

GEOGRAPHIC: ALASKA, USA (92%); MISSOURI, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%); ARCTIC (50%) United States

LOAD-DATE: December 14, 2005



290 of 607 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 14, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; National Desk; Pg. 30

LENGTH: 285 words

HEADLINE: British Concern and New Mexico Agree on Building a Spaceport

BYLINE: By The Associated Press

 BODY:
Virgin Galactic, the British company created by the entrepreneur Sir Richard Branson to send tourists into space, announced an agreement with New Mexico yesterday for the state to build a $225 million spaceport. 
 At a news conference in London, New Mexico's economic development secretary, Rick Homans, said the spaceport would be built largely underground in the southern part of the state, near the White Sands Missile Range. Mr. Homans said that construction could begin in early 2007, depending on approval from environmental and aviation authorities, and that the spaceport could open in 2009 or 2010.
 The company said that up to 38,000 people from 126 countries had paid a deposit for a seat on one of its commercial spaceflights, including a core group of 100 ''founders'' who have already paid the full $200,000 for a ticket. It plans to begin flights in late 2008 or early 2009, using the base in Mojave, Calif., from which the first manned private rockets reached space last year.
 Virgin Galactic said it had chosen New Mexico as the site for its headquarters because of its steady climate, free airspace, low population density and high altitude. All those factors can significantly reduce the cost of the spaceflight program.
 Sir Richard formed Virgin Galactic after watching SpaceShipOne, a craft designed by Burt Rutan and financed by the Microsoft co-founder Paul Allen, become the first privately manned rocket to reach space last year. SpaceShipOne went on to win the $10 million Ansari X Prize with two suborbital flights in five days from Mojave. Virgin Galactic has a deal with Mr. Rutan to build five spacecraft, licensing technology from Mr. Allen's company, Mojave Aerospace Ventures. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ENTREPRENEURSHIP (90%); SPACE EXPLORATION (78%); POPULATION DENSITY (78%); PRESS CONFERENCES (78%); CIVIL AVIATION (76%); MISSILE SYSTEMS (76%); AVIATION ADMINISTRATION (75%); SPACECRAFT (67%) 

COMPANY: MICROSOFT CORP (54%)

ORGANIZATION: Virgin Galactic

TICKER: MSFT (NASDAQ) (54%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS511210 SOFTWARE PUBLISHERS (54%); SIC7372 PREPACKAGED SOFTWARE (54%)

PERSON: RICHARD BRANSON (90%); PAUL ALLEN (58%) Richard (Sir) Branson; Rick Homans

GEOGRAPHIC: LONDON, ENGLAND (90%) NEW MEXICO, USA (96%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (96%); UNITED KINGDOM (73%) New Mexico

LOAD-DATE: December 14, 2005



291 of 607 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 14, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 6; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 358 words

HEADLINE: Deep Freeze, Not Pay Freeze, A Strike Issue

BYLINE: By SEWELL CHAN

 BODY:
On Monday night, the Metropolitan Transportation Authority surprised union leaders by proposing a 27-month contract, with a 3 percent raise in the first 15 months and a second 3 percent raise effective on March 16, 2007. The contract would expire at the end of March 15, 2008. 
 A March deadline, instead of a December one, has certain advantages for the authority and the city. It could decrease, at least meteorologically, the sting of a walkout.
The union's 12-day strike in January 1966 was particularly punishing because of the cold. The walkout in April 1980 was more easily tolerated. 
 ''It is easier for people to get around at the start of spring than in the dead of winter,'' said Richard Ravitch, who was chairman of the authority during the 1980 strike. ''There are fewer tourists in New York and it would probably have less of an impact on the economy.''
 The current contract expires at 12:01 a.m. Friday, just nine days before Christmas. While weekday ridership is relatively constant throughout the year, weekend travel in December is generally the heaviest of any month.
 Gary J. Dellaverson, the authority's chief negotiator and director of labor relations, dismissed the notion that he was trying to move the contract expiration to a less critical month. ''There is no month, there is no week, there is no day that is good for New York City to be deprived of its mass transit system,'' he said. 
 The last two contracts between the authority and Local 100 of the Transport Workers Union ended in December, in 1999 and 2002, the result of a contract extension in 1996. Previous contracts ended at a variety of times.
 Richard W. Hurd, a professor of labor studies at Cornell University, said auto manufacturers have tried to schedule contract expirations for times when plants would normally close for retooling. Hotel workers' unions, he added, are trying to schedule contract expirations for the same month in different cities, to increase their leverage against hotel chains.
 ''It may be true that any time is bad for a strike, but it's also true that certain times are more advantageous to one side than another,'' Dr. Hurd said.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LABOR UNIONS (91%); URBAN TRANSIT SYSTEMS (90%); WAGES & SALARIES (90%); STRIKES (78%); COLLECTIVE BARGAINING (78%); METEOROLOGY (76%); HOTELS & MOTELS (73%); CHRISTMAS (71%); HOTEL STAFF (69%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (62%); AUTOMOBILE MFG (62%); AUTOMOTIVE MFG (62%); HOTEL CHAINS (62%); AUTOMAKERS (50%) Transit Systems; Strikes ; Wages and Salaries; Labor; Organized Labor; Subways; Weather

ORGANIZATION: Metropolitan Transportation Authority; Transport Workers Union

PERSON: Sewell Chan

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%) NEW YORK, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: December 14, 2005



292 of 607 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 14, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section D; Column 5; Sports Desk; COLLEGE BASKETBALL; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 865 words

HEADLINE: The Search Concludes: Brown Sets A Lineup

BYLINE: By HOWARD BECK; Liz Robbins contributed reporting for this article.

DATELINE: GREENBURGH, N.Y., Dec. 13 

 BODY:
Larry Brown has tinkered and tweaked, pushed and prodded and given 16 players a chance to make the Knicks something better than substandard. The result has been six victories in 20 games, so Brown is preparing a new template. 
 Starting Wednesday night against the Orlando Magic, the lineup will be stable, the rotation shorter and the commitment almost entirely to youth. At least, that is what Brown declared Tuesday. He has changed his mind before.
 A 20-point rout by the Milwaukee Bucks on Monday at Madison Square Garden has put the Knicks in soul-searching mode and prompted Brown, who has used 14 starting lineups, to rethink his methodology. 
 There will probably be a 15th lineup Wednesday, but this one should stick. The guards will be Stephon Marbury and Quentin Richardson, joining Channing Frye at power forward and Eddy Curry at center. Brown did not specify who will be his small forward, but he indicated it would probably be Trevor Ariza.
 ''I just think now I'm going to try to settle on a lineup a little bit more, settle on a rotation a little bit more and then hope by doing that, we see a little better continuity on both ends,'' Brown said.
 Continuity has eluded the Knicks since opening night. Three of their off-season acquisitions -- Curry, Richardson and Jerome James -- have been injured and out of shape. Two veterans, Antonio Davis and Penny Hardaway, are breaking down. Brown used the openings to give playing time to the rookies Frye and Nate Robinson and to experiment with roles.
 ''I've got a better feel of who should play together after watching,'' Brown said.
 He intends to cut the rotation to 9 or 10 players -- four guards, two small forwards and three to four big men -- nearly all of whom will be under age 30.
 The biggest change will come at small forward, where it appears Brown is committing to his youngest options, Ariza and the newly signed Qyntel Woods.
 ''Right now, it'd be Trevor and Qyntel,'' Brown said. ''Let the young kids play.'' 
 Matt Barnes opened the season at small forward but was injured. He was cut last week to make room for Woods. Brown has also used Richardson, Malik Rose and David Lee, none of whom are natural small forwards.
 Brown sounded enthusiastic about Woods, a 24-year-old former first-round pick, who was unemployed until last week. Woods played six minutes in his debut Monday, scoring on a dunk and a 3-pointer.
 ''I don't think he's in real good shape, and I think he doesn't know exactly what we're trying to do, but I love his athleticism,'' said Brown, who later added, ''But I don't think it's going to happen overnight for him.
 Brown said that he loved Ariza's heart, but ''it's hard, he's not ready, in my mind, to be a starter in this league, but he comes to practice every day, he's getting better every day.''
 Brown also concluded that Richardson should not be a full-time small forward, and that Robinson and Jamal Crawford are best coming off the bench.
 But the overriding, if unstated message, was this: The Knicks are fully committed to their youth movement, even at the expense of short-term success. On Monday, they sent Hardaway and Davis to the inactive list and dropped Rose from the rotation. Two other veterans, Maurice Taylor and James, each played only seven minutes, while 20-year-old Jackie Butler played 10 minutes.
 It would not be surprising if the Knicks' next move was to activate Lee, the only rookie who has yet to make an impact.
 Everything would change, however, if the Knicks can make a deal for Ron Artest, Indiana's disgruntled star forward, but that appears unlikely. The Knicks have quietly made it known that they will not part with Frye, their best prospect, and they have yet to make the Pacers an offer.
 After the rout by the Bucks, Brown was hard on nearly everyone. He criticized Robinson's defense on T. J. Ford and called out all of his point guards for poor decision-making. He ripped his entire team for being lackadaisical and soft. He wondered why no one seemed to grasp how to make an entry pass to the post. He bemoaned the inexperience of Curry, Frye and Robinson.
 So with a quarter of the season gone, and the Knicks looking like a long shot for the playoffs, Brown is changing his role, too -- a little less mad professor, a little more remedial basketball teacher.
 ''Today was like training camp,'' Brown said. ''We are trying to teach them how to screen, how to block out, how to pass the game. We called it a passing game, but still, the first thing guys want to do is dribble the ball instead of hitting the first open man. We've got to drill it and drill it and drill it.''

REBOUNDS
 While the Indiana Pacers field trade offers for Ron Artest, the Knicks continue to monitor the situation from a distance. ''I've heard from 15 or 16 teams, but the Knicks were not one of them,'' said Donnie Walsh, the Pacers' chief executive. ''There were some offers that were interesting.'' Penny Hardaway was scheduled to have tests on his right knee, which has tendinitis, and his left quadriceps Tuesday. Orlando's Grant Hill will make his season debut Wednesday, six weeks after having surgery for a sports hernia. The Magic has gone 8-11 without Hill. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BASKETBALL (90%); WOUNDS & INJURIES (64%) Basketball; Coaches and Managers

ORGANIZATION: NEW YORK NICKERBOCKERS (94%); ORLANDO MAGIC (58%); MILWAUKEE BUCKS (57%) New York Knickerbockers

PERSON: Howard Beck; Larry Brown

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (58%) UNITED STATES (58%)

LOAD-DATE: December 14, 2005



293 of 607 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 14, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 5; Business/Financial Desk; THE MARKETS: STOCKS & BONDS; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 710 words

HEADLINE: Shares Rally on Fed's Hint Of an End to Rate Increases

BYLINE: By Bloomberg News

 BODY:
The fourth-quarter stock rally got a jump-start yesterday after the Federal Reserve signaled it might stop raising interest rates soon.
 Fed policy makers dropped a reference to ''accommodation'' in a statement that followed the 13th consecutive increase in their target rate, to 4.25 percent. The change suggests that central bankers see rates as high enough to avoid spurring inflation.
 ''Boy, we've been waiting for this,'' said Larry Peruzzi, senior equity trader at the Boston Company Asset Management. ''The feeling is that the market does not need further rate hikes and that the Fed will react accordingly.'' 
 Share prices increased for financial companies, including Bank of America, which stand to benefit from stable or lower rates. Makers of consumer products gained after Procter & Gamble said this quarter's earnings would exceed an earlier forecast.
 The Standard & Poor's 500-stock index rallied 7 points, or 0.6 percent, to 1,267.43. The Dow Jones industrial average added 55.95 points, or 0.5 percent, to 10,823.72. Technology stocks held back the Nasdaq composite index, which rose 4.05 points, or 0.2 percent, to 2,265.
 The yield on the benchmark 10-year Treasury note fell three basis points to 4.52 percent. The price rose 7/32, to 99 27/32. Bond yields move inversely to prices.
 Bank of America, the second-largest American bank, added 76 cents, to $46.50. Wells Fargo & Company, the No. 5 United States bank by assets, rose 85 cents, to $63.20.
 Procter & Gamble climbed $1.60 to $58.51. The company said per-share profit in the second quarter ending in December would be 68 cents to 69 cents, up from 66 cents to 69 cents.
 Pfizer, the world's No. 1 drug maker, gained for a second day after it raised its quarterly dividend 26 percent, to 24 cents a share, and said it planned to buy back more stock next year. The shares surged $1.37, or 6.5 percent, to $22.31.
 Hewlett-Packard, the world's No. 2 personal computer seller behind Dell, slumped 90 cents, to $29.07. Hewlett Packard said 2006 sales would rise as little as 3 percent, disappointing some investors.
 Sirius Satellite Radio, the No. 2 American pay-radio provider behind XM Satellite Radio, lost 45 cents, to $7.01. A Banc of America Securities analyst, Jonathan Jacoby, recommended that investors sell shares of the company because it would not have the additional new subscribers that were expected.
 Crude oil prices rose 7 cents, to $61.37 a barrel, in New York, the highest since Nov. 30.
 Burlington Resources jumped $3.57, to $86.07, after ConocoPhillips offered to buy the company, a natural gas producer, for $35.6 billion. ConocoPhillips fell $3.05, to $58.20.
 Shares of Wendy's International rallied $3.63, or 7.1 percent, to $55. The billionaire Nelson Peltz bought a 5.5 percent stake in the No. 3 American hamburger chain and urged the company to cut costs and sell off some businesses.
 Lehman Brothers Holdings, the No. 4 United States securities firm by market value, rose 33 cents, to $128.50, as it reported fiscal fourth-quarter earnings of $2.76 a share.
 Best Buy, the electronics retailer, dropped $5.90, or 12 percent, to $43.94 for the steepest decline in the S.& P. 500. The company predicts earnings for the 2006 fiscal year ending in February of $2.05 to $2.15 a share, less than the $2.17 expected by analysts in a Thomson survey.
 General Motors fell 75 cents, to $22.30. S.& P. said late Monday that the carmaker's plan to cut $7 billion in costs next year might not keep G.M. from bankruptcy unless it revived its United States auto sales.
 Following are the results of yesterday's auction of four-week Treasury bills: 

(000 omitted in dollar figures)
Price: 99.722
High Rate: 3.570
Coupon Yield: 3.630
Low Rate: 3.450
Median Rate: 3.520
Total applied for: $36,908,339
Accepted: $17,487,879
Noncompetitive: $145,768
The four-week bills mature Jan. 12, 2006.



 Press; Bloomberg Financial Markets)

Table: ''The Favorites'' lists stocks held by largest number of accounts at Merrill Lynch.
 (Sources by The Associated Press, Bloomberg Financial Markets)

Graph: ''Treasury Yield Curve'' plots yields of selected Treasury securities. Short-term
 maturities are shown on a bond equivalent basis. Horizontal scale is a ratio scale. (Source 
 by Technical Data)

GRAPHIC: Graph tracks the Dow Jones industrial average over the past year. (Sources by Associated 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: STOCK INDEXES (94%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); PRICE INCREASES (90%); BOND MARKETS (90%); OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (89%); PRICE CHANGES (89%); EARNINGS PER SHARE (78%); SALES PROJECTIONS (78%); PUBLIC POLICY (78%); DIVIDENDS (78%); COMPANY PROFITS (78%); PHARMACEUTICAL PREPARATION MFG (78%); INTEREST RATES (78%); ECONOMIC NEWS (78%); CENTRAL BANKS (78%); STOCK EXCHANGES (78%); COMPANY EARNINGS (78%); BONDS (78%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (78%); TREASURY SECURITIES (78%); OIL & GAS PRICES (78%); NATURAL GAS PRODUCTS (73%); CRUDE OIL MARKETS (70%); CRUDE OIL PRICES (69%); NATURAL GAS EXTRACTION (64%); SATELLITE RADIO (64%); PERSONAL COMPUTERS (62%); CRUDE OIL & NATURAL GAS EXTRACTION (60%) 

COMPANY: BANK OF AMERICA CORP (84%); WELLS FARGO & CO (83%); CONOCOPHILLIPS (81%); BOSTON CO ASSET MANAGEMENT INC (57%); PROCTER & GAMBLE CO (56%); PFIZER INC (53%); HEWLETT-PACKARD CO (52%); SIRIUS XM RADIO INC (51%)

TICKER: BAC (NYSE) (84%); BAC (LSE) (84%); 8648 (TSE) (84%); WFC (NYSE) (83%); COP (NYSE) (81%); PGP (PAR) (56%); PG (NYSE) (56%); PFZ (LSE) (53%); PFEB (BRU) (53%); PFE (NYSE) (53%); HPQ (NYSE) (52%); SIRI (NASDAQ) (51%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (84%); SIC6712 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (84%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (84%); NAICS324110 PETROLEUM REFINERIES (81%); NAICS221210 NATURAL GAS DISTRIBUTION (81%); NAICS211112 NATURAL GAS LIQUID EXTRACTION (81%); NAICS211111 CRUDE PETROLEUM & NATURAL GAS EXTRACTION (81%); SIC4925 MIXED, MANUFACTURED, OR LIQUEFIED PETROLEUM GAS PRODUCTION AND/OR DISTRIBUTION (81%); SIC2911 PETROLEUM REFINERIES (81%); SIC1382 OIL & GAS FIELD EXPLORATION SERVICES (81%); SIC1321 NATURAL GAS LIQUIDS (81%); SIC1311 CRUDE PETROLEUM & NATURAL GAS (81%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (57%); NAICS325620 TOILET PREPARATION MANUFACTURING (56%); NAICS325611 SOAP & OTHER DETERGENT MANUFACTURING (56%); NAICS322291 SANITARY PAPER PRODUCT MANUFACTURING (56%); SIC2844 PERFUMES, COSMETICS, & OTHER TOILET PREPARATIONS (56%); SIC2841 SOAPS & OTHER DETERGENTS, EXCEPT SPECIALTY CLEANERS (56%); SIC2676 SANITARY PAPER PRODUCTS (56%); NAICS325414 BIOLOGICAL PRODUCT (EXCEPT DIAGNOSTIC) MANUFACTURING (53%); NAICS325412 PHARMACEUTICAL PREPARATION MANUFACTURING (53%); NAICS325411 MEDICINAL & BOTANICAL MANUFACTURING (53%); SIC2836 BIOLOGICAL PRODUCTS, EXCEPT DIAGNOSTIC SUBSTANCES (53%); SIC2834 PHARMACEUTICAL PREPARATIONS (53%); SIC2833 MEDICINAL CHEMICALS & BOTANICAL PRODUCTS (53%); NAICS334118 COMPUTER TERMINAL & OTHER COMPUTER PERIPHERAL EQUIPMENT MANUFACTURING (52%); NAICS515111 RADIO NETWORKS (51%); SIC4832 RADIO BROADCASTING STATIONS (51%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (68%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: December 14, 2005



294 of 607 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 14, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 2; Business/Financial Desk; Square Feet; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 1160 words

HEADLINE: As Goes MBNA, So Goes Delaware

BYLINE: By MAUREEN MILFORD

DATELINE: WILMINGTON, Del., Dec. 13 

 BODY:
When developers of a $90 million office building on Delaware Avenue here held a groundbreaking ceremony in September, the event had all the trappings of parties put on during the frothy 1980's. 
 The gathering featured a buffet, speeches and socializing that were reminiscent of the festivities held after the state passed a series of favorable banking laws in 1981. The Financial Center Development Act, which eliminated ceilings on interest and fees for consumer loans, ignited an immediate migration of bank subsidiaries to Delaware. The flood of new jobs led to an office-building frenzy that transformed the city's skyline.
But at the party for the city's newest multitenant building, there was ''an elephant in the living room'' the guests pretended not to notice, one city official said.
 ''We all knew it was there, but didn't want to talk about it,'' said Richard V. Pryor, the city's director of economic development. 
 The event that threatens to turn the real estate market upside down is the imminent sale of the MBNA Corporation, the 23-year-old homegrown credit card bank that has its headquarters on Rodney Square. MBNA, the state's largest private employer, with approximately 10,500 employees, is on schedule to be sold to Bank of America of Charlotte, N.C., in early 2006.
 The merger announcement last summer, midway through one of the more active construction years for Wilmington, knocked the wind out of the market overnight.
 ''I'd be extremely bullish if it wasn't for MBNA,'' said Robert Buccini, managing partner of Buccini/Pollin Group of Wilmington, developer of the new 15-story building named WSFS Bank Center for a major tenant and minority owner, WSFS Bank of Wilmington.
 The $35 billion sale of MBNA is expected to result in the loss of 6,000 jobs nationwide from both the credit card giant and Bank of America. Some analysts predict Delaware could shoulder at least half those cuts. In tiny Delaware, a loss of 4,000 jobs would represent about 1 percent of total employment, according to Michael D. Helmar, an economist with Moody's Economy.com in West Chester, Pa.
 ''That would be quite a blow for any state, but here it could be concentrated in Wilmington,'' Mr. Helmar said.
 Concern in the real estate industry is that the job cuts could lead to an emptying out of office space that would drive down prices. Unlike many corporations today, MBNA preferred to own rather than lease buildings. 
 The threat of rapidly climbing inventory comes at a time when the city has brought its supply to healthy levels. The vacancy rate at the end of the year in the central business district is expected to be about 10 percent, down from 18.2 percent in 2002, according to CB Richard Ellis, the commercial real estate brokerage firm. 
 The fear is that MBNA's buildings will be sold at low prices. ''If they do that, it could dramatically affect the market,'' said Philip Lipper, corporate managing director of Studley Inc. commercial real estate services in Iselin, N.J.
 For more than a decade, MBNA was Delaware's economic engine as it built on its expertise of issuing credit cards branded with the name of universities, professional and alumni associations and other organizations. Its rapid expansion softened the deep cutbacks beginning in 1991 at the DuPont Company, which has made Delaware its home for 203 years. 
 MBNA, an underdog bank that started life in a converted suburban supermarket, became the biggest winner from the 1981 banking law. In 1995, the bank moved its headquarters to Wilmington and then began a steady transformation of the east side of Rodney Square, the green that is also home to DuPont. The bank is credited with the city's recent revival that made it a standout in the Philadelphia metropolitan region.
 ''We wouldn't be where we are if it were not for MBNA,'' said Mr. Buccini, whose company has been the most active developer in the city since 1999 when it acquired two former DuPont buildings and renovated them for multitenant office use.
 MBNA now eclipses DuPont as the largest corporate owner and occupier of real estate in the city. It built six new buildings and acquired the former Daniel L. Herrmann Courthouse on Rodney Square. With an estimated 1.3 million square feet of space, it represents close to 10 percent of the total market in the central business district, brokers said.
 Statewide, the bank occupies about 4.6 million square feet from wealthy Greenville to the state's capital in Dover. Bank of America also has a presence in Delaware, with about 1,300 employees at two sites: Dover and near Newark. The bank would not disclose the size of its properties. 
 As for future plans, neither MBNA nor Bank of America are talking. Daniel R. Reeder, senior vice president of CB Richard Ellis in Wilmington, said he had contacted MBNA because he had a client interested in buying or leasing more than 100,000 square feet in the suburbs. ''We can't get a response back,'' Mr. Reeder said.
 Jim Donahue, a spokesman for MBNA in Wilmington, said the bank was following a deliberate integration process with the merger expected to close in early January, pending regulatory approval.
 Ernesto C. Anguilla, a spokesman for Bank of America, said the company had not made any decisions regarding real estate issues in Delaware.
 What is clear is Bank of America's management of its real estate. Since 2002, Bank of America has sold 416 properties to American Financial Realty Trust of Jenkintown, Pa., a publicly traded real estate investment trust that acquires and leases properties occupied by financial institutions.
 Bank of America is now a tenant in about 486 properties owned by American Financial Realty, renting a total of 14.6 million square feet. The bank occupies 39.1 percent of the space in the investment trust's portfolio and represents 33 percent of its total revenue.
 Muriel Lange, director of investor relations with American Financial Realty, said while she had nothing to report about future purchases from Bank of America ''obviously, we're interested in taking care of one of our best tenants.''
 ''If they come to us, we will be happy to evaluate it,'' Ms. Lange said.
 Brokers said they expected the combined company to sell the former courthouse, a building MBNA bought and partly renovated but never occupied.
 Still, city officials say the city will get a psychological lift as work progresses on the WSFS Bank Center on Delaware Avenue, the main boulevard into downtown from Interstate 95. The 350,000-square-foot building, designed by Gensler architects, is 50 percent preleased. Besides WSFS Bank, which will make the building its headquarters, the Wilmington law firm of Morris, James, Hitchens & Williams has agreed to take about 60,000 square feet. 
 Real estate brokers, however, are holding their breath as the year winds down.
 ''We're going into 2006 with our eyes on MBNA,'' Mr. Reeder said. ''We've played out the moves in our mind, but who knows?''


GRAPHIC: Photos: Left, MBNA's headquarters in Wilmington, Del. Above, a new 15-story building, the WSFS Bank Center is under construction on Delaware Avenue in the city. (Photographs by Tim Shaffer for The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LAYOFFS (90%); OFFICE PROPERTY (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); CONSTRUCTION (90%); COMMERCIAL RENTAL PROPERTY (90%); REAL ESTATE (89%); MINORITY BUSINESSES (89%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (78%); COMMERCIAL PROPERTY VACANCY RATES (78%); FINANCIAL RATINGS (76%); CREDIT CARDS (76%); BANKING LAW (76%); CITIES (75%); CITY GOVERNMENT (75%); DIVESTITURES (75%); RENTAL PROPERTY (74%); EMPLOYMENT RATES (72%); BANKING & FINANCE REGULATION (71%); PAYMENT CARDS & SERVICES (71%); CONSUMER LENDING (71%); BUSINESS FORECASTS (69%); ECONOMIC NEWS (67%) Credit and Money Cards; Labor; Layoffs and Job Reductions; Office Buildings; Prices (Fares, Fees and Rates); Mergers, Acquisitions and Divestitures; Credit and Money Cards

COMPANY: BANK OF AMERICA CORP (94%); CBRE GROUP INC (55%)

ORGANIZATION: Bank of America; Mbna Corp

TICKER: BAC (NYSE) (94%); BAC (LSE) (94%); 8648 (TSE) (94%); CBG (NYSE) (55%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (94%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (94%); SIC6712 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (94%); NAICS531312 NONRESIDENTIAL PROPERTY MANAGERS (55%); SIC6531 REAL ESTATE AGENTS & MANAGERS (55%)

PERSON: Maureen Milford

GEOGRAPHIC: WILMINGTON, DE, USA (95%); CHARLOTTE, NC, USA (79%) DELAWARE, USA (96%); NORTH CAROLINA, USA (79%); PENNSYLVANIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (96%) Delaware; Charlotte (Nc)

LOAD-DATE: December 14, 2005



295 of 607 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 14, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 6; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 698 words

HEADLINE: Corzine Sees State Deficit Of $6 Billion

BYLINE: By RICHARD LEZIN JONES

DATELINE: ISELIN, N.J., Dec. 13 

 BODY:
First, there was the promise. Now, there is the price tag.
 The governor-elect, Jon S. Corzine, said Tuesday that New Jersey's projected budget deficit could be as high as $6 billion, a $1 billion increase over previous estimates, driven in part by his campaign pledge to increase property tax rebates by 10 percent. He also left open the possibility that he would raise the state's gasoline tax.
Speaking at a meeting of the New Jersey Business and Industry Association here, Mr. Corzine echoed a theme that has marked nearly all of his significant speeches since being elected last month: with a hole in the state's roughly $38 billion budget, New Jersey faces challenges to get its economic house in order. 
 But on Tuesday, Mr. Corzine suggested that with more than a month until he assumes office on Jan. 17, a tough task had already gotten tougher. He raised his deficit projection from an earlier estimate of about $5 billion, which he gave last month in his first major speech as governor-elect at a conference of the New Jersey State League of Municipalities.
 He said his transition team was still working on ways to bridge the gap and warned that there were no quick or painless solutions. He explained the increase in his estimate in part by saying that he needed $550 million to fulfill the first plank of his tax rebate plan.
 ''It's going to push this thing up close to five and three quarters to $6 billion if I'm doing my numbers right,'' he said. ''And there are not the kinds of gimmicks and alternatives to turn to.'' He added, ''I'm not trying to cast aspersions on other folks; we just have come to the end of the line.''
 The state's economic woes do not stop there, Mr. Corzine said. There is still the expected bankruptcy of the state's Transportation Trust Fund, whose $805 million budget is used to maintain the state's roads, bridges and rail lines.
 The fund's shortfall, he told the audience, ''isn't going to get solved by a snap of the fingers.'' In remarks to reporters after his speech, Mr. Corzine did not rule out an increase to the state's 14.5-cent-per-gallon gasoline tax, which is used to maintain the fund.
 During the campaign, Mr. Corzine said he would not raise the tax while gas prices were so high. ''I vowed not to do it at $3 a gallon, that's for sure,'' he told reporters on Tuesday. ''When it was down into the levels we're in right now, I said I hadn't taken it off the table. The first thing we're going to do is scrub the budget. That's what I promised to do and that's what I'm going to do.''
 Mr. Corzine said his staff was conducting a line-by-line review of the state's budget and he would only consider raising the tax if ''we still can't close budget holes.'' In his speech to the business leaders, Mr. Corzine frequently alluded to his Wall Street background, saying: ''I am a capitalist. I believe in business. I really do want to work with you. Just as I believe in a partnership with the Legislature and those in government as career employees, I believe in pulling us together and I will.''
 He added that he would devote much of his energies to restoring public confidence in elected officials and said he would announce an appointment -- perhaps as early as Wednesday -- that might begin to help do so. In his remarks after his speech, he declined to name the appointee.
 Mr. Corzine also said he was still assembling his cabinet and suggested a special appointment related to resolving problems at the state's troubled child welfare agency. He said that he was considering making the agency, now part of the State Department of Human Services, its own department -- a step that might prompt the plaintiffs in a lawsuit against the foster care system to drop a court request that the agency be placed in receivership.
 ''It certainly has to be examined because the fundamental issue is how are we servicing the lives of these children and frankly, I couldn't care less what the organizational chart looks like,'' he said. ''I care about how to get the right results for the kids. And if that's what it takes to be certain, even if it's not an optimal organizational structure, opt for the safety and security of the kids first.''

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BUDGETS (91%); GOVERNORS (90%); BUDGET DEFICITS (90%); BUDGET FORECASTS (90%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (90%); TAXES & TAXATION (90%); GASOLINE (89%); FUEL TAX (89%); PETROLEUM PRODUCTS (78%); TALKS & MEETINGS (78%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (78%); OIL & GAS PRICES (78%); GASOLINE PRICES (78%); PROPERTY TAX (77%); TAX LAW (77%); TAX RELIEF (77%); CONFERENCES & CONVENTIONS (76%); TRUST ARRANGEMENTS (72%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (69%); CHILD ABUSE (59%); HIGHWAYS & STREETS (50%) Finances; Budgets and Budgeting; Taxation; Oil (Petroleum) and Gasoline; Property Taxes; Child Abuse and Neglect; Transportation

ORGANIZATION: NEW JERSEY BUSINESS & INDUSTRY ASSOCIATION (57%)

PERSON: JON CORZINE (92%) Richard Lezin Jones; Jon S (Gov) Corzine

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW JERSEY, USA (96%) UNITED STATES (96%) New Jersey; New Jersey

LOAD-DATE: December 14, 2005



296 of 607 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 15, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 2; Business/Financial Desk; Who Will Bring Water To the Bolivian Poor?; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1534 words

HEADLINE: Multinational Is Ousted, but Local Ills Persist

BYLINE: By JUAN FORERO

DATELINE: COCHABAMBA, Bolivia 

 BODY:
The people of this high Andean city were ecstatic when they won the ''water war.'' 
 After days of protests and martial law, Bechtel -- the American multinational that had increased rates when it began running the waterworks -- was forced out. As its executives fled the city, protest leaders pledged to improve service and a surging leftist political movement in Latin America celebrated the ouster as a major victory, to be repeated in country after country.
Today, five years later, water is again as cheap as ever, and a group of community leaders runs the water utility, Semapa. 
 But half of Cochabamba's 600,000 people remain without water, and those who do have service have it only intermittently -- for some, as little as two hours a day, for the fortunate, no more than 14. 
 ''I would have to say we were not ready to build new alternatives,'' said Oscar Olivera, who led the movement that forced Bechtel out.
 Bolivia is just days away from an election that could put one of Latin America's most strident antiglobalization leaders in the presidency. The water war experience shows that while a potent left has won many battles in Latin America in recent years, it still struggles to come up with practical, realistic solutions to resolve the deep discontent that gave the movement force in the first place.
 That discontent may have found its most striking incarnation in Bolivia. Here, protests against the introduction of stronger market forces have toppled two presidents since 2003. And the discontent has given Evo Morales, a charismatic Aymara Indian and nationalistic congressman who has channeled much of the anger of his poverty-stricken country, a slight lead in the polls ahead of the Dec. 18 elections. 
 Frustrated that the economic restructuring prescribed by the World Bank and International Monetary Fund failed to translate into sustained growth and reduced poverty, country after country in Latin America has either discarded or is questioning much of the conventional wisdom about relying more on market forces -- known as the ''Washington consensus'' -- from the privatization of utilities to the slashing of social spending to unfettered trade.
 Much of the policy turn has come under pressure from the streets and the results have varied wildly.
 Argentina, for instance, has bounced back from economic collapse by ignoring crucial aspects of I.M.F. orthodoxy the last four years, while accepting others. Ecuador is tottering on the brink of political tumult even as the eight-month-old government of President Alfredo Palacio tries ramping up social spending. In Venezuela, President Hugo Chavez is forming state companies and spending lavishly -- some say recklessly -- on social programs, pleasing the poor, but failing to generate much foreign investment or business not linked to the overarching oil industry.
 Bolivia's back-tracking, more a product of roiling protests than government policy, began after the country became among the first in Latin America to apply market prescriptions wholeheartedly in the mid-1980's. The I.M.F. later asked for far-reaching measures in exchange for loans and other aid, and promised steady growth, up to 6 percent a year, that would cut into poverty.
 Bolivia's economy, though, grew at a dismal pace. Even the fund, in a 2003 memo, noted that a fall in per capita income and employment contributed to ''rising social tensions that erupted recently.''
 The fund and other institutions that helped guide Bolivia's economy blame grinding corruption, poor infrastructure and high pension costs. Officials at the I.M.F. also note that Bolivia, like other countries that seek help, come only when they are wracked by economic troubles that require tough choices.
 ''If you're spending more than you're earning, for a while that's fine,'' said Caroline Atkinson, deputy director of Western Hemisphere operations for the fund. ''But if your borrowing gets too huge, then no one wants to fund you anymore, and you have to cut back.''
 But to Bolivians, the experiment was marked by failure. Privatized companies like the railroads went bust, while the energy industry is generating $100 million less in taxes and royalties than it did when it was state-run, budget officials said. ''They did everything right,'' said Joseph Stiglitz, a Nobel-winning economist at Columbia University who has been critical of the I.M.F. formula. ''They liberalized, they privatized and they felt the pain. Now it's 20 years later and they're saying, 'When is the gain?' ''
 In the end, market changes pushed by the I.M.F., the World Bank and American-educated Bolivian economists fueled anger that severely weakened governments and gave rise to Mr. Morales. Making his name leading Bolivia's powerful coca growers' federation, Mr. Morales has in the last four years used his outsider status, his ''up by the bootstraps'' journey from very poor origins on Bolivia's high plains and his Indian roots to rail against market changes he says favor foreigners, not Bolivians. 
 That is why Mr. Morales is pushing for a ''nationalization'' of the gas industry that, while not leading to expropriation, will increase taxes and royalties on foreign energy companies; those combined levies were raised earlier this year to 50 percent. He also wants to tighten borders to keep out cheap products and focus the government's attention on cooperatives, a loose mix of indigenous and socialist business practices.
 ''We will have an economy based on solidarity and reciprocity,'' Mr. Morales said in an interview. ''We do not dismiss the presence of foreign investment, but we want it to be real, fresh investment to industrialize our hydrocarbons, all under state control.''
 The proposals, to be sure, are vague. Mr. Morales, who did not finish high school, is guided on economic matters by Carlos Villegas, a left-leaning economist, and by his running mate, Alvaro Garcia, a socialist intellectual, professor of sociology and former guerrilla who articulates the party's position. 
 Much of the anger that has given Mr. Morales momentum began here in his home city, Cochabamba. The arrival of Bechtel quickly prompted heated protests when the water company increased rates, arguing that it needed more money to finance investment and expand service. In some cases, poor people ended up paying double their previous costs. It also became clear that Bechtel would not expand service to the impoverished south, where the company had no profits to gain from an expensive expansion.
 The ouster of the company meant the return of Semapa -- but this time with more community control. Semapa has expanded service in fits and starts, with those receiving piped water and sewage service increasing to 303,000 people, from 248,000. The company also managed to lower costs and, oddly for a government company, reduce the work force.
 But Semapa still grapples with petty graft and inefficiencies, managers at the company said. Its most serious problem, though, is a lack of money. The company cannot secure big international loans, and it cannot raise rates, since few here could pay them. 
 For a wide-scale expansion that would include a new dam and aqueducts, $300 million is needed, an enormous amount for a company whose capital budget is just shy of $5 million.
 ''I don't think you'll find people in Cochabamba who will say they're happy with service,'' said Franz Taquichiri, one of the community-elected directors of Semapa and a veteran of the water war. ''No one will be happy unless they get service 24 hours a day.''
 On a tour of Semapa's facilities, Luis Camargo, the operations manager, explained that the water filtration installation is split into an obsolete series of 80-year-old tanks and a 29-year-old section that uses gravity to move mountain water from one tank to another. It is fine for a smaller city, he said, but what is needed now is to develop high-altitude reservoirs, a hugely expensive undertaking. 
 ''We're trying to be realistic, and we're looking for aid from Canada and other countries,'' explained Mr. Camargo, who has worked at Semapa 20 years.
 Thousands of people have given up on ever getting Semapa's water. At Rafael Rodriguez's home and small restaurant, a spigot in the yard provides water three hours a day from a community well. He has little good to say about Bechtel, but he noted that Semapa's pipes were far from reaching the neighborhood.
 ''I was hoping water would get here, but it just has not happened,'' Mr. Rodriguez, 43, said.
 Community organizations, each with an average of 200 families, pool money to drill 200 feet into dry, soft dirt, searching for water that is then delivered through small, cheap pipes to homes in the vicinity of each well.
 Still, there are many people who cannot even depend on wells. Edwin Villa, 35, lives in a neighborhood that gets its water through deliveries made two or three times a week by freelance water dealers. 
 The deliveries are sporadic, he said, and sometimes the water contains tiny worms. His children ask for piped water, but there is not much he can tell them. 
 ''Our hope is that someday Semapa will reach this far,'' he said. ''It would just be magnificent.''


GRAPHIC: Photos: Half of the 600,000 people in Cochabamba, Bolivia, remain without water. Here, Edwin Ventura, 8, collects water from an outdoor tap. (Photo by Noah Friedman-Rudovsky for The New York Times)(pg. C1)
 Many in Cochabamba cannot depend on wells and get water through deliveries made two or three times a week by freelance water dealers. (Photo by Noah Friedman-Rudovsky for The New York Times)(pg. C7)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PROTESTS & DEMONSTRATIONS (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); GLOBALIZATION (78%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (78%); PRIVATIZATION (78%); ELECTIONS (78%); POOR POPULATION (78%); UTILITIES INDUSTRY (78%); WATER SUPPLY UTILITIES (77%); POLITICAL ORGANIZATIONS (76%); UTILITY PRIVATIZATION (73%); WATER & WASTEWATER MANAGEMENT (70%); POVERTY & HOMELESSNESS (68%); STATE OWNED BUSINESSES (67%); POLLS & SURVEYS (65%); OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (64%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (64%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (62%); FOREIGN INVESTMENT (62%) Terms not available from NYTimes

PERSON: HUGO CHAVEZ (56%)

GEOGRAPHIC: BOLIVIA (96%); LATIN AMERICA (94%); UNITED STATES (93%); VENEZUELA, BOLIVARIAN REPUBLIC OF (79%); ARGENTINA (79%); ECUADOR (79%)

LOAD-DATE: December 15, 2005



297 of 607 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 15, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Editorial Desk; Pg. 35

LENGTH: 727 words

HEADLINE: The Man Who Said No to War

BYLINE: By BOB HERBERT

 BODY:
Former Senator Eugene McCarthy, who died last Saturday at the age of 89, was an unusually thoughtful politician whose flaky behavior too often got in the way of the important things he had to say.
 An early and courageous critic of the war in Vietnam, he reserved a spot in the history books with his decision in the fall of 1967 to challenge President Lyndon Johnson, who was thought to be invincible, in the 1968 primaries.
In those days, as now, opponents of the war were demonized. As McCarthy would later recall: 
 ''As [the war] continued to go badly, its advocates became more defensive. The motives of those who spoke out against the war were questioned, as was their patriotism, and in the case of the Democrats their loyalty to the party. Critics were called 'nervous Nellies' and 'special pleaders,' and, in the language of cattle handlers, as ready to 'cut and run.' ''
 The hawks in those days insisted that anything short of complete victory in Vietnam would put the United States in ''mortal danger.''
 The ones in mortal danger, of course, were the young, healthy soldiers and marines that the U.S. kept pouring into the war zone. Johnson made a surprise visit to Vietnam in 1966 and urged the American boys to ''bring home the coonskin.'' Thousands upon thousands of them died trying.
 In his 1975 book, ''The Hard Years,'' McCarthy wrote:
 ''Too little has been said about the responsibility of the state to the soldier. This goes beyond the obligation for the soldier's welfare if he is wounded or when he retires. It goes beyond the obligation for the care and support of his dependents. The state has a more fundamental obligation to look to the justice and wisdom of the cause in which the soldier is committed.''
 McCarthy was thin-skinned, petulant and petty, and his commitment to even his most important causes was never single-minded. He was understandably angry at Robert Kennedy, who jumped into the presidential race just four days after McCarthy demonstrated Johnson's vulnerability by running a close second to the president in the New Hampshire primary. 
 But even McCarthy's staunchest supporters groaned when he publicly crowed that he had gotten better grades than Kennedy in economics, and that his supporters tended to be better educated than his opponents'.
 And while many of McCarthy's supporters saw the opposition to the war almost as a crusade, McCarthy himself seemed to lose interest after his defeat in the primaries. During the general election campaign, he accepted an assignment to cover the World Series for Life magazine.
 His saving grace was always his thoughtfulness and insight on matters of paramount importance to the nation. McCarthy was not just opposed to the war on moral, legal, military and political grounds. He felt that it was eating like a cancer at the character of the United States.
 The war contributed to the feeling among ordinary Americans that they were politically helpless, that they had no real say in the great issues facing the country. It drained money and diverted attention from important domestic matters, including Johnson's Great Society programs. And it was tragic evidence of what McCarthy saw as the ''increasing militarization'' of U.S. foreign policy.
 McCarthy wanted the nation to be better than it was. He wanted it to resume the pursuit of greatness embodied in its founding ideals. Vietnam, he felt, blocked that pursuit. 
 ''This need not be a nation in anxiety and distress,'' McCarthy said. ''This need not be a nation of distrust and fear. We can return to what we have promised to be.''
 In an address at Berkeley in October 1967, before he announced that he was running for president, McCarthy explained why, in terms of foreign policy, it was important to view the war in a context that was much larger than Vietnam.
 He said the debate over Vietnam was really about ''a kind of projection of American foreign policy over the next 40, 50 or 100 years in which, I think, we're called upon for the first time to make a kind of decision as to whether or not we conceive of our role as a kind of continuous performance demonstration that we can police the planet, or whether we're prepared to try to direct it by way of the influence of our ideas and of our nonmilitary potential.''
 ''This,'' he said, ''is the substance, I think, of a greater debate than Vietnam.'' 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: WAR & CONFLICT (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); PRIMARY ELECTIONS (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (89%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (89%); ELECTIONS (78%); VIETNAM WAR (77%); US PRESIDENTS (76%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (76%); ARMED FORCES (66%) Terms not available from NYTimes

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW HAMPSHIRE, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (93%); VIET NAM (90%)

LOAD-DATE: December 15, 2005



298 of 607 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 15, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 6; National Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1571 words

HEADLINE: FEDERAL LOANS TO HOMEOWNERS ALONG GULF LAG

BYLINE: By LESLIE EATON and RON NIXON

 BODY:
Hundreds of thousands of Gulf Coast families, hoping to rebuild their homes after the hurricanes using low-interest government loans, are facing high rejection rates and widespread delays at the federal agency that administers the disaster loan program.
 The Small Business Administration, which runs the federal government's main disaster recovery program for both businesses and homeowners, has processed only a third of the 276,000 home loan applications it has received.
And it has rejected 82 percent of those it has reviewed, a higher percentage than in most previous disasters, saying that many would-be borrowers did not have incomes high enough, or credit ratings good enough, to qualify. The rejections came even though the Federal Emergency Management Agency has referred more than two million people, many of them with low incomes, to the S.B.A. to get the loans.
 To a large degree, that high rejection rate appears to reflect a mismatch between existing government aid programs and the large number of low-income people affected by this year's hurricanes. Despite the widespread poverty in the most damaged regions, the Small Business Administration has not adjusted its creditworthiness standards, which are roughly comparable to a bank's. 
 In fact, the loans that have been approved appear to be flowing to wealthy neighborhoods in New Orleans but not to poor ones, according to a list of loans released by the government and mapped by The New York Times.
 Under the disaster loan program, homeowners can borrow up to $200,000 at low interest rates to repair houses. Owners and renters can borrow up to $40,000 to replace damaged furnishings.
 As of Tuesday, the agency had approved 17,463 home loans, for almost $1.2 billion, although only $62 million had been disbursed to homeowners, who must be ready to start repairs to get the money. More than 77,000 applications have been rejected.
 The high rejection rate and the slow processing of applications are causing concern among government officials, academic experts and homeowners. Many say the problem undermines government pledges of aid, embodied by President Bush's promise in September to ''do what it takes'' to help citizens rebuild. 
 One such homeowner is Albertha Hastens, 55, a member of the school board in White Castle, La., which is between New Orleans and Baton Rouge. Strong winds damaged the roof and tore siding off her house, Ms. Hastens said, but the Small Business Administration turned her down for a loan, citing her low income. (She receives a small stipend from the school board along with her Social Security payments.)
 ''It makes you tired and disgusted,'' Ms. Hastens said of her experience with the agency. ''For poor working people, you don't know what to do.''
 Agency officials say they are doing their best under difficult circumstances, noting that they recently approved $44 million in home and business loans in a single day.
 They lay the blame for any problems on the huge size of the disaster and the small size of the agency, which has hired thousands of temporary workers to help process hurricane-related requests.
 ''We don't have tens of thousands of people waiting for a disaster,'' said Hector V. Barreto, the agency administrator. ''We had 800 people. Now we have 4,200 people working, most brand new.'' 
 As for the rejection rate, agency officials say the Small Business Administration's loan program could not risk taxpayer money by lending it to people with low incomes or poor credit. ''We're just dealing with the demographics in the area,'' said Herbert L. Mitchell, the associate administrator who runs the agency's disaster assistance program. 
 Both agency officials and some critics of the federal government say that many applicants do not really want loans, but must go through the agency's loan process -- and be rejected -- in order to be eligible for certain grants from the Federal Emergency Management Agency. (FEMA does not dispute this but says it cannot give these grants to people who have enough money to take out loans. It gives other grants for home repair in certain circumstances, but only for up to $15,600.)
 The slow pace of the agency's response to the hurricanes is a reason Representative Nydia M. Velazquez of New York, who is the senior Democrat on the House Small Business Committee, called on Mr. Barreto yesterday to resign.
 ''We have reached a point where we need to get someone who can run the office in an effective way,'' Ms. Velazquez said. ''He doesn't have what it takes at a moment of crisis.''
 In addition to the problems with the homeowners program, Ms. Velazquez cited the even slower pace of loans to businesses in the Gulf Coast States. The Small Business Administration has also allowed large corporations to get $2 billion in federal contracts under the guise of being small businesses, she said, and morale at the agency is low.
 Responding to the criticism, Raul E. Cisneros, the agency's director of communications, said in a statement: ''Unfortunately, the current political environment in Washington, D.C., is not lacking for individuals who are anxious to throw stones. This administration is focused on helping the people of the Gulf Coast rebuild after these devastating hurricanes.''
 Mr. Cisneros said the agency had passed the billion-dollar loan approval mark five weeks faster than after the hurricanes in Florida last year.
 But Republicans have also been critical of the agency's response. Senator Olympia J. Snowe, the Maine Republican who is chairwoman of the Committee on Small Business and Entrepreneurship, has sharply questioned agency officials at two hearings.
 Ms. Snowe also sent members of her staff to investigate the situation at the agency's loan-processing office in Fort Worth, where they found that workers have been putting in long hours but have been hampered by management missteps and a new -- and, by some accounts, balky -- computer system.
 To get Small Business Administration loans, homeowners must submit applications and give the agency access to tax returns so loan officers can see if applicants have enough income available to cover the debt.
 The agency also sends out inspectors to check the damaged homes, and makes sure that the loans are not used for costs already covered by insurance. The agency checks applicants' credit histories and, for loans over $10,000, also requires collateral, just as home mortgage lenders would.
 For borrowers who could not borrow elsewhere, the interest rate is about 2.7 percent on loans that can extend for 30 years; those who do have access to other credit have to pay about 5.4 percent.
 For weeks, small business organizations and government officials have been criticizing the pace of similar loans the agency makes to companies; fewer than 3,000 such loans have been approved, and roughly 800 checks have been sent out, for less than $11 million. 
 Housing is a crucial issue in the Gulf Coast States, where hundreds of thousands of houses were damaged and close to 170,000 were destroyed, according to the American Red Cross.
 Historically, insurance proceeds, not government programs -- and certainly not the Small Business Administration -- contributed most of the money to rebuild houses, said Mary C. Comerio, a professor of architecture at the University of California, Berkeley, and author of a 1998 book on disaster recovery. But, Ms. Comerio added, ''There is still this expectation that the government is going to do something to make people whole.''
 Indeed, less than 20 percent of Louisianans think that insurance should cover the costs of rebuilding, while more than 50 percent say that the federal government has the primary responsibilityto pay for it, according to a survey of 653 state residents released in late November by the Public Policy Research Lab at Louisiana State University.
 But for even the most fortunate victims of the hurricanes, it may take both insurance proceeds and a Small Business Administration loan to give them even a chance of rebuilding.
 Craig S. Sciambra, 34, describes himself as blessed, even though his two-year-old house in the Lakeview section of New Orleans had five feet of water inside and has been declared a total loss. He still has his job as an engineer, his wife still has her job as a certified public accountant, and they had a lot of flood insurance. 
 Mr. Sciambra has also been approved for an S.B.A. loan and mortgage refinance. ''It would be really hard to make ends meet without it,'' he said.
 Many of Mr. Sciambra's neighbors have also been approved for such loans, according to a list of loans released by the agency and mapped by The New York Times. Well-off neighborhoods like Lakeview have received 47 percent of the loan approvals, while poverty-stricken ones have gotten 7 percent.
 Middle-class black neighborhoods in the eastern part of the city have lower loan rates, too, the data suggest, at least so far.
 Some residents, like Diane Fleming, 57, are in limbo. A schoolteacher who lost her home of 26 years in New Orleans East, along with most of her possessions, Ms. Fleming has been shuttling between Houston and a friend's house in New Orleans.
 FEMA referred her to the Small Business Administration, which said it would not make a decision about her application until she heard from her insurance company, Ms. Fleming said. 
 ''Meanwhile,'' she said, ''I have no place to live.''


GRAPHIC: Photo: Albertha Hastens of White Castle, La., was turned down for a loan by the Small Business Administration, which cited her low income. (Photo by Lee Celano for The New York Times)(pg. A33)Chart/Map: ''Fewer Loans In Poor Areas''The loans that have been approved so far appear to be flowing to wealthy neighborhoods in New Orleans but not to poor ones.POVERTY RATE: 0 - 15%PERCENT OF LOANS: 47%POVERTY RATE: 16 - 28PERCENT OF LOANS: 26POVERTY RATE: 29 - 41PERCENT OF LOANS: 19POVERTY RATE: 42 - 62PERCENT OF LOANS: 7POVERTY RATE: 63 - 88PERCENT OF LOANS: 1(Sources by Small Business Administration
 Census Bureau)(pg. A33)Map of New Orleans highlighting locations where loans have been approved. (pg. A33)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: POVERTY RATES (92%); NATURAL DISASTERS (90%); HOMEOWNERS (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (90%); LOW INCOME PERSONS (90%); WEATHER (90%); SMALL BUSINESS (89%); APPROVALS (89%); FINANCIAL RATINGS (78%); INTEREST RATES (78%); ECONOMIC NEWS (78%); POOR POPULATION (78%); BUSINESS CONTINUITY (78%); MORTGAGE BANKING (78%); DISASTER & EMERGENCY AGENCIES (78%); MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (76%); POVERTY & HOMELESSNESS (73%) Terms not available from NYTimes

ORGANIZATION: SMALL BUSINESS ADMINISTRATION (93%); US CENSUS BUREAU (59%); FEDERAL EMERGENCY MANAGEMENT AGENCY (56%)

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW ORLEANS, LA, USA (94%); BATON ROUGE, LA, USA (79%) LOUISIANA, USA (94%); SOUTHEAST USA (92%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: December 15, 2005



299 of 607 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 15, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 4; Foreign Desk; Pg. 10

LENGTH: 574 words

HEADLINE: Talks Stalled, U.S. Envoy Matches Insults Of North Korea 

BYLINE: By JAMES BROOKE

DATELINE: SEOUL, South Korea, Dec. 14 

 BODY:
North Korea's state news agency recently proposed a novel punishment for the new United States ambassador here, Alexander Vershbow: South Koreans should force him to stand in the midst of Seoul's notorious downtown traffic, and then ''punish him in the name of the nation and immediately expel him from their land.'' 
 But as rush hour traffic thickened outside the embassy windows on Tuesday evening, the ambassador was ensconced in his eighth-floor corner office, unruffled by North Korea's verbal fusillade, which included the charge that the Bush administration ''is made up of political imbeciles and master hands at faking up lies.'' 
 The nuclear disarmament talks with North Korea will continue, the American envoy said with an evenness polished by nearly three decades in the Foreign Service.
 ''We have been there before, we have seen similar brinkmanship tactics from the North Koreans in the past,'' said Mr. Vershbow, a Russian expert who arrived here two months ago. ''We remain ready to resume the talks.''
 But lately, both sides seem to be playing at brinkmanship. 
 In three appearances over the last week, Ambassador Vershbow has seemingly gone out of his way to talk tough to the North Koreans. In a news conference last Wednesday he referred to North Korea's government seven times as ''a criminal regime.'' Noting that North Korea tries to make money by counterfeiting American currency, he said, ''North Korea is the first regime that has done that since Adolf Hitler.''
 On Friday he said: ''North Korea's people remain oppressed by a regime whose policies have failed to address even the most basic needs of its citizens. The people of North Korea are unable to enjoy even the simplest freedoms that we in the free world often take for granted.''
 On Sunday, at an economic conference here, he said: ''Despite our best efforts to engage with North Korea, and despite our best intentions, we cannot turn our faces away from the fact that North Korea remains a military threat, with over one million troops, claims to possess nuclear weapons and has near total control of its people.''
 No one interviewed here this week disagreed with the substance of the statements, but several said they would do nothing to revive talks intended to induce North Korea to give up the nuclear weapons it announced with great fanfare last February. To coax the process along, South Korea proposed that representatives of the six nations involved in the talks meet this month on the South Korean resort island of Cheju. But that proposal died for lack of interest.
 ''With the six-party talks, we are back to late last winter, when North Korea was saying, 'We are a nuclear power, these have to be disarmament talks,' '' said Peter Beck, Korea director for the International Crisis Group. ''The Bush administration is willing to get tougher. We are back to the name-calling.''
 But Michael Horowitz, a Washington-based human rights advocate, said here that Ambassador Vershbow was right to criticize North Korea's leaders. He argued that the pressure would put them on the defensive and force them to reach a deal on nuclear weapons.
 ''As Ronald Reagan and the pope understood, if you operate from a position of strength on democracy and human rights, they will become desperate to change the subject, and far more accommodating on the weapons issues,'' Mr. Horowitz said, speaking of the tactics used against the Soviet Union in the 1980's.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: EMBASSIES & CONSULATES (90%); TALKS & MEETINGS (89%); FOREIGN RELATIONS (78%); PRESS CONFERENCES (78%); DIPLOMATIC SERVICES (78%); NUCLEAR WEAPONS (75%); ARMS CONTROL & DISARMAMENT (74%); DISARMAMENT (74%); VEHICLE TRAFFIC (72%); NUCLEAR ENERGY (69%); MILITARY WEAPONS (65%); CURRENCIES (64%); ARMED FORCES (60%); COUNTERFEITING (50%) Terms not available from NYTimes

GEOGRAPHIC: SEOUL, KOREA, REPUBLIC OF (93%) KOREA, REPUBLIC OF (96%); KOREA, DEMOCRATIC PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF (94%); UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: December 15, 2005



300 of 607 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 15, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Foreign Desk; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 449 words

HEADLINE: Asian Leaders Meet in Search of Common Ties 

BYLINE: By SETH MYDANS; International Herald Tribune

DATELINE: KUALA LUMPUR, Malaysia, Dec. 14 

 BODY:
Japan and China were not talking. Russia was talking to everybody. Australia was fending off bad press. The Philippines was denying coup rumors. India was offering to teach English. And the United States, for once, was looking in from the cold. 
 On Wednesday, the inaugural East Asia Summit, which brought together 16 regional leaders for the first time, was a mix of here-we-go-again and never-seen-this-before as Asia began shuffling the political deck for the century ahead.
 ''The East Asia Summit was a great success,'' declared the host, Prime Minister Abdullah Badawi of Malaysia, in a final news conference. ''There was a high degree of acceptance that we are one community with a common interest.''
 That, in fact, was the lasting question at the end of the one-day meeting, which followed a summit meeting of the 10-member Association of Southeast Asian Nations, or Asean. 
 What is the shape of the region as the ''Asian century'' begins; is it one community; can it agree on a common interest?
 With complex crisscrossing national agendas, the major dynamic was the competition for regional dominance between the established powers -- Japan and the United States -- and the rising giant, China.
 The United States declined to join the summit meeting because of a reluctance to sign a pledge renouncing the use of force and interference in internal affairs in the region.
 With the United States absent, the competition between Japan and China was played out here in a spat over old war wounds.
 Because Prime Minister Junichiro Koizumi of Japan had once again visited a shrine to Japanese who died in World War II, Prime Minister Wen Jiabao of China refused to meet him, placing the new association's two most powerful members in mute confrontation.
 South Korea was also at loggerheads with Japan over what it saw as Tokyo's failure to acknowledge and adequately address wartime atrocities.
 The membership of the group had itself been the subject of dispute, with the eventual admission of Western-oriented Australia and New Zealand which, along with Japan, were seen as conduits for American influence.
 America's absence from this major forum is shortsighted, said Jusuf Wanandi, director of the Center for Strategic and International Studies in Indonesia.
 ''I know about the mess in the Middle East, but don't be distracted,'' he said by telephone. ''This is definitely, whether you like it or not, the most important region for the future.''
 Asia needs the United States, too, he said, as a balancing force and as an economic partner. 
 The Southeast Asian group is made up of Brunei, Cambodia, Indonesia, Laos, Malaysia, Myanmar, the Philippines, Singapore, Thailand and Vietnam.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TALKS & MEETINGS (90%); PRIME MINISTERS (89%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (89%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (77%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (74%); PRESS CONFERENCES (73%); WORLD WAR II (64%); WAR CRIMES (64%); WOUNDS & INJURIES (64%) Terms not available from NYTimes

ORGANIZATION: ASSOCIATION OF SOUTHEAST ASIAN NATIONS (83%)

PERSON: WEN JIABAO (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: KUALA LUMPUR, MALAYSIA (79%); TOKYO, JAPAN (59%) ASIA (98%); JAPAN (96%); UNITED STATES (95%); CHINA (94%); MALAYSIA (93%); PHILIPPINES (93%); AUSTRALIA (93%); EASTERN ASIA (93%); INDIA (92%); AUSTRALIA & NEW ZEALAND (92%); SOUTH-EASTERN ASIA (92%); INDONESIA (92%); THAILAND (79%); LAO PEOPLE'S DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC (79%); SINGAPORE (79%); MIDDLE EAST (79%); CAMBODIA (79%); NEW ZEALAND (79%); BRUNEI DARUSSALAM (79%); MYANMAR (79%)

LOAD-DATE: December 15, 2005



301 of 607 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 15, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 2; Editorial Desk; Pg. 35

LENGTH: 1500 words

HEADLINE: The Rock Star's Burden

BYLINE: By Paul Theroux. 
Paul Theroux is the author of ''Blinding Light'' and of ''Dark Star Safari: Overland from Cairo to Cape Town.''

DATELINE: Hale'iwa, Hawaii 

 BODY:
THERE are probably more annoying things than being hectored about African development by a wealthy Irish rock star in a cowboy hat, but I can't think of one at the moment. If Christmas, season of sob stories, has turned me into Scrooge, I recognize the Dickensian counterpart of Paul Hewson -- who calls himself ''Bono'' -- as Mrs. Jellyby in ''Bleak House.'' Harping incessantly on her adopted village of Borrioboola-Gha ''on the left bank of the River Niger,'' Mrs. Jellyby tries to save the Africans by financing them in coffee growing and encouraging schemes ''to turn pianoforte legs and establish an export trade,'' all the while badgering people for money. 
 It seems to have been Africa's fate to become a theater of empty talk and public gestures. But the impression that Africa is fatally troubled and can be saved only by outside help -- not to mention celebrities and charity concerts -- is a destructive and misleading conceit. Those of us who committed ourselves to being Peace Corps teachers in rural Malawi more than 40 years ago are dismayed by what we see on our return visits and by all the news that has been reported recently from that unlucky, drought-stricken country. But we are more appalled by most of the proposed solutions.
I am not speaking of humanitarian aid, disaster relief, AIDS education or affordable drugs. Nor am I speaking of small-scale, closely watched efforts like the Malawi Children's Village. I am speaking of the ''more money'' platform: the notion that what Africa needs is more prestige projects, volunteer labor and debt relief. We should know better by now. I would not send private money to a charity, or foreign aid to a government, unless every dollar was accounted for -- and this never happens. Dumping more money in the same old way is not only wasteful, but stupid and harmful; it is also ignoring some obvious points.
 If Malawi is worse educated, more plagued by illness and bad services, poorer than it was when I lived and worked there in the early 60's, it is not for lack of outside help or donor money. Malawi has been the beneficiary of many thousands of foreign teachers, doctors and nurses, and large amounts of financial aid, and yet it has declined from a country with promise to a failed state. 
 In the early and mid-1960's, we believed that Malawi would soon be self-sufficient in schoolteachers. And it would have been, except that rather than sending a limited wave of volunteers to train local instructors, for decades we kept on sending Peace Corps teachers. Malawians, who avoided teaching because the pay and status were low, came to depend on the American volunteers to teach in bush schools, while educated Malawians emigrated. When Malawi's university was established, more foreign teachers were welcomed, few of them replaced by Malawians, for political reasons. Medical educators also arrived from elsewhere. Malawi began graduating nurses, but the nurses were lured away to Britain and Australia and the United States, which meant more foreign nurses were needed in Malawi.
 When Malawi's minister of education was accused of stealing millions of dollars from the education budget in 2000, and the Zambian president was charged with stealing from the treasury, and Nigeria squandered its oil wealth, what happened? The simplifiers of Africa's problems kept calling for debt relief and more aid. I got a dusty reception lecturing at the Bill and Melinda Gates Foundation when I pointed out the successes of responsible policies in Botswana, compared with the kleptomania of its neighbors. Donors enable embezzlement by turning a blind eye to bad governance, rigged elections and the deeper reasons these countries are failing.
 Mr. Gates has said candidly that he wants to rid himself of his burden of billions. Bono is one of his trusted advisers. Mr. Gates wants to send computers to Africa -- an unproductive not to say insane idea. I would offer pencils and paper, mops and brooms: the schools I have seen in Malawi need them badly. I would not send more teachers. I would expect Malawians themselves to stay and teach. There ought to be an insistence in the form of a bond, or a solemn promise, for Africans trained in medicine and education at the state's expense to work in their own countries. 
 Malawi was in my time a lush wooded country of three million people. It is now an eroded and deforested land of 12 million; its rivers are clogged with sediment and every year it is subjected to destructive floods. The trees that had kept it whole were cut for fuel and to clear land for subsistence crops. Malawi had two presidents in its first 40 years, the first a megalomaniac who called himself the messiah, the second a swindler whose first official act was to put his face on the money. Last year the new man, Bingu wa Mutharika, inaugurated his regime by announcing that he was going to buy a fleet of Maybachs, one of the most expensive cars in the world.
 Many of the schools where we taught 40 years ago are now in ruins -- covered with graffiti, with broken windows, standing in tall grass. Money will not fix this. A highly placed Malawian friend of mine once jovially demanded that my children come and teach there. ''It would be good for them,'' he said. 
 Of course it would be good for them. Teaching in Africa was one of the best things I ever did. But our example seems to have counted for very little. My Malawian friend's children are of course working in the United States and Britain. It does not occur to anyone to encourage Africans themselves to volunteer in the same way that foreigners have done for decades. There are plenty of educated and capable young adults in Africa who would make a much greater difference than Peace Corps workers.
 Africa is a lovely place -- much lovelier, more peaceful and more resilient and, if not prosperous, innately more self-sufficient than it is usually portrayed. But because Africa seems unfinished and so different from the rest of the world, a landscape on which a person can sketch a new personality, it attracts mythomaniacs, people who wish to convince the world of their worth. Such people come in all forms and they loom large. White celebrities busy-bodying in Africa loom especially large. Watching Brad Pitt and Angelina Jolie recently in Ethiopia, cuddling African children and lecturing the world on charity, the image that immediately sprang to my mind was Tarzan and Jane. 
 Bono, in his role as Mrs. Jellyby in a 10-gallon hat, not only believes that he has the solution to Africa's ills, he is also shouting so loud that other people seem to trust his answers. He traveled in 2002 to Africa with former Treasury Secretary Paul O'Neill, urging debt forgiveness. He recently had lunch at the White House, where he expounded upon the ''more money'' platform and how African countries are uniquely futile.
 But are they? Had Bono looked closely at Malawi he would have seen an earlier incarnation of his own Ireland. Both countries were characterized for centuries by famine, religious strife, infighting, unruly families, hubristic clan chiefs, malnutrition, failed crops, ancient orthodoxies, dental problems and fickle weather. Malawi had a similar sense of grievance, was also colonized by absentee British landlords and was priest-ridden, too. 
 Just a few years ago you couldn't buy condoms legally in Ireland, nor could you get a divorce, though (just like in Malawi) buckets of beer were easily available and unruly crapulosities a national curse. Ireland, that island of inaction, in Joyce's words, ''the old sow that eats herfarrow,'' was the Malawi of Europe, and for many identical reasons, its main export being immigrants.
 It is a melancholy thought that it is easier for many Africans to travel to New York or London than to their own hinterlands. Much of northern Kenya is a no-go area; there is hardly a road to the town of Moyale, on the Ethiopian border, where I found only skinny camels and roving bandits. Western Zambia is off the map, southern Malawi is terra incognita, northern Mozambique is still a sea of land mines. But it is pretty easy to leave Africa. A recent World Bank study has confirmed that the emigration to the West of skilled people from small to medium-sized countries in Africa has been disastrous. 
 Africa has no real shortage of capable people -- or even of money. The patronizing attention of donors has done violence to Africa's belief in itself, but even in the absence of responsible leadership, Africans themselves have proven how resilient they can be -- something they never get credit for. Again, Ireland may be the model for an answer. After centuries of wishing themselves onto other countries, the Irish found that education, rational government, people staying put, and simple diligence could turn Ireland from an economic basket case into a prosperous nation. In a word -- are you listening, Mr. Hewson? -- the Irish have proved that there is something to be said for staying home.


GRAPHIC: Drawing (Drawing by Edel Rodriguez)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: POP & ROCK (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); TEACHING & TEACHERS (89%); INTERNATIONAL ASSISTANCE (89%); PRIMARY & SECONDARY SCHOOL TEACHERS (87%); VOLUNTEERS (87%); EDUCATIONAL INSTITUTION EMPLOYEES (87%); RURAL SCHOOLS (76%); CHARITIES (74%); NATURAL DISASTERS (72%); RELIEF ORGANIZATIONS (72%); FUNDRAISING (72%); CHRISTMAS (72%); DISASTER RELIEF (72%); COFFEE FARMING (69%); EXPORT TRADE (69%); AIDS & HIV (67%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (66%); SEX EDUCATION (64%); NURSES & NURSING (60%); RIVERS (55%); DROUGHT (50%) Terms not available from NYTimes

ORGANIZATION: PEACE CORPS (55%)

PERSON: BONO (73%)

GEOGRAPHIC: HAWAII, USA (79%) MALAWI (94%); AFRICA (94%); UNITED STATES (79%); NIGER (79%)

LOAD-DATE: December 15, 2005



302 of 607 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 15, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 5; Metropolitan Desk; TRANSIT STRIKE DEADLINE: THE NEGOTIATIONS; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1400 words

HEADLINE: STARTS AND STOPS IN TRANSIT TALKS 

BYLINE: By STEVEN GREENHOUSE and JIM RUTENBERG; Reporting for this article was contributed by Sewell Chan, Winnie Hu, Thomas J. Lueck and Faiza Akhtar.

 BODY:
With a contract deadline just after midnight tonight, representatives of the Metropolitan Transportation Authority and the transit workers' union met intermittently yesterday to stave off a strike as the agency's top negotiator warned that ''we are not in a good place.''
 Although there was some small movement yesterday on the key issue of wages, the negotiator, Gary J. Dellaverson, said: ''We should be closer now. There should be more progress, and I can't stand here and say that I'm comfortable with the negotiations where they stand at this instant.''
Then he added, ''I still remain hopeful.''
 He spoke just moments after Mayor Michael R. Bloomberg announced a comprehensive emergency plan to contend with a walkout. The plan would increase ferry service, restrict entry to much of Manhattan to high-occupancy vehicles, clear several major thoroughfares including Fifth Avenue of nearly all traffic but buses and emergency vehicles, and allow groups of riders to haggle with cabbies. [Details, Pages B8-B9.] 
 The union originally called for 8 percent annual raises, but late in the day it indicated that it would accept smaller increases if the authority agreed to decrease disciplinary actions against employees by 25 percent. The union did not say how much it was willing to trim its demand. 
 The day of stop-and-start negotiations was punctuated by the union's sharp criticism of the transportation authority, inconclusive court dealings, and last-minute efforts by suburban railroads to put their own emergency plans in place. 
 A strike by Local 100 of the Transport Workers Union, which represents 33,700 subway and bus workers, would begin at 12:01 a.m. tomorrow. Walkouts by public employees are illegal under state law.
 Besides wages, the two sides disagree over pensions, health insurance and safety. Mr. Dellaverson hinted that the authority's chairman, Peter S. Kalikow, might join the talks today; he did so at the last minute three years ago to reach a settlement.
 Roger Toussaint, the president of Local 100, said in an interview last night that the authority was showing little flexibility and was forcing his union's back to the wall. He also denounced Mr. Bloomberg's efforts, including a lawsuit seeking huge fines, intended to pressure the union not to strike. He said the mayor had so angered union members that he made a strike more likely. 
 ''He's gone way beyond the pale,'' he said. ''It's Giuliani-like. It has all the earmarks of bullying, something that transit workers do not react well to.'' He said the chances of a walkout were 50-50. 
 ''I have said that a settlement won't come from courts, injunctions or intimidation, '' Mr. Toussaint said. ''While we of course are mindful of the legal penalties our members face, we will not buckle in the face of these threats.''
 Later, after four and a half hours of off-again, on-again talks, the two sides broke for the night at 11 p.m. The union officials said the tone had improved slightly, because Lawrence G. Reuter, the president of New York City Transit, had joined the talks for the first time. Mr. Reuter pressed the union to set individual deadlines today for settling specific issues.
 The city's emergency plan indicated how seriously the mayor is taking the possibility of a strike and how crippling officials believe a subway and bus stoppage would be for riders and the city's economy at the height of the holiday shopping season. ''A strike would be more than just illegal and inconvenient,'' Mr. Bloomberg said. ''It will threaten public safety and severely disrupt our city and its economy.''
 ''There would be no winners in a strike,'' the mayor said. ''And I speak for every New Yorker when I urge the T.W.U. to resolve the contract at the bargaining table.''
 Gov. George E. Pataki, before leaving for New Hampshire, made his most forceful comments yet to discourage a strike, warning of ''dire consequences'' and telling the union: ''Don't even threaten a strike.'' 
 Arthur Z. Schwartz, a lawyer for the union, said the two sides were supposed to attend a Brooklyn court hearing on the city's request for fines; the city asked that on the first day, the union be fined $1 million and individual workers $25,000, and that the fines be doubled each successive day. 
 Mr. Schwartz said he was told that no hearing was warranted because the city corporation counsel's office, which filed the lawsuit on Tuesday, had not supplied the papers the judge needed to decide the matter. 
 ''What happened yesterday in the filing of that lawsuit is simply an effort by the mayor and an effort by the corporation counsel to interfere with negotiations to try to intimidate the members of Local 100,'' Mr. Schwartz said. ''It is an utterly baseless lawsuit designed only to gather headlines.''
 Michael A. Cardozo, the corporation counsel, said the city intended to go ahead with the suit, but was waiting to see the union's next moves. 
 ''Our lawsuit is designed to protect the security of the city and to recover damages that the city would suffer in the event there is a strike,'' he said. 
 In a separate lawsuit, the state was granted an injunction on Tuesday barring a transit strike or slowdown. 
 Top negotiators from the two sides have bargained little in recent days -- three hours on Monday and 75 minutes on Tuesday. Mr. Dellaverson said he was sure the pace would pick up.
 ''Have we been fully engaged? Yes,'' Mr. Dellaverson said. ''Have there been enough meetings to adequately bridge the gap? No.''
 Going into yesterday, the authority had offered two raises of 3 percent in a 27-month contract. On pensions, the authority wants to raise the retirement age for newly hired employees to 62 after 30 years of service, while the union wants to lower it to age 50 after 20 years of service. At present, transit workers can retire at age 55 after 25 years of work, with a pension equal to half their annual pay; the average is $55,000, including overtime.
 Many transit workers have said the authority's offer barely matches inflation in a year that the authority had a $1 billion surplus. The authority counters that it will have a $800 million deficit beginning in 2008. The authority's board voted yesterday to spend much of that surplus, angering the union because it allocated none of the surplus to wages. 
 Mr. Dellaverson said that the union's proposal, with its lower pension age, 8 percent raises, and improved health coverage, would cost the authority $550 million extra a year.
 ''The M.T.A. proposal is targeted at those long-term challenges that we and other employers are confronting,'' Mr. Dellaverson said. ''It would be easy but wrong to ignore that.''
 Criticizing the authority's demand for concessions on pensions, Mr. Toussaint said, '' The M.T.A. is misplaced to believe that the T.W.U. will be responsible for a historic decline or reversal for the labor movement with respect to pensions.'' 
 Complicating the talks, the union has threatened to strike unless the authority also reaches a contract for 2,200 workers at five private bus lines that the authority is taking over. Those workers have been without a contract for nearly three years.
 With no control over the M.T.A., a state entity, the city can do little more than wait and plan for the worst, Mr. Bloomberg acknowledged. The city's plan was largely devised to reduce car traffic as much as possible through extensive car pooling, ride sharing, walking or bicycling.
 Mr. Bloomberg said the city would close several major Midtown streets to all but emergency vehicles, private buses, commuter vans and motorcycles during workdays and would shut approaches to Manhattan south of 96th Street to all cars carrying fewer than four people during the morning rush. Car-pooling sites would be set up to allow drivers to pick up passengers to meet the limit. Taxicabs will be allowed to carry multiple fares, and will be able to charge based on a zone system. Cabdrivers will be allowed to charge up to $10 to start and up to $5 for each zone covered during the trip. 
 But the mayor said the best bet was to work from home if possible and, if not, to ride a bike or walk.
 ''All of us should be prepared to deal with significant crowding and delays, and all of us should do our best to be patient and courteous,'' he said. ''By working together and looking out for each other we'll be able to weather the storm.''


GRAPHIC: Photo: Roger Toussaint, the president of the transit workers' local, with a report on the transportation authority budget that was approved with a surplus. (Photo by Keith Bedford for The New York Times)(pg. B9)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PUBLIC TRANSPORTATION (90%); LABOR UNIONS (90%); URBAN BUS SYSTEMS (89%); URBAN TRANSIT SYSTEMS (89%); STRIKES (78%); TALKS & MEETINGS (78%); SETTLEMENT & COMPROMISE (69%); LITIGATION (69%); INTERVIEWS (67%); INJUNCTIONS (64%); FERRIES (54%); HEALTH INSURANCE (50%) Terms not available from NYTimes

PERSON: MICHAEL BLOOMBERG (53%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%) NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: December 15, 2005



303 of 607 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 15, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section F; Column 5; House & Home/Style Desk; ROOM TO IMPROVE; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 689 words

BYLINE: By Mitchell Owens

 BODY:

Q. I have a small entrance hall that I want to make seem larger. Would mirrors help?

A: Ideally, a mirror should purposefully reflect something. But in the case of a small entrance hall, what's also important about mirrors are their space-enhancing qualities. Whether you hang one large, conventionally framed mirror or pave the wall in sheets of reflective glass, mirrors have the seemingly magical ability to double your square footage without any demolition.
 Mirroring the entire hall, however, is not a good idea unless you want funhouse-style multiple reflections, which is what happens when facing mirrors reflect each other ad infinitum (ad nauseam, to my mind). Hanging mirrors on one of the long walls of the space will do enough to visually expand its proportions. It will also increase the amount of light in the room, whether natural or artificial. And it may well intensify the effect of whatever decorative elements are present in the room. 
In the recently opened exhibition of the architectural photographs of Samuel H. Gottscho at the Museum of the City of New York, a 1930's photo of the entrance hall in the Beekman Place home of William S. Paley, the founder of CBS, and his first wife, Dorothy, shows the drama that can be achieved by covering just one wall with mirrored glass -- especially if what's being reflected is a languorous, curved staircase. The theatrical double image says everything there is to say about Manhattan glamour.
 Many companies specializing in the installation of glass and mirror can be found throughout the five boroughs. Dependable Glass and Mirror, in Brooklyn (212-971-0577 or 718-797-1717, dependableglasscorp.com), can install quarter-inch panels of mirrored glass for $12 a square foot, with extra charges for cutouts for light switches and electrical outlets. The large panels, which are fastened to the wall with a superstrength adhesive called mirror mastic, rest in a chrome-plated metal channel that runs along the bottom of the wall or baseboard. You could also do the job yourself by using squares of precut mirror similar to tiles, a glass cutter and a mirror adhesive, all of which can be found at hardware and home-improvement stores. If you are a renter, it is best to consult with your landlord before trying such a project.
 In her 1939 book ''Decorating Is Fun!,'' the interior decorator Dorothy Draper suggested sheathing a wall with economical flash mirror, which she described as ''ordinary window glass painted black on one side so that it acts as a mirror even though it doesn't reflect accurately.'' 
 A similar glittering effect can be achieved by hanging a series of ready-made mirrors. If your taste leans to 1970's disco glam, for example, considering buying a few of the Brilliant Square Rounded mirrors at the Conran Shop (212-755-9079, 407 East 59th Street); they cost $1,250 each. Hang a line of them at eye level down one of the long walls of the hall like a silvery racing stripe. If you are feeling especially flush, buy a dozen and arrange them in a floor-to-ceiling grid formation -- four rows of three mirrors each, say -- to create an unexpectedly glamorous artwork. 
 I once hung three large convex mirrors with faux tortoise-shell frames on the wall at the end of a long corridor painted dark brown. The effect was memorable, each mirror reflecting only a part of each person who passed by, like those anatomical plates by Piero Fornasetti.
 Another fine creative idea is to group slender framed mirrors horizontally, from baseboard to ceiling, with an inch or so of wall between each. I once did this, after seeing a room of mirrors that Karl Lagerfeld devised when he redecorated a boardroom for Chanel in Paris. There, dozens of slim mirrors covered the walls of the room like long, lean modernist panels. 
 Similarly scaled mirrors designed to hang on the back of closet or bathroom doors will also work nicely. They are available at Bed Bath & Beyond (212-255-3550), where a 12-by-49-inch mirror framed in wood in a black or white finish costs $19.99. Just paint or gild the frames to bring them up a notch and to fit them into your decor.


GRAPHIC: Photo (Photo by Gottscho-Schleisner Collection, Museum of the City of New York)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Question

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: INTERIOR DECORATING (77%); MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (76%); RENTAL PROPERTY (76%); EXHIBITIONS (72%); PHOTOGRAPHY (72%); HOME CENTERS (62%); HARDWARE STORES (62%) Mirrors

PERSON: Mitchell Owens

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (90%) NEW YORK, USA (90%) UNITED STATES (90%)

LOAD-DATE: December 15, 2005



304 of 607 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 15, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section F; Column 1; House & Home/Style Desk; AT HOME WITH: MICHAEL SESSIONS; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1576 words

HEADLINE: When the War Room Is the Family Room

BYLINE: By WILLIAM L. HAMILTON

DATELINE: HILLSDALE, Mich. 

 BODY:
LAST week, as part of an aquatic aerobics class at the Days Inn, Charlene Moore, 81, wearing her black and white floral swimsuit, bounced up and down for an hour in the motel's pool.
 Then she spoke with a reporter.
''The city got the message; it's time for some changes,'' she said, referring to the election last month of Michael Sessions, Hillsdale's new mayor, who unseated the incumbent, Douglas Ingles, by two votes, 670 to 668.
 At 18, Mr. Sessions is the country's youngest mayor. A senior at Hillsdale High School, he lives at home with his parents and sister. He called his bedroom, which has a wall-to-wall carpet of clothing in various phases of use, ''an average teenage mess hole.''
 Last week, his mother, Lorri Sessions, 42, tried to stop an impromptu tour. 
 ''Oh my gosh, no,'' she said, as Mr. Sessions started up the stairs.
 In a city of 9,000, two hours southwest of Detroit, where there might be talk of the city's fathers and their ability to protect the community from departing factories, unemployment and the faltering fortunes of the automotive industry, there is now talk of the city's son, Mr. Sessions. Everyone knows him, and calls him ''Michael,'' as though the mayor were a nicely raised teenager with manners, which he is.
 And there is talk of change, as though ''new blood'' could be a literal transfusion. Voter turnout was 13 percent greater than it was in 2001, the last election. The contest is nonpartisan.
 With his victory, Mr. Sessions became a media figure, with national headlines and appearances on the David Letterman and Ellen DeGeneres shows, where his age was a bit of a one-liner. Russian and Japanese television visited Hillsdale. Mr. Sessions has received hate mail as well as the support of two previous mayors, the endorsement of the fire department and the approbation and disapprobation of local merchants who, in comments last week, expressed optimism, challenged his credentials or refused to discuss him.
 ''I'm all for that vigorous and positive face,'' said Jane Nash, who owns three businesses downtown with her husband, Bill, of Mr. Sessions and his appealing youth. ''I'm just not exactly sure what it means. I wish he had run for city council and gotten some experience before he became the face that's out there greeting people. But he'll just have to learn quickly.''
 As was evident at a city council meeting on December 5, over which Mr. Sessions presided, Hillsdale is cautiously determined to give him a chance. The new mayor stumbled through a few of the parliamentary rules, or turns of democratic phrase, giving himself a quick self-conscious thumbs-up -- like a player on the field -- when he got something right. But Mr. Sessions also weighed in unguardedly on a debate about a new waste removal contract, listened patiently to a screed on Christmas lighting at the courthouse and generally maintained the office. The eight other council members, including Tim Vagle, the city manager, a silver-haired man who looks like a mayor, treated him as an equal, not a freak.
 A woman stepped up to the public podium, and gave voice to Hillsdale's curious decision, whether bad or brave. ''We've seen what a small town can do,'' she said. ''Let's keep the momentum.''
 If Hillsdale, a conservative place by its own description, has tried reaching out to a new generation, like an ailing parent, Mr. Sessions himself takes its troubles personally, as though it were an extension of his own family.
 Sitting on a velour sofa in his living room last week, burrowed in a pile of fringed pillows, his stocking feet propped on a coffee table, Mr. Sessions said that his father's two-year unemployment, and the realization that Hillsdale at large might be suffering similarly, propelled him into politics.
 Michael's father, Scott Sessions, 46, lost his job as a supervisor at a plant closed in 2003 by Fasco DC Motors, a company for which he worked for 26 years. He was retrained, with assistance from a North Atlantic Free Trade Agreement program, as a medical technician, and works at a local heart center. Michael's mother is a housekeeper at Hillsdale College.
 ''Well, it's horrible,'' her son recalled of an adolescence palled by his father's joblessness. He twisted himself back between two pillows. ''It just hits the family hard -- the lack of money. The lack of being able to do stuff like before. Coming home and figuring out, well, what are we going to put on the table?''
 Asked if the situation was that critical, he said: ''Yes. We didn't eat some nights. It kind of got that hard.''
 As a student, Mr. Sessions has a 3.25 grade point average. Being the mayor will be his after-school job. It has an annual salary of $3,600, which he said he would keep.
 ''To be honest with you, it's kind of my only source of income,'' he said.
 Mr. Sessions said that his agenda for Hillsdale was simple. His main goal, already met, is to ''make myself as visible as possible.'' There is no doubt that he has put a fresh face on the city. In addition to newspaper and television coverage, and several calls from Hollywood, Mr. Sessions gave away candy canes at the Kroger's and attended the National League of Cities conference last week in Charlotte, N.C.
 ''If we can use this to our advantage, we could bring in business, bring jobs to folks, bring in other folks to live in our community,'' he added. During his door-to-door campaign, Mr. Sessions detailed his intentions to revitalize a local industrial park, push forward a conversion of a vacant Pillsbury mill to commercial and residential space, and to work in greater cooperation with neighboring towns in the county, with the hope of alleviating detrimental competition between them. Unemployment in Hillsdale is at 6.2 percent, according to census figures, nearly twice the national average.
 When he is not being unexpectedly shy, tucking himself into the corner of wherever he happens to be sitting, Mr. Sessions can sound like the booster one would believe him to be. He defended Hillsdale against the idea that small cities were places to grow up in and move away from.
 ''They might say they want to leave, but I don't think they deeply mean that,'' he said, with some wishfulness, of his classmates at the high school.
 His election has accomplished another goal, which was to motivate and activate his peers. Mr. Sessions, who called himself an independent, said his victory and celebrity ''politicized the whole school.''
 ''I wanted to show the youth that we still had a voice,'' he said. ''To show that they could get involved with the process.'' One colleague, Brandon Thomas, has formed Youth and Community, a weekly clean-up group.
 But will being mayor allow him time to be young? Was he dating?
 ''Noooew,'' he said. ''Independent there, too.'' He smiled with what looked like the beginnings of a very good political smile. ''I don't have time -- that is an excuse, but it's a good excuse.''
 Mr. Session's sister, Sarah, 15, rushed through the room, let her friend Ashley Smith in at the door, and the two girls disappeared. ''Why are we racing up the hill?'' he shouted.
 ''I feel I'll have to make sacrifices,'' he continued, trying to regain decorum. ''Oh, I can't even remember what I was saying.''
 At the kitchen table, Mr. Session's mother talked about her son.
 ''Well, he's been telling me for a long time that he wanted to be mayor,'' she said, in a kind of warning to mothers everywhere. When you're not listening, they mean it.
 What was Michael like?
 ''He's a good guy,'' Ms. Sessions said, not unpredictably. ''He's a normal kid, but I would say, he's not like the normal kid. He's never been to a party. He never stayed away from home when he was younger, like boys would have a night over.''
 Asked what her worries were for the challenges ahead, Ms. Sessions replied, ''Girls.''
 Mr. Sessions, seated in a club chair next to the table, burrowed into the side of it, grabbing a pillow to hug. Sarah and Ashley chatted with friends at the family's computer, clacking the keys in ecstatic bursts punctuated by total silences.
 ''Girls are a fear right now, because Michael has never really been into, uh, girlfriend relationships,'' Ms. Sessions said, speaking of her son's new position and the opportunities that celebrity opens, from both sides. 
 ''I just hope Michael keeps his level head with the girls, you know? Stay away from them.'' Sarah and Ashley froze at the keys, then exploded with laughter.
 ''Well, I don't mean forever, but I mean for right now!'' Ms. Sessions said.
 Her son resembles his father in his interest in politics, his mother said. At 4 that afternoon, Scott Sessions arrived home from work, from a shift that had begun at 4:30 that morning. At the computer, Michael was preparing for a city council meeting that night.
 ''I was a Republican for 26 years, and then I lost my job,'' Mr. Sessions, sitting at the kitchen table in his medical scrubs, said of his own political involvement. Mr. Sessions, who had the soft-spoken gentleness of someone who has once been dealt defeat, said he thinks Michael will pursue his career in government. Though he described politicians as ''out of touch with the people who are trying to make it,'' he said he saw in his son, and other young political aspirants, the chance for ''a great change in this country.''
 The mayor's father excused himself, out of fatigue, as the mayor networked online in the hour before meeting his council.


GRAPHIC: Photos: OFF-DUTY -- Michael Sessions, the country's youngest mayor, in his bedroom. (Photo by Fabrizio Costantini for The New York Times)(pg. F1)
 AFTER-SCHOOL SPECIAL -- Michael Sessions presiding over a city council meeting, left, and at home with his parents, Lorri and Scott Sessions. (Photographs by Fabrizio Costantini for The New York Times)(pg. F7)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MAYORS (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (89%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (89%); CITIES (89%); CITY GOVERNMENT (89%); EXERCISE & FITNESS (78%); ELECTIONS (77%); TALKS & MEETINGS (76%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (76%); FIRE DEPARTMENTS (72%); VOTERS & VOTING (70%); BLOOD TRANSFUSIONS (69%) Mayors; Biographical Information

PERSON: DAVID LETTERMAN (51%); ELLEN DEGENERES (50%) Michael (Mayor) Sessions; William L Hamilton

GEOGRAPHIC: DETROIT, MI, USA (79%) MICHIGAN, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%) Hillsdale (Mich)

LOAD-DATE: December 15, 2005



305 of 607 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 15, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section F; Column 3; House & Home/Style Desk; TURF; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1176 words

BYLINE: By MOTOKO RICH

 BODY:
MORE than a year ago, Howard and Jennifer Lenn bought two side-by-side apartments in a building on Manhattan's Upper West Side, with plans to connect them into one large home. But in the 14 months since they closed the deal, they have yet to spend a single night there.
 Stymied by the coop board and then faced with extensive construction delays, the Lenns and their two young sons have lived for several months like nomads in two successive sublets. And then, last month, they took the unusual step of doubling up with their real estate broker in her spacious three-bedroom apartment in the Apthorp, on the Upper West Side.
And Broker Makes Five 
 ''I never anticipated that she would offer to let us move into her home,'' said Mr. Lenn, who has bought three properties with the help of his broker, Judy Maysles.
 One consequence of the housing boom in cities like New York and Miami is that an increasing number of homebuyers are choosing fixer-uppers that involve complicated renovations. At the same time, buyers are flocking to newly constructed condos. In both cases, more often than not, the work to get the properties ready is behind schedule. This has forced more people to take refuge in hotels and corporate apartments or with family and friends. Stays that were meant to last days or weeks often extend into months.
 ''The situation of living in limbo happens in every one of our projects,'' said Jared Della Valle, a Brooklyn-based architect who works for both homeowners and developers. ''I've never been on a construction process that delivers on time.'' 
 While the plight of these displaced homebuyers pales in comparison to those who are genuinely homeless, like the victims of the hurricanes that swept the Gulf region this year, living out of a suitcase does pose a financial drain and can lead to some strange living situations in sublets or with parents. 
 At Furnished Quarters, a New York-based company that operates 630 corporate apartments in Manhattan, the proportion of tenants who have rented units because they are between residences has gone from 1 percent of the business three years ago to 5 percent now, said Steven Brown, the company's president. ''They come in and they figure, 'Oh, I'll only be here for a month or two,' '' and then keep extending their stay, Mr. Brown said. 
 In south Florida, where people are buying condos when they are just holes in the ground, the company opened 40 apartments from Miami to West Palm Beach in the past year. So far, more than 10 percent of its business has come from people who were waiting for a new condominium to be ready, according to Jackie Eisele, general manager of Furnished Quarters in Florida.
 For buyers of new condos, brokers routinely tell their clients to add three or four months to the developer's planned delivery date. In Manhattan, new condos have become increasingly popular: almost half of all condos sold this year were newly constructed, up from less than one-third five years ago, said Jonathan Miller, a New York appraiser.
 Susan and Duffy Porro had sold their four-story, oceanfront home in Key Largo, Fla., and signed a contract for a new three-bedroom condo in Aventura, near Miami, when they moved into a Furnished Quarters apartment in Miami in July for $3,600 a month. Ms. Porro, a homemaker with a daughter, 20, and a son, 17, said she originally signed a lease for six weeks, but the stay stretched into five months as construction on the new condo dragged on. ''This has been the worst headache of our lives, waiting for this place to be ready,'' said Mrs. Porro. They moved to the new condo earlier this month, although Mrs. Porro said it was not ready. 
 In some cases, the gap between leaving one place and moving into another has been exacerbated by signs of a cooling housing market as sellers rush to sign deals. People ''want to capitalize on the market right this second,'' said Darren Sukenik, a broker with Prudential Douglas Elliman in Manhattan.
 When Matthew Erlich, 30, and his wife, Kristin Witty, 31, decided they wanted to move closer to Columbia University on the Upper West Side, where Mr. Erlich is in medical school, they put their one-bedroom apartment in Brooklyn on the market. Their first deal fell through, but when a second buyer made an all-cash offer, said Mr. Erlich, ''we wanted to take the money and run. The market might be softening.''
 But the seller of the place they were buying, a slightly larger one-bedroom just a short shuttle bus ride away from the medical school, kept postponing the closing date. So the couple hunkered down with Ms. Witty's mother on the Upper West Side, in the bedroom where Ms. Witty, a market researcher, grew up. The couple and their two cats shared the room for nearly three months.
 For Ms. Witty, it was a strange return to a place where she was surrounded by her childhood books and trinkets. But Mr. Erlich enjoyed his mother-in-law's home-cooked meals. ''She made a great pork chop with applesauce,'' he said. 
 While Mr. Erlich and Ms. Witty saved on the rent while living with her mother, other families have ended up paying thousands of dollars to live in temporary housing. 
 Allison Williams, a graphic designer who owns a business with her husband, J. P., figures that in the two years they have lived in a sublet apartment, the couple has spent about $100,000 more than they would have had they moved into their new TriBeCa condo on time.
 Two years ago, the Williamses signed a contract on a two-bedroom condo in an 1800's-era building slated for a gut renovation, with the expectation that they and their daughter, Piper, could move in December 2003. 
 The couple rented a furnished apartment around the corner from their daughter's school, thinking they would only be in limbo for a few months. But after the first sponsor on their new place went bankrupt, Ms. Williams said, and then the developer who took over suffered a series of construction setbacks, the Williamses are still sequestered in the sublet. Piper, now 5, has outgrown several toys and a bicycle that were put in storage.
 ''It made economic sense for a few months, but not for two years,'' said Ms. Williams. 
 For the Lenns, moving in with their broker was a last-ditch solution after they had lived in two sublets and extended their stay in the second one twice. They were paying both the mortgage on their new place, on 90th street off Riverside Drive, as well as rent on their sublets. Mrs. Lenn, 38, said the whole experience had given her second thoughts about starting such a serious project. ''If I knew it was going to take this long I don't think we would have done it,'' she said. But Mr. Lenn, 40, an advertising copywriter, said he was still enthusiastic about renovations. 
 That's good news for their broker, Ms. Maysles of Coldwell Banker Hunt Kennedy, who has given over two bedrooms and her own children's former playroom to the family. She figures she'll get the listing when the Lenns decide to sell again. ''This is the true 'you become a broker for life' story,'' she said.


GRAPHIC: Photos: ROOMMATES -- Jennifer and Howard Lenn and their children moved in with their Manhattan real estate broker, Judy Maysles, right, until their place is ready. (Photo by Hiroko Masuike for The New York Times)(pg. F1)
 NOMADS -- Construction delays on their new Florida condo forced Duffy and Susan Porro, center and right, and their children, to rent a furnished apartment. (Photo by Barbara P. Fernandez for The New York Times)(pg. F7)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CONSTRUCTION (90%); RENTAL PROPERTY (89%); CONDOMINIUMS (89%); RESIDENTIAL CO-OWNERSHIP (89%); REAL ESTATE (78%); HOUSING MARKET (78%); RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (78%); BUILDING RENOVATION (78%); CONSTRUCTION DELAYS & STOPPAGES (78%); HOMEOWNERS (77%); DELAYS & POSTPONEMENTS (77%); REAL ESTATE AGENTS (75%); WEATHER (70%) Housing; Home Repairs and Improvements; Restoration and Rehabilitation; Renting and Leasing; Brokers and Brokerage Firms

PERSON: Motoko Rich

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%); MIAMI, FL, USA (87%) NEW YORK, USA (94%); FLORIDA, USA (93%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: December 15, 2005



306 of 607 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 15, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 935 words

HEADLINE: Vows of New Aid to the Poor Leave the Poor Unimpressed

BYLINE: By KEITH BRADSHER

DATELINE: HONG KONG, Dec. 14 

 BODY:
The United States, the European Union and Japan have taken turns this week at the World Trade Organization ministerial conference promoting plans to provide billions in foreign aid and eliminate trade barriers on exports from the world's poorest countries. 
 But ministers from those countries are not sure they like what they see. In fact, some of them say that the offers are so littered with obscure exemptions, murky calculations and special conditions that they will not help much, and may even hurt. 
Delegates here from some poor countries are so unhappy with rich nations' efforts to help them that they are warning of a possible move to block completion of a global trade agreement. 
 ''It will be very difficult for us to be a party to an agreement that will make us lose our markets,'' said Madan M. Dulloo, the foreign minister and trade minister of Mauritius and the leader of a 79-nation coalition of low-income African, Caribbean and Pacific countries.
 The last W.T.O. ministerial conference collapsed two years ago in Cancun, Mexico, over complaints by West African nations about American cotton subsidies and objections by Botswana to streamlining customs regulations. Proposals in the last few days by industrial nations are meant to avoid a repetition, but they have created new problems.
 The biggest difficulties involve plans by the United States, the European Union and Japan to eliminate duties and quota on almost all goods from up to 50 of the world's poor nations, 32 of which are W.T.O. members. Countries on this list complain that rich nations are excluding the few products in which they are most competitive -- the United States is leaving out textiles, for example.
 But the loudest complaints are coming from other developing countries that are just well off enough to escape the category of poorest countries, but still compete with these countries in many markets.
 The matter of bananas, for instance, dominated discussions here on Wednesday night. No Central American nation qualifies for the list of poorest countries. But their ministers said they fear competition some day from the poorest.
 Very poor countries like Angola grow few bananas now, but could start doing so if granted trade preferences, said Alicia Martin, Nicaragua's representative here. ''Multinationals could very easily go there,'' she warned early this week.
 Sugar-growing countries with incomes too high for special treatment are especially worried that they will lose markets to countries that do qualify for duty-free, quota-free access to markets in advanced economies, especially since sugar cane is a labor-intensive crop that may be appealing to nations with high unemployment.
 ''Any drastic tariff cut would squeeze us out of the market and leave us with nothing,'' said Kaliopate Tavola, Fiji's foreign minister and trade minister, while adding that he doubted that the W.T.O. would let this happen.
 The proposal for duty-free, quota-free treatment is so divisive among developing countries that even some negotiators from lands that qualify are saying that the plan must be broadened or scrapped.
 ''We do not want to segregate, or just ask for a few'' countries to benefit, said Love Mtesa, the ambassador to the W.T.O. of Zambia, a country that qualifies.
 Details of the aid packages being offered to poor nations are also a matter of dispute here.
 The United States trade representative, Rob Portman, announced on Wednesday that Washington planned to increase its annual aid to poor countries that may need help if new global trade rules are adopted. The Bush administration plans to seek an increase in assistance by 2010 to $2.7 billion, from $1.3 billion now.
 But other American officials said that they could not estimate how much of the increased spending would represent additional foreign aid, and how much would come from redesignating portions of the existing foreign aid budget as trade assistance. They noted that any foreign aid would be subject to Congressional approval, and that some of the money might also qualify as part of an American pledge early this year through the Group of 7 industrial nations to increase aid.
 Nongovernmental organizations were unimpressed. ''The American money has already been pledged at least once this year,'' Phil Bloomer, head of the Make Trade Fair campaign for the relief group Oxfam, said in a statement. ''Furthermore, it comes with an unacceptable and explicit push for rapid market opening from poor countries, which poses a grave threat to development.''
 Japan had begun the spate of aid announcements last Friday when it said that it would give $10 billion over the next three years to help poor countries, an offer that was widely reported as a new effort.
 But Yoshinori Katori, the Japanese foreign ministry's director general for press affairs, acknowledged at a news conference on Wednesday that the amount was calculated mainly by adding up how much assistance Japan would provide anyway if it continued to increase aid at the same pace as it had been doing in recent years. The $10 billion assumes some acceleration in the average annual increase in foreign aid, Mr. Katori said, while declining to specify how much acceleration.
 Lori Wallach, trade director of Public Citizen, a Washington-based consumer group, said that the objections here from poor countries were a bad sign, considering that the current round of trade talks is supposed to focus on promoting economic development. ''It sort of says it all when you need a development package to get developing countries to agree to a development round,'' she said.


GRAPHIC: Photo: The United States trade representative, Rob Portman, told W.T.O. delegates yesterday of plans to double aid. (Photo by Bullit Marquez/Associated Press)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC NEWS (91%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (91%); TRADE DEVELOPMENT (90%); GOVERNMENT GRANTS & SUBSIDIES (90%); TRENDS (90%); CONFERENCES & CONVENTIONS (90%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (90%); EXPORT TRADE (90%); INTERNATIONAL ASSISTANCE (90%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (90%); EUROPEAN UNION (90%); STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (89%); COMMERCE DEPARTMENTS (89%); AGRICULTURAL TRADE (89%); TAXES & TAXATION (89%); TARIFFS & DUTIES (89%); DEVELOPING COUNTRIES (89%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE LAW (78%); GLOBALIZATION (78%); TRADE TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (78%); MULTINATIONAL CORPORATIONS (78%); BUDGETS (78%); LOW INCOME PERSONS (72%); EXCISE & CUSTOMS (72%); TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (69%); TEXTILES (66%); COTTON FARMING (66%); SUGAR FARMING (65%); SUGAR CANE FARMING (65%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (62%) Economic Conditions and Trends; Foreign Aid; Customs (Tariff); International Trade and World Market; Bananas; Economic Conditions and Trends; Sugar; Labor; Unemployment; Finances; Budgets and Budgeting; Economic Conditions and Trends; Economic Conditions and Trends

ORGANIZATION: EUROPEAN UNION (93%); WORLD TRADE ORGANIZATION (91%) European Union; World Trade Organization

PERSON: ROB PORTMAN (60%) Rob (US Trade Rep) Portman; George W (Pres) Bush; Keith Bradsher

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (95%); EUROPE (94%); ANGOLA (92%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (91%); NICARAGUA (79%); CARIBBEAN ISLANDS (79%); MAURITIUS (79%); MEXICO (79%); CENTRAL AMERICA (79%); WESTERN AFRICA (79%); LATIN AMERICA (79%); BOTSWANA (79%); AFRICA (79%); FIJI (79%) Europe; Japan; Latin America; Angola

LOAD-DATE: December 15, 2005



307 of 607 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 15, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section E; Column 2; The Arts/Cultural Desk; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 950 words

HEADLINE: At Historic Apollo Theater, Restored Facade Is the Star of the Day 

BYLINE: By ROBIN POGREBIN

 BODY:
Like any 92-year-old, the Apollo Theater has been alternately cherished and neglected. There was one moment when the theater was scheduled for demolition, then one when it was declared a historic landmark. But through it all, the Apollo, a 1913 former burlesque hall designed by George Keister, has stood on West 125th Street as a beacon of black entertainment, an aging Harlem icon.
 Now, the distinctive yellow-and-red blade sign out front beckons once again. Today, a restoration of the Apollo's regal terra-cotta facade is to be unveiled. The marquee has been modernized with light-emitting diodes meant to resemble as much as possible the original hand-applied letters. The theater's storefront has been updated in the spirit of a 1930's design, with a semicircular box office of stainless steel. Flat screen monitors built into the storefront have replaced the original poster cases. 
 ''How do we introduce modern design elements that have a dialogue with the old elements,'' said Richard L. Blinder of Beyer Blinder Belle, the lead architect on the project, ''but also tell the story that this is a new theater?''
 The restoration architects charged with returning the Apollo to its former glory chose to go back to its glory days -- the late 30's and early 40's. That was the era when Amateur Night became a signature tradition and top comedians graced the stage, along with legends like Louis Armstrong, Duke Ellington, Lena Horne and Sarah Vaughan.
 ''We wanted to restore it to when it was really a Harlem theater, dedicated to the black community,'' Mr. Blinder said, ''to restore it to its heyday and add an element of today that didn't entomb it.''
 Mayor Michael R. Bloomberg is expected to be on hand this afternoon when the renewed marquee and blade sign are illuminated, along with former President Bill Clinton and Richard D. Parsons, chairman of the Apollo Theater Foundation and chief executive of Time Warner. The renovation is meant ''to signal to the public that the theater is back as the jewel in the crown on 125th Street,'' said Jonelle Procope, the theater's president and chief executive.
 The Apollo was the subject of controversy in 1998, when the New York attorney general, Dennis C. Vacco, sued the theater and six members of its foundation board -- including Representative Charles B. Rangel, the Harlem congressman who was then the board's chairman -- and accused them of mismanaging the Apollo's finances. Although Mr. Rangel denied wrongdoing, he resigned as chairman and later agreed to leave the board as part of a settlement with Mr. Vacco's successor, Eliot L. Spitzer. 
 The Apollo considered a more ambitious expansion into the neighboring Loews Victoria Theater, but abandoned that in 2002 for economic reasons, which prompted the foundation's president and chief executive at the time, Derek Q. Johnson, to resign. But the theater recently bid to be part of a proposed entertainment complex in the Victoria and is one of four finalists. A selection is expected early next year.
 Apollo Real Estate Advisers and Starwood Hotels and Resorts Worldwide proposed a $103 million W Hotel with 156 rooms, 58 residential condominiums and 4,000 square feet of office space for the foundation. The Apollo Theater would also get rehearsal and education areas, a black box theater and a cafe. The architect on the Victoria project is Davis Brody Bond, who also worked on the theater's current renovation. 
 The Apollo's facade and marquee project started in 1999, although the work did not begin until 2001. In 2001 it was described as a $6 million undertaking, then $12 million; the final price tag turned out to be $17.9 million. And there is still an interior phase of work that includes the theater's lobby, stage and dressing rooms. (All historical material was removed from the lobby and lost in the 1960's.) In January, the theater plans to close for six weeks to replace its 1,483 seats.
 At one point, the entire restoration project was estimated at $53 million. Now, the cost is expected to be closer to $65 million. The Apollo used $7.1 million of the $11.9 million committed by the city for the initial portion; the city has committed $5.25 million for the second phase. Other money came from the federal government, the Upper Manhattan Empowerment Zone, individuals and corporations. 
 The changes coincide with an effort to step up programming. The new vice president for programming, Laura E. Greer, said there would be more collaborations with groups like Alvin Ailey and Jazz at Lincoln Center. 
 It was George C. Wolfe's 2002 musical revue, ''Harlem Song,'' that in part inspired the Apollo to develop more of its own material. The show -- which celebrated Harlem's history since the 1920's through song, dance, dialogue, photographs and film -- had people lining up for tickets and critics showering praise. It also increased the Apollo's annual operating budget markedly, to about $10 million from about $3 million, from 2001 to 2003.
 Because the Apollo was declared a landmark in 1983, every adjustment requires approval from the city's Landmarks Preservation Commission and the State Historic Preservation Office. Tracing the building's architectural heritage wasn't easy. Beyer Blinder Belle conducted paint analysis on remnants of the original walls and ceilings and interviewed people who had lived in the neighborhood. 
 Keith L. Wright, an assemblyman from Harlem, said he remembered sneaking into the Apollo as a child. ''I could see Stevie Wonder and Smokey Robinson,'' he said. ''It's our theater. As the Apollo goes, Harlem goes -- economically and culturally. It remains a reflection of the heart and soul of what Harlem is all about.''


GRAPHIC: Photos: The marquee of the Apollo Theater in Harlem as it is now, left, after a restoration, and as it was in 1971, when Stevie Wonder was the attraction. (Photos by left, Chester Higgins Jr./The New York Times
 right, Carlos Rene Perez/Associated Press)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: HISTORIC DISTRICTS & STRUCTURES (90%); BUILDING RENOVATION (78%); ARCHITECTURAL SERVICES (77%); HISTORIC SITES (77%); RACE & RACISM (71%); LIGHT EMITTING DIODES (69%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (67%); SETTLEMENT & COMPROMISE (67%); EXECUTIVES (66%); US PRESIDENTS (61%); ATTORNEYS GENERAL (60%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (60%); ELECTRONIC DIODES (55%) Apollo Theater (Harlem, NYC); Restoration and Rehabilitation

COMPANY: BEYER BLINDER BELLE (55%)

ORGANIZATION: APOLLO THEATER FOUNDATION INC (94%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS541310 ARCHITECTURAL SERVICES (55%); SIC8712 ARCHITECTURAL SERVICES (55%)

PERSON: CHARLES B RANGEL (56%); BILL CLINTON (52%); RICHARD D PARSONS (51%); ELIOT SPITZER (50%); MICHAEL BLOOMBERG (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%) NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: December 15, 2005



308 of 607 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 15, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 5; Business/Financial Desk; THE MARKETS: STOCKS & BONDS; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 678 words

HEADLINE: Drop in Import Prices Drives S.&P. 500 to a 4-Year High

BYLINE: By Bloomberg News

 BODY:
The Standard & Poor's 500-stock index reached a four-year high yesterday as a drop in import prices fueled speculation that the Federal Reserve might soon stop raising interest rates.
 Honeywell International led the advance after it said that 2006 earnings might rise as much as 30 percent. Apple Computer fell, holding back the Nasdaq composite index, after two analysts downgraded the shares.
 The S.& P. 500 added 5.31 points, or 0.4 percent, to 1,272.74, the highest close since June 2001. The Dow Jones industrial average increased 59.79, or 0.6 percent, to 10,883.51, still 48 points from its high for the quarter, which was reached last month. The Nasdaq fell 2.41, or 0.1 percent, to 2,262.59. 
 The S.& P. 500 is up 3.6 percent this quarter, the Dow average has risen 3 percent and the Nasdaq has gained 5.2 percent. 
 Stock indexes yesterday were supported by a drop in energy prices. Crude oil for January delivery fell 0.9 percent, to $60.85 a barrel in New York, after the Energy Department reported an unexpected increase in inventories.
 On Tuesday, Federal Reserve policy makers raised their target rate to 4.25 percent, the 13th consecutive increase. The central bank dropped a reference to ''accommodation'' in its accompanying statement. That may signal that Fed members believe rates are closer to a so-called neutral rate that neither spurs nor restrains economic growth. Yesterday's import price report indicated that inflationary pressures might be lessening. November import prices fell 1.7 percent, the steepest drop since April 2003, after rising 0.3 percent the previous month, the Labor Department said.
 United States Treasury securities rose on speculation over the Federal Reserve. By late in the day, the price of the benchmark 10-year note rose 16/32, to 10011/32. The yield, which moves in the opposite direction of the price, fell to 4.46 percent, from 4.52 percent on Tuesday. 
 Honeywell, which makes airport cockpit controls, added $1.62, or 4.5 percent, to $37.50 for the best performance in the Dow average. The company said earnings would increase to $2.35 to $2.50 a share, including stock option expenses, in 2006 as airlines replace and repair equipment. This year Honeywell expects to earn $1.93 to $1.95 a share.
 Shares of Boeing advanced 86 cents, to $71.45. The company beat Airbus to win a 115-plane order, valued at as much as $18 billion, from Qantas Airways, Australia's biggest carrier.
 ''Corporations in the United States continue to generate good profits,'' said Abby Joseph Cohen, chief investment strategist and managing director at Goldman Sachs Group in New York. ''Stock prices are below where they might be based upon the fundamentals for 2005.''
 Almost eight stocks rose for every five that fell on the New York Stock Exchange. About 1.63 billion shares changed hands on the Big Board, 2.9 percent less than the three-month average.
 Shares of Apple, the maker of the iPod music player, dropped $2.97, or 4 percent, to $72.01, and were the biggest drag on the S.& P. 500 after two analysts said they were overvalued relative to future earnings.
 A gauge of energy-related shares jumped 1.3 percent even as crude prices dropped. Exxon Mobil, the world's largest publicly traded oil producer, advanced 80 cents, to $59.86. Exxon said yesterday that the world would need 60 percent more energy by 2030 as demand increases by an average of 1.6 percent a year.
 ADC Telecommunications, a maker of networking equipment, surged $2.42, or 12 percent, to $23.30 for the best performance in the S.& P. 500. The company posted fiscal fourth-quarter sales of $301.6 million, which beat the average analyst estimate of $295.1 million in a Thomson Financial survey.
 Constellation Energy Group, which owns three nuclear plants, rose $4.83, to $61.10. The utility may be bought by FPL Group, owner of Florida Power and Light, for more than $11 billion, according to reports.
 An S.& P. 500 measure of utility shares rallied 1.1 percent for the second-biggest gain, after energy shares, among 10 industry groups in the index.


GRAPHIC: Graph tracks the Dow Jones industrial average over the past year. (Sources by Associated Press
 Bloomberg Financial Markets)Tables: ''The Favorites'' lists stocks held by largest number of accounts at Merrill Lynch. (Sources by The Associated Press, Bloomberg Financial Markets)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: STOCK INDEXES (99%); IMPORT TRADE (91%); MARKET OPEN CLOSE (90%); IMPORT PRICES (90%); OIL & GAS PRICES (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (89%); BANKING & FINANCE (89%); COMPANY EARNINGS (89%); TREASURY SECURITIES (89%); AIRLINES (87%); ECONOMIC NEWS (78%); INFLATION (78%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (78%); INTEREST RATES (77%); ENERGY & UTILITY SECTOR PERFORMANCE (77%); PUBLIC POLICY (77%); CENTRAL BANKS (77%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (77%); FINANCIAL RATING DOWNGRADES (73%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (72%); INVENTORIES (72%); CRUDE OIL MARKETS (67%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (64%) 

COMPANY: STANDARD & POOR'S FINANCIAL SERVICES LLC (92%); GOLDMAN SACHS GROUP INC (84%); BOEING CO (80%); HONEYWELL INTERNATIONAL INC (58%); QANTAS AIRWAYS LTD (51%); AIRBUS SAS (51%)

TICKER: GS (NYSE) (84%); BOE (LSE) (80%); BAB (BRU) (80%); BA (NYSE) (80%); HON (NYSE) (58%); HON (LSE) (58%); QAN (ASX) (51%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS561450 CREDIT BUREAUS (92%); SIC7323 CREDIT REPORTING SERVICES (92%); NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (84%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (84%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (84%); SIC6289 SERVICES ALLIED WITH THE EXCHANGE OF SECURITIES OR COMMODITIES, NEC (84%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (84%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (84%); NAICS336411 AIRCRAFT MANUFACTURING (80%); NAICS336412 AIRCRAFT ENGINE & ENGINE PARTS MANUFACTURING (80%); NAICS336414 GUIDED MISSILE & SPACE VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (80%); SIC3761 GUIDED MISSILES & SPACE VEHICLES (80%); NAICS336211 MOTOR VEHICLE BODY MANUFACTURING (58%); NAICS334512 AUTOMATIC ENVIRONMENTAL CONTROL MANUFACTURING FOR RESIDENTIAL, COMMERCIAL & APPLIANCE USE (58%); NAICS325180 OTHER BASIC INORGANIC CHEMICAL MANUFACTURING (58%); NAICS561520 TOUR OPERATORS (51%); NAICS481111 SCHEDULED PASSENGER AIR TRANSPORTATION (51%); SIC4725 TOUR OPERATORS (51%); SIC4512 AIR TRANSPORTATION, SCHEDULED (51%); SIC3721 AIRCRAFT (51%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (92%); AUSTRALIA (51%)

LOAD-DATE: December 15, 2005



309 of 607 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 15, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk; SMALL BUSINESS: ENTREPRENEURIAL EDGE; Pg. 13

LENGTH: 1213 words

HEADLINE: Mutual-Aid Network Links South Asia and the U.S. 

BYLINE: By JAMES FLANIGAN. 
E-mail: jamesflanigan@nytimes.com.

 BODY:
As recent investments by Microsoft, Intel and Cisco Systems attest, corporate America has come to view India not just as a source of low-cost talent but also as an emerging economic power to be reckoned with.
 Beyond the headlines about corporate acquisitions and the outsourcing of jobs, though, a little-known organization founded in California 13 years ago is having a significant impact in fostering business ties between the United States and India.
That organization, Indus Entrepreneurs, was started by people like Suhas S. Patil, founder of Cirrus Logic in Austin, Tex., a chip maker, and Safi Qureshey, co-founder of AST Research, which made computer parts, as a mutual-aid network for Indian and Pakistani immigrants.
 Today, it has grown into an affiliation of 10,000 members in 10 countries that, by its own account, has helped create $250 billion in wealth by encouraging business start-ups. 
 In the process, it has evolved into a behind-the-scenes incubator of companies in business services and technology operating in both South Asia and the United States. That cultural cross-pollination, by integrating the strengths and resources of both regions, has helped solidify the business relationship between them. 
 Consider Secova eServices Inc., a two-year-old company that processes pension and health-benefit accounts for American companies from offices in Brick, N.J., and Chennai, India. Venkat Tadanki, Secova's founder and chief executive, says it has thrived -- it is now approaching $10 million in annual revenue and growing -- by exploiting the advantages of both locations.
 With labor costs in India a fraction of those in the United States, Secova saves millions of dollars a year by assigning most of the data-processing and simple accounting to the 50 employees in Chennai, Mr. Tadanki says. He says that Secova's 50 employees in New Jersey do what the ones in India cannot, keeping up with and explaining the intricacies of health insurance plans, sending out benefit checks and dealing directly with corporate customers.
 ''Not everyone with a few computers and a building in India can do human resource processing,'' said Mr. Tadanki, a member of Indus Entrepreneurs, who has made a commitment to train newcomers from the Indian subcontinent on how to start and run a company in the United States.
 Underscoring the geographic fluidity of his operations, he runs his company from an office in Huntington Beach, Calif., and has attracted $1.5 million from Citicorp's India office in a financing that is part loan, part investment.
 Secova is the second company that Mr. Tadanki, a 43-year-old graduate of the Indian Institute of Management, has founded in the United States since 2000. The first was Daksh Inc., a San Francisco-based firm that operated customer-service centers in India for large corporations in the United States. He and his partners sold Daksh to International Business Machines in 2004. 
 Another company that has tied together complementary strands of the Indian and American economies is the Equinox Corporation, a company in Irvine, Calif., that processes mortgage documents in India for American lenders.
 Even though mortgage financing is a highly efficient activity in the United States, Equinox finds a way to cut some costs out of the routine, says Don Ganguly, a member of Indus Entrepreneurs who founded Equinox in 2002 and recently sold it to i-flex Solutions, a large financial services firm in India. 
 Ownership by the bigger firm allowed Equinox to open a processing center near New Delhi and take on more accounts. I-flex Solutions, in turn, has sold 40 percent of its shares to the Oracle Corporation, the American software giant that is interested in supplying fast-growing financial services businesses in emerging economies.
 Mr. Ganguly, an India-trained engineer who came to the United States 25 years ago to get an M.B.A. from the Wharton School of the University of Pennsylvania, says the interchange of business activity benefits the economies of both countries.
 ''Because we take out costs over there, U.S. companies can do more here -- provide more services with higher productivity,'' he said. At the same time, the additional work lifts living standards in India, where the $700 billion economy, though growing at an annual rate of more than 8 percent, is just half that of the state of California.
 Some Americans might deplore the loss of jobs to India and other low-cost countries. But Indian companies are also creating jobs in the United States. One example is Arcot Systems Inc., a company in Sunnyvale, Calif., that makes software for secure authentication of credit card and banking transactions on the Internet. Rammohan Varadarajan, an engineering graduate of the Indian Institute of Technology who came to the United States in 1982 to get master's degrees in chemical engineering and computer science from Louisiana State University, started Arcot in 1997 thanks to business associates and venture capital gained through Indus Entrepreneurs contacts. 
 As Mr. Varadarajan worked on Arcot's special software, he attracted support and investment from Adobe Systems, the software developer based in San Jose, Calif., through contacts made at Indus Entrepreneurs conferences. Also he got programming help from Infosys Technologies, a consulting firm based in Bangalore, India. And he has attracted customers for Arcot's security software among banks and credit card companies around the world.
 With 90 employees at present -- half in Bangalore, half in Sunnyvale -- Arcot has $15 million in annual sales but $100 million in financing from investors that include Goldman Sachs, Onset Ventures, Visa International, Wachovia Bank and SEB, a division of Sweden's largest bank. 
 ''Many of the investments would not have been made if we were not in India,'' Mr. Varadarajan said. And, clearly, if Arcot's success continues, benefits will flow to companies in the United States, Sweden and India.
 It is in this widening world that Indus Entrepreneurs see opportunities. Shivbir Grewal, a lawyer and the Indus Entrepreneurs trustee for Southern California, for example, is an adviser to Chisk Inc., which is exploring ways to outsource routine legal-discovery work to India.
 Mr. Qureshey, a founder of Indus Entrepreneurs, is backing Quartics Inc., a company of young entrepreneurs based in Taiwan and Irvine, Calif., that is developing microprocessors for wireless streaming video. And Sangam Pant, a director of Evercore Partners, manages a venture fund that channels American institutional investments to Indian entrepreneurs in the United States and in India. 
 Investors like Mr. Pant are introducing financial innovations to the Indian economy, which has been deregulating a heavily state-run system since 1991. ''We recently completed the first leveraged buyout'' of an Indian firm by managers, he said.
 Increasing innovation will be the rule, predicts Apurv Bagri, the London-based chairman of Indus Entrepreneurs, who plans new chapters for his organization in Munich, Geneva, Sri Lanka and elsewhere. ''India is making a transition from being only a back office,'' he said. ''In the pharmaceutical industry and others, you will see India's companies playing a bigger role in the world.'' 


GRAPHIC: Photo: Venkat Tadanki is part of a group that advises entrepreneurs. (Photo by J. Emilio Flores for The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: SMALL BUSINESS (90%); ENTREPRENEURSHIP (89%); ELECTRONICS (78%); OUTSOURCING (78%); HUMAN RESOURCES (77%); BUSINESS EDUCATION (76%); EXECUTIVES (73%); STARTUPS (73%); ECONOMIC NEWS (72%); HEALTH INSURANCE (65%); TRENDS (64%); CUSTOMER SERVICE (61%); ACQUISITIONS (57%) Small Business; Labor; Company and Organization Profiles; Economic Conditions and Trends; Small Business

COMPANY: INTEL CORP (58%); CITIGROUP INC (58%); CISCO SYSTEMS INC (58%); MICROSOFT CORP (58%)

ORGANIZATION: Indus Entrepeneurs

TICKER: INTC (NASDAQ) (58%); C (NYSE) (58%); C (BMV) (58%); 8710 (TSE) (58%); CSCO (NASDAQ) (58%); MSFT (NASDAQ) (58%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS334413 SEMICONDUCTOR & RELATED DEVICE MANUFACTURING (58%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (58%); NAICS522210 CREDIT CARD ISSUING (58%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (58%); NAICS334210 TELEPHONE APPARATUS MANUFACTURING (58%); SIC3661 TELEPHONE & TELEGRAPH APPARATUS (58%); NAICS511210 SOFTWARE PUBLISHERS (58%); SIC7372 PREPACKAGED SOFTWARE (58%)

PERSON: Venkat Tadanki; James Flanigan

GEOGRAPHIC: SAN FRANCISCO, CA, USA (79%); AUSTIN, TX, USA (79%) CALIFORNIA, USA (94%); TAMIL NADU, INDIA (92%); TEXAS, USA (79%); NEW JERSEY, USA (79%) INDIA (99%); UNITED STATES (97%); ASIA (93%); SOUTHERN ASIA (90%) India

LOAD-DATE: December 15, 2005



310 of 607 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 15, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 3; Metropolitan Desk; TRANSIT STRIKE DEADLINE: THE SURPLUS; Pg. 9

LENGTH: 869 words

HEADLINE: How Extra Money Complicates Transit Pay Negotiations

BYLINE: By SEWELL CHAN

 BODY:
It was a figure that just seemed to keep growing: $76 million in February, $833 million in July, $928 million in October and finally, as of last month, $1.04 billion. 
 The Metropolitan Transportation Authority, perpetually hat in hand, has one of the largest surpluses in its 37-year history.
The unexpected windfall was supposed to be a boon -- providing holiday discounts for thousands of riders -- but has instead become a liability, at least symbolically, as the hours wind down to the expiration, at 12:01 a.m. tomorrow, of the authority's contract with 33,000 bus and subway workers. How, union leaders have asked, can the authority boast of such a surplus and not offer raises of more than 3 percent a year? Why aren't wages going up more? 
 Many workers are particularly rankled at the ubiquitous advertisement for the agency's holiday fare discounts, which shows Santa Claus descending into a subway station. ''It's downright disrespectful,'' said Anthony Hayes, 37, a bus driver. ''What about us? Somebody had to come to work so the M.T.A. could acquire that surplus.''
 Yesterday, the authority's board voted to spend most of the $1 billion surplus on items not related to labor costs, infuriating Roger Toussaint, president of Local 100 of the Transport Workers Union, who had called on the authority to delay a vote until a labor agreement is reached.
 To hear the authority tell it, the surplus is a one-time blessing and will give way to substantial deficits, starting in 2007 and rising to nearly $1 billion by 2009, as debt payments, health-care premiums and pension contributions increase. Mr. Toussaint said the authority was hoarding a surplus that could easily accommodate wage increases and more generous benefits.
 The authority's chief negotiator, Gary J. Dellaverson, said: ''If the T.W.U., rather than the M.T.A. board, decided the M.T.A.'s budget, it would probably look quite different, and I don't know whether it would look good to the riders.''
 A 1 percent raise would cost $21 million a year, according to the authority's projections, so a three-year contract with raises of 4 percent, 3 percent and 3 percent would eventually cost more than $210 million a year. 
 The magnitude of the surplus -- and the fact that its size only became apparent recently -- has set this year's negotiations apart from prior ones, said John E. Zuccotti, a former first deputy mayor. 
 ''It's a much weaker position than the position the M.T.A. is normally in: 'We're broke and we haven't gotten any money,' '' he said. ''The playing field is somewhat different. They haven't got that defense.''
 Bruce C. McIver, who has overseen labor relations for both the city and the authority, said the surplus has complicated management's stance. ''It makes it very tough for the negotiators to go to the table with credibility,'' he said, ''when your agency says, 'We have a lot of money that we can't even spend and we're going to give riders a break.' '' 
 The surplus might lead the public to be more sympathetic to the union. 
 ''It's a hard concept for people to understand, for the authority to be saying it has a big surplus this year but that its long-term prospects are dire,'' Mr. McIver said. ''It's also hard for the authority to offer this reduction in fares through the holidays and then claim they don't have money to offer the workers.'' 
 The surplus was fueled by a persistent real estate boom and low interest rates. The authority receives revenue from taxes imposed when mortgages are recorded and commercial properties are transferred. The authority, one of the largest bond issuers in the country, has $22.2 billion in outstanding debt, most of it in fixed-rate bonds. 
 The authority has at times seemed at a loss in deciding what to do with its surplus. In July, it floated the idea of building a giant deck over its West Side railyards and then selling a developer the rights to build on it, but dropped it after public criticism. 
 The board yesterday approved a $9.3 billion operating budget, after depreciation, for 2006 and endorsed a plan to divide $700 million -- the estimate for the nonrecurring portion of the $1 billion surplus -- four ways: $450 million to reduce pension liabilities, $100 million for security projects, $50 million for service improvements and $100 million for holiday discounts this year and next.
 Victor Gotbaum, who was a longtime leader of the city's largest municipal workers' union, said the $1 billion figure was a potent tool for Mr. Toussaint. ''Toussaint's in a great position to say, 'Hey, you have a big surplus and we helped you to get it,' '' he said. ''They've put him in a magnificent position.''
 Some experts believe the surplus could ultimately be even larger. James A. Parrott, chief economist at the Fiscal Policy Institute, a liberal research organization that analyzes the state's and city's finances in New York, said the authority had not revised its projections for two types of taxes -- mortgage-recording taxes and so-called urban taxes -- for 2006 to 2008. Dr. Parrott estimated that the authority could have an additional $100 million to $200 million from those taxes next year, on top of the $618 million that is projected. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LABOR UNIONS (91%); URBAN TRANSIT SYSTEMS (91%); PUBLIC TRANSPORTATION (90%); WAGES & SALARIES (90%); BUDGETS (89%); DELAYS & POSTPONEMENTS (77%); MOTORCOACHES & BUSES (76%); COLLECTIVE BARGAINING AGREEMENTS (75%); COLLECTIVE BARGAINING (74%); RAIL STATIONS & TERMINALS (69%) Transit Systems; Finances; Budgets and Budgeting; Labor; Organized Labor; Strikes; Transit Systems; Wages and Salaries; Subways; Buses; Fringe Benefits

ORGANIZATION: Metropolitan Transportation Authority; Transport Workers Union

PERSON: Sewell Chan

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%) NEW YORK, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (92%) New York City; New York City

LOAD-DATE: December 15, 2005



311 of 607 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 15, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 6; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 781 words

HEADLINE: Trade Deficit Hits Record, Threatening U.S. Growth

BYLINE: By EDMUND L. ANDREWS

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Dec. 14 

 BODY:
The United States' trade deficit ballooned to a record in October, the government said Wednesday, with imports climbing much faster than exports even though prices for imported oil declined.
 The trade deficit widened by $3 billion, to $68.9 billion, confounding forecasts on Wall Street that the gap would narrow and signaling that the nation's huge trade imbalance has not begun to stabilize.
The nation's trade deficit is on track to top $700 billion this year, up from last year's record of $618 billion, and its foreign indebtedness is rising at least as rapidly. 
 Because imports are about 60 percent higher than exports, the United States would need to increase exports more, simply to keep its imbalances from growing even larger.
 The widening gap is likely to reduce the nation's overall growth in the final quarter of this year. Morgan Stanley reduced its forecast for growth this quarter to 3 percent, from 3.4 percent on Wednesday, and Merrill Lynch shaved its already pessimistic forecast to just 2.3 percent. 
 News of the deficit also ignited a fresh round of political accusations in Washington over trade and globalization, with Democrats accusing President Bush of being soft on countries like China.
 The United States stepped up its purchases from every part of the world and in most categories of goods, even as global demand softened, the Commerce Department reported.
 The trade deficit with China through October hit $166.8 billion, exceeding the $162 billion deficit with China for all of last year.
 Over all, the Commerce Department estimated that American exports grew by 1.7 percent in October, while imports climbed 2.7 percent.
 But exports were weaker than the headline numbers implied, because virtually all of the increase stemmed from a big increase in aircraft sales after the end of a strike at Boeing. 
 Excluding aircraft, exports of capital goods and industrial goods were essentially flat. Exports of consumer goods declined 5.6 percent, to $9.37 billion.
 Many analysts had expected the trade deficit to narrow slightly, partly because of the increase in airplane exports and partly because oil prices declined slightly during the month.
 But American thirst for imported petroleum shot up 13 percent, largely to make up for the loss of production in the Gulf of Mexico caused by Hurricane Katrina.
 The United States' trade deficit with the Organization of the Petroleum Exporting Countries totaled $77 billion for the first 10 months of this year, up from $59.1 billion for the same period last year. The higher deficit is a result of both higher oil prices over the last year and higher volumes of imports. But that was only part of the reason that the trade balance deteriorated. The trade balance for nonpetroleum products for the first 10 months of this year has widened to $447 billion, up from $400 billion last year.
 Representative Benjamin L. Cardin of Maryland, a top Democratic point man on trade issues, accused the Bush administration of failing to create an effective strategy for dealing with unfair trade practices. 
 Representative Marcy Kaptur, an Ohio Democrat, stepped up her call for legislation to force the administration to take action against countries that consistently run trade surpluses with the United States of more than $10 billion a year.
 Even some Republicans expressed dismay at the size of the deficit. 
 ''Small-business owners in Maine and across the nation are fighting to remain competitive with countries such as China that flagrantly disregard fair trade practices,'' said Senator Olympia J. Snowe, Republican of Maine.
 The Treasury secretary, John W. Snow, said that the administration was pushing countries like China, but added that the trade deficit was largely a result of slow growth in other countries.
 ''If our major industrialized trading partners were growing faster, the U.S. wouldn't have such a large trade gap,'' Mr. Snow said at a briefing on the economy with Commerce Secretary Carlos M. Gutierrez and Labor Secretary Elaine L. Chao.
 The American economy grew at an annual rate of 3.8 percent in the first three quarters of this year, far faster than either the European Union or Japan. 
 A growing number of economists worry that the United States has become locked into being the world's consumer of last resort, a role that is leading to ever higher levels of foreign indebtedness financed in large part by central banks of China, Japan and other Asian countries.
 Robert Sinche, a currency strategist at Bank of America, predicted on Wednesday that foreigners would own about $4 trillion in American assets, about 30 percent of its gross domestic product, by the end of 2006. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: GOODS & SERVICES TRADE BALANCE (94%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (90%); EXPORT TRADE (90%); PETROLEUM EXPORTS & IMPORTS (90%); PETROLEUM PRODUCTS (90%); IMPORT TRADE (90%); OIL & GAS EXPORTS & IMPORTS (90%); EXPORT PRICES (90%); COMMERCE DEPARTMENTS (89%); AEROSPACE SECTOR PERFORMANCE (89%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (89%); IMPORT PRICES (89%); OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (89%); OIL & GAS PRICES (89%); POLITICAL PARTIES (78%); GLOBALIZATION (78%); PRICE CHANGES (78%); BUSINESS FORECASTS (77%); DURABLE GOODS (77%); COMMERCIAL & GENERAL AVIATION AIRCRAFT (70%); HURRICANE KATRINA (60%); HURRICANES (60%); TROPICAL STORMS (50%) International Trade and World Market; United States Economy; Records and Achievements; International Trade and World Market; Law and Legislation; Oil (Petroleum) and Gasoline; International Trade and World Market

COMPANY: MERRILL LYNCH & CO INC (90%); MORGAN STANLEY (56%); BOEING CO (53%)

ORGANIZATION: US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (82%); ORGANIZATION OF THE PETROLEUM EXPORTING COUNTRIES (59%) Morgan Stanley; Merrill Lynch & Co Inc; Commerce Department; Organization of Petroleum Exporting Countries

TICKER: MS (NYSE) (56%); BOE (LSE) (53%); BAB (BRU) (53%); BA (NYSE) (53%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (90%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (90%); NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (90%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (90%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (90%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (90%); NAICS336414 GUIDED MISSILE & SPACE VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (53%); NAICS336412 AIRCRAFT ENGINE & ENGINE PARTS MANUFACTURING (53%); NAICS336411 AIRCRAFT MANUFACTURING (53%); SIC3761 GUIDED MISSILES & SPACE VEHICLES (53%)

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (79%); BEN CARDIN (78%) Edmund L Andrews; Benjamin L (Rep) Cardin; George W (Pres) Bush; Marcy (Rep) Kaptur; John W (Sec) Snow

GEOGRAPHIC: ATLANTIC OCEAN (79%); GULF OF MEXICO (79%); MARYLAND, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (99%); CHINA (94%) China; United States

LOAD-DATE: December 15, 2005



312 of 607 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 15, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; National Desk; Pg. 31

LENGTH: 429 words

HEADLINE: Congress May Block Plan for a Wind Farm in Nantucket Sound

BYLINE: By CORNELIA DEAN

 BODY:
A plan to build what could become the first large offshore wind farm in the United States would be effectively killed by a proposed amendment to a Coast Guard budget bill now making its way through Congress, people on both sides of the issue say. 
 The amendment, offered by Representative Don Young, Republican of Alaska, would prohibit new offshore wind facilities within 1.5 nautical miles of a shipping lane or a ferry route. That would rule out construction of the installation, proposed for Nantucket Sound. The budget bill awaits action in a House-Senate conference committee.
 The installation would consist of 130 turbines in a grid that would occupy 24 square miles in the sound. Each tower, with its turbine and blades, would rise 420 feet above the water. The developer, a private company called Cape Wind Associates, says the turbines could produce three-quarters of the electricity now used on Cape Cod, Martha's Vineyard and Nantucket. 
 Greenpeace, the American Lung Association and other organizations endorse the plan as an important step in reducing pollution and global warming.
 But fishery groups, many local communities and Massachusetts political figures like Gov. Mitt Romney and Senator Edward M. Kennedy say that Nantucket Sound, a major attraction for the region's tourism economy, is an inappropriate place for so large an industrial installation and that nothing should be built in federal coastal waters until the government has devised a way to regulate development there.
 Christine Real de Azua of the American Wind Energy Association, a trade group, said Mr. Young's amendment was not the way to address those objections. 
 ''It's 'behind the closed doors' kind of government which is really not in the public interest,'' she said. 
 If Mr. Young ''were really worried about safety issues,'' she said, ''he would be worried about oil rigs which are allowed within 500 feet of a shipping channel.'' 
 Ms. Real de Azua and Mark Rodgers, a spokesman for Cape Wind, said that in Denmark, the country with the most experience with offshore wind farms, there were installations only about a quarter-mile from major shipping channels into Copenhagen Harbor and about a mile from a major channel in the Baltic Sea. Those shipping lanes handle far more traffic than Nantucket Sound, they said.
 They said concern had arisen in Britain over whether wind turbines might interfere with ships' radar. But even there, they said, the issue involves distances of 500 yards or so from the turbines, far less than the 1.5-mile buffer sought by the Young amendment.


GRAPHIC: Map of Massachusetts highlighting site of proposed wind-power project.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: WIND ENERGY (91%); BUDGETS (91%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); PUBLIC FINANCE (90%); ENERGY & UTILITY CONSTRUCTION (90%); COASTAL AREAS (90%); WIND POWER PLANTS (90%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (90%); LEGISLATION (90%); CANALS & WATERWAYS (89%); ELECTRIC POWER PLANTS (78%); MARINE SHIPPING (78%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (78%); FERRIES (71%); GLOBAL WARMING (69%) Electric Light and Power; Wind; Finances; Budgets and Budgeting

ORGANIZATION: GREENPEACE INTERNATIONAL (56%); AMERICAN LUNG ASSOCIATION (56%); AMERICAN WIND ENERGY ASSOCIATION (54%) Coast Guard

PERSON: DON YOUNG (79%); MITT ROMNEY (79%); TED KENNEDY (57%) Cornelia Dean; Don (Rep) Young

GEOGRAPHIC: MARTHA'S VINEYARD, MA, USA (79%); COPENHAGEN, DENMARK (79%) MASSACHUSETTS, USA (94%); ATLANTIC OCEAN (79%) UNITED STATES (94%); DENMARK (79%) Nantucket Sound

LOAD-DATE: December 15, 2005



313 of 607 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 15, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 6; Foreign Desk; THE STRUGGLE FOR IRAQ: THE PRESIDENT; Pg. 24

LENGTH: 754 words

HEADLINE: Bush Says U.S. Needs Patience On Iraq War; Admits Errors 

BYLINE: By RICHARD W. STEVENSON; Thom Shanker contributed reporting for this article.

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Dec. 14 

 BODY:
A day before Iraq's first parliamentary elections, President Bush said Wednesday that Americans would have to remain patient and should expect more bloodshed as Iraqis struggled toward stability and democracy.
 In the last of four speeches laying out his strategy for winning the war and bringing American troops home, Mr. Bush struck a tone of realism and spoke more bluntly than usual of his responsibility for invading Iraq partly on the basis of faulty intelligence about Saddam Hussein's weapons programs.
But he gave no ground to critics who say the war was a mistake, pointing out that Iraq stood on the eve of electing what he said would be the only constitutional democracy in the Arab world. Speaking to an invited audience of scholars, members of Congress and diplomats in Washington, Mr. Bush stood firm in resisting calls, largely from Democrats, for a timetable for withdrawal. 
 The insurgents in Iraq ''are not going to give up because of a successful election,'' Mr. Bush said. ''They know that as democracy takes root in Iraq, their hateful ideology will suffer a devastating blow. So we can expect violence to continue.''
 The election, Mr. Bush said, would be followed by ''days of uncertainty'' and perhaps weeks of vote counting that could leave the outcome unknown until next month. He made no claim that the vote on Thursday would allow the United States to start reducing its military presence. Instead, he alluded obliquely to a feeling among many foreign policy analysts and some administration officials that it could be six months before it was possible to say whether the Iraqis had established a workable government that could lead to a gradual American disengagement.
 ''The work ahead will require patience of the Iraqi people and require our patience, as well,'' Mr. Bush said. ''Yet we must remember that a free Iraq is in our interests, because a free Iraq will be a beacon of hope. And as the Middle East grows in liberty, the American people will become safer and the our nation will be more secure.''
 The address summed up the themes that Mr. Bush had set out in three previous speeches on Iraq and terrorism over the past several weeks. As before, he used this occasion to speak more frankly than he normally does, albeit in a limited way, about mistakes. In doing so, he continued what appeared to be an effort by the White House to acknowledge public unhappiness with the war while casting Mr. Bush as optimistic about the outcome.
 Responding to critics who have said the invasion distracted from the effort to confront Islamic terrorism, Mr. Bush said the United States ''did not choose war -- the choice was Saddam Hussein's.'' But a few seconds later, the president offered a slightly different version. Speaking of intelligence reports about Mr. Hussein's weapons programs that were at the heart of his case for invading Iraq, Mr. Bush said, ''And it is true that much of the intelligence turned out to be wrong. As president, I'm responsible for the decision to go into Iraq, and I'm also responsible for fixing what went wrong by reforming our intelligence capabilities.'' In an interview later with Fox News, Mr. Bush said he ''absolutely'' would have invaded Iraq if he had known then that Mr. Hussein did not have banned weapons.
 Before the speech, Mr. Bush took the unusual step of inviting a group of House Democrats to the White House for a briefing on the war. About 17 Democrats spent an hour in the Roosevelt Room with the president, Vice President Dick Cheney, Defense Secretary Donald H. Rumsfeld, Gen. Peter Pace, chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff, Secretary of State Condoleezza Rice and, via satellite from Iraq, Ambassador Zalmay Khalilzad and Gen. George W. Casey Jr., the senior American commander in Iraq.
 Representative Steve Israel, Democrat of New York, said it was his first meeting with the president since before the war and was ''far more sober and more candid'' than the last one. ''I did not hear a change of strategy in this meeting,'' he said. ''I definitely heard a clear change of tone. I left this meeting with a sense that the White House was coming to grips with the mistakes that had been made.'' 
 Democratic leaders continued to demand Mr. Bush set more concrete milestones on the path to troop withdrawals. ''After four speeches, we still do not know the remaining political, economic and military benchmarks that must be met and the schedule for achieving them,'' said Senator Harry Reid of Nevada, the minority leader in the Senate.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); ELECTIONS (90%); MILITARY WEAPONS (90%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (90%); US PRESIDENTS (89%); TERRORISM (88%); PUBLIC POLICY (78%); REBELLIONS & INSURGENCIES (78%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (78%); IRAQ WAR (78%); FOREIGN RELATIONS (74%); MUSLIMS & ISLAM (73%); ARMED FORCES (72%); CHEMICAL & BIOLOGICAL WEAPONS (72%); NUCLEAR WEAPONS (71%); INTELLIGENCE SERVICES (71%); FOREIGN POLICY (64%); RELIGION (50%) United States International Relations; United States Armament and Defense; Biological and Chemical Warfare; Atomic Weapons; Elections

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (91%); SADDAM HUSSEIN (78%) Richard W Stevenson; George W (Pres) Bush; Saddam Hussein

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (99%); IRAQ (94%); MIDDLE EAST (79%) Iraq; Iraq

LOAD-DATE: December 15, 2005



314 of 607 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 15, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 1071 words

HEADLINE: Trade Ministers at W.T.O. Talks Agree to Limit Fishing Subsidies 

BYLINE: By KEITH BRADSHER

DATELINE: HONG KONG, Dec. 14 

 BODY:
Trade ministers at global talks here said Wednesday that they had reached a broad agreement to limit government subsidies to the fishing industry, the first initiative raised by environmental groups that is expected to become part of new trade rules. 
 The plan is a public acknowledgment that overfishing has depleted three-quarters of the world's fish stocks. Governments in most major fishing countries and blocs, which pay much of the $15 billion a year in subsidies to the $90 billion global fishing industry, actively supported the move, including the United States, the European Union, Iceland, Norway, Brazil, Chile and the Philippines. 
Three holdouts until recently -- Japan, South Korea and Taiwan -- accepted the arrangement after it was narrowed somewhat to a restriction on subsidies that contribute to overfishing of depleted stocks, rather than a ban on all such subsidies. 
 The United States trade representative, Rob Portman, used the broad support here for limits on fishing subsidies to call for nongovernmental organizations to back a successful conclusion of the current round of global trade talks. The round began four years ago in Doha, Qatar. 
 The fishing issue ''was kind of a sleeper, not one many people focused on, and now it's one that gives us a reason to finish,'' Mr. Portman said.
 But environmentalists backing worldwide limits on fishing subsidies were not prepared to go that far. David Waskow, international program director of Friends of the Earth, one of the environmental groups that backed the limits, noted that other efforts by the World Trade Organization to lower duties on fish, timber and minerals might actually increase demand for those resources.
 Moreover, years of wrangling are likely over exactly which subsidies in each country will be subject to limits under the new consensus. And the subsidy ban will take effect only once a comprehensive global trade pact is concluded. 
 The W.T.O. director general, Pascal Lamy, has circulated proposed language to ministers here describing a ''broad agreement'' to limit subsidies, although many technical details still need to be worked out. 
 The wide support by environmental activists for fishing-subsidy limits contrasted with protests outside the conference by demonstrators against globalization, including some of the same groups than endorsed the subsidy limits. South Korean farmers opposed to free trade in rice scuffled with the police for a second day, but no arrests were made and no injuries reported. 
 Mr. Waskow said that lower tariffs and other steps by the W.T.O., like helping agricultural exporters, would cause greater environmental harm over all than could be offset through limits on fishing subsidies. Referring to the talks in world trade shorthand, he added: ''Certainly we would not endorse the Doha round. In fact, as things stand right now, the Doha round is bad for the environment.''
 He expressed regret that under W.T.O. rules, the fishery-subsidy limits could take effect only after global trade talks were completed in their entirety and approved by governments. Mr. Portman and other ministers reaffirmed Wednesday that they hoped to finish the talks next year despite slow progress on farm subsidies and other difficult issues.
 Many nonprofit groups, not just those active on fishing issues, have been hostile to international trade rules since 1991. That was when a dispute panel of the W.T.O.'s predecessor, the General Agreement on Tariffs and Trade, touched off an uproar in Europe and North America by ruling that the United States had to allow the import of tuna caught on Mexican fishing boats that killed large numbers of dolphins.
 The ruling never took effect because the United States agreed to provide Mexican fishermen with gear to protect the dolphins.
 The endorsement of the W.T.O. subsidy limits by environmentalists lends emphasis to the trade organization's growing engagement with less than friendly nonprofit groups. In a notable instance, Greenpeace supported the subsidies limit Wednesday morning; six hours later, three boatloads of Greenpeace activists approached the conference site to protest trade in toxic waste.
 Oxfam, which specializes in providing help in poor countries, used to be outspokenly critical of the entire international trading system. But its campaigners now jostle with corporate lobbyists in seeking to influence trade rules.
 Oxfam has concluded that because the W.T.O. gives each of its 149 nations and customs territories a veto over policy changes, poor countries have much more influence than they would by negotiating two-party or regional trade pacts with advanced economies, Chong Chan-yau, the executive director of Oxfam Hong Kong, said last week.
 ''There is a dilemma,'' he said, for nongovernmental organizations in how closely to work with the W.T.O., he said, adding that because of political realities, ''we cannot say we are in support of the W.T.O.''
 The United Nations says that 75 percent of the world's fish cannot sustain additional catches because they are already depleted or fished to the maximum sustainable extent; the planned W.T.O. ban would limit subsidies for boats seeking to catch those fish. 
 Worldwide, 150 million to 200 million people depend at least in part on fishing for their livelihoods, including many subsistence-level families in poor coastal countries who fish more when drought kills their crops. 
 Obstacles remain in defining which subsidies are deemed to contribute to overfishing. A related dispute continues over duties on imported fish.
 Some environmentalists, like David K. Schorr, a senior fellow at WWF, formerly the World Wildlife Fund, contend that fish-import duties are not very important because people will catch more fish themselves if their countries do not import them. Others, like Mr. Waskow of Friends of the Earth, see reduced duties as making fish cheaper and causing shoppers and restaurant patrons to consume more of them.
 On Tuesday, two boatloads of fishermen, most of them Filipinos, protested against the W.T.O. and a possible reduction in fish tariffs outside the convention center. Domingo F. Panganiban, the agriculture secretary of the Philippines, said he opposed tariff cuts that would open his country's market to imports, but favored limits on subsidies.
 ''The waters around the Philippines now face the problem of environmental destruction,'' he warned.


GRAPHIC: Photo: Philippine demonstrators denouncing the W.T.O. from a boat at Victoria Harbor in Hong Kong. (Photo by Bobby Yip/Reuters)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TRADE DEVELOPMENT (91%); ENVIRONMENTAL & WILDLIFE ORGANIZATIONS (90%); COMMERCE DEPARTMENTS (90%); GOVERNMENT GRANTS & SUBSIDIES (90%); AGRICULTURAL SUBSIDIES (89%); GLOBALIZATION (89%); ENVIRONMENT & NATURAL RESOURCES (89%); TALKS & MEETINGS (89%); AGRICULTURAL TRADE (89%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (89%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (89%); ENVIRONMENTALISM (89%); EXPORT TRADE (79%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE LAW (78%); PUBLIC FINANCE (78%); AGRICULTURAL EXPORT & IMPORT CONTROLS (78%); TRADE TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (78%); TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (78%); NONGOVERNMENTAL ORGANIZATIONS (77%); FISHES (73%); FISHERIES (73%); EUROPEAN UNION (73%); TARIFFS & DUTIES (69%); PROTESTS & DEMONSTRATIONS (65%); UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (64%); AGRICULTURAL EXPORTS & IMPORTS (60%); ARRESTS (60%) 

ORGANIZATION: UNITED NATIONS (59%); EUROPEAN UNION (57%); FRIENDS OF THE EARTH (54%) United Nations

PERSON: PASCAL LAMY (54%); ROB PORTMAN (52%) Keith Bradsher

GEOGRAPHIC: HONG KONG (93%); KOREA, REPUBLIC OF (92%); QATAR (92%); PHILIPPINES (92%); UNITED STATES (92%); JAPAN (79%); EUROPE (79%); TAIWAN (79%); ICELAND (79%); BRAZIL (79%); ARGENTINA (79%); NORWAY (79%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (57%) Hong Kong

LOAD-DATE: December 15, 2005



315 of 607 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 16, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section E; PT1; Column 5; Movies, Performing Arts/Weekend Desk; FILM REVIEW; Pg. 10

LENGTH: 815 words

HEADLINE: 'The Producers,' Again (This Time With Uma)

BYLINE: By A. O. SCOTT

 BODY:
The Broadway production of ''The Producers,'' with Nathan Lane and Matthew Broderick as Max Bialystock and Leo Bloom, was apparently such a sensational show that a great many people were willing to pay $100 to see it. 
 Judging from the show's success, they seem to have gotten their money's worth, which raises a fascinating question, as much an economic as an aesthetic puzzle. Here is a movie version of the musical, with the same director (Susan Stroman), the same book and lyrics (by the tireless Mel Brooks, aided on the book by Thomas Meehan) and much of the same cast. Tickets cost a tenth or less of what the best seats did on Broadway, with the added value of Uma Thurman doing a Swedish accent in high heels and a short dress and Will Ferrell as a nutty Nazi. So why isn't this a bargain? 
Or to put it even more bluntly, how come the movie feels, in every sense, like a rip-off? Nobody expects the jokes to be fresh or the songs to be any good. Some of the big laugh lines have been provoking groans since the first, nonmusical ''Producers'' movie way back in 1968, and probably even longer, since even that film was a fond, nostalgic embrace of a dying show business tradition. And no one -- probably not even Mr. Brooks himself -- would suggest that he belongs in the pantheon of American theatrical composers. (''I'm gonna put on shows that will enthrall 'em/ Read my name in Winchell's column''? It ain't Rodgers and Hammerstein. It ain't even M. C. Hammer.) So it may take a faithful rendering on-screen to reveal the real essence of ''The Producers'' in its musical incarnation -- its vulgarity, its cynicism, its utter lack of taste, charm or wit. 
 I don't just mean that the show's retrograde humor -- drooling over showgirls, sending up antiquated homosexual stereotypes -- is offensive. The intention seems to be simultaneously to mock that kind of humor and to enjoy it, as if you could double your laughter that way. Perhaps onstage you could, but that speaks less to the vitality of Mr. Brooks's imagination than to the terminal morbidity of the Broadway musical. Once upon a time -- that hazy 50's New York golden age in which ''The Producers'' seems to take place -- musical theater was the class of American pop culture, a source of democratic delight and artistic ingenuity. Now, many big musicals represent the lowest common denominator: theme park attractions for tourists.
 The movie audience, I suspect, is more discriminating. In any case, no effort has been made to adjust the show to the scale of the movie screen. Mr. Lane rants and mugs with his characteristic energy and agility, but you wish he would modulate just the tiniest bit. Or failing that, that Mr. Broderick could dry off enough to function as an interesting foil, rather than as a flailing, hysterical ninny. 
 Ms. Stroman, meanwhile, does not have the filmmaking instincts to match her deft, emphatic choreography. The close-ups may cause you to cower under your seat or reach for an umbrella to fend off the spray of saliva that seems about to pour from the screen. At other times you may find yourself involuntarily yelling ''Watch out!'' to Ms. Thurman, who is frequently in danger of bumping her head on the top of the frame. 
 She, however, is the one bit of genuine radiance in this aggressively and pointlessly shiny, noisy spectacle. As Ulla, the long-stemmed receptionist, would-be actress and apple of Bloom's eye, she alone turns a tired joke into good, crazy fun. Gary Beach, as the flamboyantly gay director Roger DeBris, and Roger Bart as his muse, Carmen Ghia, try for something similar, but it would take a lot more than a ball gown and a song called ''Keep It Gay'' for them to succeed. 
 The loud, lavish crudeness of ''The Producers'' reduces its one interesting idea to incoherence. Bialystock and Bloom hatch a scheme to produce a guaranteed bomb, ''Springtime for Hitler,'' in order to bilk their elderly investors. When opening night arrives, it is something of a relief, though also a source of confusion. Here are numbers that are supposed to be bad, which must mean that the rest of the movie is bad by accident. 
 ''The Producers'' is rated PG-13 (Parents strongly cautioned). It has some leering, naughty jokes and a smattering of profanity. 

The Producers
Opens today in New York, Los Angeles, San Francisco, Chicago, Toronto and Miami.

Directed by Susan Stroman; written by Mel Brooks and Thomas Meehan; directors of photography, John Bailey and Charles Minsky; edited by Steven Weisberg; music and lyrics by Mr. Brooks; choreography by Ms. Stroman; production designer, Mark Friedberg; produced by Mr. Brooks and Jonathan Sanger; released by Universal Pictures. Running time: 127 minutes.

WITH: Nathan Lane (Max Bialystock), Matthew Broderick (Leo Bloom), Uma Thurman (Ulla), Will Ferrell (Franz Liebkind), Gary Beach (Roger DeBris) and Roger Bart (Carmen Ghia).


GRAPHIC: Photo: Matthew Broderick, Will Ferrell and Nathan Lane in ''The Producers.'' (Photo by Andrew Schwartz/Universal Studios)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Review

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MUSICAL THEATER (89%); MUSIC (89%); MUSIC INDUSTRY (89%); FILM (89%); VISUAL & PERFORMING ARTS (77%); MUSIC COMPOSITION (71%); AMUSEMENT & THEME PARKS (69%); DESTINATIONS & ATTRACTIONS (60%); THEATER (58%) Motion Pictures; Reviews

PERSON: A O Scott; Susan Stroman; Nathan Lane; Matthew Broderick; Uma Thurman; Will Ferrell

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (90%)

LOAD-DATE: December 16, 2005



316 of 607 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 16, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section E; PT1; Column 1; Movies, Performing Arts/Weekend Desk; Getting a Jump on New Year's Eve; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 511 words

HEADLINE: When It's the Drinks That Matter

BYLINE: By FRANK BRUNI

 BODY:
CHAMPAGNE in a fabulous party space or a bottle of Bud in a rock club? Dinner in elegant surroundings or a frosty run in Central Park? Times Square or your easy chair? The myriad choices for New Year's Eve entertainment in New York can leave the most decisive reveler befuddled. For those whose plans are still up in the air, seven critics and reporters of The New York Times suggest itineraries involving clubs, restaurants, theaters and, yes, Central Park:
 Holidays are made for restaurants, and vice versa, because at least until the bill is dropped on the table, everyone gets to sup without anyone being inconvenienced. 
But New Year's Eve is its own kind of holiday. While others pique the appetite first and foremost for food, it piques the appetite first and foremost for drink (or it does in my friends, who tend to be a sloshy lot). So it calls for a restaurant with a liquid bent, or maybe a cocktail lounge with a solid lineup of edibles.
 Three establishments come to mind, and at the moment, at least, that mind is sober.
 In the category of lounges that don't leave you hungry glows the Pegu Club (77 West Houston Street, 212-473-7348), which literally does seem to glow: there's something about the lighting in this tucked-away second floor that's unusually flattering. And that's reason enough to spend the last hours of a waning year there. Who doesn't want to go out on a pretty note?
 The Pegu Club does vintage cocktails in retro glasses and with nifty accouterment: eyedroppers of lime juice, lemon juice, sugar water and bitters, so you can tailor your drink to your liking. Its snacks include smoked trout deviled eggs, made with a curry mayonnaise and much, much better than you suspect they'll be.
 For New Year's Eve it's selling tickets: $140 to belly up to the bar; $175 for a seat at a table. Either way, you get free rein over drinks (unless you insist on a super-premium liquor) and enough kinds of snacks to make a meal.
 A similar arrangement exists at Employees Only, in the West Village, where the food is more far-ranging and ambitious. Like Pegu, Employees Only (510 Hudson Street, 212-242-3021) has a door that isn't well marked, so you can indulge the sense that you're getting in on a secret.
 A 10 p.m. to 2 a.m. ''End of Prohibition'' party there will work a 1930's theme. Tickets for $250 (the bar area) and $300 (the dining room) give you bottomless drinks and a bevy of small plates.
 Those are steep prices. For something more economical and a stronger emphasis on food, consider Landmarc in TriBeCa, an American bistro that's an ideal destination when you don't know exactly where you want to go.
 The spacious downstairs dining room at Landmarc (179 West Broadway, 212-343-3883) feels a bit dramatic and yet very cozy, accommodating several moods. And Landmarc doesn't mark up its wines, many of them creative choices, as far above retail price as other restaurants do.
 Add to that mercy the fact that it's open until 2 a.m. New Year's Eve and you may well have found your restaurant home for this holiday. FRANK BRUNI

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: RESTAURANTS (90%); DRINKING PLACES (78%); VISUAL & PERFORMING ARTS (71%); TICKET SALES (66%) Terms not available from NYTimes

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (90%) UNITED STATES (90%)

LOAD-DATE: December 16, 2005



317 of 607 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 16, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Editorial Desk; Pg. 41

LENGTH: 968 words

HEADLINE: An Ill Wind Off Cape Cod

BYLINE: By Robert F. Kennedy Jr.. 
Robert F. Kennedy Jr. is an environmental lawyer and professor at Pace University Law School.

 BODY:
AS an environmentalist, I support wind power, including wind power on the high seas. I am also involved in siting wind farms in appropriate landscapes, of which there are many. But I do believe that some places should be off limits to any sort of industrial development. I wouldn't build a wind farm in Yosemite National Park. Nor would I build one on Nantucket Sound, which is exactly what the company Energy Management is trying to do with its Cape Wind project. 
 Environmental groups have been enticed by Cape Wind, but they should be wary of lending support to energy companies that are trying to privatize the commons -- in this case 24 square miles of a heavily used waterway. And because offshore wind costs twice as much as gas-fired electricity and significantly more than onshore wind, the project is financially feasible only because the federal and state governments have promised $241 million in subsidies. 
Cape Wind's proposal involves construction of 130 giant turbines whose windmill arms will reach 417 feet above the water and be visible for up to 26 miles. These turbines are less than six miles from shore and would be seen from Cape Cod, Martha's Vineyard and Nantucket. Hundreds of flashing lights to warn airplanes away from the turbines will steal the stars and nighttime views. The noise of the turbines will be audible onshore. A transformer substation rising 100 feet above the sound would house giant helicopter pads and 40,000 gallons of potentially hazardous oil. 
 According to the Massachusetts Historical Commission, the project will damage the views from 16 historic sites and lighthouses on the cape and nearby islands. The Humane Society estimates the whirling turbines could every year kill thousands of migrating songbirds and sea ducks. 
 Nantucket Sound is among the most densely traveled boating corridors in the Atlantic. The turbines will be perilously close to the main navigation channels for cargo ships, ferries and fishing boats. The risk of collisions with the towers would increase during the fogs and storms for which the area is famous. That is why the Steamship Authority and Hy-Line Cruises, which transport millions of passengers to and from the cape and islands every year, oppose the project. Thousands of small businesses, including marina owners, hotels, motels, whale watching tours and charter fishing operations will also be hurt. The Beacon Hill Institute at Suffolk University in Boston estimates a loss of up to 2,533 jobs because of the loss of tourism -- and over a billion dollars to the local economy.
 Nantucket Sound is a critical fishing ground for the commercial fishing families of Martha's Vineyard and Cape Cod. Hundreds of fishermen work Horseshoe Shoal, where the Cape Wind project would be built, and make half their annual income from the catch. The risks that their gear will become fouled in the spider web of cables between the 130 towers will largely preclude fishing in the area, destroying family-owned businesses that enrich the palate, economy and culture of Cape Cod. 
 Many environmental groups support the Cape Wind project, and that's unfortunate because making enemies of fishermen and marina owners is bad environmental strategy in the long run. Cape Cod's traditional-gear commercial fishing families and its recreational anglers and marina owners have all been important allies for environmentalists in our battles for clean water. 
 There are those who argue that unlike our great Western national parks, Cape Cod is far from pristine, and that Cape Wind's turbines won't be a significant blot. I invite these critics to see the pods of humpback, minke, pilot, finback and right whales off Nantucket, to marvel at the thousands of harbor and gray seals lolling on the bars off Monomoy and Horseshoe Shoal, to chase the dark clouds of terns and shorebirds descending over the thick menhaden schools exploding over acre-sized feeding frenzies of striped bass, bluefish and bonita. 
 I urge them to come diving on some of the hundreds of historic wrecks in this ''graveyard of the Atlantic,'' and to visit the endless dune-covered beaches of Cape Cod, our fishing villages immersed in history and beauty, or to spend an afternoon netting blue crabs or mucking clams, quahogs and scallops by the bushel on tidal mud flats -- some of the reasons my uncle, John F. Kennedy, authorized the creation of the Cape Cod National Seashore in 1961, and why Nantucket Sound is under consideration as a national marine sanctuary, a designation that would prohibit commercial electrical generation.
 All of us need periodically to experience wilderness to renew our spirits and reconnect ourselves to the common history of our nation, humanity and to God. The worst trap that environmentalists can fall into is the conviction that the only wilderness worth preserving is in the Rocky Mountains or Alaska. To the contrary, our most important wildernesses are those that are closest to our densest population centers, like Nantucket Sound.
 There are many alternatives that would achieve the same benefits as Cape Wind without destroying this national treasure. Deep water technology is rapidly evolving, promising huge bounties of wind energy with fewer environmental and economic consequences. Scotland is preparing to build wind turbines in the Moray Firth more than 12 miles offshore. Germany is considering placing turbines as far as 27 miles off its northern shores. 
 If Cape Wind were to place its project further offshore, it could build not just 130, but thousands of windmills -- where they can make a real difference in the battle against global warming without endangering the birds or impoverishing the experience of millions of tourists and residents and fishing families who rely on the sound's unspoiled bounties.


GRAPHIC: Drawing (Drawing by Stan Fellows)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: WIND ENERGY (94%); ENERGY SITING (90%); ENERGY & UTILITY CONSTRUCTION (90%); ENVIRONMENTALISM (90%); NATURAL GAS & ELECTRIC UTILITIES (90%); WIND POWER PLANTS (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); ENVIRONMENTAL & WILDLIFE ORGANIZATIONS (89%); ISLANDS & REEFS (89%); MARINE VESSELS (89%); CANALS & WATERWAYS (88%); ENVIRONMENT & NATURAL RESOURCES (78%); MARINE MAMMALS (78%); PRIVATIZATION (78%); LIGHTHOUSES & LIGHTSHIPS (78%); NATIONAL PARKS (76%); HISTORIC SITES (76%); ELECTRIC POWER INDUSTRY (76%); BOATING & RAFTING (74%); FINFISH FISHING (73%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (73%); SMALL BUSINESS (71%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (68%); FERRIES (68%); CRUISES (68%); COMMERCIAL FISHING EQUIPMENT (66%); SPORT FISHING (66%); HELICOPTERS (65%); HISTORY (64%); BIRDS (63%); ANIMAL WELFARE (63%); MARINAS (62%); COMMERCIAL FISHING (61%); HOTELS & MOTELS (60%) Terms not available from NYTimes

GEOGRAPHIC: MARTHA'S VINEYARD, MA, USA (92%); BOSTON, MA, USA (79%) MASSACHUSETTS, USA (92%); CALIFORNIA, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: December 16, 2005



318 of 607 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 16, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 6; Editorial Desk; Pg. 41

LENGTH: 754 words

HEADLINE: Drugs, Devices And Doctors

BYLINE: By PAUL KRUGMAN. 
Thomas L. Friedman is on vacation.

 BODY:
Merck, the pharmaceutical giant, is under siege. And one side effect of that siege is a public relations crisis for the Cleveland Clinic, a celebrated hospital and health care organization.
 But the real story is bigger than either the company or the clinic. It's the story of how growing conflicts of interest may be distorting both medical research and health care in general.
Merck stands accused of playing down evidence that Vioxx, a best-selling painkiller until it was withdrawn last year, increases the risk of heart attacks. The most recent accusation of obscuring the evidence came from The New England Journal of Medicine, which discovered that the authors of a Merck-supported paper published in the journal had removed data unfavorable to Vioxx. The journal called on the authors to issue a correction. 
 Dr. Eric Topol, a famed cardiologist at the Cleveland Clinic, has been warning about the dangers of Vioxx since 2001. In videotaped testimony at a recent federal Vioxx trial (which ended in a mistrial), he accused Merck of scientific misconduct, and also testified that Merck's former chairman had called the chairman of the Cleveland Clinic to complain about his work -- an action Dr. Topol called ''repulsive.''
 Two days after that testimony, according to Dr. Topol, he was told early in the morning not to attend an 8 a.m. meeting of the clinic's board of governors, because the position of chief academic officer, which gave him a seat on the board, had been abolished. A clinic spokeswoman denied that the abrupt elimination of this post had any link to his Vioxx testimony.
 A few days later, The Wall Street Journal reported on a web of financial connections between the Cleveland Clinic, its chief executive and AtriCure, a company selling a medical device used in a surgical procedure promoted by the clinic. Dr. Topol -- whose demotion also cost him his seat on the conflict-of-interest committee -- was ''among those who questioned the ties,'' the newspaper said.
 O.K., it's sounding complicated. But the essence is simple: crucial scientific research and crucial medical decisions have to be considered suspect because of financial ties among medical companies, medical researchers and health care providers. 
 That should come as no surprise. The past quarter-century has seen the emergence of a vast medical-industrial complex, in which doctors, hospitals and research institutions have deep financial links with drug companies and equipment makers. Conflicts of interest aren't the exception -- they're the norm.
 The economic logic of the medical-industrial complex is straightforward. Prescription drugs and high-technology medical devices account for a growing share of medical spending. Both are products that are expensive to develop but relatively cheap to make. So the profit from each additional unit sold is large, giving companies a strong incentive to do whatever it takes to persuade doctors and hospitals to choose their products.
 The tools of persuasion go beyond hiring cheerleaders as sales representatives. There are also financial inducements, sometimes disguised, sometimes blatant. A few months ago, Reed Abelson of The New York Times reported on a practice in which device makers give surgeons who are in a position to choose their products (with others paying the cost) lucrative consulting contracts, in some cases running to hundreds of thousands of dollars a year.
 Above all, the line between medical researcher and medical entrepreneur has been blurred. In her book ''The Truth About the Drug Companies,'' Marcia Angell, a former editor of The New England Journal of Medicine, writes that small companies founded by university researchers now ''ring the major academic research institutions hoping for lucrative deals with big drug companies.'' Usually, she says, ''both academic researchers and their institutions own equity'' in these companies, giving them a strong incentive to make the big drug companies happy.
 The point is that the whiff of corruption in our medical system isn't emanating from a few bad apples. The whole system of incentives encourages doctors and researchers to serve the interests of the medical industry.
 The good news is that things don't have to be that way. Economic trends gave rise to the medical-industrial complex, but only because those trends interacted with bad policies, which can be fixed. In future columns I'll talk about how serious health reform can reduce the conflicts of interest that are tainting our current system.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TESTIMONY (90%); HEALTH CARE (90%); PHARMACEUTICALS INDUSTRY (90%); PHARMACEUTICAL PREPARATION MFG (90%); DRUG INTERACTIONS & SIDE EFFECTS (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); NONSTEROIDAL ANTI-INFLAMMATORY DRUGS (90%); CONFLICTS OF INTEREST (90%); MEDICAL DEVICES (89%); WRITERS (89%); MEDICAL RESEARCH (89%); PRESCRIPTION DRUGS (78%); HOSPITALS (78%); HEALTH CARE COSTS (78%); MISCONDUCT (77%); EXPERIMENTATION & RESEARCH (76%); WITNESSES (76%); CARDIOLOGY (75%); HEART DISEASE (75%); PHYSICIANS & SURGEONS (73%); SURGERY & TRANSPLANTATION (73%); SCIENCE NEWS (71%); SCIENCE & TECHNOLOGY (71%); MISTRIAL (67%); TALKS & MEETINGS (65%); EXECUTIVES (64%) Terms not available from NYTimes

COMPANY: MERCK & CO INC (98%); WALL STREET JOURNAL (53%); ATRICURE INC (53%)

ORGANIZATION: NEW ENGLAND JOURNAL OF MEDICINE (57%)

TICKER: MRK (PAR) (98%); MRK (NYSE) (98%); ATRC (NASDAQ) (53%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS325414 BIOLOGICAL PRODUCT (EXCEPT DIAGNOSTIC) MANUFACTURING (98%); NAICS325412 PHARMACEUTICAL PREPARATION MANUFACTURING (98%); SIC2834 PHARMACEUTICAL PREPARATIONS (98%); NAICS334510 ELECTROMEDICAL & ELECTROTHERAPEUTIC APPARATUS MANUFACTURING (53%); SIC3845 ELECTROMEDICAL & ELECTROTHERAPEUTIC APPARATUS (53%)

GEOGRAPHIC: CLEVELAND, OH, USA (94%) OHIO, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: December 16, 2005



319 of 607 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 16, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Foreign Desk; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 554 words

HEADLINE: Survivors of Crackdown in Uzbekistan File Lawsuit in Germany 

BYLINE: AP

DATELINE: BERLIN, Dec. 15 

 BODY:
Survivors of a crackdown on a demonstration in Uzbekistan have filed a lawsuit in Germany accusing the Uzbek interior minister of torture and crimes against humanity, a human rights group said Thursday. 
 Government troops under the command of Interior Minister Zokirjon Almatov fired on thousands of protesters in Andijon, an eastern town, in May. Human rights groups say more than 700 people were killed, while the government put the death toll at 187.
 The lawsuit against Mr. Almatov was filed Monday with German federal prosecutors, the New York-based group Human Rights Watch said. German law allows prosecution of cases of torture and crimes against humanity regardless of where they are committed. It was not clear whether German prosecutors would take up the case, though.
 Mr. Almatov is believed to be in Germany for medical treatment and could be arrested if the case is initiated, Lotte Leicht, a Human Rights Watch spokeswoman, said in a telephone interview from Belgium.
 ''As interior minister, he is overseeing both the prison system and also the special security forces that were responsible for the killing and shooting of people in Andijon,'' she said.
 The lawsuit also accuses Mr. Almatov of being responsible for torture that it says has been carried out by the police since the mid-1990's.
 Mahmud Bobonasarov, a spokesman for the Uzbek Embassy in Berlin, had no immediate comment on the lawsuit.
 Human Rights Watch filed the suit with eight survivors of the Andijon crackdown as co-plaintiffs, Ms. Leicht said. 
 This month, Amnesty International also asked the prosecutor's office to begin an investigation of Mr. Almatov.
 President Islam Karimov of Uzbekistan, a former Communist official who has ruled the Central Asian country for 16 years, has been cracking down on political foes and Islamic opposition groups.
 The government says the uprising in Andijon began when militants seized a prison and freed 23 businessmen who were on trial, charged with Islamic extremism. They also seized a government building and took hostages, as thousands of demonstrators gathered nearby to press economic and social grievances.
 Human Rights Watch said the protesters had been surrounded by troops who opened fire. Hundreds of the demonstrators sought refuge in Kyrgyzstan and other countries.
 In the last two months, Uzbek courts have sentenced 73 men to up to 22 years each for their roles in the uprising. The trials have been criticized by outside observers as a government-orchestrated show with testimony coerced by torture.
 More trials are scheduled in coming months for more than 100 others. 
 Facing Western criticism, Mr. Karimov's government has refused an international inquiry and evicted an American military base used for operations in Afghanistan.
 On Wednesday, an international advocacy group for the news media, expressed concern over what it called increasing violations of press freedom in Uzbekistan, after the government closed the office of a United States-financed radio station. The group, Reporters Without Borders, said in a statement that the move against Radio Free Europe/Radio Liberty was the ''endgame'' for free Uzbek news media. 
 The Uzbek Foreign Ministry said it had refused to renew the registration of the station because it had used reporters without accreditation.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: HUMAN RIGHTS (92%); HUMAN RIGHTS VIOLATIONS (92%); LITIGATION (92%); HUMAN RIGHTS ORGANIZATIONS (91%); TORTURE (90%); SUITS & CLAIMS (90%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (90%); CRIMES AGAINST HUMANITY (90%); PROTESTS & DEMONSTRATIONS (89%); INVESTIGATIONS (89%); ARMED FORCES (89%); PRISONS (87%); MUSLIMS & ISLAM (86%); HOSTAGE TAKING (79%); MIDDLE EAST PROTESTS & UPRISINGS (78%); FREEDOM OF PRESS (78%); SENTENCING (78%); COUPS (78%); INTERVIEWS (78%); SHOOTINGS (77%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (75%); AMNESTY (73%); ARRESTS (73%); TESTIMONY (69%); RELIGION (68%); EMBASSIES & CONSULATES (65%) Terms not available from NYTimes

ORGANIZATION: HUMAN RIGHTS WATCH (84%)

GEOGRAPHIC: BERLIN, GERMANY (92%) NEW YORK, USA (79%) GERMANY (97%); UZBEKISTAN (94%); UNITED STATES (92%); CENTRAL EUROPE (90%); CENTRAL ASIA (79%); KYRGYZSTAN (79%); AFGHANISTAN (79%); ASIA (79%); BELGIUM (57%)

LOAD-DATE: December 16, 2005



320 of 607 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 16, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 2; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1013 words

HEADLINE: Price Index Shows Big November Drop

BYLINE: By LOUIS UCHITELLE

 BODY:
The nation's chief measure of inflation, the Consumer Price Index, fell by six-tenths of a percent in November, the biggest monthly drop since the Truman administration, but that did not diminish expectations that the Federal Reserve will continue to raise interest rates at least through early next year. 
 The sharp drop in gasoline prices last month brought down the price index, the government said. Brushing that aside, Wall Street's forecasters focused instead on the core inflation rate, which excludes food and energy. That rose. 
So did industrial production, another statistic released yesterday, suggesting to some economists that inflationary shortages might develop.
 Twenty years ago, rising industrial production raised fears of inflation as the nation's factories ran short of the machinery, floor space and labor needed to meet growing demand. 
 Imports now account for about 25 percent of the merchandise that Americans consume, up from less than 10 percent in the 1980's, but at the Fed and on Wall Street, inflationary pressures are still calculated largely as they were two decades ago. 
 ''The Fed's policy makers are not yet at a point that they want to shift their focus away from domestic production capacity,'' said Maurice N. Harris, chief United States economist at UBS Investment Research, adding that he also considers capacity a critical measure.
 The core inflation rate rose two-tenths of a percent in November, matching October's rise. It was up 2.1 percent over the past 12 months, said the Bureau of Labor Statistics, which compiles the inflation data. That was toward the upper end of what the Fed considers tolerable inflation, and slightly higher over the last three months than during the summer. The annual inflation rate through November, including food and energy, was 3.5 percent.
 Industrial production, which measures the output of factories, utilities and mines, rose seven-tenths of a percent in November, according to the Fed, which reports this statistic. That was on top of a 1.3 percent rise in October. Manufacturing accounted for most of the increase, particularly a pickup in the production of computers and semiconductors as well as other electronic equipment and construction materials. 
 The pickup in manufacturing put the output of the nation's factories at 79.4 percent of their capacity to produce, unchanged from October and roughly at the peak reached in September 2000, just before the start of the last recession.
 ''It is not that manufacturing is booming,'' said Mark Zandi, chief economist at Moody's Economy.com, ''but it was the soft spot and now this sector, too, is growing well, along with the broader economy.'' 
 In approving a quarter-point rise in the benchmark federal funds rate on Tuesday, the Fed's policy makers issued a statement that noted ''possible increases in resource utilization'' -- a reference to the capacity utilization rate and the 5 percent unemployment rate.
 Ian Shepherdson, chief domestic economist of High Frequency Economics, said: ''Resource utilization is mainly a code word for the unemployment rate, and the argument is simple. If the unemployment rate goes down further, the pressure on wages will become more intensely upward.''
 Wages would have to rise faster than unit labor costs; that is, the cost in wages to produce a service, like dry cleaning a suit, or to produce a unit of merchandise -- a car, for example. Currently that is not happening. Gains in efficiency, reflected in a rising productivity growth rate, have reduced the number of labor hours needed for production, and that in recent months has reduced unit labor costs. 
 The sharp drop in the overall Consumer Price Index was a result of the largest one-month drop in gasoline prices on record, the Bureau of Labor Statistics reported. They fell to an average of $2.38 a gallon in November from $2.83 in October, and now appear to have leveled off.
 ''Certainly we are not seeing another plunge in gasoline prices in December,'' said Patrick C. Jackman, a senior economist in the bureau's price index division.
 The decline of six-tenths of a percent in the overall index last month was the largest since July 1949, when Harry S. Truman was president. And the plunge would have been greater if gasoline were the only item in the price index, Mr. Jackman said.
 Offsetting this was the price of electric power, which jumped sharply, as did food prices. There were also increases in apparel prices, in the cost of owning a home, in school costs and in outlays for medical care. In the case of medical care, the rise came mainly in the prices of prescription drugs and in hospital charges. The latter went up more than health insurance companies increased their reimbursements, Mr. Jackman said. 
 For months, the wages of production workers -- white-collar as well as blue-collar employees below the level of manager -- have risen by less than the inflation rate. Production workers constitute 80 percent of the work force, more than 100 million workers, and the failure of their wages to keep up with inflation has become a political issue.
 The sharp drop in the price index last month meant that the inflation-adjusted wages of production workers in November rose by 1 percent. Treasury Secretary John W. Snow issued a statement noting the increase, which he described as ''another sign of the strength of the U.S. economy.''
 That drew a response from Jared Bernstein, a senior economist at the labor-oriented Economic Policy Institute. It was the largest monthly increase in inflation-adjusted wages in more than 30 years, Mr. Bernstein acknowledged. But November was also the fourth anniversary of the recovery, and over that period the inflation-adjusted hourly wage of production workers fell to an average of $16.32, from $16.37 in November 2001.
 ''One good month based on a swing in the C.P.I. does nothing to change this negative trajectory,'' Mr. Bernstein said.

 MONTH: -1.0
YEAR: +3.7

*Calculated bimonthly. Figures are for Nov., except as noted.

(Source by Bureau of Labor Statistics)(pg. C2)

GRAPHIC: Chart: ''Diverging Paths''A sudden drop in energy prices caused inflation to fall sharply last month while the core rate remained stable.Graph tracks monthly change in consumer prices (all prices and excluding energy and food), seasonally adjusted, since 2004.(Source by Bureau of Labor Statistics)(pg. C1)Chart: ''Consumer Prices''U.S. and Major Metropolitan AreasNot seasonally adjustedPercent change from previous:U.S.MONTH: -0.8YEAR: +3.5New YorkMONTH: -0.6YEAR: +3.9Los AngelesMONTH: -0.6YEAR: +4.4ChicagoMONTH: -0.3YEAR: +3.5Boston*MONTH: -0.7YEAR: +3.3Dallas*MONTH: -0.6YEAR: +4.4Detroit* (Oct.)MONTH: +1.5YEAR: +4.0Houston*(Oct.)MONTH: +2.1YEAR: +4.3Philadelphia*(Oct.)MONTH: +0.4YEAR: +3.6San Francisco*(Oct.)MONTH: +1.4YEAR: +2.8Washington*

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC NEWS (94%); INFLATION (94%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (91%); CONSUMER PRICE INDEX (90%); MANUFACTURING OUTPUT (90%); PUBLIC POLICY (89%); MANUFACTURING FACILITIES (89%); ECONOMIC POLICY (78%); LABOR SECTOR PERFORMANCE (78%); PLANT CAPACITY (78%); STATISTICS (78%); US FEDERAL FUNDS RATES (78%); RECESSION (78%); OIL & GAS PRICES (78%); INTEREST RATES (77%); LABOR DEPARTMENTS (73%); GASOLINE PRICES (73%); FINANCIAL RATINGS (66%); CONSTRUCTION (61%) Terms not available from NYTimes

ORGANIZATION: BUREAU OF LABOR STATISTICS (59%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: December 16, 2005



321 of 607 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 16, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Editorial Desk; Pg. 41

LENGTH: 917 words

HEADLINE: Secular Democracy Goes on Trial

BYLINE: By Pankaj Mishra. 
Pankaj Mishra is the author, most recently, of ''An End to Suffering: The Buddha in the World.''

DATELINE: Simla, India 

 BODY:
WHEN in 1989 Ayatollah Ruhollah Khomeini of Iran sentenced Salman Rushdie to death, saying he had blasphemed the Prophet Muhammad in his novel ''The Satanic Verses,'' it was seen even in the Islamic world as an act of political opportunism, intended to boost Iran over its rival Saudi Arabia as the beacon of global Islam. It garnered little support among the clergy outside Iran, or among Muslims in general; and Iran itself seemed to acknowledge public revulsion in 1998 when it stated it would no longer carry out the death sentence. 
 The ayatollah's fatwa however created what, in retrospect, seems an extraordinary ideological consensus among the largely secularized Western intelligentsia. Writing in Mr. Rushdie's defense, novelists, poets, newspaper editors and columnists painted themselves as defenders of the European Enlightenment battling the dark atavism of religion. 
This view of an unreformed Islam prone to anti-Western extremism re-emerged, of course, after the terrorist attacks of 9/11. Many conservative intellectuals in the United States and Britain declared their resolve to fight to the bitter end against ''Islamo-fascism''; and even the more liberal intellectuals demanded an immediate Islamic Reformation. 
 But these familiar generalities -- Enlightenment versus Religion, Democracy versus Fascism -- have always been facile, and are now being exploded by the ordeal of another prominent writer of Muslim ancestry, Orhan Pamuk, who goes on trial in Turkey today. 
 Mr. Pamuk is accused of a committing a crime by mentioning, in an interview with a Swiss newspaper, that ''a million Armenians and 30,000 Kurds'' were killed in Turkey after World War I. The Armenian massacres are a widely documented fact. But it is an officially taboo subject in Turkey; and the government, nationalist political groups and press immediately joined in attacking Mr. Pamuk. 
 Many Western politicians and intellectuals reacted late, or confusedly, to this assault on a celebrated writer. This may be because the West often upholds Turkey as an example of a Muslim society embracing secular democracy. Turkey's apparently ongoing enlightenment underpins its claim to be considered part of Europe. 
 So what explains this latest Turkish assault on free speech? It won't do to blame religious extremists. Most of Mr. Pamuk's detractors belong to the political right wing, which in Turkey means that they are determined secularists. The prosecutor who instigated the legal proceedings belongs to a longstanding secular Turkish state that has cracked down on Muslim women wearing headscarves more harshly than has France.
 What does seem apparent is that, like all nation-states, Turkey has its own sacred nationalist myths and will protect them as fiercely as, if not more than, any society claming the sanction of religion. This state-sponsored nationalism attracts a wide range of Turks, including many members of the educated elite. 
 And Turkey's middle-class nationalism, as Mr. Pamuk has pointed out, is hardly exceptional. Other nations wearing some of the emblems of Western modernity -- secularism, democracy, a free-market economy -- hardly offer any guarantees of free speech. Consider, for example, China, India and Russia, three multiethnic and officially secular nation-states that are experimenting with variations on the free-market economy. 
 In all these countries, a growing middle class turned a blind eye to, or even actively supported, the suppression of ethnic minorities in the name of national unity. In democratic India, up to 70,000 people have died in Kashmir in a violent insurgency that the Indian news media have yet to honestly reckon with. In Russian Chechnya, civilians and journalists have been as much victims as Islamic rebels. And such is the power of Chinese nationalism that even most dissident intellectuals in the West feel that Tibet and Xinjiang are part of their motherland.
 The destructive potential of modern nationalism should not surprise us. Traditional religion hardly played a role in the unprecedented violence of the 20th century, which was largely caused by secular ideologies -- Nazism and Communism. Secular nationalism has been known to impose intellectual conformity and suppress dissent even in advanced democratic societies. In America, it was at least partly the fear of being perceived as unpatriotic that held back the freest news media in the world from rigorously questioning the official justification for and conduct of the war in Iraq. 
 As for traditional religion, outside Saudi Arabia and Iran and Afghanistan under the Taliban it has rarely enjoyed the kind of overwhelming state power that modern nationalism has known. Then why reflexively blame religion for the growth of intolerance and violence? Perhaps, because it is easy -- and useful. Certainly, all the talk of Enlightenment, Reformation, a clash of civilizations and the like does help build up ideological smokescreens, obscuring the more complex political and economic battles of the world. 
 By setting up abstract, simplistic oppositions, the Rushdie affair helped metaphysics cloud the realm of geopolitics. The Pamuk affair, on the other hand, promises to help create intellectual clarity. But this will not only require renouncing the urge to populate the world with religious fanatics, dangerous ''others.'' It will also require a willingness, as Mr. Pamuk has so bravely expressed, to question the myths of our own complacently modern and secular societies.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: RELIGION (96%); MUSLIMS & ISLAM (93%); WRITERS (91%); SENTENCING (90%); NOVELS & SHORT STORIES (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); CAPITAL PUNISHMENT (78%); LITIGATION (78%); POLITICAL ORGANIZATIONS (77%); POETRY (77%); POLITICS (77%); POLITICAL PARTIES (77%); CONSERVATISM (77%); LIBERALISM (77%); CELEBRITIES (74%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (74%); INTERVIEWS (74%); TERRORISM (73%); TERRORIST ATTACKS (73%); CLERGY & RELIGIOUS (71%); SEPTEMBER 11 ATTACK (67%); FREEDOM OF SPEECH (65%); WORLD WAR I (50%) Terms not available from NYTimes

GEOGRAPHIC: TURKEY (99%); IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (94%); SAUDI ARABIA (92%); ARMENIA (92%); EUROPE (79%); UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: December 16, 2005



322 of 607 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 16, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 5; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 990 words

HEADLINE: House Passes Bill to Fortify Pension Plans

BYLINE: By MARY WILLIAMS WALSH

 BODY:
The House passed a measure yesterday aimed at strengthening the United States' system of company pensions, but many members said they considered the bill flawed and hoped to amend it before final passage. 
 The continued controversy over the bill suggests that it still faces considerable turbulence when lawmakers try to work out the differences between the House and Senate versions.
Moreover, the White House warned yesterday that President Bush would veto the bill unless it went further in shoring up the creaky pension system. The administration is seeking legislation that would require companies to put more money behind their pension promises than current law requires, and to pay adequate premiums to the Pension Benefit Guaranty Corporation, the government agency that insures traditional pension plans. 
 ''The president's senior advisers will recommend a veto'' if the House and Senate end up with a bill no stronger than the law they have been trying to amend, the White House said in a statement. The Bush administration has said it considers pension reform a major legislative priority; it issued a similar warning when the Senate passed its version in November.
 Negotiations between the House and Senate are not expected to take place until early next year.
 The Republican-backed pension bill, approved yesterday by a 294-132 vote, would require companies to close shortfalls in their pension funds within seven years, and even more quickly in cases of very large financing gaps. 
 The House bill, like the Senate legislation, contains other provisions that would appear to satisfy, at least in part, the Bush administration's calls for tougher pension rules.
 But the White House has called for applying new rules more quickly and in a purer form than either the House or Senate bills, which contain many compromises.
 One of the biggest differences between the House bill and its Senate counterpart lies in its lack of any special relief for airlines. The major airlines have been struggling with their big pension plans, and Northwest and Delta, both in bankruptcy proceedings, have fallen out of compliance with the existing law.
 Those two airlines have little hope of keeping their plans going unless Congress gives them a break on their pension contributions. But the administration has said it is opposed to pension relief for airlines, or for any other single industry or company.
 Several members of Congress, from both parties, focused on the question of airline pensions yesterday, saying they wanted to incorporate relief for the airlines when the differences between the House and Senate bills were worked out.
 ''Let's give the airlines a fighting chance,'' said Representative David Scott, a Georgia Democrat, who said many of his constituents were counting on Delta Air Lines for their pensions and retiree medical benefits. He said he saw many imperfections in the pension bill but urged passage anyway so that it could go to a conference committee with the Senate, which gives airlines 20 years to shore up their pensions.
 Republicans said the bill was necessary to prevent further erosion in the use of traditional corporate pensions. ''Without reform,'' said Representative Tom Price, a Georgia Republican, ''the system may very well collapse under mounting deficits.''
 But many Democrats complained that the bill, rather than supporting traditional pensions that provide a guaranteed income in retirement, would discourage companies from offering pensions in the future. 
 ''Without question, this bill will dismantle pensions in the same way they've tried to dismantle Social Security,'' said Representative Earl Pomeroy, a North Dakota Democrat.
 The House measure would push companies to try to keep a full dollar set aside in trust for every dollar of benefits they have promised to their employees. Under the current law, companies can essentially call their pension plans fully funded when they have just 90 cents set aside for every dollar they owe. 
 Moreover, any time a new deficit appeared in a company's pension fund -- something that routinely happens when benefits are increased or investment returns weaken -- the House bill would require the company to put in enough money to close it again within seven years.
 Under the current law, companies have as many as 30 years to close such gaps.
 The bill would also bar companies from increasing benefits at all if their plans are very weak. It would require companies to give their workers more detailed and up-to-date information about the health of their pension plans. 
 In addition, the House bill would require companies to pay higher premiums to the federal pension guarantor, and would index the premiums to wage inflation in the future. The current premium rate, $19 per participant, has been in place since 1994 and does not come close to covering the value of the insurance provided.
 The bill would also reward companies that have healthier pension plans by giving them five years to phase in the rate increase. Companies with weak pension plans would have to start paying the higher premiums within three years.
 But critics cited what they saw as its failure to halt abuses like ''revolving-door bankruptcies,'' age discrimination in pensions and generous golden parachutes for executives of companies that demand concessions from rank-and-file workers.
 The House bill also contains a provision that would make it easier for hedge funds to handle pension money without being subject to the legal safeguards that cover most financial institutions.
 Representative John A. Boehner, Republican from Ohio, who has been a leader in drafting the House pension bill, said he was confused by some of the criticism yesterday. He argued that the bill struck a good balance between being too lax or too tough. He said he was committed to trying to solve some outstanding issues, like the airline problems, in a House-Senate conference.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LEGISLATION (94%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (91%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (91%); VETO (90%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); PENSIONS & BENEFITS LAW (90%); AIRLINES (89%); PENSION & RETIREMENT PLANS (89%); CONFERENCES & CONVENTIONS (78%); APPROVALS (78%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (78%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (78%); AGENCY RULEMAKING (75%); RETIREE HEALTH PLANS (73%); HEALTH CARE REGULATORY COMPLIANCE (69%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (50%) Terms not available from NYTimes

COMPANY: PENSION BENEFIT GUARANTY CORP (70%); DELTA AIR LINES INC (65%)

TICKER: DAL (NYSE) (65%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS524128 OTHER DIRECT INSURANCE (EXCEPT LIFE, HEALTH & MEDICAL) CARRIERS (70%); SIC6399 INSURANCE CARRIERS, NEC (70%); SIC4512 AIR TRANSPORTATION, SCHEDULED (65%)

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (76%); DAVID SCOTT (56%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: December 16, 2005



323 of 607 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 16, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 3; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 1172 words

HEADLINE: News Summary

 BODY:

INTERNATIONAL A3-33

High Turnout for Iraq Vote In Day of Surprising Calm
In a day remarkable for its calm, millions of Iraqis cast ballots across their war-torn country to elect a parliament to a four-year term, with Sunni Arabs turning out in what appeared to be heavy numbers and guerrillas staging relatively few attacks. A1

The high turnout of Sunni Arabs suggests their seeming willingness to distance themselves from the insurgency and a yearning to find a place for themselves in the post-Saddam Hussein Iraq. 
 A1

Thousands of residents of Ramadi, a defiant Sunni Arab town and insurgent stronghold, poured into polling stations and cast votes in high numbers, a contrast to the almost nonexistent turnout there during the election in January. A26

Reconstruction Scandal Grows
An Army lieutenant colonel who received the bronze star for her service in Iraq was arrested and charged with taking bribes in a growing corruption scandal that has rocked the Iraq reconstruction program. A28

Spying Limits Lifted After 9/11
Months after the Sept. 11 attacks, President Bush secretly authorized the National Security Agency to eavesdrop on Americans and others inside the United States to search for evidence of terrorist activity without the court-approved warrants usually required for domestic spying, according to government officials. A1

U.N. Extends Hariri Inquiry
The Security Council voted unanimously to extend by six months the United Nations investigation of the assassination of the former Lebanese prime minister Rafik Hariri, and it cited Syria for not providing the inquiry ''full and unconditional cooperation.'' A25

Abbas Threatens to Resign
The divisions within the main Palestinian faction, Fatah, broke into the open, as the Palestinian president, Mahmoud Abbas, threatened to resign unless a rival slate of younger Fatah members for the Jan. 25 legislative elections was withdrawn, Palestinian officials said. A3

Ancient Battlefield Discovered
In the ruins of an ancient city in northeastern Syria, archaeologists have uncovered what they say is substantial evidence of a fierce battle fought in about 3500 B.C., and what they believe could be the oldest known excavated site of large-scale organized warfare. A28

EDUCATION

Complaints Over SAT's Length
College counselors at about 200 high schools nationwide, and a few college admissions officers, have joined to ask the College Board to give students the option of taking the three parts of the SAT separately, instead of requiring that they take the whole test in one sitting. A34

NATIONAL A34-39

President Backs McCain On Treatment of Prisoners
Under intense bipartisan Congressional pressure, President Bush reversed course and reluctantly backed Senator John McCain's call for a law banning cruel, inhumane and degrading treatment of prisoners in American custody. A1

Bush Doubles Flood Protection
The Bush administration agreed to double the amount it would spend on flood protection for New Orleans, promising a system it said would make the city safe from catastrophic flooding caused by a storm as powerful as Hurricane Katrina. A1

U.S. Literacy Declines
The average American college graduate's literacy in English declined over the past decade, according to results of a nationwide test. A34

Pentagon Mishandled Data
Pentagon analysts appear not to have followed guidelines that require deleting information on American citizens and groups from a counterterrorism database within three months if they pose no security threats, officials said. A36

S.B.A. Official Defends Agency
Hector V. Barreto, the head of the Small Business Administration, on Capital Hill defended his agency's response to the Gulf Coast hurricanes, saying it had responded ''quicker to this event than any in our history.'' A38

SCIENCE/HEALTH

New Questions on Cloning Study
The South Korean scientist whose claims of a stunning series of advances in cloning and stem cell research have come under suspicion defended his work on Friday, saying he had proof of his success. The scientist, Dr. Hwang Woo Suk, made his statements during a televised news conference at Seoul National University a day after a colleague and co-author of a scientific journal article said Dr. Suk had admitted that critical parts of one discovery were fabricated. A1

NEW YORK/REGION B1-12

2 States Drop Out of Pact To Combat Global Warming
Officials in New York, New Jersey and several other Northeastern states scrambled to hold together what was left of a landmark regional pact to control power plant emissions after the governors of Massachusetts and Rhode Island abruptly refused to sign on. B3

Child Welfare Goals Unmet
New Jersey's child welfare system is failing to provide medical checkups to about 80 percent of children entering foster care, just 18 months after the state made such checkups a cornerstone of its court-ordered overhaul. The state blames staff shortages, a delay in financing, and poor communication between caseworkers and foster parents. B1

Mayor Returns Donations
Mayor Bloomberg spent nearly $80 million of his own money to win re-election, but at least six people thought he needed their financial help, too. Those donors not only received a gracious note of thanks, they also got their money back -- the no-lose political bet of the year. B4

Neediest Cases B6

WEEKEND E1-34; E35-46

ESCAPES F1-12

SPORTSFRIDAY D1-8

Viking Players Charged
Four Minnesota Vikings players, including three-time Pro Bowl quarterback Daunte Culpepper, face charges stemming from their alleged conduct on a Oct. 6 team cruise on Lake Minnetonka. D3

OBITUARIES B13

William Proxmire
The democratic Senator from Wisconsin, who was known as a political maverick during his 32 years in the Senate, he was 90. B13

BUSINESS DAY C1-14

Tobacco Ruling Overturned
The Supreme Court of Illinois threw out a $10 billion judgment against Philip Morris USA in a class-action suit that had accused the company of deceiving smokers in a marketing campaign for its ''light'' cigarettes with lower levels of tar and nicotine. C1

House Passes Pension Bill
The House passed a measure aimed at strengthening America's system of company pensions, but many members said they considered the bill flawed and hoped to amend it before final passage. C1

Food Industry and Children
As major food companies face scrutiny over their role in contributing to rising childhood obesity rates, they are under pressure to make fundamental changes in the way they sell their products to America's children. C1

Drop in Consumer Prices
The nation's chief measure of inflation, the Consumer Price Index , fell by six-tenths of a percent in November, the biggest drop since the Truman administration, but that did not relieve Wall Street's pressure on the Federal Reserve to keep raising interest rates. C1

Business Digest C2

EDITORIAL A40-41

Editorials: Ban torture -- period; the rush to renew the Patriot Act; deeper fixes at the Red Cross; breaking the oil curse.

Column: Paul Krugman.

Crossword E5
TV Listings E33
Weather D9

GRAPHIC: Photo

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Summary

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: WAR & CONFLICT (90%); NEWS BRIEFS (90%); REBELLIONS & INSURGENCIES (90%); INVESTIGATIONS (90%); UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (90%); TERRORISM (90%); VOTERS & VOTING (90%); POSTWAR RECONSTRUCTION (90%); MUSLIMS & ISLAM (90%); SCANDALS (90%); SEPTEMBER 11 ATTACK (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); AL FATAH (87%); US PRESIDENTS (87%); ESPIONAGE (87%); EVIDENCE (87%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (87%); EDUCATION SYSTEMS & INSTITUTIONS (79%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (79%); ELECTIONS (78%); ARMIES (78%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (78%); POLITICAL SCANDALS (77%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (77%); TERRORIST ATTACKS (76%); NATIONAL SECURITY (76%); ASSASSINATION (73%); CORRUPTION (73%); SPECIAL INVESTIGATIVE FORCES (73%); SEARCH & SEIZURE (73%); ARREST WARRANTS (73%); ARRESTS (73%); PRIME MINISTERS (72%); BRIBERY (68%); ARCHAEOLOGY (67%); ANTHROPOLOGY & ARCHAEOLOGY (67%); HISTORIC SITES (67%); INTELLIGENCE SERVICES (66%); COLLEGES & UNIVERSITIES (65%); ACADEMIC ADMISSIONS (65%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY ADMISSIONS (65%); STANDARDIZED ACADEMIC TESTING (65%); PRIMARY & SECONDARY EDUCATION (65%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (60%); ACADEMIC COUNSELING (60%); HIGH SCHOOLS (60%); CRUEL & UNUSUAL PUNISHMENT (60%) Terms not available from NYTimes

ORGANIZATION: UNITED NATIONS (82%); NATIONAL SECURITY AGENCY (55%); UNITED NATIONS SECURITY COUNCIL (54%)

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (89%); SADDAM HUSSEIN (58%); JOHN MCCAIN (58%); MAHMOUD ABBAS (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW ORLEANS, LA, USA (79%) LOUISIANA, USA (79%) IRAQ (94%); UNITED STATES (94%); PALESTINIAN TERRITORY, OCCUPIED (93%); SYRIA (92%); LEBANON (79%)

LOAD-DATE: December 16, 2005



324 of 607 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 16, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 3; Foreign Desk; THE STRUGGLE FOR IRAQ: THE SUNNI VOTE; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1174 words

HEADLINE: Freedom From Fear Lifts Sunnis

BYLINE: By JOHN F. BURNS

DATELINE: BAGHDAD, Iraq, Dec. 15 

 BODY:
Ali is only 9 years old. But when he and his buddies broke away from a street soccer game to drop into a polling station in Baghdad's Adhamiya district at noon on Thursday, Ali, a chirpy, tousle-haired youngster, seemed to catch the mood of the district's Sunni Arab population as well as anybody.
 ''We don't want car bombs, we want security,'' he said. Yards away, Sunni grown-ups were casting ballots in classrooms where the boys would have been studying Arabic or arithmetic or geography -- ''Boring, boring!'' said Ali -- had the school not been drafted for use as one of 6,000 polling stations across Iraq.
 On a day when the high voter turnout among Sunni Arabs was the main surprise, Ali and his posse of friends, unguarded as boys can be, acted like a chorus for the scene unfolding about them. A new willingness to distance themselves from the insurgency, an absence of hostility for Americans, a casual contempt for Saddam Hussein, a yearning for Sunnis to find a place for themselves in the post-Hussein Iraq -- the boys' themes were their parents', too, only more boldly expressed. 
 Adhamiya, on the east bank of the Tigris River, only a 10-minute drive from the heart of Baghdad, has been so much in the insurgents' grip that American military helicopters have avoided flying overhead for most of the past 33 months. But as whole families gathered to walk neighborhood streets on the way to the polls, and with turnouts at some voting centers surpassing 60 percent barely halfway through the voting day, Sunnis -- young, old and in-between, prosperous and middle-class and unemployed, merchants and tribal sheiks and schoolteachers -- seemed to relish the chance to take part.
 ''Happy days!'' said Salim Saleh, a 52-year-old government official, finding a few remembered words of schoolboy English. Switching to Arabic, he slipped into reflective mode, acclaiming the advent of democracy in Iraq, but lamenting the local inexperience with it. 
 ''Iraqis aren't used to democracy, we have to learn it,'' he said, after carefully marking and folding his poster-sized ballot. And what were the crucial elements? ''A government that works in the interests of Iraq and the Iraqi people, regardless of ethnicity or sect,'' he said. ''That would be democracy.''
 Only months ago, the prospect of crowds of voters lining up in Adhamiya and hundreds of other Sunni neighborhoods across the country would have seemed illusionary to American officials and military commanders who have been asked to find a way toward political stability here, and toward the start, sometime in 2006, of a withdrawal of United States forces.
 When Iraqis voted in January for a transitional government, and again in a constitutional referendum in October, when the Sunni boycott of the American-sponsored political process first showed signs of easing, a cannon could have been fired in many of Adhamiya's streets without risk of striking Sunni voters.
 After the January election, when more than eight million voters turned out, hopes for peace were dashed by one of the most brutal insurgent offensives of the war.
 This time, the large Sunni turnout will inevitably raise fresh hopes, of a reconciliation between what has been an alienated Sunni minority and the Shiite parties that won in January and seem poised to win the largest bloc of seats again. But Iraqi pragmatists were warning after Thursday's voting that the realities of power, and who will hold it once a new government is formed, could once again render the hopes short-lived.
 Still, there was enough that was different in Thursday's election to suggest that something significant had changed. This time, Sunni political groups with links to the insurgency had candidates in the election. Their leaders, as well as influential Sunni clerics in the mosques of Baghdad and other cities and towns across the Sunni heartland, had urged Sunnis to vote in large numbers. Insurgent groups with links to Mr. Hussein's ruling Baath Party had agreed to hold their fire.
 Adhamiya was as good a proving ground as any for the new Sunni openness to political involvement. In the 1950's, the district was a bastion of the Arab nationalism then sweeping the Middle East, and it was along Adhamiya's alleyways that the Baath Party in Iraq had its first underground stirrings.
 It was in Adhamiya, too, that Mr. Hussein, standing atop a car roof outside the Abu Hanifa mosque, made his last stand as American troops entered Baghdad in April 2003, pledging to lead Iraqis in resisting the Americans, before disappearing from view. It was eight months before he turned up again, caught by American troops hiding in an underground bunker near Tikrit.
 Mr. Hussein, now languishing in an American military prison near Baghdad's airport, would have found little comfort in Adhamiya. At his trial, he has proclaimed himself Iraq's legitimate ruler, but the voters on Thursday scoffed at his delusion.
 ''Saddam, he's finished,'' said Mr. Saleh, the government employee.
 ''Saddam? No, no, no!'' said Saad Abdul Sattar, a 51-year-old grocery store owner, with a sweep of his upturned palm.
 A tribal sheik, Khamis al-Suhail, 80, said Mr. Hussein was history, but doubted that the new parliament would be much better. ''Saddam was a thief, but now we'll have 275 thieves,'' he said.
 The freewheeling opinions among the Sunnis were hard, at times, to square with the hard-line views widely expressed to reporters on previous trips to Adhamiya, and with the inflexible attitudes common there when Mr. Hussein was still in power. The difference this time appeared to be less a matter of conversion than freedom from threat -- the very thing that Ali, the schoolboy, hinted at when he celebrated having a day with his friends when they did not have to worry about the gunfire or bombs that had been common in Adhamiya. For at least as long as the insurgent pullback to allow the Sunni voting lasted, people in the district seemed freed from intimidation, and their recurrent references to this sense of freedom reflected it.
 ''Before, we had a dictator, and now we have this freedom, this democracy,'' said Emad Abdul Jabbar, 38, a teacher acting as supervisor at the Ahrar school polling site. ''This time, we have a real election, not just the sham elections we had under Saddam, and we Sunnis want to participate in the political process.'' 
 Another thing many Sunnis seemed to agree on was the possibility of a reconciliation between the Americans and the Sunnis, and a distancing of the Sunnis from some of the Qaeda-linked insurgent groups. Many were critical of American troops, saying, as Mr. Saleh did, that ''they came as liberators, but stayed on as occupiers.'' But pressed on the question of an American troop withdrawal, most seemed cautious, favoring a gradual drawdown. 
 ''Let's have stability, and then the Americans can go home,'' said Mr. Sattar, the store owner. Told that this sounded similar to President Bush's formula for a troop withdrawal, he replied: ''Then Bush has said it correctly.''


GRAPHIC: Photo: Election officials emptied a box of ballots in Baghdad yesterday. In Sunni precincts, voters appeared to be swept up by a democratic mood. (Photo by Joao Silva for The New York Times)(pg. A27)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MUSLIMS & ISLAM (92%); VOTERS & VOTING (89%); REBELLIONS & INSURGENCIES (89%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (89%); ELECTIONS (78%); BALLOTS (78%); TEACHING & TEACHERS (76%); SOCCER (73%); BOMBS & EXPLOSIVE DEVICES (71%); FAMILY (71%); PRIMARY & SECONDARY SCHOOL TEACHERS (70%); HELICOPTERS (64%); MILITARY HELICOPTERS (64%); ETHNICITY (62%) Terms not available from NYTimes

PERSON: SADDAM HUSSEIN (72%)

GEOGRAPHIC: BAGHDAD, IRAQ (94%) IRAQ (94%); UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: December 16, 2005



325 of 607 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 16, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 5; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 765 words

HEADLINE: BUSINESS DIGEST

 BODY:

Illinois Supreme Court Throws Out $10 Billion Philip Morris Judgment
The Supreme Court of Illinois threw out a $10 billion judgment against Philip Morris USA in a class-action suit that had accused the company of deceiving smokers in a marketing campaign for its ''light'' cigarettes with lower levels of tar and nicotine. [Page C1.] 


House Passes Bill Meant to Improve Pension System
The House passed a measure aimed at strengthening America's system of company pensions, but many members said they considered the bill flawed and hoped to amend it before final passage. [C1.]

Consumer Price Index Declined in November
The nation's chief measure of inflation, the Consumer Price Index, fell by six-tenths of a percent in November, the biggest drop since the Truman administration, but that did not relieve pressure on the Federal Reserve to keep raising interest rates. [C1.]

Bass Family Said to Sell Pipeline Company
The Bass family of Texas agreed to sell one its last businesses, a gas pipeline company, to Southern Union for $1.6 billion in cash, according to people involved in the deal. [C3.]

Bear Stearns to Pay $250 Million to Settle Fund Case
Bear Stearns said that it would pay $250 million to regulators to settle accusations that the firm engaged in abusive mutual fund trading practices. The settlement caps a lengthy and arduous negotiations process between the firm and the Securities and Exchange Commission and the New York Stock Exchange and makes Bear the last major Wall Street firm to pay fines in connection with improper fund trading practices first uncovered by Eliot Spitzer, the New York attorney general, in 2003. [C3.]

Goldman Sachs Quarterly Earnings Rise 37%
Goldman Sachs said that fourth-quarter earnings rose 37 percent from the quarter a year ago, fueled by growth in its three main businesses: trading, investment banking and investment management. [C3.]

Oracle reported quarterly sales and profits that met Wall Street expectations as a strong performance in business software overcame sluggish growth in database software. [C2.]

Pressure Builds to Change Food Marketing to Children
As major food producers face scrutiny over their role in contributing to rising childhood obesity rates, they, and some other companies, are under pressure to make major changes in the way they sell their products to children. [C1.]

Russian Firm Sharply Raises Ukraine's Gas Rate
The Russian natural gas company Gazprom is demanding that Ukraine pay Western European rates for Russian gas -- more than four times what it pays now -- or hand over control of its gas pipeline network to a consortium to be run by Russia, Germany and Ukraine. [C5.]

NTL of Britain Replaces Its Chief Executive
The British cable and telephone company NTL unexpectedly replaced its president and chief executive, Simon Duffy, with an executive from Comcast, Stephen Burch. [C5.]

Major U.S. Stock Indicators Decline
Stocks slipped Thursday as lower crude oil prices weighed on the shares of major energy companies. The Dow Jones industrial average fell 1.84 points, to end at 10,881.67. The S.& P. 500 was down 1.80 points, at 1,270.94. The Nasdaq composite index was down 1.96 points, at 2,260.63. [C7.]

Zucker Named Chief of NBC Universal Television
NBC elevated Jeff Zucker, left, one of the fastest-rising executives in the network's history, to chief executive of the NBC Universal Television Group yesterday, establishing him as the likely successor to NBC's longtime leader, Bob Wright. The move was announced by Mr. Wright, who remains chairman of NBC Universal as well as vice chairman of NBC's parent, General Electric, and it realigns NBC management, with Mr. Zucker at the top. [C4.]

Lawsuit Challenges Microsoft Patents
Visto, a maker of software for wireless e-mail, filed suit seeking to block the sale of an e-mail service being developed by Microsoft. [C7.]

Conrad Black Indicted on Four More Charges
Conrad M. Black, former chairman of the publishing company Hollinger International, was indicted by a grand jury on four new federal charges. [C4.]

Venture Firm Aims to Reshape Video Game Industry
A $300 million investment by Elevation Partners, a venture capital firm in Silicon Valley, could to lead to a drive to reshape the industry by giving more control to the software engineers and designers who create games -- potentially at the expense of game publishers. Street Scene. [C6.]

Lowe, a Legendary Adman, to Open London Agency
Frank Lowe, whose advertising career began in the 1960's, is emerging from retirement and starting another agency, scheduled to open next month in London. Advertising. [C4.]

GRAPHIC: PhotoGraph tracks the daily closing price of Bear Stearns shares since October.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Summary

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (90%); NEWS BRIEFS (90%); CONSUMER PRICE INDEX (90%); SETTLEMENT & COMPROMISE (90%); SUITS & CLAIMS (90%); LEGISLATION (90%); NATURAL GAS PRODUCTS (89%); OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (89%); SUPREME COURTS (89%); TOBACCO MFG (89%); EXECUTIVES (88%); INTERIM FINANCIAL RESULTS (88%); PIPELINE TRANSPORTATION (88%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (88%); BANKING & FINANCE (88%); MUTUAL FUNDS (87%); COMPANY EARNINGS (87%); SALES FIGURES (78%); TOBACCO PRODUCTS (78%); CLASS ACTIONS (78%); YOUTH MARKET (77%); CABLE INDUSTRY (77%); CHILDREN'S MARKET (77%); FOOD & BEVERAGE (77%); STOCK INDEXES (75%); ECONOMIC NEWS (75%); UTILITY RATES (75%); INFLATION (75%); ATTORNEYS GENERAL (73%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS SERVICES (73%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (72%); MARKETING CAMPAIGNS (72%); INVESTMENT BANKING (71%); COMPANY PROFITS (71%); INVESTMENT MANAGEMENT (71%); FOOD INDUSTRY (71%); STOCK EXCHANGES (70%); DATABASE SOFTWARE (70%); BANKING & FINANCE AGENCIES (70%); SECURITIES LAW (70%); FINANCIAL RESULTS (68%); COMPANY REVENUES (68%); INTEREST RATES (68%); COMPUTER SOFTWARE (66%); FINES & PENALTIES (65%); BUSINESS SOFTWARE (61%); OBESITY (60%); CHILDHOOD OBESITY (60%) Terms not available from NYTimes

COMPANY: GOLDMAN SACHS GROUP INC (91%); OAO GAZPROM (62%); PHILIP MORRIS USA (58%); BEAR STEARNS COS INC (55%); NEW YORK STOCK EXCHANGE LLC (54%)

ORGANIZATION: SUPREME COURT OF ILLINOIS (94%); SECURITIES & EXCHANGE COMMISSION (54%)

TICKER: GS (NYSE) (91%); OGZD (LSE) (62%); GAZP (RTS) (62%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (91%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (91%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (91%); SIC6289 SERVICES ALLIED WITH THE EXCHANGE OF SECURITIES OR COMMODITIES, NEC (91%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (91%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (91%); NAICS486210 PIPELINE TRANSPORTATION OF NATURAL GAS (62%); NAICS221210 NATURAL GAS DISTRIBUTION (62%); NAICS213112 SUPPORT ACTIVITIES FOR OIL & GAS OPERATIONS (62%); NAICS211111 CRUDE PETROLEUM & NATURAL GAS EXTRACTION (62%); SIC4923 NATURAL GAS TRANSMISSION & DISTRIBUTION (62%); SIC1311 CRUDE PETROLEUM & NATURAL GAS (62%); NAICS312230 TOBACCO MANUFACTURING (58%); NAICS312120 BREWERIES (58%); SIC2111 CIGARETTES (58%); SIC2082 MALT BEVERAGES (58%)

PERSON: ROBERT BASS (67%); SID BASS (67%); LEE BASS (67%); ELIOT SPITZER (57%); STEPHEN A BURCH (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: SPRINGFIELD, IL, USA (89%) ILLINOIS, USA (94%); NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%); UKRAINE (93%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (92%); GERMANY (78%); WESTERN EUROPE (66%); EUROPE (51%)

LOAD-DATE: December 16, 2005



326 of 607 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 16, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 2; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1376 words

HEADLINE: Old Habits

BYLINE: By CHRISTINE HAUSER

 BODY:
After decades of drug addiction, Adriane Allen believes she has finally grown too old to smoke crack. At 57, she has chest pains, has lost most of her teeth and has trouble moving her arms. Lately, she worries about how her grandchildren will remember her when she is gone.
 ''I definitely do not want them mourning me as an addict, that I died as an addict,'' said Ms. Allen, shaking her head, covered with gray hair and fidgeting uncontrollably during an interview at a New York City needle-exchange center.
''You get tired of being tired,'' she continued. ''They say that is a drug addict's saying, but it is true, you do get tired of being tired. I am tired of walking around in a daze. I am tired of walking around with sunglasses on. Blocking out real life. I am ready to face my demons and just say I don't want it anymore.'' 
 As the first of the baby boomers approach 60, addiction treatment centers are bracing for a growing population of older drug addicts. Many aging users, veterans of the counterculture 60's, started using drugs as teenagers and have progressed to harder substances and addiction, while others turned to illicit drugs, abuse of prescription medications or increased alcohol intake later in life, with the loss of jobs or spouses. 
 Since, traditionally, substance-abuse- treatment programs and research have focused on teenagers and young adults, doctors, social workers, therapists and researchers say that new approaches need to be developed for the ballooning number of boomer addicts. 
 ''In treatment of people 55 and older, we are starting to see much more cocaine addiction, which we never saw before,'' said Frederic C. Blow, an associate professor in the University of Michigan's psychiatry department, who has developed policy recommendations for the federal Substance Abuse and Mental Health Services Administration. ''In fact, in some treatment programs, we are starting to see more problems related to stimulant abuse: cocaine, crack and marijuana use.''
 The federal government's 2004 survey of substance abuse, released in September, estimated that more than three million adults 50 and older had used marijuana, hashish, cocaine or crack, heroin, hallucinogens or inhalants or had misused prescription drugs during the previous year. That number could more than double by 2020, said Joseph C. Gfroerer, director of the substance abuse agency's population surveys.
 Willard L. Mays, a delegate to the White House Conference on Aging and a member of the executive committee of the National Coalition on Mental Health and Aging, said, ''There are not enough geriatric specialists to handle this increased number of people who need services.'' 
 Their medical problems can be overwhelming. Long-term heroin use can hasten the decline in immunity that comes with age. Prolonged cocaine use can lead to erosion of the nasal passages, arrhythmia and other cardiovascular problems. The slower metabolism, lower body mass and decrease in an enzyme called alcohol dehydrogenase that accompany aging drive down the alcohol tolerance of older adults, contributing to liver disease and making them susceptible to falls. Older patients may already have diabetes, arthritis or hypertension, meaning that they need to be stabilized before they can start treatment for their addiction. 
 At the methadone maintenance treatment program at Beth Israel Medical Center, doses sometimes need to be adjusted for older patients who are more likely to be on several prescription drugs, said the medical director, Dr. Randy Seewald.
 Older patients can also present practical treatment problems. Those with mobility problems might have trouble getting to treatment centers. They often need treatment literature printed in large type, or help in unscrewing the caps of methadone bottles, because of arthritis. Therapy must be tailored to address regret over wasted youth and lost spouses.
 Substance abuse also often goes undetected -- and therefore untreated -- for long periods in older adults who are isolated. ''When people are retired and do not have professional obligations and the children have left home, then our red flags are not raised quite as effectively,'' said Petros Levounis, director of the Addiction Institute of New York.
 Even when an older person's drug or drinking problem is noticed, people are sometimes loath to interfere and deprive parents or other loved ones of a remaining pleasure, said Julie E. Jensen, a researcher with the Washington Institute, an academic institution that advises the public health system in Tacoma. 
 Some who had been casual drug users in their youth returned to the substances later in life because of loneliness, the death of a spouse or a loss of purpose after retirement. ''They will go back to what satisfied them years ago,'' said Carolyn M. Drennan, director of nursing at the Beth Israel methadone program. 
 Moses Henderson, 57, said he started sniffing heroin to cope with depression after his wife died in 2001. He has hypertension, a bad heart and diabetes, but is now in treatment. ''I don't think my wife would want me dead,'' he said, adding that if he uses drugs again, ''I will not make it.'' 
 Unlike Mr. Henderson, who is in a residential program, Margaret Baldwin, 65, lives in a homeless shelter. Two years ago, she fell down the stairs while drunk and broke her hip. That was the last straw, after 23 years of alcohol abuse and drinking a pint of gin every day. ''I had no company,'' she said. ''The only thing that entertained me was the bottle.'' 
 Then there are longtime addicts like Ms. Allen. She said she went from a puff of marijuana at a party in the 60's to ''skin-popping'' heroin and smoking crack over the years.
 Sometimes, ''I found myself asleep on the train,'' she said, ''because I would be so high.''
 ''I would like, nod out,'' she said, at the Lower East Side Harm Reduction Center. ''When I wake up, I am like in the Bronx or Coney Island. Now that I am older I won't do that when I get high. I make sure I get to a friend's house.''
 Ms. Allen said she had used cocaine five days a week. She agreed to be interviewed because she thought her story would help younger addicts quit.
 While some addicts, like Ms. Allen, are unemployed and homeless, others hold down jobs and lead middle class lives. Take Gwendolyn Jennings-Hill, a 55-year-old grandmother who says she was a functional addict. She used to cook up marble-size pellets of cocaine at home in Hampton, Va., then smoke it quickly, so her daughter would not catch her.
 ''I fell in love with crack,'' said Ms. Jennings-Hill, who is in Odyssey House's ElderCare program in Harlem. ''I used marijuana and then I progressed to drinking, then sniffing cocaine and freebasing. The 60's was a time when people started coming out of Vietnam. There was the hippie generation. I was connected to that age and that era.''
 This year, encouraged by her family, Ms. Jennings-Hill sought to end what she called the thrill and insanity of addiction. ''I did not go to crack houses,'' she said. ''I was one of the, I guess, fortunate addicts that had a house, had food, had money.'' 
 Ms. Jennings-Hill's teacher's salary was enough to support a habit that cost about $3,000 a month. Others use Social Security payments or rent space in their apartments as crack houses.
 In contrast to younger addicts, older substance abusers thrive on treatment that features personal accounts, counselors say. They dress up for group sessions, and hesitate to speak openly in mixed-age groups. 
 At Odyssey House, a dozen residents aged 54 to 75 sat in a circle recently and told stories of broken marriages and estranged children. Some were trying to overcome heroin and crack habits while dealing with hypertension, diabetes, cardiac problems and sleep apnea.
 ''I been drugging for the past 55 years,'' Pedro Rosa, 66, said reflectively, looking at the floor and leaning on his cane, his tattooed arms protruding from his shirtsleeves.
 Several in the group let out murmurs of agreement, like the sounds listeners make when they not only know the story but have also lived it.
 ''I was a very angry man when I was in the street,'' Mr. Rosa said. ''But now I am too old to continue the life I was living.''


GRAPHIC: Photos: Adriane Allen, 57, who says she is too old remain a crack addict, outside the Lower East Side Harm Reduction Center. (Photo by Ting-Li Wang/The New York Times)
 Gwendolyn Jennings-Hill, center, at Odyssey House, where she discussed her addiction. A teacher's salary supported a $3,000-a-month cocaine habit. (Photo by Robert Caplin for The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: SUBSTANCE ABUSE (95%); ILLEGAL DRUGS (89%); COCAINE (89%); CANNABIS (89%); ADOLESCENTS (89%); MENTAL HEALTH (87%); DRUG POLICY (78%); SUBSTANCE ABUSE TREATMENT (78%); POLLS & SURVEYS (78%); HEROIN (78%); PRESCRIPTION DRUGS (78%); SUBSTANCE ABUSE FACILITIES (78%); POPULATION SIZE (75%); INTERVIEWS (75%); LAYOFFS (73%); CENTRAL NERVOUS SYSTEM DRUGS (73%); PSYCHIATRY (72%); GRANDCHILDREN (72%); BABY BOOMERS (72%); ELDER HEALTH (71%); GERIATRICS (71%); POPULATION GROWTH (71%); ALCOHOL ABUSE & ADDICTION (70%); MENTAL HEALTH PRACTICE (69%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (67%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (62%) Drug Abuse and Traffic; Alcohol Abuse; Therapy and Rehabilitation; Children and Youth; Aged; Drug Abuse and Traffic

PERSON: Christine Hauser

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (93%) NEW YORK, USA (93%); MICHIGAN, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (93%) New York City

LOAD-DATE: December 16, 2005



327 of 607 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 16, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 4; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 788 words

HEADLINE: British Architect Returns to Ground Zero

BYLINE: By DAVID W. DUNLAP

 BODY:
Three years after he presented a vision of ground zero with audaciously angled twin towers that touched at three points on their way to a 126-story summit, the British architect Norman Foster returned to Lower Manhattan yesterday to start work on a different World Trade Center skyscraper.
 The steel frame of the 65-story building, 200 Greenwich Street, is to begin rising from the northeast corner of the trade center site in 2009. It is to have 2.4 million square feet of offices and 130,000 square feet of stores. Completion is expected in 2011. 
Lord Foster, 70, the architect of the new Hearst Tower on Eighth Avenue, between 56th and 57th Streets, revealed nothing of what 200 Greenwich Street might look like.
 But he did refer to his earlier involvement with the trade center site. ''I was here with my team on 9/11,'' Lord Foster said, ''and so, one year afterwards, when the competition for this site was announced, we felt a sense of moral responsibility to compete and to -- as far as we were able -- contribute to the task of regenerating this site.''
 Foster & Partners lost the master planning bid in 2003 to Studio Daniel Libeskind. Now he has been brought back by Larry A. Silverstein, the commercial leaseholder on the site and developer of the 52-story 7 World Trade Center, which is almost finished.
 Mr. Silverstein said that the first lease at 7 World Trade Center, for one floor, was signed yesterday morning by the New York Academy of Sciences. The academy will move out of its longtime headquarters at 2 East 63rd Street by September.
 After developing 7 World Trade Center, the Freedom Tower and 200 Greenwich Street, it remains to be seen how much else Mr. Silverstein will build at the site. That depends, in part, on whether he can obtain the full $3.35 billion in tax-exempt Liberty Bonds that he is seeking.
 On Wednesday, Gov. George E. Pataki tentatively approved $1.67 billion in Liberty Bond financing for the Freedom Tower and 200 Greenwich Street, conditioned on a settlement within 90 days of all the unresolved issues between Silverstein Properties and the Port Authority of New York and New Jersey, which owns the site.
 Among the questions are what Mr. Silverstein will receive in development fees, who will pay for the infrastructure under the new trade center, how the retail space will be developed and what will happen to the three remaining development parcels.
 Asked yesterday whether another developer should be brought in, the governor said, ''We have to be open to every option to see how we can move forward as best as possible.''
 Despite recent friction between City Hall and Albany over downtown development, yesterday's meeting of the Lower Manhattan Development Corporation board -- the first since Mr. Pataki and Mayor Michael R. Bloomberg filled their full allotment of eight directors each -- went smoothly, with unanimous votes and amicable comments.
 The board authorized contributing a total of $175 million to the World Trade Center Memorial Foundation, for the design and construction of the memorial and memorial museum, and acquiring a property at 140 Liberty Street for $59 million from Milstein Properties, to expand the overall trade center site by one block to the south.
 As he opened the meeting, John C. Whitehead, the corporation chairman, discussed the signing of the 40,000-square-foot, 15-year lease by the New York Academy of Sciences on the 40th floor of 7 World Trade Center.
 ''It sort of breaks the dam and gets the flow of tenants coming to that building,'' Mr. Whitehead said. ''Nobody wanted to be first and only. Now that that first and only has taken place, I just fervently hope that that building begins to fill up.''
 The academy was founded in Lower Manhattan 188 years ago as the Lyceum of Natural History. Its 63rd Street building, an Italian Renaissance structure, was once home to Norman B. Woolworth, who gave it to the academy in 1949. 
 The building has been sold for $31.25 million to Len Blavatnik, said the academy president, Ellis Rubinstein.
 The academy's new space will include a conference center that can accommodate 300 people at once, Mr. Rubinstein said, or three small events simultaneously. He said he hoped to make the room available to the Lower Manhattan Development Corporation for community use.
 The academy has been looking for space for years. In July 2001, Rodney W. Nichols, then the president, said he wanted a building with gravitas. ''We're not going to move into one floor of the World Trade Center,'' he said.
 Shown that remark yesterday, Mr. Rubinstein allowed his jaw to drop for a moment, then said, ''What we've done is transform in almost every way from where we were then to where we are today.''


GRAPHIC: Photo: Norman Foster, left, who will design a 65-story skyscraper, joined Gov. George E. Pataki and Larry A. Silverstein, the site developer, yesterday. (Photo by John Marshall Mantel for The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: COMMERCIAL RENTAL PROPERTY (90%); BONDS (89%); TALKS & MEETINGS (77%); OFFICE PROPERTY (76%); GOVERNORS (75%); RETAIL PROPERTY (75%); URBAN DEVELOPMENT (69%); ECONOMIC NEWS (69%); TERRORISM (68%); TAX EXEMPTIONS (61%); CITIES (61%); CITY LIFE (60%); PORT AUTHORITIES (60%) Freedom Tower (NYC); Terrorism; Liberty Bonds; Area Planning and Renewal

COMPANY: PORT AUTHORITY OF NEW YORK & NEW JERSEY (63%); FOSTER + PARTNERS LTD (55%)

ORGANIZATION: World Trade Center (NYC); Port Authority of New York and New Jersey

INDUSTRY: NAICS485999 ALL OTHER TRANSIT & GROUND PASSENGER TRANSPORTATION (63%); SIC4119 LOCAL PASSENGER TRANSPORTATION, NEC (63%); NAICS541310 ARCHITECTURAL SERVICES (55%); SIC8712 ARCHITECTURAL SERVICES (55%)

PERSON: David W Dunlap; Norman (Lord Foster) Foster; Larry A Silverstein; George E (Gov) Pataki

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (96%); ALBANY, NY, USA (79%) NEW YORK, USA (96%); NEW JERSEY, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (96%); UNITED KINGDOM (88%) New York City; Great Britain; New York City

LOAD-DATE: December 16, 2005



328 of 607 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 16, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; National Desk; Casper Journal; Pg. 34

LENGTH: 835 words

HEADLINE: Very Much At Home: A Gay Mayor In Wyoming

BYLINE: By KIRK JOHNSON

DATELINE: CASPER, Wyo., Dec. 15 

 BODY:
Guy Padgett, the openly gay mayor here in Wyoming's second-largest city, had a tough time getting to his table for dinner at a restaurant the other night, interrupted and detained every few feet by a friend, a constituent or some other well-wisher who wanted to shake his hand.
 Though neither he nor many other people here have seen it yet, Mr. Padgett says he feels pretty sure that ''Brokeback Mountain,'' the new movie about gay cowboys in Wyoming, will not change those old rhythms of glad-handing very much. People here, he thinks, have gotten past seeing him as gay; to most of them he is now just Guy. 
''I like to say that Casper, and Wyoming in general, are places willing to judge you on your accomplishments and contributions rather than any aspect of your character, and I have found that to be true,'' he said. 
 Mr. Padgett's career -- he is also the executive director of the Wyoming Symphony Orchestra, and at 27 the city's youngest mayor ever -- puts to rest, he and other prominent people here say, the idea that rugged Western individualism and homophobia are synonymous. Alan K. Simpson, a Republican who served 18 years in the United States Senate and still creates a wide political wake in the state, has been among his most vocal supporters.
 ''Guy came out, and he's the mayor,'' Mr. Simpson said in a telephone interview. ''This is about awareness and tolerance, not stereotypes.''
 Casper, with a population of 51,000 and a rough-edged downtown that serves as an urban center for much of the booming oil, gas and coal industry of eastern Wyoming, is probably nobody's idea of a gay-culture magnet. There is not a single gay bar, and not much evidence that gay investors and homeowners are boosting local fortunes as they are in some other cities.
 Nor, people who track Wyoming politics say, is Casper the most liberal place in the state. That distinction belongs to Jackson, with its Hollywood-in-the-Tetons culture, followed by Laramie, home of the University of Wyoming. Casper's economy and population, those experts say, still hark back to Wyoming's tougher roots of ranching and mining that long predate the finer points of tourism or higher education.
 And it should be noted as well that Casper chooses its mayors by vote of the nine-member nonpartisan City Council. His homosexuality already known, Mr. Padgett was chosen unanimously -- but by proxy of the voters through their council members, not by the voters themselves.
 Even so, that Casper appears to have largely accepted, if not embraced, a gay man as its civic spokesman is considered by many people here to be a very profound thing, even a very Wyoming thing. Movies come and go. Here, real life happened.
 There have been changes, Mr. Padgett says, including his own election, that are linked in one way or another to the death of Matthew Shepard, a gay student at the University of Wyoming whose killing, in 1998 at the hands of two men he had met in a bar, shocked the nation.
 Mr. Padgett met Mr. Shepard in junior high school and came out about his own sexual orientation in a magazine interview five years after the murder. Mr. Padgett's partner, Jason Marsden, who was a reporter for The Casper Star-Tribune at the time of the killing, came out in an op-ed column even as his paper was covering the crime.
 Mr. Shepard is buried here. And Casper, many say, has probably carried the discussion of what the crime meant, and what it revealed, further than just about any other place.
 ''People did a lot of soul-searching,'' Mr. Padgett said.
 Some think the city arrived in the wrong place from that soul search.
 Murray Watson, a 64-year-old rancher who lives 30 miles away and was in town on Thursday to shop, said Mr. Padgett's election was a dark day for Casper.
 ''I wouldn't live in this town because of it,'' Mr. Watson said.
 As for the movie, he wants it to be the biggest flop ever. ''I hope it breaks the movie company,'' he said.
 Other people said the film's gay-cowboy theme would be a bigger deal outside Wyoming than in places like Casper, because the outside world, they say, has locked in stereotypes about the state that the movie can play with and shatter. Here, they say, many people will yawn, or chuckle.
 Mr. Padgett, whose single term expires next month, said that he did not think there would be any backlash against gay men in Casper as a result of ''Brokeback Mountain,'' when it eventually does play in theaters here, but that there probably would not be any positive change, either.
 ''I suspect people will probably just see it as a movie,'' he said.
 What will also not change, he said, is Wyoming culture, in which a pronounced libertarian streak -- I'll mind my business, you mind yours -- can sometimes be hard to read. If people are less likely to judge, Mr. Padgett said, that can sometimes just mean they are turning away.
 ''It's live and let live,'' he said. ''Sometimes that equates to acceptance, and sometimes it doesn't. Sometimes live and let live just means distance.''


GRAPHIC: Photos: ''Brokeback Mountain,'' about gay cowboys in Wyoming, has not yet made it to Casper. Mayor Guy Padgett says little will change when it does. (Photographs by Carmel Zucker for The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); CITIES (89%); MAYORS (89%); GAYS & LESBIANS (89%); RESTAURANTS (89%); CITY GOVERNMENT (89%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (78%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (78%); INTERVIEWS (72%); POLITICS (70%); HOMEOWNERS (68%); MUSIC GROUPS & ARTISTS (67%); COLLEGES & UNIVERSITIES (60%); COAL INDUSTRY (50%) 

PERSON: Guy (Mayor) Padgett; Alan K Simpson; Kirk Johnson

GEOGRAPHIC: CASPER, WY, USA (96%); LARAMIE, WY, USA (79%) WYOMING, USA (97%) UNITED STATES (97%) Casper (Wyo); Wyoming

LOAD-DATE: December 16, 2005



329 of 607 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 16, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 4; Editorial Desk; Pg. 40

LENGTH: 161 words

HEADLINE: Pieces of the Medicaid Puzzle

 BODY:

To the Editor:
 I commend your Dec. 12 editorial ''The Burden of Medicaid Cuts.'' But I continue to be amazed by the consistent failure of our federal health policy wonks to learn the lessons of history. 
Simply put: The majority of Medicaid costs are for long-term care, yet their planning continues to focus mainly on the less costly part of the program's budget: acute care. 
 Given our growing proportion of aging poor, Medicaid cost inflation will only get worse without meaningful attention to the program's significant long-term care service and cost issues. 
 Managed care has been demonstrated not to perform its usual cost control ''miracles'' with an elderly population (Medicare) or disadvantaged population (Medicaid). 
 Why do we keep going there and expecting non-elderly middle-class private insurance cost-control outcomes?

James P. Cooney
Hilton Head Island, S.C.
Dec. 12, 2005

The writer is emeritus professor of health policy, Georgia State University.


GRAPHIC: Drawing (Drawing by Joel Holland)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MEDICAID (90%); HEALTH CARE POLICY (90%); AGING (90%); LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); HEALTH INSURANCE (90%); MANAGED CARE ORGANIZATIONS (88%); SENIOR CITIZENS (88%); MEDICARE (88%); AGING TRENDS (87%); ACUTE CARE (87%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (84%); WRITERS (73%); BUDGETS (73%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (59%) 

ORGANIZATION: GEORGIA STATE UNIVERSITY (55%)

PERSON: James P (Prof) Cooney

GEOGRAPHIC: HILTON HEAD, SC, USA (50%) SOUTH CAROLINA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: December 16, 2005



330 of 607 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 16, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 10

LENGTH: 88 words

HEADLINE: Metro Briefing New York: Albany: State's Credit Rating Is Raised 

BYLINE: AP; Compiled by John Sullivan

 BODY:
An investment ratings agency upgraded New York State's credit rating yesterday to its best in 30 years. ''New York's upgrade reflects continued trends of improvement in the state's economy, tax revenues and liquidity position over the past year,'' according to the agency, Moody's Investors Service. The upgrade affects $50 billion of the state's debt. Moody's also gave the state a ''stable'' rating outlook. The agency did warn about New York's economic reliance on the relatively volatile securities and financial industries. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: FINANCIAL RATINGS (90%); CREDIT BUREAUS (90%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (87%); PUBLIC DEBT (86%); BANKING & FINANCE (86%); TAXES & TAXATION (84%) Ratings and Rating Systems

COMPANY: MOODY'S INVESTORS SERVICE LTD (72%)

ORGANIZATION: Moody's Investors Service Inc

GEOGRAPHIC: ALBANY, NY, USA (88%) NEW YORK, USA (96%) UNITED STATES (96%) New York State

LOAD-DATE: December 16, 2005



331 of 607 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 16, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk; THE MARKETS: STOCKS AND BONDS; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 565 words

HEADLINE: Shares Decline as Oil Price Drops Below $60 a Barrel

BYLINE: By Reuters

 BODY:
Stocks slipped yesterday as lower crude oil prices weighed on the shares of major energy companies, including Exxon Mobil, while a favorable court ruling helped shares of the Altria Group. 
 Exxon's decline pulled both the Dow Jones industrial average and the Standard & Poor's 500-stock index down as oil ended below $60 a barrel.
 Financial stocks declined, with economic data renewing worries that the Federal Reserve may extend its campaign of interest-rate increases. Shares of Citigroup slipped 54 cents, or 1.1 percent, to $49.10. 
 Strong readings on regional factory activity and an increase in the core consumer price index, excluding food and energy, could lead the Fed to keep raising interest rates longer than stock investors had hoped -- especially after hints in the Fed's statement earlier this week. 
 The industrial average fell 1.84 points, or 0.02 percent, to end at 10,881.67. The S.& P. 500 was down 1.80 points, or 0.14 percent, at 1,270.94. The Nasdaq composite index was down 1.96 points, or 0.09 percent, at 2,260.63. 
 Altria's shares hit a record high of $78.55 and provided the biggest support to the Dow and the S.& P. 500. The Illinois Supreme Court reversed a $10.1 billion verdict against Altria's tobacco unit, Philip Morris USA, which had been accused of defrauding customers into thinking that ''light'' cigarettes were safer than regular cigarettes. 
 ''You had good news on Philip Morris. We had a great move, but the market sold off,'' said Todd Leone, head of listed trading at SG Cowen in New York. 
 Shares of Altria, parent of Philip Morris, rose $2.89, or 4 percent, to $76.62. 
 But Altria's support was offset by the weight of Exxon Mobil, which fell 37 cents, to $59.49. Exxon Mobil and other energy companies' shares fell after crude oil futures for January delivery lost 86 cents to settle at $59.99 a barrel. 
 The Nasdaq felt the weight of Symantec after the software maker said it would correct classification errors in its most recent cash flow statement. Symantec's shares fell 36 cents, or 2 percent, to $17.38. 
 Shares of a for-profit education company, the Apollo Group, fell $1.95, to $65.92, after it lowered its full-year revenue forecast despite an increase in quarterly earnings. Among the Dow's positive influences was Merck, the pharmaceutical company, which rose 57 cents, or nearly 2 percent, to $29.77 after it introduced two new cholesterol drugs and an austerity program aimed at increasing cost savings by $1 billion through 2010. 
 A pair of economic reports showed strength in regional manufacturing. The Federal Reserve Bank of New York said its Empire State business conditions index rose to 28.74 in December, from 22.82 in November. 
 The Philadelphia Fed's overall business conditions index showed that factory activity in the Middle Atlantic region improved slightly, with the index rising to 12.6 in December, from 11.5 in November. 
 In addition, the core consumer price index rose 0.2 percent in November, somewhat offsetting a 0.6 percent decline in the month's overall index, which was its biggest decline in 56 years. 
 The Fed raised interest rates for a 13th consecutive time this week, but its statement suggested it was nearing the end of its rate-raising cycle. 
 Bond prices were steady, with the price of the Treasury's 10-year note falling 1/32, to 10016/32. The yield was unchanged at 4.46 percent.


GRAPHIC: Graph tracks the Dow Jones industrial average over the past year. (Sources by Associated Press
 Bloomberg Financial Markets)Table: ''The Favorites'' lists stocks held by largest number of accounts at Merrill Lynch. (Sources by The Associated Press, Bloomberg Financial Markets)Graph: ''Tax-Exempt Yields'' shows average yields for 20 general obligation bonds and 25 revenue bonds, plotted weekly since September. (Source by The Bond Buyer)Graph: ''Freddie Mac Yields'' tracks average weekly yields on Federal Home Loan Mortgage Corporation 30-year and 15-year participation certificates since September. (Source by F.H.L.M.C.)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: STOCK INDEXES (96%); OIL & GAS PRICES (91%); OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (90%); DECISIONS & RULINGS (90%); TOBACCO MFG (90%); SETTLEMENTS & DECISIONS (90%); CRUDE OIL PRICES (90%); PRICE CHANGES (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (89%); BANKING & FINANCE (89%); STOCK EXCHANGES (89%); FUTURES (79%); BUSINESS CLIMATE & CONDITIONS (78%); PHARMACEUTICALS INDUSTRY (78%); CONSUMER PRICE INDEX (78%); VERDICTS (78%); PRICE INCREASES (78%); ENERGY MARKETS (78%); CRUDE OIL MARKETS (78%); ECONOMIC INDICATORS (77%); CASH FLOW (77%); MANUFACTURING SECTOR PERFORMANCE (77%); CENTRAL BANKS (76%); COMPANY EARNINGS (76%); PHARMACEUTICAL PREPARATION MFG (75%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (73%); SUPREME COURTS (73%); BUSINESS CONDITIONS INDEX (72%); INTEREST RATES (71%); ECONOMIC NEWS (71%); FINANCIAL RESULTS (65%); INTERIM FINANCIAL RESULTS (65%); COMPANY REVENUES (63%); SOFTWARE MAKERS (60%); LIPID LOWERING AGENTS (60%); CHOLESTEROL (50%) 

COMPANY: ALTRIA GROUP INC (96%); EXXON MOBIL CORP (87%); FEDERAL RESERVE BANK OF NEW YORK (81%); MERCK & CO INC (80%); SYMANTEC CORP (57%); CITIGROUP INC (57%); APOLLO GROUP INC (51%)

ORGANIZATION: SUPREME COURT OF ILLINOIS (55%)

TICKER: MO (NYSE) (96%); XOM (NYSE) (87%); MRK (PAR) (80%); MRK (NYSE) (80%); SYMC (NASDAQ) (57%); C (NYSE) (57%); C (BMV) (57%); 8710 (TSE) (57%); APOL (NASDAQ) (51%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS312230 TOBACCO MANUFACTURING (96%); NAICS311919 OTHER SNACK FOOD MANUFACTURING (96%); SIC2111 CIGARETTES (96%); NAICS325110 PETROCHEMICAL MANUFACTURING (87%); NAICS324110 PETROLEUM REFINERIES (87%); NAICS211111 CRUDE PETROLEUM & NATURAL GAS EXTRACTION (87%); NAICS521110 MONETARY AUTHORITIES - CENTRAL BANK (81%); SIC6011 FEDERAL RESERVE BANKS (81%); NAICS325414 BIOLOGICAL PRODUCT (EXCEPT DIAGNOSTIC) MANUFACTURING (80%); NAICS325412 PHARMACEUTICAL PREPARATION MANUFACTURING (80%); SIC2834 PHARMACEUTICAL PREPARATIONS (80%); NAICS511210 SOFTWARE PUBLISHERS (57%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (57%); NAICS522210 CREDIT CARD ISSUING (57%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (57%); NAICS611310 COLLEGES, UNIVERSITIES & PROFESSIONAL SCHOOLS (51%); SIC8221 COLLEGES, UNIVERSITIES, & PROFESSIONAL SCHOOLS (51%)

GEOGRAPHIC: ILLINOIS, USA (79%); NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: December 16, 2005



332 of 607 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 16, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 4; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 1011 words

HEADLINE: Greenhouse Gas Pact Is in Disarray

BYLINE: By ANTHONY DePALMA

 BODY:
Officials in New York, New Jersey and several other Northeastern states scrambled yesterday to hold together what was left of a landmark regional pact to control power plant emissions after the governors of Massachusetts and Rhode Island abruptly refused to sign on. 
 The officials said they hoped to go ahead with the agreement without losing any of the seven remaining states in the regional agreement, which would limit carbon dioxide emissions linked to global climate change. The first agreement of its kind in the nation, the market-driven system of emissions limits and tradable pollution allowances was widely considered a symbolic rebuff to the Bush administration's hands-off position on global climate change. 
But the abrupt departure of two of the states that have been linked in the agreement since it was announced by Gov. George E. Pataki more than two and a half years ago set off a round of political speculation. 
 Gov. Mitt Romney of Massachusetts, a Republican who is expected to run for his party's presidential nomination in 2008, pulled his state out of the agreement yesterday, hours before the deadline for reaching an agreement, and just before announcing that he would not run for a second term next year. 
 He said in a telephone interview yesterday that Massachusetts corporate leaders had told him that the pact did not protect businesses and customers from increased energy costs that would result if emissions caps were imposed. 
 By painting the regional initiative as hurting business, Mr. Romney seemed to seek to distance himself from other potential rivals for the Republican nomination, including Mr. Pataki and Senator John McCain, who have supported programs that control heat-trapping gases. 
 But Mr. Romney said his decision was based on economic and not political concerns. ''These are matters that affect our environment and our economy,'' he said. ''They're too important to be considered in a political light.''
 Environmentalists were stunned and angered by Governor Romney's decision. ''By taking the side of polluters to advance his own political ambitions, Governor Romney has sold out the citizens of Massachusetts and failed the country,'' Frances Beinecke, executive director of the Natural Resources Defense Council, said in a statement. 
 Leaders of the power industry who oppose emission limits said the problems in the Northeast suggested how difficult it would be to establish a national program. 
 Gov. Donald L. Carcieri of Rhode Island said through a spokesman that he had not signed the agreement at this time because he shared Governor Romney's concerns about its impact on energy prices. 
 And contrary to earlier reports that Connecticut would also drop out of the pact, Gov. M. Jodi Rell of Connecticut announced that she would sign the agreement, calling it a ''historic milestone'' that addressed climate change while protecting customers from sharply increased energy costs. 
 The other states involved are Delaware, Maine, New Hampshire and Vermont. 
 Under the agreement, the nine states would have modestly reduced carbon dioxide emissions from power plants in the region by 2020. Each state would have its own emissions cap, and limits would be set on the amount of carbon dioxide that operators could release. They could accumulate unused excess allowances by running their cleanest plants, and then sell or trade the allowances to other operators in an open market. 
 Over the last several weeks, Mr. Romney had expressed reservations about the plan, insisting that it needed to limit how much power generators would have to pay if they exceeded their pollution allowances. 
 Earlier this month Mr. Romney asked for negotiations to be prolonged past a Dec. 1 deadline. Massachusetts and the other states negotiated intensely and thought they had reached an agreement on a proposal to limit the cost of pollution allowances, thereby protecting customers. 
 If prices exceeded $7 a ton of carbon dioxide emissions, generators would have had additional opportunities to offset emissions by supporting environmentally sound projects, like recovering methane gas from landfills, anywhere in the country. 
 If allowance prices rose above $10 a ton, the offset projects the operators supported could have been anywhere in the world. 
 But Mr. Romney rejected the plan on Wednesday, over the advice of his advisers, prompting officials in other states to wonder whether he had ever intended to accept them at all. 
 Mr. Romney defended his actions. ''I've been in the deal business all my life,'' said Mr. Romney, a former businessman who headed the 2002 Salt Lake City Olympics. ''A deal is not a deal until everybody's agreed on it.'' 
 Mr. Romney said Massachusetts had adopted its own state carbon restriction program that will take effect next year, and it will have the kind of limits he wanted to see in the regional agreement. 
 For Governor Pataki, the loss of the two states is a setback, but a spokesman, David Catalfamo, said it did not weaken Mr. Pataki's political clout. ''I don't think this hurts him at all,'' Mr. Catalfamo said. 
 Mr. Pataki disagreed strongly with Mr. Romney's contention that the emissions pact would be bad for business. And New York business leaders said that the states still in the pact had a chance to create business opportunities through clean energy and compete with European companies. 
 Bradley M. Campbell, commissioner of the New Jersey Department of Environmental Protection, said the loss of two states was a temporary setback and would not undermine the states' message that they were willing to act on climate change even if the Bush administration was not. 
 ''By moving forward we will inevitably attract other states,'' Mr. Campbell said. He thought that whoever followed Mr. Romney in the Massachusetts Statehouse would most likely agree to join the regional pact. 
 ''They will see that we are developing a structure that can effectively reduce CO2 emissions,'' he said, ''and at the same time increase, not diminish, economic opportunities.''

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: EMISSIONS (92%); GOVERNORS (90%); POWER PLANTS (90%); AIR QUALITY REGULATION (90%); ELECTRIC POWER PLANTS (90%); CLIMATE CHANGE (90%); GREENHOUSE GASES (90%); INDUSTRIAL POLLUTION (90%); UTILITIES INDUSTRY (90%); ENVIRONMENT & NATURAL RESOURCES (89%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2012 (89%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (89%); DEREGULATION (89%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); NATURAL RESOURCES (78%); ENVIRONMENTAL & WILDLIFE ORGANIZATIONS (77%); EMISSIONS CREDITS (77%); ENVIRONMENTALISM (77%); GLOBAL WARMING (77%); US PRESIDENTS (75%); OIL & GAS PRICES (70%); INTERVIEWS (70%); ELECTRIC POWER INDUSTRY (70%); EXECUTIVES (65%) Air Pollution; Electric Light and Power; Factories and Industrial Plants; Air Pollution; Law and Legislation; Regulation and Deregulation of Industry; Weather; Global Warming; Air Pollution; Carbon Dioxide

PERSON: MITT ROMNEY (89%); DONALD CARCIERI (77%); M JODI RELL (57%); JOHN MCCAIN (54%) Anthony Depalma; Mitt (Gov) Romney; Donald L (Gov) Carcieri; George E (Gov) Pataki

GEOGRAPHIC: MASSACHUSETTS, USA (96%); RHODE ISLAND, USA (94%); NORTHEAST USA (93%); CONNECTICUT, USA (93%); NEW JERSEY, USA (93%); NEW YORK, USA (93%); MAINE, USA (79%); NEW HAMPSHIRE, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (96%) New York State; New Jersey; Connecticut; Delaware; Maine; Massachusetts; New Hampshire; Northeastern States (US); Rhode Island; Vermont

LOAD-DATE: December 16, 2005



333 of 607 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 17, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 5; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 745 words

HEADLINE: BUSINESS BRIEFS

 BODY:

Broadest Measure of Foreign Trade Shows Slight Improvement in 3rd Quarter
America's current-account deficit -- the broadest measure of international trade -- showed a slight improvement in the July-to-September quarter although it was still at the third-highest level in history. The Commerce Department reported that the deficit in the current account totaled $195.8 billion in the third quarter. That was down 1 percent from the deficit of $197.8 billion in the April-to-June quarter. The third-quarter figure was below the $205 billion imbalance that had been forecast. Analysts said payments by foreign insurance companies to settle damage claims stemming from hurricanes helped to narrow the gap. Analysts are predicting that the current-account deficit for 2005 will set a record, exceeding $800 billion, and that it will rise above $900 billion next year. (AP) 


President to Leave Philadelphia Federal Reserve
The president of the Federal Reserve Bank of Philadelphia, Anthony M. Santomero, announced that he planned to step down early next year, leaving a third vacancy at the top of the central bank. Mr. Santomero's resignation occurs as Ben S. Bernanke, whom the White House has nominated to be the next Fed chairman, prepares to succeed Alan Greenspan early next year. Mr. Santomero was a voting member this year on the committee that sets interest rates. Next year, the Philadelphia Fed president will not be a voting member of the committee, under the rotating system that gives the 12 regional Fed presidents a vote every second or third year. A search committee of the Philadelphia bank will choose Mr. Santomero's successor, and the Bush administration must still nominate two people for open spots on the Fed's seven-member board of governors. (REUTERS)

Johnson & Johnson to Buy Maker of Insulin Pumps
Shares of the Animas Corporation, a maker of insulin pumps, soared after Johnson & Johnson said that it had agreed to acquire the company for about $518 million to capitalize on the growing demand for diabetes treatment. Once the acquisition closes, Animas, based in West Chester, Pa., will operate as a stand-alone entity under LifeScan, a Johnson & Johnson subsidiary that sells blood glucose monitoring systems. Animas shares rose $5.83, or 32 percent, to $24.03. The boards of both companies have approved the deal, which is expected to close in next year's first quarter, pending approval from antitrust regulators and Animas shareholders. (AP)

Adobe Shares Soar as Profit Forecast Exceeds Estimates
Shares of Adobe Systems, a maker of graphic design software, surged 11 percent, the most in three years, after the company's profit forecast exceeded analysts' estimates. Adobe said its fiscal 2006 profit, minus some costs, would be $1.26 to $1.30 a share. Adobe reported $510 million in fourth-quarter sales, also topping analysts' estimates. Profit for the quarter gained 38 percent on demand for new versions of its Photoshop and Illustrator programs. Adobe completed the $3.4 billion acquisition of Macromedia this month. The purchase gives Adobe Web design programs and Macromedia's Flash, video software that is used in 98 percent of personal computers. Adobe shares rose $3.89, to $38.82. The stock has advanced 24 percent this year. (BLOOMBERG NEWS)

Bass Family Announces Deal to Sell Pipeline Company
The Bass family, long synonymous with oil and wealth in Texas, confirmed that it had agreed to sell the pipeline company Sid Richardson Energy Services, for $1.6 billion in cash to the Southern Union Company. The deal will give Southern Union, a natural gas distributor, one of the nation's largest networks of gas pipelines, at more than 22,000 miles crisscrossing the Gulf of Mexico, the Southwest, the Midwest and Canada. Southern Union already operates pipelines in 17 states. The Bass family put Richardson Energy on the market in May to capitalize on the rising value of gas operations, and received several offers, officials with the company said. (AP)

Tape With Data on 2 Million People Is Lost
A subsidiary of the LaSalle Bank Corporation said yesterday that a tape containing information on two million residential mortgage customers was lost as it was being transported to Texas from Chicago. The subsidiary, the ABN Amro Mortgage Group, said that it had no indication that the data had been misused, but that it was notifying the customers and had arranged for them to enroll in a credit monitoring service for 90 days at no cost. (AP)

GRAPHIC: Graph tracks share prices (daily closes) of Adobe Systems from October through December. (Oct.: $30.60 -- Dec.: $38.82)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Summary

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CURRENT ACCOUNT BALANCE (91%); NEWS BRIEFS (90%); CENTRAL BANKS (90%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (89%); COMPANY PROFITS (89%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (89%); BANKING & FINANCE (89%); SURGICAL & MEDICAL INSTRUMENT MFG (85%); SALES FIGURES (78%); INTERIM FINANCIAL RESULTS (78%); DIABETES TESTING (78%); APPROVALS (78%); BUDGET DEFICITS (78%); BUSINESS FORECASTS (74%); COMMERCE DEPARTMENTS (73%); US PRESIDENTS (73%); BANKING & FINANCE REGULATION (72%); SHAREHOLDERS (70%); INSURANCE (69%); WEATHER (69%); JOINT VENTURES MERGERS & ACQUISITIONS LAW (65%); ACQUISITIONS (62%); DIABETES (62%); INTEREST RATES (50%); ECONOMIC NEWS (50%); ANTITRUST & TRADE LAW (50%) Terms not available from NYTimes

COMPANY: FEDERAL RESERVE BANK OF PHILADELPHIA (83%); ADOBE SYSTEMS INC (82%); JOHNSON & JOHNSON (67%); ANIMAS CORP (64%)

ORGANIZATION: US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (58%)

TICKER: ADBE (NASDAQ) (82%); ADB (FRA) (82%); JNJ (NYSE) (67%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS521110 MONETARY AUTHORITIES - CENTRAL BANK (83%); SIC6011 FEDERAL RESERVE BANKS (83%); NAICS511210 SOFTWARE PUBLISHERS (82%); SIC7372 PREPACKAGED SOFTWARE (82%); NAICS334510 ELECTROMEDICAL & ELECTROTHERAPEUTIC APPARATUS MANUFACTURING (67%); NAICS339115 OPHTHALMIC GOODS MANUFACTURING (67%); NAICS325620 TOILET PREPARATION MANUFACTURING (67%); NAICS325413 IN-VITRO DIAGNOSTIC SUBSTANCE MANUFACTURING (67%); NAICS325412 PHARMACEUTICAL PREPARATION MANUFACTURING (67%); SIC2836 BIOLOGICAL PRODUCTS, EXCEPT DIAGNOSTIC SUBSTANCES (67%); SIC3842 ORTHOPEDIC, PROSTHETIC, & SURGICAL APPLIANCES & SUPPLIES (64%)

PERSON: BEN BERNANKE (58%); ALAN GREENSPAN (52%)

GEOGRAPHIC: PENNSYLVANIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: December 17, 2005



334 of 607 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 17, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 2; Business/Financial Desk; The Time Warp of Christmas Past; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1253 words

HEADLINE: Years Go By, but Presents Stay Essentially the Same

BYLINE: By EDUARDO PORTER and KEN BELSON

 BODY:
Imagine a Christmas past: under the tree assorted boxes bulge with coats, sweaters, mittens and pajamas. There are albums, record players, a bottle of Scotch, a Barbie doll and Legos.
 Flash forward to 2005 and sure, there is an iPod or two and other gadgets, but there are also scarves and ties, a Barbie and Legos, and perhaps a bottle of pinot noir. A high-definition flat-screen TV is in the same corner where the color television sat 40 years ago.
 Give or take a few computer chips inside some items, this year's gifts are not all that different from those a generation ago.
 Indeed, on this year's Christmas lists, clothes and accessories vied with books, CD's, DVD's and video games at the top, well ahead of consumer electronics, according to a National Retail Federation survey. Amid the parade of new items peddled as the next entertainment revolution, apparel's resilience underscores how Americans still spend most of their budgets on the same type of items that they have bought for years. Fads come and go, but in the end, toddlers still get toys, sweethearts still crave jewelry and grandpa still wears his cardigan. 
 To be sure, the share of spending on apparel -- including those timeless neckties and turtlenecks -- has fallen as the price of clothes has declined over the decades. Spending on cars fell sharply amid the popularity of sport utility vehicles. Items, from microwaves to CD players to digital cameras, also now compete for dollars where they once did not. And spending on cruises, spas and other services is growing.
 But through the prism of purchasing habits, the world is remarkably similar. From fashion to cellphones to tablecloths, marketers spend oodles of money to convince customers that what they are seeing is cutting-edge, when in fact much of what you see is the same thing repackaged. 
 ''Newness drives sales,'' said Daniel Butler, vice president for merchandising and retail operations at the retailers federation. ''Today there is more newness in the market than in the last five years. There is a faster turn in trends driven by the industry.''
 Yet for all the perceived changes in stores, patterns of consumption have remained stable. Last year, women's clothes accounted for more than 5 percent of all dollars spent on goods -- a higher share than computers and software, video and audio devices, cars, toys and kitchen appliances. 
 Today, toys and sporting goods account for about 1.9 percent of Americans' spending on goods compared with 1.4 percent in 1965. Attitudes toward smoking might have turned full circle since the mid-60's, but the amount spent on tobacco surely has not: from 1965 to 2004, tobacco's share of total spending on goods declined to 2.6 percent from 3.2 percent.
 Liquor, that other item of sin, still accounts for 3.9 percent of all American spending, just 1.2 percentage points less than in 1965, when Clan MacGregor Scotch ($6.19 a quart) ran advertisements in The New York Times during the holiday season alongside Charles Knox hats and the DeJur Grundig Stenorette palm-size dictating machine. 
 The arrival of the personal computer in the 1980's constituted a bona fide revolution. Last year, Americans spent about $51 billion on computers, peripherals and software, an astonishing figure for an item on which they spent nothing in 1977. But to put it in perspective: $51 billion is only 1.5 percent of America's spending on goods. Last year Americans spent $54 billion on shoes.
 This Christmas consumers are unlikely to depart from the trend. According to the retailers' federation, the top toy for girls will be Barbie, which made its debut in 1959. Boys are more up to speed on their technology -- they want video games. But Legos, which hit American stores in 1962, are third on their list, with Hot Wheels, introduced in 1968, fourth.
 This helps explain what is under the tree at David Grover's house in Austin, Tex. A quality-assurance engineer at Dell, Mr. Grover said he received his share of ''trinkets for my PC'' and gave a laptop to his wife, Rhonda, last Christmas. But his parents gave him a rotisserie chicken cooker last year.
 Mr. Grover has given his 13-year-old son, Will, Nintendo and Sega video games for several years. But like most teenagers, he now finds music more interesting, so this year, Mr. Grover bought him a guitar and amplifier. Mr. Grover's wife still buys their son shirts and pants. ''For the last six or seven years, it's always been some gaming device,'' Mr. Grover said. ''But he's 13, so it's like a life-switch. He and his friends are all of a sudden into music.'' 
 In a way, the stability of Americans' spending is unsurprising. Clothes, of course, benefit from the fact that people are mostly required by law to wear them in public. Toys still top Christmas lists partly because there aren't yet many electronic devices for toddlers. And many new goods, including those marketed as the mother of all inventions, are just tweaked old goods. 
 Perhaps the biggest change is that over all, Americans are spending less on goods. Today, goods take up about 41 cents out of the consumer dollar, down from about 57.5 cents in 1965. From health insurance to cheap vacations in the Caribbean, much more money is going to services.
 Still, within the 41 cents spent on goods, the technology revolution has brought about some changes. More electronics are integrated with other devices so it is more likely that a salesman in an electronics shop might sell you memory cards to go with your digital camera or a printer for a computer.
 ''When we see people buying a PSP, they also buy a Memory Stick or a movie or a game,'' said Dennis Syracuse, who runs Sony retail stores, referring to the PlayStation portable device. ''Years ago, it used to be one item and that's it.''
 Yet more than any change in the products, perhaps the most profound transformation in the consumer products industry over the last 50 years has been in the sophistication of their marketing. 
 Fashion and design have become crucial for electronics devices as they have become cheaper, more portable and more generic, Mr. Syracuse said. Sony, for instance, now has Vaio computers in five colors (black, white, blue, raspberry red and green apple) and the company heavily markets its flat-screen televisions to women, who increasingly see them as accoutrements for the living room rather than boxes to kill time.
 Gadgets are little different. Laura Nembach, a mother of two from Smithtown, N.Y., bought her niece a case for her iPod from Coach. ''That's just crazy,'' she said. ''It's not just the electronics they had before but it's reached out to designers taking advantage of it.''
 It's also a far cry from the Barbie town house she was given as a child, or the sweaters she still receives today. Yet the new items today perform mostly the same functions as the 10-year-old version. They just do it in a different way. 
 The flat-screen TV is just a skinny set with better image quality and a few more input jacks. The microwave is an oven that cooks faster. In 1980, the hot new product was the Sony Walkman -- a breakthrough device the size of a pack of cigarettes that retailed for about $200 (about $450 today) and let people take their favorite music with them. This year's must-have, the iPod, retails for $99 to $399 and, astonishingly, does pretty much the same thing.
 Indeed, since 1980, the share of Americans' spending on video and audio goods soared from 2 percent of all spending on things to 2.4 percent.


GRAPHIC: Photo (Photo-illustration by The New York Times)Chart: ''Patterns of Consumption''Over the last 40 years, some of America's spending habits have remained remarkably stable. Charts show spending as a percentage of all spending on goods.Graphs track spending on the following items from 1965-2004:Women's clothingAlcoholMen's clothingNew carsVideo and audioToys and sportsJewelryComputers, peripherals and softwareBooksHousehold appliancesTobacco(Source by Bureau of Economic Analysis)(pg. C13)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: AUDIO & VIDEO EQUIPMENT (90%); CHRISTMAS (90%); CONSUMER ELECTRONICS (90%); CONSUMER BEHAVIOR (88%); RETAILERS (88%); COMPUTER PERIPHERALS (78%); TOYS & GAMES (77%); FASHION ACCESSORIES (77%); TELEVISION EQUIPMENT (76%); COMPUTER EQUIPMENT (75%); COMPUTER SOFTWARE (75%); SPORT UTILITY VEHICLES (73%); TRENDS (73%); MARKET RESEARCH (73%); BUSINESS & PROFESSIONAL ASSOCIATIONS (73%); WOMEN'S CLOTHING (73%); BUDGETS (72%); DIGITAL CAMERAS (70%); COMPUTER CHIPS (70%); CD & DVD DRIVES (69%); SMOKING (68%); RETAIL MERCHANDISE MANAGEMENT (68%); MOTOR VEHICLES (64%); MOBILE & CELLULAR COMMUNICATIONS (63%); MOBILE & CELLULAR TELEPHONES (50%) 

ORGANIZATION: NATIONAL RETAIL FEDERATION (56%)

PERSON: Eduardo Porter; Ken Belson

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: December 17, 2005



335 of 607 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 17, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 2; Business/Financial Desk; THE MARKETS: STOCKS & BONDS; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 689 words

HEADLINE: An Odd 'Witching' Day Closes Out a Mixed Week

BYLINE: By The Associated Press

 BODY:
Stocks closed lower yesterday as markets followed what has become a pattern: early gains narrow through the day's trading and occasionally turn to losses. The major indexes finished the week mixed. 
 Yesterday was one of the year's four ''quadruple-witching days,'' so called because four kinds of options contracts expire. Historically, the days have meant higher-than-usual volatility and volume as investors cash in or renew their contracts. In 10 of the last 13 such days, the Dow Jones industrial average has closed higher, according to The Stock Trader's Almanac.
Friday became one of the rare down ''witching'' days, with the Dow frittering away early, modest advances to turn negative. 
 Technology stocks drooped, perhaps on recent results from the sector's big names, including Oracle, which look worse compared with recent sunny reports from industrial companies like General Electric and Honeywell International.
 The Dow Jones industrial average fell 6.08 points, or 0.06 percent, to 10,875.59. Broader stock indicators also fell. The Standard & Poor's 500-stock index dropped 3.62 points, or 0.28 percent, to 1,267.32, and the Nasdaq composite index declined 8.15 points, or 0.36 percent, to 2,252.48.
 Crude oil futures fell. A barrel of light crude settled at $58.06, down $1.93 on the New York Mercantile Exchange.
 Bond prices rose, with the price of the benchmark 10-year Treasury note rising 6/32, to 100 16/32. The yield, which moves in the opposite direction from the price, fell to 4.43 percent, from 4.46 percent late Thursday. The dollar was mixed against other major currencies, and gold prices declined.
 In economic news, America's deficit in the broadest measure of international trade showed a slight improvement in the July-September quarter, although it was still at the third-highest level in history. The current-account deficit includes not only sales of merchandise and services but also investment flows and foreign aid. The current-account deficit must be financed by persuading foreigners to hold more dollars, which they invest in stocks, bonds and Treasury securities.
 This is part of a string of economic reports that have come in ''not too hot, not too cold,'' said John P. Waterman, chief investment officer at Rittenhouse Asset Management.
 ''We feel a little bad news on the economy is good news for the market,'' because it means the Federal Reserve will stop raising short-term interest rates sooner, he said.
 The market, however, struggled through another week without notable gains, as investors continued to consolidate their holdings despite generally strong earnings and economic reports. For the week, the Dow rose 0.9 percent; the S.& P. 500 gained 0.63 percent, while a technology and small-cap sell-off pushed the Nasdaq 0.19 percent lower.
 In company news, Adobe Systems climbed $3.89, or 11 percent, to $38.82 after the company, which makes software like Acrobat for creating digital documents, posted higher fourth-quarter earnings and gave an upbeat fiscal 2006 outlook.
 Johnson & Johnson rose 70 cents, to $60.86, after it agreed to buy Animas, a maker of insulin delivery pumps, for about $518 million. Johnson said it would pay $24.50 for each Animas share, a 35 percent premium over the stock's Thursday close. Animas surged 32 percent, or $5.83, to $24.03.
 Oracle, the business software company, fell 14 cents, to $12.69, after its earnings dipped 2 percent, depressed by an accounting charge that was largely related to its $11.1 billion takeover of PeopleSoft Inc.
 Pier 1 Imports, the home goods retailer, slid 61 cents, or 6.2 percent, to $9.19, a 52-week low. The company continued a fall that began Thursday, when it said it would abandon its wicker furniture in favor of goods that are sleeker and more modern- looking.
 Declining issues narrowly led advancers on the New York Stock Exchange, where volume was 2.1 billion shares, up from 1.65 billion shares Thursday.

 Press; Bloomberg Financial Markets)

Table: ''The Favorites'' lists stocks held by largest number of accounts at Merrill Lynch.
 (Sources by The Associated Press, Bloomberg Financial Markets)

GRAPHIC: Graph tracks the Dow Jones industrial average over the past year. (Sources by Associated 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MARKET OPEN CLOSE (99%); STOCK INDEXES (95%); CRUDE OIL MARKETS (90%); CURRENT ACCOUNT BALANCE (89%); CURRENCIES (89%); BONDS (89%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (89%); BOND MARKETS (89%); TREASURY SECURITIES (86%); FUTURES (79%); STOCK EXCHANGES (79%); METALS MARKETS (78%); GOLD MARKETS (78%); ECONOMIC NEWS (78%); PRECIOUS METALS MARKETS (78%); COMMODITIES TRADING (78%); ENERGY MARKETS (78%); COMPANY EARNINGS (76%); INTERNATIONAL ASSISTANCE (72%); CRUDE OIL PRICES (70%); OIL & GAS PRICES (70%); PRICE INCREASES (69%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (68%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (67%); COMMODITIES EXCHANGES (65%); EXECUTIVES (60%); INTEREST RATES (50%) 

COMPANY: HONEYWELL INTERNATIONAL INC (56%); GENERAL ELECTRIC CO (56%); NEW YORK MERCANTILE EXCHANGE (54%)

ORGANIZATION: NEW YORK MERCANTILE EXCHANGE (54%)

TICKER: HON (NYSE) (56%); HON (LSE) (56%); GNE (PAR) (56%); GEC (LSE) (56%); GE (SWX) (56%); GE (NYSE) (56%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS336412 AIRCRAFT ENGINE & ENGINE PARTS MANUFACTURING (56%); NAICS336211 MOTOR VEHICLE BODY MANUFACTURING (56%); NAICS334512 AUTOMATIC ENVIRONMENTAL CONTROL MANUFACTURING FOR RESIDENTIAL, COMMERCIAL & APPLIANCE USE (56%); NAICS325180 OTHER BASIC INORGANIC CHEMICAL MANUFACTURING (56%); NAICS335222 HOUSEHOLD REFRIGERATOR & HOME FREEZER MANUFACTURING (56%); NAICS335210 SMALL ELECTRICAL APPLIANCE MANUFACTURING (56%); NAICS523210 SECURITIES & COMMODITY EXCHANGES (54%); SIC6231 SECURITIES & COMMODITY EXCHANGES (54%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: December 17, 2005



336 of 607 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 17, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 4; Business/Financial Desk; WHAT'S OFFLINE; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 657 words

HEADLINE: The Psychology of Retailing

BYLINE: By PAUL B. BROWN

 BODY:
IF this holiday season you find yourself spending more on presents than you planned, we know just where to put the blame: store merchandisers, who have considered just about every way to separate you from your money.
 In the current issue of Psychology Today, Michelle Bryner reveals some tricks of the trade:
''Most shoppers turn right, probably because most are right-handed. The right-hand thoroughfare attracts the highest traffic anywhere in the store. It is the perfect location for high-profit merchandise.'' 
 Stores like Target and Old Navy that provide a shopping cart or basket to hold potential purchases sell more than those that don't.
 Shoppers tend to move quickly through stores. To slow them, retailers provide mirrors wherever they can ''because most people like to check out their hair as much as they do the clothes.''
 Those neatly folded piles of clothes intimidate some shoppers, who are afraid of messing up the stacks. ''So today's salespeople are trained to leave a few items unfolded, encouraging shoppers to look and touch.''
 The best place to put the cosmetic counter is across from the shoe department. ''Waiting for their size, shoppers are a captive audience.''

FOR THE HARD-TO-BUY-FOR -- Still wondering what to give that special someone? The December issue of the Robb Report reports that the University of North Florida, a 33-year-old public institution in Jacksonville, ''is offering legacies to you and three of your friends, family members or heroes.''
 For $5 million each, benefactors can name four of the university's five colleges: the College of Arts and Sciences, the College of Education and Human Services, the College of Health and the College of Computing, Engineering and Construction. 
 ''Because the state of Florida maintains a program that matches gifts in excess of $2 million on a dollar-for-dollar basis, each donation will be worth $10 million to the university,'' Sheila Gibson Stoodley writes.
 The university named its fifth college the Coggin College of Business in honor of a local automotive dealer, Luther Coggin, and his wife, Blanche, after they gave $5 million to the university three years ago.

PLEASE HOLD -- ''Globalization and outsourcing are two megatrends whose benefits most businesses can't afford to ignore,'' Norm Alster writes in CFO IT. ''But the practice of outsourcing customer service to offshore call centers is beginning to look like a classic good idea carried too far.''
 Given the high cost of managing the foreign call centers, a growing war for overseas customer service representatives (which drives up wages) and the increased cost of training, the economies of shifting customer service offshore are less than promised, critics contend.
 Overseas call centers say the savings average 30 percent to 60 percent, but the critics say the real numbers put the cost reduction at 10 percent to 30 percent. And that may not be enough to offset growing customer complaints.
 Some consumers whose calls have been handled by overseas customer service representatives complain that they find it hard to understand the operators' accents and that they have difficulties in making themselves understood.
 Mr. Alster writes: ''Several large firms, including Dell, credit card giant Capital One and insurer Conseco have shifted at least some customer-support operations back to the United States.''

FINAL TAKE -- In its current issue, Glamour magazine calculated the cost of three celebrity weddings and then divided each by the length of the marriage to come up with the amortized daily cost of getting hitched.
 For example, the wedding of Tori Spelling and Charlie Shanian cost an estimated $1 million and the marriage lasted 393 days, which works out to $2,545 a day. 
 The magazine's advice about weddings -- celebrity or otherwise -- is the same offered by financial planners (and divorce lawyers) everywhere: ''Don't get married until you're sure.'' PAUL B. BROWN


GRAPHIC: Photo

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PSYCHOLOGY (89%); OUTSOURCING (85%); MATCHING GIFTS (85%); CUSTOMER SERVICE (83%); HOLIDAYS & OBSERVANCES (78%); RETAILERS (78%); SALES FORCE (74%); BUSINESS EDUCATION (69%); MOTOR VEHICLE & PARTS DEALERS (69%); ENGINEERING (68%); COLLEGES & UNIVERSITIES (64%); OFFSHORING (64%); CALL CENTERS (62%); GLOBALIZATION (60%); BUSINESS TELEPHONE SERVICE (60%); NEW CAR DEALERS (50%) 

ORGANIZATION: Psychology Today (Magazine); University of North Florida; Robb Report (Magazine); CFO IT

PERSON: Norm Alster; Paul B Brown

GEOGRAPHIC: JACKSONVILLE, FL, USA (54%) FLORIDA, USA (93%) UNITED STATES (93%) Florida

LOAD-DATE: December 17, 2005



337 of 607 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 17, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Foreign Desk; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 824 words

HEADLINE: Belarus Sets Date for Presidential Election That Opposition Calls Its 'Last Chance'

BYLINE: By STEVEN LEE MYERS

DATELINE: MOSCOW, Dec. 16 

 BODY:
The Parliament in Belarus voted Friday to hold the country's next presidential election in March, opening an accelerated campaign between its authoritarian leader, Aleksandr G. Lukashenko, and a beleaguered opposition movement.
 The election will be a watershed for Belarus, which Mr. Lukashenko has led since 1994 with an increasingly repressive hand. He has revived symbols and policies of the country's Soviet past, eroded personal and political freedoms and stifled all forms of dissent.
 The democratic opposition -- now unified behind a single candidate, Aleksandr Milinkevich -- has called for a free election, but its leaders doubt that one will take place. They have increasingly focused their attention on mobilizing people for mass protests like those in Ukraine last year after that country's fraudulent presidential election. 
 ''If our campaign is effective, then we will get people out into the street,'' Mr. Milinkevich said in an interview this week while campaigning in the western Belarussian city of Brest. ''This is the last chance for us, the last battle.''
 The election has raised the specter of a new and possibly violent confrontation over democracy following popular upheavals in two other post-Soviet nations, Georgia and Ukraine, and more suspect elections recently in two others, Azerbaijan and Kazakhstan.
 With 10 million people, Belarus borders new members of the European Union that have openly called for democratic change there, as has the United States. During a meeting with President Vladimir V. Putin of Russia in May, President Bush called for ''free and fair elections'' in Belarus. Secretary of State Condoleezza Rice called Belarus ''the last true dictatorship in central Europe.''
 ''It is time for change to come,'' she said in April.
 Mr. Lukashenko is eligible to run again only because of a constitutional amendment approved in a referendum in October 2004 that abolished presidential term limits, allowing him to seek office indefinitely. That referendum approval, officially supported by 77 percent of voters, was widely denounced as a fraud. An independent survey of voters leaving polling places indicated that only 48 percent had voted in favor of abolishing term limits.
 Mr. Lukashenko has responded defiantly to international criticism. With the election approaching, his government has put independent newspapers under new pressure by revoking their ability to be sold through state-owned kiosks or delivered through the state postal system.
 The two houses of Parliament also toughened criminal penalties for organizing protests, joining banned organizations or speaking against the national interest. The legislation, awaiting Mr. Lukashenko's signature, would impose prison sentences of up to three years for anyone convicted of advocating the overthrow of the government and up to two years for ''discrediting the country.''
 Parliament voted to set the election for March 19 in a hastily called session. Under the country's Constitution, twice revised by Mr. Lukashenko, the next election could have been held as late as July. But with Mr. Milinkevich's campaign showing signs of winning popular support, according to its own polls, many of his aides believed that Mr. Lukashenko would move to compress the election campaign.
 Nikolai I. Lozovik, a spokesman for the Central Election Commission, said in a telephone interview that the date had been set because of more prosaic concerns: ''July is the time of vacations.'' He added that March elections were ''an old Soviet tradition.''
 The Parliament's vote came a day after Mr. Lukashenko met with Mr. Putin in the Black Sea resort of Sochi. Mr. Lukashenko was quoted by news agencies as saying he would discuss the elections with the Russian leader. Although the two men have had chilly relations at times, Mr. Putin has been a reliable ally.
 The Kremlin, dismayed by the Orange Revolution in Ukraine that overturned an initial victory by a Russian-backed candidate, appears unlikely to break with Mr. Lukashenko to support an opposition candidate promising democratic, economic and political reforms.
 In a telephone interview after the vote on Friday, Mr. Milinkevich said the earlier election date would curtail his time to travel and meet voters in person -- something essential to his campaign because of a blackout on state television and radio.
 An abbreviated campaign could also limit the influence of foreign assistance, including nearly $12 million pledged by the United States to support civic and political groups, though not Mr. Milinkevich directly.
 At the same time, Mr. Milinkevich said the decision to hold elections in March underscored the government's concern over signs that popular support for Mr. Lukashenko has waned after nearly 12 years in power.
 ''This decision is more evidence of their uncertainty,'' he said of Mr. Lukashenko and his circle. ''They realize they cannot win in honest competition.''


GRAPHIC: Map of Europe highlighting Belarus: Repression has grown in Belarus under its longtime president.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (92%); ELECTIONS (91%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); TERM LIMITS (89%); REFERENDUMS (89%); VOTERS & VOTING (89%); US PRESIDENTS (78%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (78%); TALKS & MEETINGS (78%); LEGISLATION (78%); INTERVIEWS (78%); PROTESTS & DEMONSTRATIONS (77%); EUROPEAN UNION (76%); STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (71%); NATIONAL SECURITY (65%); SENTENCING (63%); CONSTITUTIONAL LAW (62%); JAIL SENTENCING (60%) 

ORGANIZATION: EUROPEAN UNION (54%)

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (58%); VLADIMIR PUTIN (58%); CONDOLEEZZA RICE (56%) Steven Lee Myers; Aleksandr G (Pres) Lukashenko; Aleksandr Milinkevich

GEOGRAPHIC: MOSCOW, RUSSIAN FEDERATION (79%) BELARUS (94%); EUROPE (93%); UKRAINE (92%); AZERBAIJAN (79%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (79%); KAZAKHSTAN (79%); UNITED STATES (79%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (79%); GEORGIA (77%); CENTRAL EUROPE (54%) Belarus; Belarus

LOAD-DATE: December 17, 2005



338 of 607 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 17, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; National Desk; Pg. 14

LENGTH: 340 words

HEADLINE: Excerpt From a Column Favorable to a Client

 BODY:
Following is an excerpt from a syndicated column written by Doug Bandow for the Copley News Service in June 1997. Mr. Bandow has resigned from the Cato Institute after it was learned that he took payments for such columns from a Washington lobbyist, Jack Abramoff. The Choctaw Indians were clients of Mr. Abramoff's lobbying firm. 
 This century has showcased two widely divergent strategies to alleviate poverty. One views poverty as the lack of money. The obvious answer is for government to give cash and other benefits to the poor. The result has been dependency, family and community collapse, and more poverty.
The other strategy treats poverty as the failure to generate wealth. The solution, then, is to encourage people to be self-supporting. The result is responsibility, independence and prosperity. These contrasting strategies have been evident among Native Americans. Dispossessed of their land and restricted to reservations by the expanding American nation last century, Indians have ended up among the poorest residents of the U.S. One-third are in poverty; most rely, either as individuals or communities, on federal hand-outs.
 However, a number of tribes are increasingly choosing entrepreneurship. Some are developing natural resources on their lands. Others are using their relative autonomy to establish casinos. A few are developing manufacturing and service enterprises.
 Nowhere does this strategy appear to have been a greater success than in central Mississippi, where the Choctaws have created a multifaceted business empire that has enriched not only themselves, but also the surrounding community. Per capita tribal income has quadrupled since 1982. Unemployment has dropped from over 20 percent to near zero over the same period.
 The Choctaws have created electronics, greeting card and printing companies, a shopping center and construction firm, and a golf club. These and other enterprises generate sales of over $152 million annually, employ 2,400 people, and have pulled numerous tribe members out of poverty.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Text

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: POVERTY & HOMELESSNESS (90%); MEDIA SYNDICATION (90%); LOBBYING (77%); NATIVE AMERICANS (77%); POOR POPULATION (76%); RESIGNATIONS (73%); FAMILY (71%); ENTREPRENEURSHIP (71%); CONSTRUCTION (65%); SALES & SELLING (65%); PRINTING INDUSTRY (64%); RETAILERS (63%) 

ORGANIZATION: CATO INSTITUTE (84%)

GEOGRAPHIC: MISSISSIPPI, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: December 17, 2005



339 of 607 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 17, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 5; Metropolitan Desk; TRANSIT NEGOTIATIONS: THE STAKES; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 999 words

HEADLINE: Workers and the M.T.A. Stick to Lines in the Sand

BYLINE: By STEVEN GREENHOUSE

 BODY:
The union is famed for its militancy. The transportation authority is flush with a $1 billion surplus. And now it is demanding sizable concessions on employee benefits.
 It's certainly a volatile mix.
Add to that a union president facing re-election who has to demonstrate to dissidents that he is tough enough. And then have the authority give $100 million in holiday discounts to passengers, while transit workers think it should go toward a raise.
 Now the recipe is explosive. 
 Those elements and more -- including the two sides drawing multiple lines in the sand, and feeling that they must stand firmly behind them -- have caused the transit workers' union to call for a bus strike in Queens on Monday and set a 12:01 a.m. Tuesday deadline for a full-scale subway and bus strike if a deal is not reached. 
 Indeed, tensions between the Metropolitan Transportation Authority and Local 100 of the Transport Workers Union are so great that the union has threatened the first transit shutdown in 25 years, even though state law prohibits such strikes and the workers risk colossal fines.
 The authority and the union started miles apart and after four days of intense negotiations, they were unable to bridge the gaps between them, largely because the authority's leaders and the union's leader face such fierce but conflicting pressures.
 Peter S. Kalikow, the chairman of the transportation authority, faces pressure from Gov. George E. Pataki and Mayor Michael R. Bloomberg to offer a modest contract without setting a pattern of high wages that state and city employees would embrace as a model to copy. 
 Moreover, the authority, as well as the city and state, are worried about fast-rising pension costs, pressuring Mr. Kalikow to try to control them. At the same time, the authority is predicting an $800 million deficit in 2008 -- a figure that union members do not find credible. As a result, Mr. Kalikow has proposed giving newly hired workers an inferior pension plan to the one that current workers have. 
 ''From the beginning of this process,'' Mr. Kalikow said yesterday, ''I have been clear in my resolve to begin to address the skyrocketing cost of our pensions and health care benefits, which are causing a large deficit in 2008 and beyond.'' 
 Roger Toussaint, the union's president, is trying especially hard to deliver an impressive contract because so many transit workers are complaining that the wages under the three-year contract that just expired did not keep pace with inflation. In addition, Mr. Toussaint, who sees his calling as improving the workers' lot, has vowed repeatedly that he will not leave future transit workers with a contract unequal to that of current workers.
 ''I think working people and people of good will look at what's going on with G.M. and the stripping of health care for tens of millions of Americans and the taking away of the hard-earned pensions of retirees as an outrage, and they want to see someone put a stop to it,'' Mr. Toussaint said. One does not have to ask who he thinks that someone is.
 The transportation authority's first line in the sand was its insistence that the union agree to a new pension tier, in effect, a less generous pension plan for future workers. The authority's second line was the demand that future workers pay some premiums toward their health insurance. (Current workers pay no premiums.)
 But Mr. Toussaint has said dozens of times in recent days, ''We will not sell out our unborn,'' meaning that he will not agree to a contract that treats future workers worse than current workers. He has also dug in against having union members -- current and future -- pay any premiums toward their health insurance. 
 In addition, Mr. Toussaint has insisted on raises that are higher than the rate of inflation, partly because many union members remain upset that their previous three-year contract included a pay freeze in the first year. 
 Early yesterday, the authority increased its wage offer to a 3 percent raise for three straight years, up from its previous offer of two 3 percent raises over 27 months. But Mr. Toussaint still saw that improved wage package as inadequate, especially in light of the authority's $1 billion surplus.
 Several veteran labor negotiators not involved in the talks said they saw a possible formula for a settlement. They suggest having the transportation authority give somewhat higher raises than it otherwise would -- perhaps 4 percent raises for one or two years -- and then claw back some of that money by getting the union to accept some modest health-insurance premiums for all transit workers. (One idea being floated is higher co-payments, which might not produce nearly as much money as premiums.)
 The state and city are urging transit officials not to be too forthcoming with raises. If the authority were to give a 4 percent raise some years, then unions like the United Federation of Teachers and District Council 37 would undoubtedly demand identical increases. 
 Mr. Pataki and Mr. Bloomberg yesterday threw their full weight behind the transportation authority, praising its offer and pressing the union to accept it. Mr. Pataki called it ''an excellent offer,'' and Mr. Bloomberg called it ''a more generous offer than what the city has already negotiated'' with its workers. 
 In the city's most recent round of bargaining, the basic pattern was a total 6 percent raise over three years, with some productivity concessions in return. But several unions, including the teachers, received considerably more than 6 percent by agreeing to far-reaching productivity measures. The teachers received a 15 percent raise by agreeing to more school days, a longer day and a 52-month contract. 
 Mr. Kalikow showed some flexibility in yesterday's early-morning negotiations, by improving the authority's wage offer and making its pension and health offer less onerous to the union. But he nonetheless remained firmly behind his lines in the sand, just as the union has.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News Analysis

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: EMPLOYMENT (93%); LABOR UNIONS (92%); URBAN TRANSIT SYSTEMS (90%); WAGES & SALARIES (89%); PENSION & RETIREMENT PLANS (89%); EMPLOYMENT CONTRACTS (78%); PENSION FUNDS (78%); COLLECTIVE BARGAINING (78%); COLLECTIVE BARGAINING AGREEMENTS (78%); MOTORCOACHES & BUSES (76%); RECRUITMENT & HIRING (73%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (72%); PUBLIC EMPLOYEE RETIREMENT SYSTEMS (69%); MANAGED CARE ORGANIZATIONS (64%); PERSONAL FINANCE (63%) Transit Systems; Wages and Salaries; Pensions and Retirement Plans; Transit Systems; Health Insurance and Managed Care; Wages and Salaries; Givebacks (Collective Bargaining)

ORGANIZATION: Metropolitan Transportation Authority; Transport Workers Union

PERSON: MICHAEL BLOOMBERG (50%) Peter S Kalikow; Roger Toussaint; Michael R (Mayor) Bloomberg; George E (Gov) Pataki; Steven Greenhouse

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%) NEW YORK, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (92%) New York City; New York State

LOAD-DATE: December 17, 2005



340 of 607 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 17, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 2; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 810 words

HEADLINE: Manhunt Comes to Bloody End in Case of Fake Firefighter

BYLINE: By KAREEM FAHIM; Al Baker, Janon Fisher and Matthew Sweeney, in New York, and John Branston, in Memphis, contributed reporting for this article.

 BODY:
After weeks on the run, a writer accused of posing as a firefighter so he could sexually attack a woman in her Chelsea apartment was cornered yesterday by campus police at the University of Memphis, where he stabbed himself in the throat before his arrest, the authorities said.
 The man, Peter Braunstein, 41, was taken to the Regional Medical Center in Memphis, where he was in fair condition last night, a hospital spokeswoman said. Detectives from the New York Police Department -- whom Mr. Braunstein, a freelance writer, had eluded for weeks -- had traveled last night to Tennessee to question him. 
A woman who works at the university recognized his picture from the television news and called the campus police. As an officer approached Mr. Braunstein, ''He said 'I'm the person you're looking for,' and stabbed himself three times in the neck,'' said Paul J. Browne, the New York Police Department's chief spokesman.
 Mr. Braunstein threatened the officer with a BB gun, the police said, and then the officer used pepper spray to stop him from stabbing himself. He did so anyway, then collapsed on the ground, bleeding heavily, said Bruce Harper, the director of the University of Memphis police. 
 Mr. Braunstein's father, Alberto Braunstein, who had pleaded for weeks for his son to turn himself in, said: ''I said all along that he was writing a play. He was the protagonist, and that's the way it had to end.'' 
 The bloody climax of a nearly two-month manhunt came at about 2:45 p.m. Central time, on a street at the edge of the University of Memphis campus. Most students had left for their winter break the day before.
 Mr. Braunstein, out of cash and carrying his belongings in a tattered gray backpack, had been on the run, taking the authorities on a chase that led from Manhattan to Cleveland to Memphis, with stops in topless dance clubs, bars and economy motels, the authorities said. On Nov. 28, Mr. Braunstein sold his blood for $20 at a blood bank in Memphis, the police said.
 He was recognized, and investigators in New York found the sighting credible enough to release the details, alerting the news media. Mr. Braunstein's picture was shown on the local news, and a woman who worked at the University of Memphis saw him yesterday and called the campus police.
 It was a long way from the Chelsea apartment where, the police say, Mr. Braunstein dressed up as a firefighter on Halloween night in a costume he had bought on eBay, and started small fires in the hallway outside the apartment of a 34-year-old woman to trick her into letting him inside. 
 The police say he drugged the woman, whom he knew, with chloroform, and sexually abused her during the night, and then left the next morning. 
 As investigators and reporters dug into Mr. Braunstein's past, other disturbing episodes emerged, including details of a relationship he had had with another woman that had led to charges against Mr. Braunstein for menacing, stalking and unlawful imprisonment.
 At the same time, updates on the search frequently landed on the pages of The New York Post and The Daily News, spurred by Mr. Braunstein's career in the city's publishing world. He had written for fashion magazines and The Village Voice, among other publications, and had cut a peculiar figure at the places he worked, favoring the clothes of a 1960's glam rocker, and a haircut -- long, greasy curls -- that those who met him found memorable.
 Frustrated with the chase, investigators in New York released details that they thought might help capture Mr. Braunstein. He rolled his own cigarettes, spoke fluent French and drank Guinness stout and vodka, they said. His choice of Chinese food was beef with curry and extra mustard, they added. 
 Mr. Braunstein did not drive, but would hire chauffeurs, and he told at least one person -- a bartender in Ohio -- that he was scouting locations for a Hollywood film.
 The police also released a chronology of his movements, placing him at cheap motels, first in Midtown Manhattan, and then in Ohio, in Columbus and Cleveland. 
 By the time campus officers confronted him yesterday afternoon on a sidewalk on the western edge of the University of Memphis, his photograph had been widely disseminated by the authorities in New York and had appeared on ''America's Most Wanted.''
 Mr. Braunstein was wearing sunglasses yesterday, which might have stopped the pepper spray, said Mr. Harper of the university police. He threatened the officer with a BB gun, and after falling to the ground, told the officer that his name was Peter Braunstein, a spokesman for the Memphis Police Department said, adding that they had charged him with aggravated assault.
 The elder Mr. Braunstein said that he was relieved that the ordeal seemed finally to be over.
 ''Limelight is important to him, and he had more than his 15 minutes of fame,'' he said.


GRAPHIC: Photo: Peter Braunstein

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: SCHOOL SAFETY & SECURITY (91%); CRIMINAL INVESTIGATIONS (90%); POLICE FORCES (90%); SEXUAL ASSAULT (90%); WRITERS (90%); SEX OFFENSES (90%); CAMPUS SECURITY (89%); DRAMA LITERATURE (78%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (77%); INVESTIGATIONS (76%); BLOOD BANKS (76%); FREELANCE EMPLOYMENT (73%); ARRESTS (73%); HOSPITALS (71%); HALLOWEEN (60%) Sex Crimes; Impersonations

ORGANIZATION: University of Memphis

PERSON: Peter Braunstein; Kareem Fahim

GEOGRAPHIC: MEMPHIS, TN, USA (94%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%) TENNESSEE, USA (94%); NEW YORK, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%) New York City; Memphis (Tenn)

LOAD-DATE: December 17, 2005



341 of 607 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 17, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk; FIVE DAYS; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 1015 words

HEADLINE: With Energy Prices High, Suitors Are on the Prowl 

BYLINE: By Mark A. Stein

 BODY:
HIGH energy prices benefit some as surely as they injure others. Evidence of both sides of that coin was evident this week.
 On the upside, a pair of energy companies, flush with cash, made multibillion-dollar bids for asset-rich competitors, moves that are likely to accelerate a merger spree among big oil and gas producers, analysts said.
On the downside, poor sales of gas-guzzling sport utility vehicles are hurting General Motors. A credit rating agency downgraded its debt and raised the prospect of a bankruptcy filing. High energy prices also contributed to an unexpectedly big trade deficit, undermining confidence in the economy just as holiday sales were revving up.

HOT MARKET -- nocoPhillips, the nation's third-largest oil company, made a swift move to buy Burlington Resources, offering $35.6 billion in cash and stock, or about 20 percent above the market price. The takeover, which is scheduled to close next spring, would expand Conoco's natural gas reserves by 25 percent. 
 Natural gas prices are near record highs, close to $15 for 1,000 cubic feet. Critics worried that Conoco overpaid because of this, but the company's chairman and chief executive, James J. Mulva, asserted that the deal would make sense even if gas fell to its historic average of $5.
 The deal is the latest in a string of big energy-related mergers. This year, Chevron bought Unocal for about $17 billion; Gas Natural of Spain has offered $28 billion for Endesa; and Chinese and Russian companies have cut deals from Venezuela to Kazakhstan. And Florida Power and Light is in talks to buy Constellation Energy for more than $11 billion, according to people briefed on the negotiations.
 Total value of energy mergers this year should hit $367 billion, Thomson Financial estimates. Possible future targets include the BG Group and Centrica in Britain; Norsk Hydro in Norway; Eni in Italy -- and ConocoPhillips.

CHECK ENGINE -- Standard & Poor's cut its credit rating on General Motors to the lowest level since it began assessing G.M.'s creditworthiness 52 years ago. Ominously, an S.& P. analyst added that if G.M.'s finances continued to weaken, G.M. might have to go to bankruptcy court to restructure its debt and labor contracts.
 G.M.'s chief executive, Rick Wagoner, dismissed the possibility of seeking bankruptcy protection, noting that the company had $19 billion in cash on hand. However, G.M. has lost money in four of the last five quarters -- about $4 billion in the North American market alone this year --and its market share in the United States is shrinking.
 The company, which is shedding 30,000 jobs over three years, is scheduled to report its fourth-quarter earnings next month. Some analysts say the full-year loss could total $5 billion.

EASING UP? -- Federal Reserve policy makers increased short-term interest rates for the 13th consecutive meeting. The latest increase -- like the others, one-quarter of a percentage point -- had been expected. For the first time since it began raising rates in June 2004, the central bank did not refer to its policy as ''accommodative,'' which has meant rates were lower than needed to keep inflation low over the long run. That was interpreted to mean increases might stop soon.
 The news came a day before the government said its ''core'' inflation index rose a modest 0.2 percent last month. Including volatile energy and food prices, it actually fell 0.9 percent.
 Some analysts said the policy makers' language change might have been meant to let the Fed keep its options open for Ben S. Bernanke, who is expected to succeed Alan Greenspan as chairman on Jan. 31.

WIDENING GAP -- The United States trade deficit set a record for the second consecutive month in October, widening to $68.9 billion mainly because of oil imports. Deficits with China, Europe, North America, South America and members of the Organization of the Petroleum Exporting Countries all reached new highs.
 The Commerce Department, in a separate report, said retail sales rose moderately in November. The gain, of 0.3 percent, was less than the 0.4 percent economists had forecast, but they still said the rise was encouraging. Retailers have reported mixed results in the holiday season so far. 
 Economists said the growing trade gap was likely to damp economic growth.

SOME BALANCE -- The export side of the nation's trade ledger got some good news.
 Japan partly lifted a two-year ban on United States beef, giving American ranchers a chance to rebuild a market that took more than 2.5 billion pounds of their beef as recently as 2003, before the discovery of mad cow disease in a single cow led to a ban.
 Boeing said Qantas had ordered 65 of its new 787 Dreamliner jets and took an option to buy 50 more. It is the biggest single order for the 787, which is more fuel-efficient than other airliners.
 Beef exporters must now find cattle younger than 21 months. A food safety commission in Japan recently said animals no older than that were as safe as domestic beef.

BREAK FOR TOBACCO -- Cigarette makers got a break when the Illinois Supreme Court threw out the verdict in a class-action suit against Philip Morris and voided a $10 billion judgment.
 Smokers had contended that the introduction of ''light'' cigarettes in the 1970's amounted to fraud because the low-tar brands were no less dangerous to health than were other cigarettes. The smokers did not claim they had actually suffered ill effects.
 The Illinois court decided that Philip Morris had not misled smokers because the Federal Trade Commission had explicitly permitted cigarette makers to describe their products as ''light'' and ''low tar.''
 The ruling clears the way for Philip Morris to spin off its Kraft Foods division.

MOST VIEWED -- Following are the most viewed articles from Dec. 10 to Dec. 16:
 1. The Next Retirement Time Bomb 
 2. David Pogue: Digital Photos Even a Miser Can Enjoy 
 3. Can This Man Reprogram Microsoft? 
 4. Live Tracking of Mobile Phones Prompts Court Fights on Privacy 
 5. A Little Sleuthing Unmasks Writer of Wikipedia Prank 

Links are at nytimes.com/business.


GRAPHIC: Photo: Workers at a Burlington Resources gas field. ConocoPhillips made a move to buy Burlington Resources (Photo by Jay Rusovich/Burlington Resources)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (91%); CRUDE OIL & NATURAL GAS EXTRACTION (90%); NATURAL GAS PRODUCTS (90%); ENERGY & UTILITY SECTOR PERFORMANCE (90%); NATURAL GAS & ELECTRIC UTILITIES (90%); FINANCIAL RATING DOWNGRADES (90%); GASOLINE PRICES (90%); NATURAL GAS PRICES (90%); MERGERS (90%); OIL & GAS PRICES (90%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (89%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (89%); FINANCIAL RATINGS (89%); CREDIT BUREAUS (89%); SPORT UTILITY VEHICLES (78%); ELECTRIC POWER PLANTS (78%); ECONOMIC RECOVERY (78%); TAKEOVERS (77%); BUSINESS INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (77%); MARKET SHARE (77%); COMPANY EARNINGS (77%); NATURAL GAS MARKETS (76%); INTERIM FINANCIAL RESULTS (76%); OIL & GAS EXPLORATION (76%); COMPANY LOSSES (75%); PUBLIC POLICY (75%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY COURTS (75%); MOTOR VEHICLES (71%); COMMERCE DEPARTMENTS (70%); EXECUTIVES (66%); CENTRAL BANKS (60%); GOODS & SERVICES TRADE BALANCE (55%) 

COMPANY: CONOCOPHILLIPS (94%); THOMSON FINANCIAL (65%); CENTRICA PLC (58%); BG GROUP PLC (58%); GENERAL MOTORS CO (57%); FLORIDA POWER & LIGHT CO (54%)

ORGANIZATION: FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM (59%); US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (59%) Conocophillips Inc; Burlington Resources Inc; Standard & Poor's Corp; General Motors Corp; Federal Reserve System; Commerce Department; Qantas Airways; Boeing Co; Philip Morris Companies

TICKER: COP (NYSE) (94%); CNA (LSE) (58%); BG (LSE) (58%); GM (NYSE) (57%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS211111 CRUDE PETROLEUM & NATURAL GAS EXTRACTION (94%); SIC1311 CRUDE PETROLEUM & NATURAL GAS (94%); NAICS221210 NATURAL GAS DISTRIBUTION (94%); NAICS324110 PETROLEUM REFINERIES (94%); NAICS211112 NATURAL GAS LIQUID EXTRACTION (94%); SIC4925 MIXED, MANUFACTURED, OR LIQUEFIED PETROLEUM GAS PRODUCTION AND/OR DISTRIBUTION (94%); SIC2911 PETROLEUM REFINERIES (94%); SIC1382 OIL & GAS FIELD EXPLORATION SERVICES (94%); SIC1321 NATURAL GAS LIQUIDS (94%); SIC4911 ELECTRIC SERVICES (58%); NAICS221112 FOSSIL FUEL ELECTRIC POWER GENERATION (58%); NAICS336112 LIGHT TRUCK & UTILITY VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (57%); NAICS336111 AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING (57%)

PERSON: RICK WAGONER (55%); JAMES MULVA (50%) Rick Wagoner; Mark A Stein

GEOGRAPHIC: KAZAKHSTAN (79%); NORTH AMERICA (79%); UNITED STATES (79%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (69%); SPAIN (54%) Japan; Illinois

LOAD-DATE: December 17, 2005



342 of 607 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 17, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 5; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 303 words

HEADLINE: Congress Reaches Compromise On Extending Terror Insurance

BYLINE: AP

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Dec. 16 

 BODY:
A House-Senate agreement reached Friday opened the way for Congress to approve a two-year extension of a post-9/11 law providing federal insurance backup for catastrophic losses suffered in a terrorist attack. 
 Business and insurance groups had pressed Congress to extend the program, known as the Terrorism Risk Insurance Act, past its scheduled Dec. 31 expiration, arguing that without it insurers would not offer the terrorism insurance that builders and investors need to initiate construction projects.
 At the urging of the White House, the House-Senate compromise scales back federal guarantees with the objective of eventually ending government participation in the terrorism insurance market. 
 The measure would increase the amount of property and casualty losses that trigger federal payments from $5 million to $50 million in 2006 and $100 million in 2007. It would raise industry deductibles and co-payments and increase the financial stake of insurers. 
 Mandatory repayment for federal aid would go from 25 percent next year to 27.5 percent the following year. 
 The Senate Banking Committee chairman, Richard C. Shelby of Alabama, said the compromise eased the exposure of taxpayers and that he hoped the act would not have to be renewed when it next expired in two years. 
 The House Financial Services Committee chairman, Michael G. Oxley of Ohio, expressed dissatisfaction that the final bill, at the insistence of the Senate and the administration, had left out House language requiring 100 percent payback of any federal assistance, and that other House measures to reform the system had been rejected. 
 Ernie Csiszar, chief executive of the Property Casualty Insurers Association of America, said the agreement would allow the economy to continue to grow as the nation fought the war on terrorism. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: WAR RISKS & TERRORISM INSURANCE (92%); INSURANCE (91%); TERRORISM (91%); CATASTROPHIC LOSSES (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); SEPTEMBER 11 ATTACK (90%); PROPERTY & CASUALTY INSURANCE (89%); INSURANCE LAW (78%); APPROVALS (78%); BANKING & FINANCE (78%); US TERRORISM RISK INSURANCE ACT (77%); INSURANCE ASSOCIATIONS (77%); INSURANCE REGULATION & POLICY (77%); RISK MANAGEMENT (77%); CONSTRUCTION (76%); TERRORIST ATTACKS (72%); INSURANCE DEDUCTIBLES (72%); EXECUTIVES (50%) 

PERSON: RICHARD SHELBY (73%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%) United States

LOAD-DATE: December 17, 2005



343 of 607 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 17, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk; SATURDAY INTERVIEW -- With Andrew N. Liveris; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 697 words

HEADLINE: Natural Gas, The Stealth Energy Crisis

BYLINE: By CLAUDIA H. DEUTSCH

 BODY:
Andrew N. Liveris, the chief executive of Dow Chemical, insists that Americans are facing the worst energy crisis in their history. They just don't know it yet.
 ''American consumers worry about oil and the price of gasoline,'' he said. ''They should worry that there may not be enough natural gas to heat and cool their homes.''
 Chemical companies, which use gas as an ingredient as well as fuel, are not as oblivious. And Mr. Liveris, who is in line to be next year's chairman of the American Chemistry Council, has set himself up as his industry's public face on the issue. He has already appeared before both the House and the Senate, decrying American policies that encourage the use of gas even as they restrict the search for new gas sources. 
 Mr. Liveris says that restoring balance to the gas supply is crucial for the American economy. Following are excerpts from a conversation in which he explained why.

Q. Running Dow, the country's biggest chemical company, must be a full-time job. How can you justify spending so much time campaigning for better natural gas policies?

A. Three years ago, Dow's annual bill for energy and hydrocarbon raw materials was $8 billion. Today that number approaches $22 billion. Put another way, in 2002, energy and feedstocks represented 29 percent of our costs. Today they are 50 percent. The high price of natural gas accounts for most of the rise. And it is a direct consequence of the failed energy policies of the 90's, which encouraged the overbuilding of power stations without increasing the availability of gas.

Q. We had two severe energy crises in the 70's, yet the country and the chemical industry survived just fine. Why do you think this one is so much more dire?

A. We operate in a truly global economy now. There is abundant natural gas in Venezuela, in Northern Australia, in the Middle East, which gives companies operating there a competitive edge. At the same time, American companies are moving their operations overseas to take advantage of lower energy prices. This country is losing jobs and intellectual capital to China, to India and to other emerging economies, and it will cause a tectonic shift in American competitiveness.

Q. Half of Dow's assets are overseas, and half its revenues come from outside this country. So aren't you part of the problem?

A. I have to do the right thing for our shareholders, so, yes, I go where the prices are lower. We had been planning to build a $4 billion chemical plant in Texas, and we built it in Oman instead. Other issues -- health care costs, litigation, lack of tort reform -- spur us to locate elsewhere, too, but 80 percent of the reason is the availability of natural gas.

Q. If chemical companies like Dow can operate profitably overseas, why do you worry so much about gas prices at home?

A. I'm an Australian citizen, a kid from the outback, but I've always loved the American business model. I've been with Dow 29 years, I've lived in the United States for 6, and I want manufacturing jobs and intellectual capital to stay in America.

Q. Many companies talk about replacing petrochemicals with corn-based ingredients or about switching to wind or solar energy. Wouldn't that be a solution to soaring gas prices?

A. Not yet. The world is not ready to pay the full cost of developing alternative fuels and ingredients. Ten years from now, wind and solar will still represent less than 1 percent of the world's energy input.

Q. So what, exactly, do you want Congress to do?

A. I want Congress to declare a national emergency, educate the American public about the crisis and unshackle industry. It should allow drilling in the outer continental shelf and elsewhere, and speed up the permitting process for building terminals that accept liquefied natural gas. There are only four terminals in the country. We need 20 or 30 times as many.

Q. But wouldn't many of those policies wreak havoc with the environment?

A. We long ago learned to explore for oil and gas in an environmentally responsible fashion. Even this year's hurricanes didn't cause the offshore drilling rigs to leak. The worries about environmental impact are based on emotion. We have to allay them with the facts.


GRAPHIC: Photo: Andrew Liveris

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Interview

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CHEMICALS (92%); NATURAL GAS PRODUCTS (90%); CHEMICALS MFG (90%); OIL & GAS PRICES (90%); ENERGY & UTILITY POLICY (90%); NATURAL GAS PRICES (89%); CHEMICALS SECTOR PERFORMANCE (89%); PETROCHEMICAL MFG (89%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (78%); ENERGY & UTILITY SECTOR PERFORMANCE (78%); EXECUTIVES (78%); POWER PLANTS (78%); ELECTRIC POWER PLANTS (78%); GASOLINE PRICES (77%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (75%); PUBLIC POLICY (74%); ECONOMIC NEWS (72%); EMERGING MARKETS (72%); HEALTH CARE COSTS (72%); LAYOFFS (67%); TORT REFORM (66%); LITIGATION (60%); TORTS (60%) 

COMPANY: DOW CHEMICAL CO (58%)

ORGANIZATION: Dow Chemical Co 

TICKER: DOW (SWX) (58%); DOW (NYSE) (58%); DOW (LSE) (58%); 4850 (TSE) (58%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS325320 PESTICIDE & OTHER AGRICULTURAL CHEMICAL MANUFACTURING (58%); NAICS325211 PLASTICS MATERIAL & RESIN MANUFACTURING (58%); NAICS325180 OTHER BASIC INORGANIC CHEMICAL MANUFACTURING (58%)

PERSON: ANDREW N LIVERIS (91%) Andrew N Liveris; Claudia H Deutsch

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (98%); OMAN (79%); CHINA (79%); AUSTRALIA (79%); MIDDLE EAST (79%); INDIA (79%); VENEZUELA, BOLIVARIAN REPUBLIC OF (79%)

LOAD-DATE: December 17, 2005



344 of 607 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 17, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 2; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 1106 words

HEADLINE: Trade Officials Haggle on Issues From Lower Tariffs to Cotton Subsidies

BYLINE: By KEITH BRADSHER

DATELINE: HONG KONG, Dec. 16 

 BODY:
Trade negotiators from around the world moved behind closed doors in nearly around-the-clock meetings here as they homed in on reaching a narrowly worded four-part deal by Sunday night. But any agreement still faces formidable obstacles, officials said late Friday.
 After spending much of the first three days of the conference denouncing one another at dozens of separate news conferences, many ministers -- including Rob Portman, the United States trade representative -- suddenly canceled public appearances in favor of long discussions with other ministers. 
 Trade ministers from 149 countries and customs territories are trying at the World Trade Organization conference to salvage a partial agreement. They are focusing on cutting taxes on poor countries' exports, liberalizing trade in cotton, ending agricultural export subsidies and linking lower tariffs for manufactured goods to lower tariffs for agricultural products. 
 The issue involving the greatest number of ministers lies in plans for rich countries to eliminate tariffs and quotas on imports from the world's 50 least developed countries. But complicating the deal is the fact that each rich country has some industry it would like to protect, like rice in Japan, or in the case of the United States, maintaining limited tariffs on textiles from Bangladesh.
 Dipak Patel, Zambia's minister of commerce, trade and industry and the leader here of the coalition of least developed countries, said in an interview Friday night that discussions were focused on requiring each rich country to designate 90 to 95 percent of all categories of imports as free from tariffs and quotas for shipments from the poorest countries.
 By comparison, the United States currently exempts imports from the poorest countries from tariffs and quotas in 83 percent of its more than 2,000 import categories. Japan exempts them for 87 percent of its import categories and the European Union exempts them from tariffs or quotas for all categories except sugar, bananas, rice and arms. But poor countries complain that many categories currently free from restrictions involve goods they do not produce, like jet aircraft. 
 Mr. Patel said that the least developed countries wanted more, notably a fixed date by which rich countries would move to allow duty-free, quota-free imports in 100 percent of their categories. Rich countries have only been willing to set this as an eventual goal.
 The European Union also found itself beleaguered on Friday: criticized for not going far enough to liberalize agriculture and for going too far in pushing poor countries to let multinationals into their markets for services.
 ''The emerging direction of the meeting is worrying,'' said Peter Mandelson, the E.U.'s trade commissioner, who fretted that ministers were ''going backwards'' in focusing on a limited deal here instead of pursuing a more ambitious agenda.
 Nonetheless, Pascal Lamy, the director general of the W.T.O., is coordinating efforts to reach the four-part deal. He has even been given the task by ministers of submitting draft language linking tariffs on manufactured and agricultural goods, and separate draft language setting a date, most likely 2010, for an elimination of agricultural export subsidies.
 But achieving even this limited deal here could be difficult. Vested interests remain opposed to a deal on each of the pending issues. W.T.O. rules also give each member country and customs territory a veto that could bring proceedings to a halt.
 Various countries have threatened to use their veto to support their objections to everything from American cotton subsidies and European sugar policies to banana exports from Central America. 
 A particularly acrimonious dispute has broken out over the extent to which countries should be required to let foreign competitors into their markets for services like banking, telecommunications, hospital management and computer programming.
 Any narrow pact at the World Trade Organization ministerial conference here would leave even bigger issues to be resolved at a follow-up meeting, most likely to be held in Geneva in March or April. These bigger issues include global deregulation on a wide range of service industries, like banking and telecommunications; limits on trade-distorting domestic subsidies for agriculture; and reductions in agricultural tariffs and quotas.
 American and African officials said that another issue under detailed discussion involved limits on American cotton subsidies. A W.T.O. panel ruled last spring that these subsidies violated international trade rules.
 While the Bush administration has been moving to adjust these subsidies, former French colonies in West Africa contend that the administration actions do not go far enough.
 The United States has been trying to win African agreement to a plan involving the elimination of American tariffs and quotas on cotton imports together with technical assistance to improve the quality and quantity of cotton harvested in West Africa.
 Farms in countries like Chad, Mali and Senegal produce only half as much cotton an acre as American farms, and West African cotton tends to be low-quality varieties that American textile mills dislike. 
 France and the European Union have energetically pushed the West African demands for a reduction in American cotton subsidies while opposing any further cuts in the European Union's domestic agricultural subsidies.
 W.T.O. members separately agreed in July 2004 to eliminate agricultural export subsidies. But the European Union has opposed setting any date for doing so until the United States pledges to cut its donations of free American-grown food to impoverished countries.
 The European Union, the United States and India are also fighting an effort here by a coalition of developing countries including South Africa, Venezuela, Kenya and the Philippines that wants to limit multinationals' access to their services markets.
 The South African-led campaign, which could yet derail the entire conference this weekend, involves requiring countries to negotiate each services agreement separately with each of the other members of the W.T.O.
 Mr. Lamy has endorsed the faster approach instead of having groups of countries negotiate, but he has no power under W.T.O. rules to do anything more than make suggestions.
 Susan Schwab, the deputy United States trade representative, said that the talks about services markets were becoming abstruse even by W.T.O. standards.
 ''Would that we were negotiating about substance,'' she said with a note of exasperation. ''We're negotiating about negotiating.''


GRAPHIC: Photo: Rob Portman, the United States trade representative, was one of many officials negotiating in Hong Kong to hammer out a narrowly worded four-part deal by tomorrow night. (Photo by Lucas Schifres/Bloomberg News)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TRADE DEVELOPMENT (90%); COMMERCE DEPARTMENTS (90%); CONFERENCES & CONVENTIONS (90%); AGRICULTURAL TRADE (90%); EXPORT TRADE (90%); TAXES & TAXATION (90%); TARIFFS & DUTIES (90%); DEVELOPING COUNTRIES (90%); IMPORT TRADE (89%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (89%); GOVERNMENT GRANTS & SUBSIDIES (79%); NONTARIFF BARRIERS (79%); AGRICULTURAL EXPORT & IMPORT CONTROLS (77%); INTERVIEWS (76%); EUROPEAN UNION (76%); IMPORT CONTROLS (75%); EXPORT PROMOTION (74%); AGRICULTURAL SUBSIDIES (74%); AGRICULTURE (74%); AGRICULTURAL EXPORTS & IMPORTS (74%); COTTON FARMING (74%); PRESS CONFERENCES (71%); MULTINATIONAL CORPORATIONS (70%); TEXTILES (69%); MANUFACTURING OUTPUT (68%) 

ORGANIZATION: WORLD TRADE ORGANIZATION (83%) World Trade Organization

PERSON: ROB PORTMAN (70%); PETER MANDELSON (59%); PASCAL LAMY (54%) Keith Bradsher

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%); JAPAN (92%); EUROPE (92%); HONG KONG (92%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (86%); ZAMBIA (79%)

LOAD-DATE: December 17, 2005



345 of 607 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 17, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 2; Business/Financial Desk; OFF THE CHARTS; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 640 words

HEADLINE: Budget Deficit Getting You Down? Just Take a Look at the Trade Gap

BYLINE: By Floyd Norris

 BODY:
THE deficits are both growing, but they are not twins. One is much larger than the other.
 New figures on the United States budget and trade deficits this week showed that it is the trade deficit that is plunging to unprecedented depths, while the budget deficit is large but smaller than it was a year ago.
Expressed as a percentage of the gross domestic product, the trade deficit for the 12 months through October hit 6.1 percent. Only three years ago it was 4 percent, a figure that then seemed huge and unsustainable. 
 The report on the November budget deficit showed that it is growing again, but as a percentage of gross domestic product it is just 2.7 percent. That is a smaller figure than is being posted by a number of major European countries, and it is well below where it was a year or two ago.
 That improvement is caused entirely by the strong economy, which has raised tax revenues, particularly from income taxes. Government spending is now the highest it has been since 1997, when expressed as a percentage of the total economy.
 The term ''twin deficits'' was invented in the 1980's during President Ronald Reagan's administration, as both deficits soared. As the accompanying charts show, the Reagan budget deficits remain far larger than anything produced so far by President George W. Bush. They peaked, on a rolling 12-month basis, at 5.8 percent of G.D.P., more than twice the current level.
 But the trade deficit is much larger than it ever was during the Reagan administration. There was much hand-wringing then as the trade deficit approached 3 percent of G.D.P. -- half the current level -- and governments of the major industrialized countries engineered the Plaza Accord, which brought down the dollar and, in time, the trade deficit.
 In 2005, the dollar has surprised nearly everyone with its strength against the major industrialized countries, and what may be the most important exchange rate of all, the dollar versus the Chinese yuan has been allowed by the Chinese government to adjust only a small amount.
 Notwithstanding talk about the decline of America's manufacturing strength, the level of exports has remained relatively high. In recent decades, exports as a proportion of G.D.P. have fluctuated from 5 percent to 8 percent. The latest 12-month figure, 7.2 percent, is closer to the top than the bottom of that range.
 But what has changed is the value of imports. During the Reagan years, they never hit 9 percent of G.D.P. Now they are above 13 percent. It is hard to see how the trade deficit will improve without a fall in imports, something that is most likely during a consumer recession.
 Soaring oil prices have played a significant role in the expanding trade deficit, but they are far from the whole story. Crude oil and petroleum products account for little more than a quarter of the trade deficit, which would be setting records even if the oil trade were in balance.
 How big can the trade deficit get? So long as Americans are willing to borrow and buy, and so long as foreigners are willing to lend the dollars back to Americans, it is risky indeed to say that the deficit cannot continue to grow.

 Trade deficit as a percentage of gross domestic product

Graphs track the surplus and deficit since 1980.

Chart: ''. . . But The Budget Deficit Is Smaller Than It Was''
Federal budget deficit or surplus as a percentage of gross domestic product

Graphs track the surplus and deficit since 1980.

Chart: ''Imports Have Surged, Exports Have Not''

Graph tracks the following since 1998:
EXPORTS -- As a percentage of G.D.P.
IMPORTS -- As a percentage of G.D.P.

Chart: ''Rising Tax Receipts Have Narrowed the Deficit''

Graph tracks the following since 1998:
GOVERNMENT SPENDING -- As a percentage of G.D.P.
TAX RECEIPTS -- As a percentage of G.D.P.

(Source by Treasury Department, via Haver Analytics)

GRAPHIC: Chart: ''The Trade Deficit Hit A Record . . .''

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BUDGETS (94%); GOODS & SERVICES TRADE BALANCE (93%); BUDGET DEFICITS (92%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); GROSS DOMESTIC PRODUCT (90%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (90%); US PRESIDENTS (89%); IMPORT TRADE (89%); CURRENCIES (89%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (89%); EXPORT PRICES (89%); EXPORT TRADE (89%); PUBLIC FINANCE (78%); RECESSION (76%); TAXES & TAXATION (69%); PRICE INCREASES (67%); INCOME TAX (67%); EXCHANGE RATES (62%) 

PERSON: RONALD REAGAN (89%); GEORGE W BUSH (51%) Floyd Norris

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%); CHINA (92%); EUROPE (79%)

LOAD-DATE: December 17, 2005



346 of 607 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 17, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 4; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 888 words

HEADLINE: Putin Plays Headhunter for Oil Company 

BYLINE: By ANDREW E. KRAMER

DATELINE: MOSCOW, Dec. 16 

 BODY:
President Vladimir V. Putin confirmed Friday that Russia's state oil company, Rosneft, was seeking a ''high-class'' foreign manager, after reports surfaced this week that he had offered Donald L. Evans, the former United States commerce secretary, the post of chairman. 
 Mr. Evans, a longtime friend of President Bush, was responsible for shaping American trade ties with Russia while he served in the cabinet. He was in Moscow last week as a guest of the American Chamber of Commerce in Russia. 
 Mr. Evans, a Texas oilman, is also a prominent fund-raiser for the Republican Party and was chairman of the Bush-Cheney 2000 campaign.
 The reported offer, coming on the heels of an announcement that Gerhard Schroder, the former chancellor of Germany, had accepted a position overseeing construction of a new Russian gas pipeline to Germany, signaled the growing influence and ambition of Russia's state-owned energy companies. It could also help their image troubles. 
 Foreign luminaries could help Mr. Putin legitimize the Kremlin's policy of partial nationalization of the oil industry, a policy that in the last year has turned Rosneft into a top-ranking player in the oil industry. The company took control of its largest asset last winter in a disputed auction after the dismantling of Yukos, once Russia's largest private company. 
 Mr. Putin, speaking from his vacation home in the Black Sea resort of Sochi, said Friday that Rosneft was ''interested in inviting high-class foreign managers,'' but declined to say whether he was referring to Mr. Evans, the Interfax news agency reported. 
 ''It will benefit us both in the intergovernmental relations sense, and from the point of view of Russian companies,'' he said of a possible foreign presence at the state company, according to Interfax. ''It is the element of openness in Russia's economy,'' he said. 
 Asked if he was referring to Mr. Evans, Mr. Putin said: ''It doesn't matter,'' according to the Russian news report. 
 Efforts to reach Mr. Evans, who heads the Financial Services Forum, a group representing large United States investment companies, were not successful Friday. The Forum moved to a new address in Washington this week and had no current listed telephone number. 
 Rosneft, totally state-owned, referred questions to the government property agency. The Kremlin has not commented publicly, nor have government officials denied a report first published in the Kommersant business daily.
 Even if Mr. Evans declines what could be a ceremonial post, the offer suggests the government is serious about enhancing the tainted image of Rosneft, an opaque company even by Russian standards. Calls from journalists are gruffly turned away. 
 Mr. Putin spoke three days short of a year after Russia effectively nationalized the largest production unit of Yukos in an auction with only one bidder. A shell company won the auction and swiftly sold the production unit to Rosneft. 
 Any effort to legitimize Rosneft's assets, however, could meet opposition from Yukos shareholders, still smarting from the loss of the production unit and the jailing of the company's founder, Mikhail B. Khodorkovksy. 
 ''We believe that what happened this time last year was expropriation,'' Claire Davidson, a spokeswoman for Yukos, said in a phone interview from London, where the company is run by a management team in self-imposed exile. 
 ''When considering an opportunity to be part of the Rosneft board, it's important to consider that a significant number of shareholders, many of them American, have had their rights absolutely taken away from them through the renationalization of a private asset," she said.
 Rosneft is entangled in a number of lawsuits with Yukos, and the affair is also under being examined by the European Court of Human Rights, Ms. Davidson said. 
 As commerce secretary in Mr. Bush's first cabinet, Mr. Evans was co-chairman of a working group with German O. Gref, Russia's minister for trade and economic development. That group discussed Russia's potential to supplant some of the oil now imported to the United States from the Middle East. 
 The chairmanship of Rosneft is now held by Igor I. Sechin, a Putin loyalist and member of a hard-line faction in the Kremlin known as the siloviki, or men with ties to the secret police, the military or interior ministry troops. 
 The Rosneft chairman oversees billions of dollars in revenue streaming into Russia as world oil supplies remain tight and prices high. 
 The new chairman would sit at the intersection of business and politics in decision-making over export routes and production levels, and would be at the epicenter of one of the two largest business deals expected in Russia next year. 
 The statement seemed a bold move by Mr. Putin for international legitimacy in exchange for surrendering some of the secrecy around Rosneft. 
 ''If you look at this from the point of view of the investment case for Russia, it can't be anything but welcome that the authorities are concerned about how the company is perceived,'' said Bernard Sucher, the chairman of Alfa Capital, a large private equity group. ''They're willing to take the extraordinary step to consider a foreigner, of any nationality, to be involved at that level. It has to be appreciated as a real stretch of the envelope.'' 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (91%); CRUDE OIL & NATURAL GAS EXTRACTION (90%); STATE OWNED BUSINESSES (90%); NATIONALIZATION (89%); AUCTIONS (87%); US PRESIDENTS (79%); BUSINESS & PROFESSIONAL ASSOCIATIONS (78%); PIPELINE TRANSPORTATION (78%); JOURNALISM (77%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (77%); TRADE DEVELOPMENT (76%); RESORTS (76%); REAL ESTATE (73%); OIL & GAS PIPELINE CONSTRUCTION (73%); COMMERCE DEPARTMENTS (72%); BANKING & FINANCE (71%); POLITICAL PARTIES (70%); FUNDRAISING (70%); WRITERS (60%) 

COMPANY: OAO ROSNEFT OIL CO (90%); OAO NK YUKOS (54%)

ORGANIZATION: Rosneft 

TICKER: ROSN (RTS) (90%); ROSN (LSE) (90%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS211111 CRUDE PETROLEUM & NATURAL GAS EXTRACTION (90%); SIC1311 CRUDE PETROLEUM & NATURAL GAS (90%)

PERSON: VLADIMIR PUTIN (92%); GEORGE W BUSH (74%); GERHARD SCHRODER (68%) Vladimir V (Pres) Putin; Donald L (Sec) Evans; Gerhard Schroder; Andrew E Kramer

GEOGRAPHIC: MOSCOW, RUSSIAN FEDERATION (88%) ATLANTIC OCEAN (79%) RUSSIAN FEDERATION (98%); UNITED STATES (94%); GERMANY (91%) Russia

LOAD-DATE: December 17, 2005



347 of 607 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 18, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 11; Column 1; Real Estate Desk; NATIONAL PERSPECTIVES; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1238 words

HEADLINE: Creating Housing for Teachers 

BYLINE: By LISA CHAMBERLAIN

DATELINE: Santa Clara, Calif. 

 BODY:
AIMEE BRINKS, a teacher in her late 20's, lives by herself in a two-bedroom, two-bath apartment with a private garage and patio in the heart of Silicon Valley, one of the nation's most expensive housing markets. 
 She is the beneficiary of an innovative solution to the high cost of housing in the Bay Area, which forces many teachers to commute several hours a day or live nearby in cramped conditions or dangerous neighborhoods. Because of Santa Clara's determination to deal with the housing problem, she pays about 40 percent of what such a place would command in the open market.
During the dot-com bubble years, the housing crisis in Santa Clara -- home to some of the biggest names in the high-tech industry, like Intel and Yahoo -- became acute. The school district was losing teachers about as fast as they could be hired. Just when they were trained, they would leave for other districts where they could live more comfortably and closer to their jobs. And even after the tech bubble burst, housing prices never really came down. The median price is $714,250. 
 ''It became a big issue in the Valley,'' said Paul Perotti, the recently retired superintendent of the Santa Clara Unified School District. ''School boards were talking about it, politicians were talking about it, but no one was doing anything. So I said, 'Let's either do something or stop talking about it.' ''
 The school board gave Mr. Perotti permission to hire the developer Thompson/Dorfman Partners, which built an upscale apartment complex in the area. Using land that the school district owned and agreeing to a small development fee and no profit margin, Thompson/Dorfman built 40 apartments for around $6 million. The complex would have cost more than $12 million with normal land costs and profit margins, the company said. 
 ''In the development business, it's always a struggle,'' said William W. Thompson, a partner in Thompson/Dorfman, whose daughter is an elementary school teacher in Napa Valley. ''After we made our presentation to the Santa Clara review board, we were applauded.'' 
 Ms. Brinks, hired in 1999, was one of the first teachers to move into the complex when it opened in 2002. She had already moved four times in three years, taking temporary sublets or paying more than she could afford for conditions that were less than desirable. One apartment had four people in a three-bedroom. Another place went to $1,900 a month from $900 overnight. Now she pays $1,075 in rent, well below the market rate of about $3,000 a month for a similar apartment in the area, and it takes her three minutes to drive to work. There are 28 people on a waiting list for the apartments. 
 ''Before the apartment became an option, it was impossible to get settled,'' said Ms. Brinks, who teaches first grade. ''Now I love it here. The way the complex is designed, you can have privacy or you can socialize with the other teachers. And I can walk to the grocery store.''
 The housing is helping retain teachers. According to the district, new recruits in general had a 24 percent turnover, but teachers who moved into the apartment complex had only an 8 percent attrition rate. 
 To avoid the company-town syndrome, where the property owner is also the employer, the school district set up a separate foundation to manage the property and handle potentially sticky situations, such as one teacher complaining to the school district about another teacher's living habits. 
 There is a five-year limit in the complex, so teachers are encouraged to save money to buy their own homes. To help with that, the Santa Clara school district teamed up with Intel to offer a mortgage-assistance program, offering five-year interest-free secondary mortgage loans with monthly payments of up to $500. . 
 The school district's only regret is that more apartments weren't initially planned, although Thompson/Dorfman is negotiating with the district to build 20 more units on a plot just behind the original complex.
 ''It's been wildly successful,'' Mr. Perotti said. ''You need three things -- the land to build on, a willingness to borrow the money, and a passion for getting it done.'' 
 The Santa Clara solution has inspired others. Barbara Christensen, the head of community and government affairs at San Mateo Community College, undertook a teacher-housing project after confirming what she already suspected to be true: housing prices were causing a high attrition rate.
 She sent out a survey to 1,500 faculty and staff members asking about their future with the college. Eighteen percent said they planned to leave within three years and 58 percent of them said it was because of housing. She discovered people were commuting from as far as Sacramento and Gilroy, both more than a 90-minute drive each way. 
 The college brought in Thompson/Dorfman to build 44 units on what was a 2.5-acre parking lot, again for a small development fee and no profit margin. Bruce N. Dorfman, the firm's other partner, explained that in an area like San Mateo, where new development is controversial, fostering good will in the community can only help when they propose market-rate housing in the future. The nearly completed teacher project, which the developers nestled into a hillside, offers sweeping views of the San Francisco Bay while protecting views of nearby residents. 
 Kevin Corsiglia is a physical education teacher and women's soccer coach at San Mateo Community College, and his wife, Stacy, is an elementary school teacher in San Mateo. They want to have children, but with a joint income that is less than the median for the area, finding a suitable house is tough. They will be among the first residents of the new building, moving into a two-bedroom, two-bath unit for about $1,100 a month by the end of the year. 
 Mr. Corsiglia had never lived in an apartment building before. ''But we looked at how they designed it and all the privacy with a balcony and private entrance to our own garage, you feel like it's a town home,'' he said. 
 The complex will be an improvement for Arturo Hernandez, who is a student counselor at the college. He and his wife, Jennifer, who is pregnant with twins, will move out of a trailer park near Oakland into a two-bedroom unit just minutes away from his campus job. 
 Mr. Hernandez and his wife, who is studying for a doctorate degree in biology at the University of California at Berkeley, moved into the trailer as a last resort after bouncing from a crime-ridden neighborhood in Oakland to a crime-ridden neighborhood in Berkeley. They bought a trailer and have been paying $700 for a parking space. They move into their new apartment in January.
 ''If we hadn't gotten this housing, we were thinking that we would move back to Arizona and she would have to finish her program long distance,'' Mr. Hernandez said. ''I started at a relatively high salary, and it still would not be enough to live in this area.'' 
 The median price of a home in the area rose to $780,360 in 2005 from $477,300 in 2000, according to the San Mateo County Association of Realtors.
 Thompson/Dorfman was recently chosen to build teacher housing in the Sausalito area, north of San Francisco in Marin County. Mr. Perotti, meanwhile, says he gets calls from all over California to give talks on how districts can go about doing this. ''I guess it's because people are realizing that this housing issue isn't going to change,'' he said.


GRAPHIC: Photos: AFFORDABLE HOMES -- Kevin Corsiglia outside a complex near San Mateo Community College (Photo by Peter DaSilva for The New York Times)(pg. 1)
 TEACHERS' PETS -- Aimee Brinks, above, in her new home, and Arturo and Jennifer Hernandez outside their old trailer. A complex for Santa Clara teachers, above left. (Photographs by Peter DaSilva for The New York Times)(pg. 11)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TEACHING & TEACHERS (92%); REAL ESTATE (90%); PRIMARY & SECONDARY SCHOOL TEACHERS (90%); EDUCATION SYSTEMS & INSTITUTIONS (90%); HOUSING MARKET (90%); ECONOMIC BUBBLE (90%); SCHOOL DISTRICTS (90%); COMMUNITY COLLEGES (90%); HOUSING BUBBLE (90%); EDUCATIONAL INSTITUTION EMPLOYEES (90%); HOME PRICES (90%); PRIMARY SCHOOLS (78%); RENTAL PROPERTY (78%); REAL ESTATE VALUATIONS (78%); RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (78%); MULTIFAMILY REAL ESTATE (78%); RESIDENTIAL RENTAL PROPERTY (78%); MEDIAN HOME PRICE (77%); SCHOOL SUPERINTENDENTS (73%) Housing; Teachers and School Employees; Prices (Fares, Fees and Rates); Renting and Leasing; Colleges and Universities; Housing

COMPANY: INTEL CORP (58%)

ORGANIZATION: Thompson/dorfman Partners; San Mateo Community College (Calif); San Mateo Community College (Calif)

TICKER: INTC (NASDAQ) (58%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS334413 SEMICONDUCTOR & RELATED DEVICE MANUFACTURING (58%)

PERSON: Lisa Chamberlain

GEOGRAPHIC: SAN FRANCISCO BAY AREA, CA, USA (94%); SILICON VALLEY, CA, USA (91%); NAPA VALLEY, CA, USA (79%) CALIFORNIA, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%) Santa Clara (Calif); California; San Mateo (Calif)

LOAD-DATE: December 18, 2005



348 of 607 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 18, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 5; Column 1; Travel Desk; GOING TO; Pg. 10

LENGTH: 1669 words

HEADLINE: Philadelphia

BYLINE: By TERRY TRUCCO

 BODY:

WHY GO NOW -- It's a sweet paradox that Philadelphia, a city once populated by holiday-averse Quakers, embraces the Christmas season so exuberantly. But this year, Philadelphia has more reason to celebrate than in many years past.
 Center City, more populous today than a decade ago, is Philadelphia's throbbing heart and bustles day and night with lively museums, theaters, restaurants and shops. Old City, the atmospheric thicket of low brick buildings and narrow streets near the Liberty Bell, buzzes with the city's trendiest restaurants, galleries and nightspots. But change is particularly pronounced in fringe neighborhoods like Northern Liberties, an enclave north of City Hall, where galleries and restaurants have reclaimed the rusting factories and musty warehouses.
 Why the new energy? City planning, focused redevelopment and tax incentives have brought businesses, housing and hope. A generous inventory of old buildings ripe for recycling helped, too, as did the city's foot-friendly layout, plotted more than 300 years ago by William Penn. 
 And this winter, Philadelphia unfurls its pride in Benjamin Franklin, its illustrious founding father, with a yearlong salute to his 300th birthday. Though the red letter day is Jan. 17, exhibitions and events have already begun. Visit soon, and you'll see the best of wintertime Philadelphia, from the super colorful light display at City Hall to the 35-foot tree in Rittenhouse Square.

WHERE TO STAY -- Philadlephia doesn't have a trendy boutique hotel scene -- yet. But older hotels are refurbishing, and the best have discovered style.
 At the Sofitel, in the renovated stock exchange at 120 South 17th Street, 215-569-8300, www.sofitel.com, ''Shaker chic" is how the staff describes the quiet glamour of the lobby, with spare cherry woodwork and a marble-and-granite floor inspired by a traditional quilt. The 306 rooms have white duvets, shoji-inspired cherry-and-glass doors and soaking tubs and separate showers in the black and tan bathrooms. Surprise activity: celebrity spotting. The Dallas Cowboys and Elton John's band stayed recently. This winter, room rates start at $199. 
 As befits a hotel built in 1904, the Park Hyatt Philadelphia at the Bellevue, Broad and Walnut Streets, 215-893-1234, www.parkhyatt.com, boasts the trappings of a grande dame, with Palladian windows and marble galore. But this historic hotel leaps into the 21st century in late February with two new adventurous restaurants and a wenge-paneled bar. The 172 rooms artfully mix old (high ceilings, lavish moldings) and new (pillowtop mattresses, flat-screen TV's). Room rates start at $250.
 Guests at the Alexander Inn, a 48-room hotel with the feel of a town house at Spruce and 12th Streets, 877-253-9466 , www.alexanderinn.com, awaken to a buffet breakfast of granola, bagels, juice and coffee served in a light-filled sitting room adorned with local art. Though some rooms are teeny, clever built-ins and bay windows dressed with wooden Venetian blinds ramp up the comfort level. Rates start at $99.

WHERE TO EAT -- At first glance, the low-key Washington Square, home to the Tomb of the Unknown Revolutionary War Soldier, seems a curious spot for the latest offering from the high-octane restaurant impresario Stephen Starr. But Washington Square, 215-592-7787; www.washingtonsquare-restaurant.com, lures crowds with its sleek, steel gray dining room and its eloquent American offerings, like Vidalia onion tart ($13) and seared ahi tuna with olive-oil mashed potatoes and spinach ($26). Open daily for dinner and for lunch Monday through Friday. Brunch served on Sunday.
 On a recent night, locals jammed two-month-old Amada, 217-219 Chestnut Street, 215-625-2450; www.amadarestaurant.com, for tapas in Old City. Under hanging cured Serano hams, diners sat at dark wood tables, downing house-made sangria and toy-size delicacies like artichokes wrapped in Parmesan ($10) and Pamplona chorizo ($7). Dinner served daily.
 A martini, steak frites and a window table at Rouge, 205 South 18th Street, 215-732-6622, overlooking Rittenhouse Square's glittering holiday glow balls, is the perfect antidote to a gray winter day. This bijou of a bistro, with a fabric-swathed interior, is a haven for an impromptu meal (no reservations) or a late night drink. Entrees from $12 to $36. Open daily 11:30 a.m. to 2 a.m.

WHAT TO DO DURING THE DAY -- Benjamin Franklin was born in Boston, but his stellar achievements as an inventor, writer, philosopher and patriot took place in Philadelphia, as ''Benjamin Franklin: In Search of a Better World,'' the centerpiece of the city's birthday celebration, illustrates at National Constitution Center, 525 Arch Street, Independence Mall, 215-409-6600; www.constitutioncenter.org. Franklin's walking stick, the odometer he invented and rare early versions of the Declaration of Independence, Constitution and Treaty of Paris are on view in what is called the biggest exhibition of Franklin memorabilia ever assembled, through April 30. Open daily. Timed tickets are $14, and $12 for ages 4 to 12 are available from 215-409-6700.
 For added ''Benergy'' (to quote Philly's PR machine), download the one-hour historic district walking tour at www.gophila.com/ben under Visitor Information and follow Franklin's footsteps to sites like Independence Hall and Christ Church Burial Ground, where Franklin and his wife lie. 
 It's hard not to be floored by the Gothic arches and gilded walls of Frank Furness's high Victorian Grand Stairhall at the Pennsylvania Academy of Fine Arts, 118 North Broad Street, 215-972-7600; www.pafa.org. You have until Jan. 8 to catch two superb shows celebrating the academy's 200th anniversary: ''In Private Hands,'' a meticulously curated array of American paintings from the last two centuries, and ''Mirror,'' Ellen Harvey's witty, mysterious rendering of the Academy Stairhall carved onto gigantic mirrors. Open Tuesday to Saturday 10 a.m. to 5 p.m., Sunday from 11 a.m. Admission is $7, but ''Private Hands'' is $15. 

WHAT TO DO AT NIGHT -- There are no silent nights in Old City, where weekend revelers fill the bars, restaurants and, often, sidewalks. Second Street between Market and Chestnut is a great place to drink in the social scene, with more than a dozen nightspots, like the dimly lighted Continental Restaurant, 138 Market Street, 215-923-6069, www.continentalmartinibar.com, a sleeked-up 1960's diner and prototypical martini bar. Farther up Market, stylish folks gather for D.J.-spun hip-hop and house at Marmont Steakhouse, 222 Market Street, 215-923-1100, www.marmont.net, a sassy, swanky little place.
 Even Old City ice cream shops turn into nightspots: Franklin Fountain, 116 Market Street, 215-627-1899, www.franklinfountain.com, is a time-tripping soda saloon where a young George Bailey would feel at home under the white pressed-tin ceiling. Start the night, or cap it off (closing is 11 p.m or midnight) with a banana split for two in an authentic period dish ($10). 
 In the flourishing ''Gayborhood'' from Chestnut to Pine Streets between 11th and Broad, the rooftop deck at 12th Air Command, 254 South 12th Street, 215-545-8088, www.12thair.com, buzzes at night, while Woody's, 222 South 13th Street, 215-545-1893, www.woodysbar.com, serves up three lounges and a dance floor till 2 a.m. 

WHERE TO SHOP -- For a taste of Philadelphia fashion, skip the chain stores -- except Anthropologie, 1801 Walnut Street, which originated in the city in 1992 -- and head for two wildly different emporia. No store meshes the city's patrician ''Philadelphia Story'' past with the high-tech present quite like Boyd's, 1818 Chestnut Street, 215-564-9000, www.boydsphila.com. Yes, the clothing -- Hickey Freeman and Dolce & Gabbana for him, Manolo Blahnik and Stella McCartney for her -- is edited exquisitely. But half the fun is sampling the homemade ice cream ($5) at the Brasserie Perrier Cafe under the 1907 Beaux Arts marble staircase.
 At Smak Parlour, 219 Market Street, 215-625-4551, www.smakparlour.com, vintage chandeliers hang from the ceiling and illuminate the creations of the owners, Abby Kessler and Katie Loftus -- like ribbon-embellished silk-screened tanks and tees. 

YES, FREE -- With its suspended glass dome and stages that disappear with the push of a button, the four-year-old Kimmel Center for the Performing Arts, 260 South Broad Street, 215-790-5800, www.kimmelcenter.org, home to the Philadelphia Orchestra, is the city's most spectacular new building. Its brow-raising statistics (a new organ will have 6,938 pipes) and eye-popping views from the rooftop garden are revealed daily during free tours at 1 p.m. Bonus: tour takers receive a 10 percent discount on tickets for Kimmel Center Presents concerts.

YOUR FIRST TIME OR YOUR 10TH -- A blustery winter day is the perfect time to duck into the University of Pennsylvania Museum of Archaeology and Anthropology, 3260 South Street, 215-898-4000, www.museum.upenn.edu, and get lost amid the archaeological finds from ancient Egypt, Mesopotamia, Mesoamerica and Greece. Relax with a chardonnay or a coffee in the window-lined cafe, then roam among rarities like a 12-ton red granite sphinx and what the museum says are the world's largest cloisonne Foo lions. Closed Monday. Admission $8 and $5 ages 6 to 17.

HOW TO STAY WIRED -- If all goes according to plan, Philadelphia will have a citywide wireless Internet access system in place by late 2006. In the meantime, Internet cafes thrive. Near Rittenhouse Square, the ING Direct Cafe, 17th and Walnut Streets, 215-731-1410, www.ingdirect.com, serves up Peet's Coffee ($1.50 a cup) and free surfing. Open weekdays 7 a.m. to 7 p.m., Saturday 10 a.m. to 7 p.m. and Sunday 10 a.m. to 5 p.m.

HOW TO GET AROUND -- Philadelphia is a superb walking city, but taxis are plentiful, and public transportation is excellent. A $5.50 day pass for unlimited travel by bus, trolley or subway is a bargain (a one-way fare costs $2). Passes can be bought at www.buyphilly.com under Travel.


GRAPHIC: Photos: ''Mirror'' celebrates the bicentennial of the Academy of Fine Arts.
Penn's glee club performed at the Rittenhouse Square tree lighting.
You can get a classic egg cream at the retro Franklin Fountain.
Serrano hams hang from the ceiling at Amada, a tapas restaurant.
 The rounded bar at the Sofitel, in the renovated stock exchange building. The Sofitel is among a number of hotels in a re-energized Philadelphia that have brought a new sense of style to the city. (Photographs by Matthew Weinstein for The New York Times)Map of Philadelphia shows tourist attractions and points of interest.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CHRISTMAS (90%); HOLIDAYS & OBSERVANCES (90%); MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (90%); CITIES (90%); RESTAURANTS (90%); HOTELS & MOTELS (89%); URBAN DEVELOPMENT (78%); ECONOMIC NEWS (78%); BUILDING RENOVATION (76%); CELEBRITIES (63%); TAX INCENTIVES (54%); QUILTS & QUILTING (51%); MATTRESSES (50%) Travel and Vacations

COMPANY: HYATT HOTELS CORP (54%)

TICKER: H (NYSE) (54%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS721110 HOTELS (EXCEPT CASINO HOTELS) & MOTELS (54%); SIC6519 LESSORS OF REAL PROPERTY, NEC (54%)

PERSON: ELTON JOHN (50%) Terry Trucco

GEOGRAPHIC: PHILADELPHIA, PA, USA (94%) PENNSYLVANIA, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%) Philadelphia (Pa); Pennsylvania

LOAD-DATE: December 18, 2005



349 of 607 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 18, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 5; Column 1; Travel Desk; ESSAY: GUIDEBOOKS; Pg. 11

LENGTH: 1361 words

HEADLINE: With a Wink, Pointing the Way To the 'Authentic'

BYLINE: By MATT GROSS. 
MATT GROSS is working on a book about border towns around the world and a novel about 1950's Cambodia.

 BODY:
RUBIES is a dark, popular wine bar on a fashionable street in Phnom Penh, and on any given night there you can find foreign aid workers carping about Cambodia and, next to them, other expatriates carping about foreign aid workers. One evening at the end of March, however, my friend Patrick and I arrived early enough to find Rubies empty, the wide sofa at the rear of the bar unoccupied but for a guidebook forgotten by some hurried backpacker.
 We ordered $1 cans of Beerlao and skimmed through the book, a bootleg copy probably produced by the same mafia that floods Southeast Asia with low-quality copies of ''The Quiet American.'' It described a familiar country, a former French colony emerging from decades of war to embrace its tourism potential. The country's citizens, the book explained, ''have at last downed their weapons and are now welcoming overseas visitors with an open arm.'' 
This was a land ''where traffic police wear face masks but surgeons rarely do,'' where the white-sand beaches were produced by global warming and ''a huge spill from a tanker carrying laundry bleach,'' and where the cuisine is ''a fiery combination of chili, garlic and pepper to which food is occasionally added.'' In short, a country very much like the one we were in.
 But this was not a guide to Cambodia, or to Thailand, Vietnam or Laos. This was Phaic Tan: ''hot, humid and covered in lush vegetation the armpit of Southeast Asia.'' To two sweaty travelers, it was hilarious.
 Obviously, Phaic Tan is, well, fake. It is the creation of the Australian comedians Santo Cilauro, Tom Gleisner and Rob Sitch, who in 2004 published ''Molvania: A Land Untouched by Modern Dentistry.'' (Released in Australia a year ago, ''Phaic Tan: Sunstroke on a Shoestring'' will be available in the United States in February.) The Jetlag Travel Guide series does not, however, merely skewer Third World tourist destinations; the guidebook genre itself is the target. The books are ostensibly written by such experts as Philippe Miseree, who informs readers: ''In researching this book, I discovered a myriad of beautiful beaches and breathtaking sights. I'm quite sure you will not find as many and if you do, remember -- I was there first.''
 This is, it has to be said, humor for a very narrow audience. Is the name of Phaic Tan's capital, Bumpattabumpah, funny if you've never been stuck in Bangkok traffic? I know that when I read ''Molvania,'' I was unmoved by typographical jokes like ''Holidaj Injn.'' Perhaps it's because I've never been to Eastern Europe, but I could see ''Molvania'' and ''Phaic Tan'' likewise failing to wring a chuckle from travelers who set out for foreign lands simply to see the sights, shop, eat well and relax on the beach.
 These are pure goals, but for myself and many others, such naive travel is difficult, if not unimaginable. It's not that we don't enjoy the Louvre or the pyramids, but that we seek to make our memories elsewhere. We trade stories not about white sand but about red tape. We read local papers not for news of home but for, say, a story about a teenage girl killed in a swordfight at a wedding. And -- surprise! -- we love ''The Daily Show With Jon Stewart,'' whose ''America (the Book)'' was the ''Phaic Tan'' version of a high school civics text. Call us jaded, but when we look at what un-self-conscious tourism has wrought -- the uprooting of local populations, the homogenization of world culture -- is it any wonder we're searching for new ways to travel?
 And is it any wonder publishers are marketing to us? Lonely Planet, for instance, released its ''Guide to Experimental Travel'' in June. Developed by a French artist and writer named Joel Henry, experimental travel is supposed to be a playful, ''pleasingly vague'' approach to tourism, such as arriving at a destination at sunset, exploring it all night, and departing come morning. 
 Or you and a group of friends could visit a strange city wearing an unusual token, like a red carnation. Or you could plan to take pictures of every fire station you see on a trip. Or you could stay home. Seriously. The guide offers one chapter, ''Literary Journey,'' in which you ''travel around the world via a bookshelf,'' using geographical references from one book to leap to another. 
 Unfortunately, ''Experimental Travel'' does not include any writing by my friend Robert Reid, a Lonely Planet writer who blogged his trip across the Russian far east (lonelyplanet.mytripjournal.com/robert--reid--in--russia). His blog entries were the opposite of Mr. Henry's clinically clever experiments. For Mr. Reid, the journey was less about forests and history, and more about how regular people there live, whether that meant counting how many men in each city had mustaches or profiling every Oleg and Tatiana he met. One Oleg, after showing him around War Memorial Park in Novosibirsk, admits he ''eventually wants to run a Japanese/Italian/Chinese restaurant -- all macaroni.'' Not a bad way to see the country.
 What I think Mr. Reid's blog, ''Experimental Travel,'' and Phaic Tan all share beyond speaking to my own weird travel desires is a common literary antecedent: ''You Shall Know Our Velocity,'' Dave Eggers's 2002 follow-up to his best-selling memoir, ''A Heartbreaking Work of Staggering Genius.''
 The novel follows the adventures of two Americans who travel around Senegal, Morocco, Estonia and Latvia, trying to give away $32,000. Their efforts are worthy of a chapter in ''Experimental Travel'': In Marrakesh, they bargain a merchant up from 60 dirham to 1,800 dirham for a Lucite key chain. In Dakar, they plan to give $1,200 to a young man who guides them to the town of Saly -- until he demands $80 for the directions. And in their most ridiculous attempt at charity, they try to tape a packet of money to a donkey.
 ''You Shall Know'' faced a lot of criticism when it came out. Why, some reviewers asked, didn't they just give the money to charity? But to me, the absurdity of their task was an entirely appropriate response to the ubiquitous, crushing poverty you encounter when traveling. 
 WHEN you learn that the crippled beggars of Bangkok answer to the mafia, when you see aid workers drive home to their villas in Toyota Land Cruisers, when you are surrounded on a trip by people who could live a year on what you paid for your plane ticket but who smile placidly as they overcharge you for a kilo of mangosteens, when the crazy economics of Tourism Itself grow too painful, then taping money to a donkey begins to sound almost sane. 
 It also begins to feel like a whole new way to travel. After all, Mr. Eggers's characters manage to see the countries they visit, to meet people, to have new, irreproducible experiences. And in the end, that may be what my hipster friends and I are chasing across the globe: authenticity, albeit through irony.
 And in doing so, we're just embracing a tradition that stretches back to ''A Sentimental Journey,'' Laurence Sterne's 1768 parody of the pompous travel books of his day. The novel follows Yorick, an Englishman who sets off for the Continent with neither purpose nor passport, and who manages to ignore every historic sight along the way. Instead, he spends his time cadging dinner invitations, flirting with filles de chambre and making pronouncements about the French (''If they have a fault -- they are too serious'').
 Yet even this fool earns an authentic, or at least sentimental, experience. In southern France, he is forced to seek aid at a farmhouse, where he discovers a family of peasants sitting down to a simple meal of bread, lentil soup and wine. They invite him in, feed him and then, mysteriously, kick off their sabots and, to their gray-haired patriarch's hurdy-gurdy, dance with an ''elevation of spirit'' that leaves Yorick in disbelief. 
 As the old man explains, this is simply ''the best sort of thanks to heaven that an illiterate peasant could pay.'' In other words, it's how the family says grace, and for that moment their grace is the humbled Yorick's too. It's the kind of moment that fools like me are forever seeking out, and that we know no guidebook will ever lead us to.


GRAPHIC: Drawing (Drawing by Peter Arkle)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (90%); INTERNATIONAL ASSISTANCE (89%); INTERNATIONAL TOURISM (78%); DRINKING PLACES (78%); DESTINATIONS & ATTRACTIONS (76%); NON FICTION LITERATURE (75%); LEISURE TRAVEL (73%); BEACHES (73%); TRAVEL HOSPITALITY & TOURISM (73%); TOURISM (69%); HEAT STRESS DISORDERS (64%); GLOBAL WARMING (52%) Travel and Vacations; Guidebooks

PERSON: Matthew Gross

GEOGRAPHIC: PHNOM PENH, CAMBODIA (92%); BANGKOK, THAILAND (79%) CAMBODIA (94%); AUSTRALIA (92%); UNITED STATES (92%); SOUTH-EASTERN ASIA (88%); ASIA (88%); THAILAND (79%); EUROPE (79%); LAO PEOPLE'S DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC (79%); EASTERN EUROPE (50%)

LOAD-DATE: December 18, 2005



350 of 607 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 18, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 4; Column 1; Week in Review Desk; THE WEEK; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 401 words

HEADLINE: What Goes Up Dec. 11 - 17

 BODY:

ENERGY

The News -- It was cold in the Northeast, and snow was predicted, so naturally, energy prices rose. Oil was over $60 a barrel, and natural gas was at record levels. 


Behind the News -- So far, the holiday shopping season has been so-so, and high energy costs could lead shoppers to spend even less in the days up to Christmas. This would be bad news for retailers and their employees, and the overall economy.

GOLD

The News -- The gold bugs are back. Gold is near $500 an ounce for the first time since 1987.

Behind the News -- The price of gold was $253.70 on Aug. 25, 1999. Since then, it has almost doubled. Traditionally, rising gold prices were taken as a sign that investors were worried about inflation. This time, however, some say that the Asian economic boom is creating a rising demand for gold jewelry. Either way, that little bauble someone wanted as a holiday present will carry a higher price this year.

TRADE DEFICIT

The News -- The United States' trade deficit hit a record $68.9 billion in October, $3 billion higher than the previous month.

Behind the News -- The trade deficit is expected to top $700 billion this year, up from last year's record $618 billion, and is likely to cut into economic growth. Democrats accused President Bush of being soft on countries that are running a trade surplus with the United States, especially China and the Organization of the Petroleum Exporting Countries. The trade deficit with China through October was $166.8 billion, while that with OPEC nations was $77 billion.
 Some Republicans, too, expressed worry. ''Small-business owners in Maine and across the nation are fighting to remain competitive with countries such as China that flagrantly disregard fair trade practices,'' said Senator Olympia J. Snowe, Republican of Maine. The deficit numbers also added to the rumors that John W. Snow, the treasury secretary, would be replaced.

INTEREST RATES

The News -- The Federal Reserve Board raised the key federal funds rate by a quarter point, to 4.25 percent.

Behind the News -- Investors had hoped the Fed would hint that its inflation fight was nearly over. Instead, it said that low unemployment, strong economic growth, high energy prices and big deficits made inflation a continuing threat. More rates rises could slow the economy, hurting Republicans, and Democrats have charged that the administration has done little to keep down energy prices.

GRAPHIC: Photos: Expensive heating oil in the Northeast. (Photo by Joe Raedle/Getty Images)
Worth its weight, and then some. (Photo by Norm Betts/Bloomberg News)
America is spending more on imports, while exports remain relatively unchanged. (Photo by Ben Margot/Associated Press)
 Inflation lurks, Alan Greenspan said. (Photo by Mike Mergen/Bloomberg News)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PRICE INCREASES (91%); GOODS & SERVICES TRADE BALANCE (90%); GOLD MARKETS (90%); ENERGY & UTILITY SECTOR PERFORMANCE (90%); OIL & GAS PRICES (90%); NATURAL GAS PRICES (90%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (89%); PETROLEUM PRODUCTS (89%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); NATURAL GAS PRODUCTS (89%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (89%); EMERGING MARKETS (89%); EXPORT PRICES (89%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (89%); PRICE CHANGES (89%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (87%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (87%); OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (79%); CARTELS (78%); US FEDERAL FUNDS RATES (78%); NEWS BRIEFS (78%); PETROLEUM EXPORTS & IMPORTS (78%); CHRISTMAS (77%); JEWELRY (77%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (76%); PUBLIC FINANCE (74%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (73%); CENTRAL BANKS (73%); RETAILERS (72%); EXPORT TRADE (72%); SMALL BUSINESS (71%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (71%); FINE JEWELRY (70%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (69%); INTEREST RATES (66%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (66%) Terms not available from NYTimes

ORGANIZATION: ORGANIZATION OF THE PETROLEUM EXPORTING COUNTRIES (54%)

PERSON: ALAN GREENSPAN (55%); OLYMPIA SNOWE (51%)

GEOGRAPHIC: CHINA (93%); UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: December 18, 2005



351 of 607 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 18, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 1; Column 3; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 710 words

HEADLINE: News Summary

 BODY:

INTERNATIONAL 3-38

New Approach for Army in Iraq
The Fourth Infantry Division returns to Iraq next month with an expanded mission that will increase its reliance on Iraqi troops, testing as never before both American and Iraqi forces -- as well as the new government to be assembled after Thursday's election. 1

As electoral workers continued counting ballots, political leaders began talks to stake out their positions in advance of their forming a government. 
There will also be jockeying for important posts within the major Shiite, Kurdish and Sunni Arab blocs. 26

More Saudi Students in U.S.
The Saudi Arabian government, urgently trying to improve relations with the United States, has been promoting a scholarship program that has more than doubled the number of Saudi students at American colleges and universities since last year. 34

Slow Progress in Trade Talks
Trade ministers from around the world made slow progress at a conference in Hong Kong, with setting a deadline to phase out agricultural export subsidies one of the biggest issues to be negotiated. Overnight, the police battled rioting South Korean rice farmers outside with tear gas and fire hoses. 38

Bolivians Vote for President
Bolivians go to the polls to choose a president, with the leading candidate, Evo Morales, promising to decriminalize the cultivation of coca, the crop used to make cocaine. If Mr. Morales gains the presidency, hundreds of millions of dollars in American anti-drug and economic aid could be put in jeopardy. 13

Seeking Recognition in Nigeria
Gay Nigerians fighting for acceptance in their country's Anglican church reveal a wider struggle between Africa's deeply conservative religious beliefs and a movement for self-determination. 3

Anthropology's Dream Tribe
The Ariaal, a reclusive nomadic community of about 10,000 people in northern Kenya, who are favorites of anthropologists, are now straddling modern life and more traditional ways, after moving closer to a town with cellphone reception and sporadic Internet access. 1

NATIONAL 41-44

Bush Told Agency to Spy
President Bush acknowledged that he ordered the National Security Agency to conduct an electronic eavesdropping program in the United States without first obtaining warrants and said he would continue the highly-classified program because it was ''a vital tool in our war against terrorists.'' 1

The National Security Agency first began to conduct warrantless eavesdropping on telephone calls and e-mail messages between the United States and Afghanistan months before President Bush officially authorized a broader version of the agency's special domestic collection program, according to current and former government officials. 44

Congress's Budget Scramble
Congress readied a stop-gap bill to keep the Pentagon and other agencies running while lawmakers scrambled to complete a budget-cutting plan and remaining spending measures. 43

Many Victims Died After Storm
A study by The New York Times of more than 260 Louisianans who died during Hurricane Katrina or its aftermath found that almost all survived the height of the storm but died in the chaos that followed. 1

Sharp Rise in Cuban Migrants
Coast Guard data show that 2,683 Cubans have been intercepted at sea this year, nearly double the amount for all of 2004. The sharp rise is inflaming tensions over a policy that allows Cubans without visas to stay if they reach American soil but turns back those caught at sea. 1

OBITUARIES 57-58

Jack Anderson
The Pulitzer Prize-winning columnist, whose column once appeared in more than 1,000 newspapers, he was 83. 58

NEW YORK/REGION 49-56

Candidate Faces Scrutiny
Former officials from Decker College in Kentucky have said they consider some of William F. Weld's practices as the chief executive improper and possibly illegal. Mr. Weld, the former Massachusetts governor, is seeking the Republican nomination for governor of New York. 1

Union May File Complaint
The transit workers' union, which is in deadlocked contract negotiations with the Metropolitan Transportation Authority, intends to file a complaint with the state asserting that the M.T.A. cannot legally insist that the union accept less generous pensions for future workers. 49

Neediest Cases 56

Chess 56
Weather 59

GRAPHIC: Photo

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Summary

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: NEWS BRIEFS (90%); TRADE DEVELOPMENT (90%); ARMIES (90%); ARMED FORCES (90%); TALKS & MEETINGS (90%); US PRESIDENTS (89%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (89%); MUSLIMS & ISLAM (89%); RELIGION (89%); SPECIAL INVESTIGATIVE FORCES (87%); BUDGETS (86%); EXPORT TRADE (79%); INTERNATIONAL ASSISTANCE (79%); INTELLIGENCE SERVICES (78%); CONSERVATISM (77%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (77%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (76%); VOTERS & VOTING (76%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (75%); COLLEGE STUDENTS (75%); CONFERENCES & CONVENTIONS (74%); PROTESTANTS & PROTESTANTISM (73%); AGRICULTURAL TRADE (73%); RIOTS (72%); COCAINE (70%); DECRIMINALIZATION (70%); DRUG POLICY (70%); SCHOLARSHIPS & GRANTS (70%); EXPORT PROMOTION (69%); FARMERS & RANCHERS (69%); COLLEGES & UNIVERSITIES (69%); COMMERCE DEPARTMENTS (68%); GOVERNMENT GRANTS & SUBSIDIES (68%); ANTHROPOLOGY & ARCHAEOLOGY (68%); AGRICULTURAL EXPORTS & IMPORTS (67%); RICE FARMING (67%); NATIONAL SECURITY (66%); MOBILE & CELLULAR TELEPHONES (62%); INTERNET & WWW (61%); HURRICANES (61%); ELECTRONIC MAIL (61%); TERRORISM (60%); BUDGET CUTS (60%) Terms not available from NYTimes

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: IRAQ (96%); UNITED STATES (96%); SAUDI ARABIA (93%); NIGERIA (92%); KENYA (79%); AFGHANISTAN (79%); HONG KONG (79%); AFRICA (79%)

LOAD-DATE: December 18, 2005



352 of 607 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 18, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 10; Column 4; Job Market; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1118 words

HEADLINE: If You Can Handle the Perks, Please Stay in the Kitchen

BYLINE: By EILENE ZIMMERMAN

 BODY:
Turnover in the restaurant industry is notoriously high, anywhere from 45 percent to well over 100 percent annually, depending on the job and the restaurant. But a recovering economy and a tighter labor market have made the problem even more acute. 
 Restaurant operators nationwide now say that their top concerns are finding and keeping employees, according to recent surveys by the National Restaurant Association and People Report, a food service industry research group. The nation's largest private employer, the restaurant industry is on track to add 1.8 million new jobs in the next decade, according to the association.
The staffing problems are heightened by the shrinking number of 16- to 19-year-olds in the job market -- only 43 percent of that age group is in the work force this year, the lowest percentage since the early 1960's, according to the Bureau of Labor Statistics. The restaurant association's research shows that those young employees make up about half the industry's usual labor pool. 
 Finding and keeping good managers is, however, also a big challenge. Chuck Hunt, executive vice president of the Greater New York City chapter of the New York State Restaurant Association, says the availability of qualified employees in New York, especially managers, is a major concern. 
 To attract and keep employees, restaurants have been sweetening the pot with benefits like transportation allowances, English-language programs, dining discounts, adoption assistance, stock options and free cars. 
 ''There is an extreme shortage of qualified people now,'' said Alfred Portale, chef and co-owner of the Gotham Bar and Grill in Manhattan. ''In a lot of restaurants, people are promoted into management positions they aren't really ready for.''
 Adam Longworth, executive sous chef at Gotham, was hired just out of cooking school three years ago, stayed 18 months and then moved to other restaurants to broaden his experience. Six months ago he returned.
 ''I have headhunters calling me all the time,'' said Mr. Longworth, 24. ''I could get a job at a lower-end restaurant and make $100,000 a year, which is more than I'm making now, but I feel very taken care of here. Alfred tells me to go to cooking stores, try out new equipment and get whatever I want, and he takes me to special events around the country.'' 
 Mr. Portale also gives his chefs a quarterly cookbook allowance, and all employees can participate in a dining-out program, in which Gotham picks up the bill for dinner for two at top New York restaurants. Hourly employees dine out on a rotating basis, while managers and chefs go several times a month, and all report back about the experience.
 Some benefits offered to restaurant management look a lot like those at large corporations or law firms: stock options and equity partnerships. Pamela Friedl, director of operations for B.R. Guest, which operates 11 restaurants in Manhattan, started with the company four years ago as a manager at Atlantic Grill on East 77th Street. She now has a pretax account for MetroCard purchases and a dining allowance, and she recently became an associate partner, which entitles her to a share of B.R. Guest's profits. 
 Mario Batali and Joseph Bastianich, owners of eight Manhattan restaurants, have a less formalized equity program. Mr. Batali said he and Mr. Bastianich identify their best managers and keep track of them for two to three years, giving the top performers the opportunity to become part owners of a restaurant, which requires a capital investment of $20,000 to $100,000. ''It gives them a long-term interest in the restaurant,'' Mr. Batali said. 
 Money, he said, is the best way to get workers to stay. ''I know if another restaurant offers one of my employees $10 more an hour, they will walk out the door, so I pay them more than anyone else and give them a raise before they ask for it.'' 
 Andy Nusser, chef at Casa Mono, a Batali-Bastianich tapas restaurant in Gramercy Park, became a co-owner in 2003. ''It's the best carrot you can put on the stick,'' he said. ''You know if you stay and do a great job, there is this reward; the job isn't a day job for you anymore, it is your career.'' 
 Perks for executive kitchen managers and general managers at the Cheesecake Factory, which opened its 100th restaurant last month, include a new 300 series BMW every three years. ''We have a 5 percent attrition rate'' for those jobs, said Edwin T. Eynon, senior vice president for human resources. ''I don't know of anyone who is lower than that.'' 
 Hourly workers are also seeing substantial changes in benefits, with 401(k) plans and medical benefits becoming mandatory for waiters, dishwashers and line cooks. 
 Management may get BMW's, but the Cheesecake Factory gives its hourly workers health and dental benefits, paid vacation, free meals and discounts on cheesecakes. In a 2004 survey, People Report found that 60 percent of its members offered health benefits to part-timers, up from 48 percent in 2003. 
 ''My guess is that when we finish the 2005 survey, it will be even higher,'' said Teresa Siriani, president of People Report, whose members represent 11,000 restaurants nationwide. ''Two years ago we looked at benefits like tuition reimbursement, domestic partner benefits, adoption assistance and day care flexible spending accounts, and those were only being given to full-timers, and only among forward-thinking companies. They are being offered to part-timers now.'' 
 Brinker International, which owns five restaurant chains with 1,600 locations, is testing Sed de Saber, an English-language program for Spanish-speaking employees. One of every five restaurant workers is Hispanic, and Brinker hopes that if it helps its Spanish speakers learn English, they will stay with the company and eventually train for management. 
 In January, Brinker will offer its 401(k) plan to all workers and increase its matching contribution to 4 percent of an employee's salary, from 1 percent. Medical and dental benefits for hourly workers will mirror what management gets. The Palm Restaurants, with 29 sites nationwide, including 3 in Manhattan and one in Easthampton, is also testing an English program. 
 Fred Thimm, Palm's president and chief operating officer, said his company was acutely aware of the labor shortage. The cost of losing an employee, whether hourly or management, is difficult to calculate, but Mr. Thimm, like other restaurateurs, said it was far more than the price of replacement. Studies by the National Restaurant Association show a strong correlation between sales per square foot and employee tenure. 
 ''Consistency is one of the most important things we sell,'' Mr. Thimm said.


GRAPHIC: Photo: Adam Longworth, out of cooking school three years, is often courted by headhunters. (Photo by Don Hogan Charles/The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: RESTAURANTS (94%); LABOR SECTOR PERFORMANCE (92%); EMPLOYMENT (91%); RESTAURANTS & FOOD SERVICE SECTOR PERFORMANCE (90%); RESTAURANTS & FOOD SERVICE (90%); BUSINESS & PROFESSIONAL ASSOCIATIONS (90%); LABOR FORCE (90%); RESTAURANT FOOD & BEVERAGE SALES (90%); ECONOMIC RECOVERY (89%); LABOR DEPARTMENTS (73%); JOB CREATION (73%); STATISTICS (73%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (72%); EXECUTIVES (72%); COOKWARE & KITCHEN STORES (60%) Restaurants; Labor; Hiring and Promotion; Restaurants

ORGANIZATION: NATIONAL RESTAURANT ASSOCIATION (83%); BUREAU OF LABOR STATISTICS (56%); NEW YORK STATE RESTAURANT ASSOCIATION (55%) National Restaurant Assn

PERSON: Eilene Zimmerman

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (93%) NEW YORK, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%) New York City

LOAD-DATE: December 18, 2005



353 of 607 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 18, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 14NJ; Column 1; New Jersey Weekly Desk; SOAPBOX; Pg. 21

LENGTH: 637 words

HEADLINE: In a Cold Sweat

BYLINE: By KEVIN GRANVILLE. 
Kevin Granville is a staff editor for The New York Times.

DATELINE: SUSSEX 

 BODY:
THE news in my town is that people are coming from all over to snatch up our trees again. 
 Sussex County, once home to hundreds of dairy farms, has seemingly become world headquarters for the ''U-cut Xmas trees'' racket. In fields where cows once grazed, there are rows and rows of cone-shaped firs and pines.
Families in S.U.V.'s climb the hills of Route 15 or Route 23, gingerly take a saw from a farmer (who usually can't help grinning at the idea of someone else doing the work) and start the inspection process. Eventually Mom or Dad is on hands and knees, sawing away, wondering: ''When will this thing ever come down?'' 
 Before long, the tree (often more than one) is cinched atop the car. In deer-hunting season, local residents sometimes strap their game onto the car for the trip home, letting the world know, ''I got mine.'' Same thing here, the prickly prize roped to the roof. 
 It's a great family experience -- in my house we did it for years. It was a happy discovery that my wife and I made when we moved here with toddlers 17 years ago, and it quickly became an annual ritual.
 And with so many tree farms so near, we became connoisseurs of the local product. Only hand-cut local varietals for us, nurtured in the Sussex microclimate. Let others be picky about their wines or percale sheets; we became Christmas tree snobs. 
 As more people have been drawn to take saw in hand, the tree farmers have responded. Their drafty roadside sheds now have piped-in music, and often include wreaths, other holiday decorations and hot cider and cocoa. 
 But the economic news up here in my part of the state isn't all holly and ivy. Just the way dairy farms have given way to gaily decorated outposts of agritourism, other long-term changes are under way. 
 In particular, two local stores -- landmarks, really -- are going out of business, and most people around here are heartbroken. 
 One is the Ben Franklin variety store, the other a hardware store. The Ben Franklin was the kind of place where you could buy light bulbs, underwear, a gift for your child to take to a birthday party and fabric by the yard. The Tri-States hardware sold just about everything else, from shotguns to greeting cards. 
 Everyone feels we are losing our local identity. The big chains are already here: Sussex County is home to two Wal-Marts and a Home Depot, and Lowe's is about to open. Our local bowling alley (a great destination when my wife or I yell to the kids, ''Turn off the computer, we're going out and doing something!'') is giving way to a Staples. I love Staples, and I'm glad there will be one so close to home, but I wish the bowling alley wasn't going away. 
 The proliferation of Christmas tree farms and the demise of stores like the Ben Franklin seem to suggest that change is inevitable. I know that lesson well -- I need look no farther than our living room. Last Christmas, after more than a decade of cutting our own trees, often in the damp and cold, I suddenly, impulsively, bought an artificial tree. 
 No more sawing in the snow, no more constant watering, no more of my least favorite holiday job: stringing the lights through needles (the tree is prelit, to use industry jargon). Was I growing too old for this holiday ritual? The reaction in our house has been mixed. My wife is willing to accept anything that makes the holidays a bit less hectic. Our 12-year-old son loves that our tree comes with its own remote; our two teenage daughters are keeping their own counsel. 
 I don't feel pangs of regret when I see cars drive by with trees lashed to the top. I figure, on some nearby hillside a sapling is still standing because of our purchase. Maybe someday, when this artificial tree gives out, we will return to our old trek to the fields. 
 Then it will be something new, to be discovered again.


GRAPHIC: Drawing (Drawing by Tom Bloom)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: DAIRY FARMING (90%); NURSERY & TREE PRODUCTION (89%); HOLIDAYS & OBSERVANCES (86%); HOME CENTERS (85%); CHRISTMAS (78%); FAMILY (76%); TIMBER TRACT OPERATIONS (72%); SPORT HUNTING (68%); HARDWARE STORES (65%); GENERAL MERCHANDISE STORES (60%); ECONOMIC NEWS (50%); BOWLING CENTERS (50%) 

PERSON: Kevin Granville

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW JERSEY, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%) Sussex County (NJ)

LOAD-DATE: December 18, 2005



354 of 607 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 18, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 3; Column 5; Money and Business/Financial Desk; ECONOMIC VIEW; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 1320 words

HEADLINE: Health Care for All, Just a (Big) Step Away 

BYLINE: By EDUARDO PORTER

 BODY:
YOU may find it shameful that some 45 million Americans lack health insurance. Well, by reallocating money already devoted to health insurance, the government could go along way toward solving the problem. But you may not like the solution. 
 Next year, the federal government expects to provide about $130 billion for Americans to buy health insurance. The amount is substantial: it is equivalent to about 11 percent of all federal income tax revenue and more than a fifth of federal spending on Medicare and Medicaid. And it is growing fast: the bill is expected to surpass $180 billion in 2010.
Nonetheless, this financing remains under the political radar because it is provided indirectly -- not as direct spending but as a tax break that allows workers to receive health insurance coverage from their employers without having to pay income taxes on whatever it costs. 
 This provides a powerful incentive to businesses all over the country. The subsidy -- supplemented by an additional $11 billion in deductions for medical expenses and billions more in similar tax breaks for health insurance from states and municipalities -- helps to explain why 64 percent of Americans under 65 get health insurance through their employers. 
 Although subsidizing health insurance may seem a worthy effort, a positive contribution to the goal of universal coverage, it is among the most inefficient spending in the nation's fiscal arsenal. 
 ''If you had $150 billion to play with, you could come very close to universal coverage,'' said David Cutler, an economics professor at Harvard. One reason that we are 45 million people short of that goal is that the money isn't being spent on them.
 According to President Bush's advisory panel on tax reform, about half of the tax break for health insurance accrues to families making more than $75,000 a year. More than a quarter goes to families making over $100,000. 
 These families would surely hate to lose the subsidy. For a family making $100,000 a year in, say, Los Angeles, the tax break cuts the cost of employer-provided health insurance by about 35 percent in federal and state income taxes. On a typical family policy costing $11,500 a year, that is equivalent to some $4,000. 
 Still, the fiscal incentive isn't helping many of the people who need it most. A report by the Kaiser Family Foundation says two-thirds of the 45.5 million Americans who lacked health insurance in 2004 earned less than twice what the federal government defines as poverty. (For a family of four, the poverty line is about $19,300.) In four of every five cases, the uninsured made less than three times the poverty level.
 In addition to going to the wrong people, the subsidy as designed promotes wasteful medical spending, encouraging the wealthy to buy more insurance and to use more health services than they need, according to the president's tax panel. And it may bolster premiums across the board.
 Altogether, the health insurance tax break exacerbates America's medical dystopia: while the nation has the highest per-capita spending on health in the world -- about $5,400 in 2002 -- 18 percent of the population under 65 remains uninsured. 
 As part of a series of proposals to rejigger the tax code, the president's tax panel issued a report earlier this year that suggested capping the total that can be paid in pretax dollars at an amount equal to the average health insurance premium in the country: some $11,500 for a family.
 But if the objective is to expand health care coverage, a bolder option is available: focusing the bulk of the money on the bottom end of the income distribution.
 Added to what is already spent on Medicaid, this financing would be roughly enough to make health insurance free for people earning up to three times the poverty level, and perhaps somewhat more, said Jonathan Gruber, an economics professor at the Massachusetts Institute of Technology who has studied the efficiency of alternative methods for financing health insurance.
 To make insurance universal, two other things would be needed, Mr. Gruber said. As soon as the tax break was eliminated, company-provided health insurance would be likely to disappear, too. So some mechanism would be needed to pool groups of people and to avoid leaving higher-risk people to face enormous insurance costs. Such a mechanism would probably make health insurance affordable for all. And to make it universal, a mandate would be needed to make people buy it. 
 This isn't communism. The changes could happen under a public health care system or one that is privately run. 
 The new universal insurance could be provided by government. One simple way would be to extend Medicaid coverage up to the desired income level and to require people above that point to buy into the system according to a price scale that rose proportionately to income. 
 Because Medicaid has lower administrative costs than private insurance, this would be efficient. But the new regime could be run privately as well, to take advantage of the private sector's superior track record on innovation. 
 The government could give tightly focused tax credits so that lower-income people could buy health insurance on the market. And it could organize pools by, say, requiring insurers to charge the same for similar policies sold to people of the same age group who live in the same area.
 Regina E. Herzlinger, a professor of business administration at Harvard Business School, notes that the Swiss have such a system: privately provided health insurance priced by age and residence and subsidized at low incomes. This, she said, gives the Swiss top-notch health services, universal health insurance and a medical bill that tops out at 10 percent of the nation's output, compared with 15 percent in the United States.
 SOME of these ideas are beginning to gain traction in America, too. Massachusetts is considering a law that would make health insurance mandatory. It would expand Medicaid to cover families in the state that make less than twice the poverty level and offer tax credits on a sliding scale up to four times the poverty line. It would also provide for creation of insurance pools for people who don't get coverage through employers. 
 This health care revolution, however, is unlikely to catch on nationally anytime soon. For starters, losing the tax break on employer-provided health insurance would be tremendously disruptive for the millions of Americans who get their insurance through their jobs. Perhaps most important, it would force higher-income families to buy health care without the tax break; that idea is probably as politically suicidal as abolishing the mortgage tax deduction. 
 ''I don't think anybody would dispute the economics,'' Mr. Gruber said. ''I think the dispute would be over the politics.''


. . . while an estimated 45.5 million people remain uninsured . . .

Number of uninsured Americans
Does not include the elderly

Graph tracks number of uninsured Americans from 2000 to 2004.

. . . especially some of the poorest Americans.

Health insurance coverage by income
In 2004; does not include the elderly

Lower than poverty level
Uninsured: 37%
Public*: 42%
Private nongroup coverage: 6%
Employer coverage: 15%

1 to 2 times poverty level
Uninsured: 29%
Public*: 27%
Private nongroup coverage: 6%
Employer coverage: 39%

2 to 3 times poverty level
Uninsured: 18%
Public*: 10%
Private nongroup coverage: 5%
Employer coverage: 66%

3 to 4 times poverty level
Uninsured: 10%
Public*: 6%
Private nongroup coverage: 5%
Employer coverage: 66%

4 or more times poverty level
 Uninsured: 6%
Public*: 3%
Private nongroup coverage: 5%
Employer coverage: 86%

Income
In relation to the federal poverty level
($19,307 for a family of four in 2004)

*Includes Medicaid, Medicare, state programs and military-related coverage.

(Source by Office of Management and Budget [tax breaks]; Kaiser Family Foundation [uninsured and coverage by income])

GRAPHIC: Chart: ''A Potential Wellspring for the Uninsured''The federal government indirectly subsidizes health care through tax breaks for employer-provided health insurance . . .Estimated tax breaks for health insuranceGraph tracks estimated income tax forgone by the federal government because of tax breaks for health insurance provided by employers to employees and for the self-employed from 2004 to 2010.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: HEALTH INSURANCE (95%); TAXES & TAXATION (92%); TAX LAW (90%); TAX DEDUCTIONS (90%); POVERTY & HOMELESSNESS (89%); TAX RELIEF (89%); INCOME TAX (89%); TAX INCENTIVES (89%); EMPLOYEE HEALTH PLANS (89%); FAMILY (89%); MANAGED CARE ORGANIZATIONS (78%); MEDICARE (78%); INSURANCE COVERAGE (78%); PUBLIC FINANCE (78%); HEALTH CARE COSTS (78%); POOR POPULATION (78%); POVERTY RATES (76%); FOUNDATIONS (73%); MEDICAID (73%); TAX REFORM (70%); BUSINESS EDUCATION (64%) Labor; Health Insurance and Managed Care; Taxation; Tax Credits, Deductions and Exemptions

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (58%) Eduardo Porter

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (95%)

LOAD-DATE: December 18, 2005



355 of 607 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 18, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 7; Column 3; Book Review Desk; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 912 words

HEADLINE: Generation Xbox

BYLINE: By HUGO LINDGREN. 
Hugo Lindgren is the editorial director of New York Magazine.

 BODY:
SYNTHETIC WORLDS
 The Business and Culture 
 of Online Games.
 By Edward Castronova.
 332 pp. University of Chicago Press. $29.

SMARTBOMB
 The Quest for Art, 
 Entertainment and Big Bucks 
 in the Videogame Revolution.
 By Heather Chaplin 
 and Aaron Ruby.
 287 pp. Algonquin Books 
 of Chapel Hill. $24.95. 
Here's a theory that may be neither original nor empirically defensible but feels true: The more fun an activity is, the less interesting it is to read about. War producces great journalism; water-skiing does not. Can you guess where video games fall on this spectrum? In the last few years, a great many words have been expended to report on this flourishing cultural phenomenon. Most accounts begin with a hyperactive presentation of statistics, which we will not rehearse here. This is all you need to know (and perhaps already do): Video games have grown into a huge business, outpacing the movie industry and bulldozing childhood as we knew it. We adults are not safe, either. Whether they admit it or not, you probably have friends who can be found awake at 2 a.m. disemboweling orcs, foiling terrorist plots and scooping up fumbles and running them into end zones. 
 It is the opinion of Edward Castronova, author of ''Synthetic Worlds,'' that such electronic experiences are not merely a hedge against boredom but a profound indicator of where the entire world is heading. Online, off-line; reality, fantasy -- these distinctions will cease to matter as more and more of us pass our time in virtual environments. Economies will evolve as we pay real money for virtual goods and vice versa. Conflicts that begin online will spill into the real world and back. Laws will be written to protect our newfound interests.
 Castronova's vision has elements of both utopia and dystopia. But mostly he is bullish. Life in these alternative zones may eventually become so fulfilling, he contends, ''that a fairly substantial exodus may loom in the distance.'' He means this, really. Like the Irish and Italians who left their native lands in the late 19th century to come to America, gamers could create a genuine human migration, away from the real and into the virtual. What will be real then?
 The specific object of Castronova's scholarship is Mmorpgs, the inelegant acronym for ''massively multiplayer online role-playing games,'' which can involve hundreds of thousands of players plugging in from all over the world. A disproportionate number of these games revolve around dwarfs, wizards, quests and magic lands, though the content is becoming ever more diverse. These days, there's a Mmorpg out there to suit the interests of just about anybody. One game, The Sims Online, merely simulates suburban life, and it is madly popular.
 Castronova is an economist who teaches telecommunications at Indiana University, and among academic economists he is a bold contrarian, if only because he dares to take computer games seriously. My oh my does he take them seriously. In dense, lifeless prose, he sledgehammers away at his major themes, constantly pausing to review the material he's just covered and preview what is to come. His sweeping conclusions are intriguing -- get ready for governments sending agents into virtual worlds and waging war with avatars! -- but he's not a vivid enough writer to animate most of his futuristic 
 abstractions.
 In ''Smartbomb,'' Heather Chaplin and Aaron Ruby try harder to entertain. They've organized their history of video games as a study of ambitious individuals, breaking it down into a series of breezy, magazinelike profiles of uneven quality. A lot of the original reporting seems to take place at gaming conventions, which is not where one imagines the really interesting stuff happens. But the stories are pretty good, even when they don't break new ground. Rereading the legend of Nolan Bushnell and the founding of Atari is like hearing a bar band play a spirited ''Twist and Shout'' -- enjoyable, but no additional points for Degree of Difficulty.
 In two spots, though, Chaplin and Ruby really score. In their chapter on Mmorpgs, they sensitively profile David Reber, a 30-year-old Californian who spends every free moment chained to his computer, acting out a series of intense fantasy existences that provide him with the companionship and sense of achievement missing in his real life. Just as Castronova would predict, Reber withdraws from the real world as his fantasy life deepens -- he has lapses at work and when Chaplin and Ruby last check in with him, he's moved back in with his mother.
 The other winning portrait in ''Smartbomb'' is of Will Wright, the creator of SimCity, as well as its offshoot The Sims, and a new simulation called Spore in which players guide a new creature from its biological origin onward. In an industry that mimics Hollywood's craven predilection for cheap, gory theatrics, Wright stands apart as a humble philosopher in love with the potential of games to expand the human experience. Though Chaplin and Ruby don't have much to say themselves about the significance of video games, they wisely hand matters over to Wright, who foresees a future that might just keep us all staying up past 2 a.m. ''I think one thing that's unique about video games is not only that they can respond to you but down the road they'll be able to adapt themselves to you. They'll learn your desires,'' he says. ''It might just be that games become deeply personal artifacts -- more like dreams.''


GRAPHIC: Photo: Players of Counter-Strike during the World Cyber Games in New York this year. (Photograph by Heidi Schumann for The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Review

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: COMPUTER GAMES (91%); BOOK REVIEWS (90%); ONLINE COMPUTER GAMES (90%); ENTERTAINMENT & ARTS (78%); FILM (78%); JOURNALISM (78%); LITERATURE (77%); WRITERS (77%); WATER SPORTS (70%); VIRTUAL REALITY (69%); WATERSKIING (56%); MOVIE INDUSTRY (53%); SUBURBS (50%) Books and Literature; Reviews

PERSON: Hugo Lindgren; Edward Castronova; Heather Chaplin; Aaron Ruby

GEOGRAPHIC: CHICAGO, IL, USA (73%) NEW YORK, USA (79%); ILLINOIS, USA (73%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: December 18, 2005



356 of 607 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 18, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 3; Column 2; Money and Business/Financial Desk; OPENERS: SUITS; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 176 words

HEADLINE: Psst: Want to Know A 'Dirty Little Secret'?

BYLINE: By Steve Lohr

 BODY:
The prevailing wisdom on skilled work being shifted abroad -- outsourced -- is that it is anecdotally alarming but not really a big deal economically. Sure, the thinking goes, some software engineers and others are losing their jobs to low-cost workers in India, but there is always churning in the dynamic American job market of 130 million people. It's what makes the United States economy competitive. 
 Last Monday, at a dinner at the Waldorf-Astoria in New York, Mark R. Anderson, editor of The Strategic News Service, a technology newsletter, sounded like a traitor to his class. He was speaking to a group of technology executives and venture capitalists, fans of Mr. Anderson but also champions of outsourcing.
The current research on outsourcing, Mr. Anderson said, tends to be static and understates the trend. ''The actual outflow of jobs is huge and growing,'' Mr. Anderson said. ''I call this the C.E.O.'s dirty little secret.
 ''When people really find out what's happening,'' he added, ''our view of India will change dramatically.'' Steve Lohr

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: OUTSOURCING (90%); EMPLOYMENT (88%); COMPUTER SOFTWARE (77%); ENGINEERING (77%); SOFTWARE DEVELOPMENT & ENGINEERING (72%); DISMISSALS (72%); LAYOFFS (58%); VENTURE CAPITAL (53%) Labor

ORGANIZATION: Strategic News Service

PERSON: Mark Anderson; Steve Lohr

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%); INDIA (92%)

LOAD-DATE: December 18, 2005



357 of 607 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 18, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 3; Column 1; Money and Business/Financial Desk; SUNDAY MONEY: INVESTING; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 1434 words

HEADLINE: Start With a Stock Index. Now Try to Turbocharge It. 

BYLINE: By JACK EGAN

 BODY:
A NEW kind of designer index fund has arrived on the scene. Instead of trying merely to match the performance of the stock market, as measured by some broad index like the Standard & Poor's 500, these new funds are aiming to outperform it. 
 The S.& P. 500, the most widely used benchmark, compounded by 9.5 percent a year, on average, over the 10 years ended Sept. 30. Statistics show that about two-thirds of actively managed equity mutual funds failed to outperform the market over 3-, 5- and 10-year periods, let alone longer spans. That has been the impetus for index funds that aspire merely to match the market's return.
 Backers of the new variety of index funds say that the products can beat the market and other index funds, either because they have found ways to exploit stock market inefficiencies or because the indexes, especially those based on market capitalization, like the S.& P. 500, are themselves flawed.
 None of the handful of funds that fall into this category have been around long enough to register persuasive long-term results. Nevertheless, the best performers have managed to more than just outpace benchmarks. In fact, they have clobbered them, behaving a bit like index funds on steroids. 
 PowerShares Capital Management, a small but fast-growing issuer of exchange-traded funds, the increasingly popular alternative to traditional mutual funds, has been the main innovator in this arena. Based in Wheaton, Ill., it has started a series of index funds that it calls X.T.F.'s and whose goal is to beat benchmark indexes. 
 Like other E.T.F.'s, they trade on exchanges the way stocks do. But they are different in their composition. They mirror custom-built indexes based on so-called Intellidexes, created by a quantitative unit of the American Stock Exchange. In these formulations, stocks in an existing index are sifted and ranked for potential capital appreciation. Each stock is scored by using 25 variables such as cash flow, earnings growth, share-price momentum and timeliness. The 100 top-ranked stocks make up the custom index, with the added requirement that sector weightings parallel the broader index. If, say, 20 percent of an index is composed of financials, so is the Intellidex for that index. 
 PowerShares offered the first two of these funds at the beginning of May 2003. From their start, both have run well ahead of their index bogeys. Its flagship core fund, Dynamic Market Portfolio, is up 70 percent since it started, compared with a 39 percent gain for the S.& P. 500 over the same period. Its Dynamic OTC fund, has climbed 75 percent, while the Nasdaq 100 index is up 53 percent. 
 In a variation on the theme, Pimco, the money management giant based in Newport Beach, Calif., started two hybrid equity mutual funds at the end of May. The funds, called Fundamental Index Plus and Fundamental Index Plus Total Return, are based on a proprietary index of large-capitalization companies that also seeks to outgun the S.& P. 500. The funds are run by Pimco's star portfolio manager, William H. Gross, who is better known for his bond-fund expertise. Both contain a small bond component but are mainly built around the Research Affiliates Fundamental Index, developed by Robert D. Arnott, who serves as a subadviser.
 The index uses sales, cash flow and other fundamental factors to come up with the 1,000 largest American companies ''measured by the size of their footprint in the economy, not on their share price,'' said Mr. Arnott, the chairman of Research Affiliates, based in Pasadena, Calif., and editor of the Financial Analysts Journal. 
 The index is intended to serve as a counterpoise to the S.& P. 500, which is weighted by market capitalization, or the stock market value of a company's outstanding shares. While the S.& P. 500 dropped by a cumulative 11 percent from 2000 to 2004, the RAFI notched a total return of 45 percent over the same five years, he said.
 The S.& P.'s market-cap metric, he said, causes it to consistently overweight highfliers and to underweight bargain-priced shares. In that respect, the tail can wag the dog, causing the index to present a distorted picture of the market, he said. 
 ''The S.& P. 500 gets whipsawed by every bubble when it inflates and when it deflates,'' he said. 
 Mr. Arnott says his index offers a better picture of the stock market's prospects because it underweights overvalued stocks and overweights undervalued shares. 
 Nomura Asset Management of Japan has licensed the RAFI, and Mr. Arnott has developed on a fundamental index for Japanese stocks as an alternative to the Topix, a Japanese index that is also weighted by capitalization. PowerShares plans to start a RAFI-based E.T.F. tomorrow. And FTSE, a leading provider of global indexes, has recently begun to publish daily updates of the RAFI.
 PowerShares and Mr. Arnott, meanwhile, may be looking over their shoulders at WisdomTree Investments, a small financial company based in Manhattan. The firm, formerly called Index Development Partners, says that it will enter the E.T.F. arena with its own custom index funds. It has drawn attention by attracting a marquee group of backers and executives. 
 WisdomTree ''is designing enhanced-index products that we feel are superior to what's out there now,'' said Jeremy J. Siegel, the Wharton School finance professor and frequent investment commentator, who is also senior investment strategy adviser to the firm. Its chief executive is Jonathan Steinberg, son of the corporate raider Saul P. Steinberg. 
 Professor Siegel is also an investor in the firm. Others include Michael Steinhardt, the hedge fund manager, who is the firm's chairman and owns some two-thirds of its shares, and the former American Express chairman James D. Robinson III and his son, James D. Robinson IV, who serves on the WisdomTree board. 
 ''We have found better indexed products with less risk'' than the indexes, Professor Siegel said. WisdomTree has several funds that are awaiting approval from the Securities and Exchange Commission.
 The firm has lured several employees from Barclays Global Investors, the kingpin of E.T.F.'s, which has more than $200 billion in its iShare funds. Among them is Richard F. Morris, WisdomTree's deputy general counsel. 
 Still, the idea of consistently outperforming established indexes without taking on extra risk draws skepticism from some people. Steven Schoenfeld, the chief investment strategist for the quantitative division of Northern Trust Global Investments, which manages more than $200 billion for pension funds and other institutional clients using indexing strategies, said the PowerShares approach was a form of ''quasi-active indexing'' with ''bets, intended or unintended'' in the portfolio. The traditional index playbook is discarded, he said, when a significant component of active management is added.
 ''If you're getting into one of these funds to outperform, you should also know you can underperform,'' Mr. Schoenfeld said. He said he doubted that the PowerShares flagship fund could outperform over a full market cycle, ''because the factors that let it outperform in the past will not stay the same.'' 
 Burton G. Malkiel, the Princeton economics professor and author of ''A Random Walk Down Wall Street,'' offered a similar critique of Mr. Arnott's Research Associates index. ''I accept Robert Arnott's numbers, and he's really shot the lights out,'' Professor Malkiel said, ''but it's unlikely the index will continue to do as well in the future.'' 
 RAFI, he said, has an orientation toward value and small-cap stocks, ''which is what the last five years in the stock market were all about.'' The overwhelming outperformance of Mr. Arnott's fundamental index versus the S.& P. 500 from 2000 through 2004 ''reflects the peculiar characteristics of the post-bubble stock market,'' he said, ''and is not a formula for future outperformance.'' 
 SOME critics say they still think that the new designer index funds are useful. ''Though I'm skeptical, this kind of innovation is appealing,'' said Jim Wiandt, editor of the Journal of Indexes and publisher of 
 IndexUniverse.com. ''It keeps indexers on their toes and makes sure the indexes are running as efficiently as possible.''
 In a similar vein, Mr. Schoenfeld said: ''These are interesting innovative products that can potentially play a role in a portfolio. But they are not a substitute for indexing itself -- the starting point has to be indexing at the core.''
 In any event, the debate over how much intelligent life exists in the indexing universe is likely to continue.


GRAPHIC: Drawing (Drawing by Niculae Asciu)Chart: ''Beating the Benchmarks, So Far''Two new funds have outperformed their benchmarks since they were introduced by PowerShares in May 2003. The funds mirror custom-built indexes formed by sifting and ranking the stocks in the existing benchmarks for potential capital appreciation.Graph tracks Dynamic Market Portfolio fund with S.& P. 500-stock index and Dynamic OTC fund with Nasdaq 100 index since 2003.(Source by Bloomberg Financial Markets)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: STOCK INDEXES (97%); MUTUAL FUNDS (93%); INDEX FUNDS (93%); STOCK EXCHANGES (90%); COMPANY EARNINGS (78%); BONDS (78%); EXCHANGE TRADED FUNDS (78%); SECURITIES TRADING (78%); CASH FLOW (78%); MARKET CAPITALIZATION (78%); INVESTMENT MANAGEMENT (78%); RANKINGS (78%); STATISTICS (71%) Stocks and Bonds

COMPANY: NYSE MKT LLC (53%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS523210 SECURITIES & COMMODITY EXCHANGES (53%); SIC6231 SECURITIES & COMMODITY EXCHANGES (53%)

PERSON: Jack Egan

GEOGRAPHIC: CALIFORNIA, USA (74%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: December 18, 2005



358 of 607 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 18, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 3; Column 5; Money and Business/Financial Desk; MARKET WEEK; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 449 words

HEADLINE: Seeking Hints In Housing Numbers

BYLINE: By CONRAD DE AENLLE

 BODY:
IF you're counting on a light week because you don't think that much market-moving news can break just before the holidays, think again.
 Bill Cheney, chief economist at John Hancock Financial Services, will be keeping an eye on several indicators of housing activity -- especially the report on November sales of new homes that is to be released on Friday. A Bloomberg News poll of economists predicts a decline to an annual rate of 1.310 million homes from the record 1.424 million reported for October, but Mr. Cheney suspects that the number will be worse than forecast and that Wall Street will not be pleased. 
''We've had some mixed signals from the housing market, but on the whole the data suggests it keeps rolling along, even when there are all kinds of anecdotes suggesting the market is softening,'' he said. ''It's high time we saw some negative data because I think these anecdotes mean something.''
 That high time is unlikely to be Tuesday, when housing starts are announced, Mr. Cheney said. Building permits were strong last month, and what is permitted tends to be built.
 ''There is a lot of construction still in the pipeline,'' he said. ''Building is fine, but are the builders selling the houses?'' He thinks not, or at least that they are not selling them as robustly as many economists believe.
 The Bloomberg News consensus forecast would be a good number, Mr. Cheney said. It would mean a decline in home sales at an annual rate of 114,000, but in his opinion, the rate ''could drop by 200,000, and if it dropped a lot more than that, it would be a sign that the market is cooling off.''
 Consumers' enthusiasm for buying items smaller than houses might then cool off, too, and that could harm the economy and the stock market, he warned.
 ''I would certainly take it as a significant hint that the housing sector is slowing down,'' he said, ''and that in turn is a major driver for the economy as a whole.'' Sluggishness in housing ''will subtract from demand for everything,'' Mr. Cheney said. ''People will feel a little poorer.''

DATA WATCH -- Mr. Cheney will also be focusing on the University of Michigan report, due Friday, on consumer sentiment for this month. He expects a cheerier reading than the one on home sales.
 ''There is some evidence we could get another step up'' as the psychological rebound from the summer hurricanes continues in tandem with the tangible recovery, he said. The Bloomberg News survey predicts a reading of 89.0, up from 88.7 last month.
 The sentiment report provides ''the most current of all the numbers coming out next week,'' Mr. Cheney noted, and an improvement ''would probably be interpreted by the markets very positively.''


GRAPHIC: Graph tracks annual rate of new-home sales from 2004 through estimated 2005.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: REAL ESTATE (91%); HOUSING MARKET (90%); RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (90%); CONSTRUCTION (90%); HOUSING STARTS (90%); STATISTICS (89%); NEW HOME SALES (77%); POLLS & SURVEYS (77%); CONSUMER CONFIDENCE (77%); ECONOMIC NEWS (77%); BONDS (77%); ECONOMIC SURVEYS (77%); BANKING & FINANCE (73%); BUILDING PERMITS (72%); WEATHER (70%) Housing; Sales; Stocks and Bonds

COMPANY: JOHN HANCOCK FINANCIAL SERVICES INC (91%); BLOOMBERG LP (57%)

ORGANIZATION: Bloomberg Business News

INDUSTRY: NAICS524113 DIRECT LIFE INSURANCE CARRIERS (91%); SIC6311 LIFE INSURANCE (91%); NAICS519130 INTERNET PUBLISHING & BROADCASTING & WEB SEARCH PORTALS (57%); NAICS519110 NEWS SYNDICATES (57%); NAICS511120 PERIODICAL PUBLISHERS (57%)

PERSON: Conrad De Aenlle

GEOGRAPHIC: MICHIGAN, USA (77%) UNITED STATES (77%)

LOAD-DATE: December 18, 2005



359 of 607 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 18, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 3; Column 1; Money and Business/Financial Desk; OFF THE SHELF; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 1027 words

HEADLINE: Exposing the Economics Behind Everyday Behavior

BYLINE: By ROGER LOWENSTEIN

 BODY:
A FUNNY thing seems to be happening to economics writing: it's getting better. In recent books like ''Freakonomics'' and ''The Travels of a T-Shirt in the Global Economy,'' economists have taken it upon themselves to explain something of how the world works. They even tell little stories. 
 What interests Tim Harford, the author of ''The Undercover Economist,'' are the stories behind the myriad little transactions that take place every day. Do you drive to work or ride a subway? Do you buy coffee en route? Is it a high-priced, frothy variety, or something plainer? And if it's the first kind, why is it so darn expensive, when the incremental cost of steaming a little milk amounts to only pennies? 
One question that interests Mr. Harford is: What will persuade you to fork over $26 for a copy of ''The Undercover Economist'' (Oxford University Press)? He seems to believe that witty, bracing prose will do the trick. ''I would like to thank you for buying this book, but if you're anything like me you haven't bought it at all,'' he begins. ''Instead, you've carried it into the bookstore cafe and even now are sipping a cappuccino in comfort while you decide whether it's worth your money.'' 
 While we're on the subject of that cappuccino, Mr. Harford explains that Starbucks would like to charge each of us exactly what we are willing to pay, but that it would simply not do for it to advertise ''Cappuccino for the Lavish, $3,'' and ''Cappuccino for the Thrifty, $1.'' It has to be clever about it. Something like, ''Hot Chocolate, $2.20; Caffe Mocha, $2.75; 20 oz. Cappuccino, $3.40.'' To the customer, the choice of drinks is what matters. To Starbucks, it is the choice of prices. 
 Similarly, when Disney World in Florida offers discounts to people who live in the Orlando area, Mr. Harford observes, ''They're not making a statement about the grinding poverty of the Sunshine State.'' They are making an educated guess that out-of-towners, who visit only once in a while, are willing to pay more than people from nearby. 
 The author, a Briton who lives in Washington and who writes the cheeky Dear Economist column for The Financial Times, says that ''there is a story to tell'' in nearly every such interaction. 
 For instance, Whole Foods lures you to spend more by offering distinct and -- relative to what the competition offers -- more expensive foods. It sells organic broccoli in addition to the customary industrial-strength variety, and it is careful never to display them side by side, because you would then notice the difference in price. Whole Foods wants you to be thinking only about the incremental good health that organic broccoli presumably confers. 
 ''The economist's job,'' Mr. Harford says, ''is to shine a spotlight on the underlying process.'' Sounds reasonable, but that is not what most economists actually do. Most professional economists are paid to predict the future. This is why so much of economics writing is dull -- and pretty silly. No one can predict the future, least of all an economist. 
 Mr. Harford fancies himself to be more like a detective -- an ''undercover'' economist. Perhaps he is less policeman than psychologist. Psychologists are not much good at predictions, either, but they do help us understand behavior, and recognize what sort of social settings induce people to behave better or worse. 
 Just so, Mr. Harford's undercover op is a creature of incentives. Recalling that in his university days, student clubs allowed unlimited drinking in return for an upfront fee, he notes that these encouraged bingeing because the cost of each additional drink was zero. What matters in terms of limiting intake is the marginal cost of each new drink. 
 So, too, with reducing automobile traffic: it's not the average cost per trip that matters, but the cost of getting into your car each additional time.
 To an economist, the truly interesting decisions are those that occur at the margin -- the point at which one employee more is hired, one dollar more is invested, one cappuccino (on top of all those you have already imbibed) is drunk. Mr. Harford explains this central concept by returning to the source -- namely, the classical economist David Ricardo's explication of how the yield from a marginal piece of land determined rents in pre-industrial England. 
 The author is good at showing how such basic concepts apply across a complex modern economy. After observing that rents in London today are higher thanks to the surrounding Green Belt, which cuts off development, he notes that as an undercover economist, ''you start to see 'green belts' of one kind or another all over the place.'' For instance, professional associations that restrict entry into, say, medicine serve as green belts that shield doctors from competition. 
 NONE of this is the least bit unconventional. Though the author enjoys being politically incorrect (''sweatshops are good news,'' he offers tartly), he is not economically incorrect. In fact, lively presentation aside, he has written a pretty standard primer, one that defends free markets to a fault and attacks government as the source of just about everything bad. 
 Predictably, he says that the best way to limit pollution is through free-market incentives; he then goes overboard by suggesting that environmental debates are mere ''moral posturing.'' Yet without some discussion first, it is unlikely that we would have developed any incentives. And some of his arguments are far too brief to carry their intended weight. The author cannot really expect to explain ''Why Poor Countries Are Poor'' in a single chapter, the highlight of which is an interview with a cabdriver in Cameroon. 
 A final criticism is that too many of Mr. Harford's interesting details lack a source or a footnote. He gets Amazon's stock-price history wrong. (The author says that during the dot-com bust, it fell below its initial offering price; adjusting for splits, it never did.) Many other details lack the specificity or the attribution to enable one to check. But these are quibbles. For those of you, even now, still stuck in the bookstore cafe, this is a book to savor.


GRAPHIC: Photo

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: WRITERS (89%); BOOK REVIEWS (78%); LITERATURE (78%); BOOKSTORES (73%); GLOBALIZATION (72%); POVERTY & HOMELESSNESS (50%) Economics; Reviews; Books and Literature

COMPANY: OXFORD UNIVERSITY PRESS (69%); FINANCIAL TIMES GROUP (61%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS511130 BOOK PUBLISHERS (69%); SIC2731 BOOKS: PUBLISHING, OR PUBLISHING & PRINTING (69%); NAICS511110 NEWSPAPER PUBLISHERS (61%); SIC2711 NEWSPAPERS: PUBLISHING, OR PUBLISHING & PRINTING (61%)

PERSON: Roger Lowenstein; Tim Harford

GEOGRAPHIC: ORLANDO, FLORIDA, USA (79%) FLORIDA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: December 18, 2005



360 of 607 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 18, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 3; Column 3; Money and Business/Financial Desk; DataBank; Pg. 16

LENGTH: 201 words

HEADLINE: What the Fed Doesn't Say Moves the Markets 

BYLINE: By JEFF SOMMER

 BODY:
The broad stock market rose last week, bolstered by falling oil prices and by a subtle shift in the terminology used by the Federal Reserve. 
 Stock markets rallied after Federal Reserve policy makers on Tuesday raised short-term interest rates for the 13th consecutive time. What cheered the market was the language in the customary statement issued by the Fed: it omitted the word ''accommodation.'' That linguistic shift has been widely interpreted as signaling that, in the Fed's view, an end to the current round of rate tightening may be coming into view.
Moderation in the price of oil also helped the stock market. On Friday, the futures price of a barrel of crude dropped to $58.06 in New York, from $59.39 the previous week.
 For the week, the Dow Jones industrial average gained 97.01 points, or 0.9 percent, to close at 10,875.59. The Standard & Poor's 500-stock index rose 7.95 points, or 0.6 percent, to close at 1,267.32. The Nasdaq composite index, which is dominated by technology stocks, lost 4.25 points, or 0.2 percent, to close at 2,252.48. 
 In the bond market, the yield on the benchmark 10-year Treasury note dropped to 4.43 percent from 4.52 percent the previous week. JEFF SOMMER


GRAPHIC: Chart: ''STOCKS IN THE NEWS''Note: Graphs are scaled so that percentage changes are comparable.Altria GroupNYSE: MOThe Illinois Supreme Court tossed out a $10.1 billion fraud judgment against Philip Morris USA, the maker of Marlboros, over the marketing of its ''light'' cigarettes. Altria is the parent company of Philip Morris.FRIDAY'S CLOSE: $77.32WEEK'S CHANGE: +7.08%EST. '05 P/E: 15.12ActivisionNNM: ATVIThe video game maker cut its sales and profit forecasts for the current third quarter and for the rest of the fiscal year because of weaker-than-expected retail sales and reorders of its games.FRIDAY'S CLOSE: $13.46WEEK'S CHANGE: -3.03%EST. '05 P/E: 34.69Sabre HoldingsNYSE: TSGThe parent company of Travelocity.com, the travel services Web site, released an outlook for its 2006 sales and earnings that was more robust than Wall Street had expected.FRIDAY'S CLOSE: $24.09WEEK'S CHANGE: +10.40%EST. '05 P/E: 16.37Centennial CommunicationsNNM: CYCLThe regional wireless services provider said that it would restate its 2005 and first-quarter 2006 results to correct an error related to the sale of its cable television unit, Centennial Cable.FRIDAY'S CLOSE: $14.87WEEK'S CHANGE: -9.27%EST. '05 P/E: 24.38Arena PharmaceuticalsNNM: ARNAThe biopharmaceutical company reported positive results from the midstage trial of its obesity drug, known as APD356, without apparent heart-valve and hypertension side effects.FRIDAY'S CLOSE: $14.15WEEK'S CHANGE: +28.87%EST. '05 P/E: --PfizerNYSE: PFEThe drug maker said that it would raise its quarterly dividend by a nickel, or 26 percent, to 24 cents a share in the first quarter next year. Strong cash flow from operations will fund the dividend increase, the company said.FRIDAY'S CLOSE: $22.58WEEK'S CHANGE: +9.61%EST. '05 P/E: 11.66Wendy'sNYSE: WENNelson Peltz, the billionaire investor who turned around Snapple and Arby's, has been buying shares of the fast-food chain. He plans to propose a radical overhaul of the company and threatens a proxy fight.FRIDAY'S CLOSE: $54.70WEEK'S CHANGE: +7.09%EST. '05 P/E: 25.59First MarbleheadNYSE: FMDJ. P. Morgan Chase, one of the largest clients of the student loan services company, said it was buying Collegiate Funding Services, a rival in the business. That deal is expected to close in the first quarter of 2006.FRIDAY'S CLOSE: $27.75WEEK'S CHANGE: -15.78%EST. '05 P/E: 9.40(Source by Bloomberg Financial Markets)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: STOCK INDEXES (96%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (91%); OIL & GAS PRICES (91%); BONDS (90%); EARNINGS PREANNOUNCEMENTS (79%); CRUDE OIL MARKETS (78%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (78%); CRUDE OIL PRICES (78%); TREASURY SECURITIES (78%); BOND MARKETS (78%); COMPUTER GAMES (74%); SUPREME COURTS (74%); INTEREST RATES (72%); ECONOMIC NEWS (72%); LINGUISTICS (71%) Stocks and Bonds; Dow Jones Industrial Average; Standard & Poor's 500-Stock Index; Nasdaq Composite Index

ORGANIZATION: SUPREME COURT OF ILLINOIS (59%)

PERSON: Jeff Sommer

GEOGRAPHIC: ILLINOIS, USA (79%); NEW YORK, USA (78%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: December 18, 2005



361 of 607 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 18, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 3; Column 1; Money and Business/Financial Desk; EVERYBODY'S BUSINESS; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 1220 words

HEADLINE: Executives Gone Wild: It's Not a Pretty Sight

BYLINE: By BEN STEIN. 
Ben Stein is a lawyer, writer, actor and economist. E-mail: ebiz@nytimes.com.

 BODY:
THERE is a scene in the old gangster movie ''Murder, Inc.'' in which a prominent member of that entity, a certain Abe ''Kid Twist'' Reles -- ably portrayed by Peter Falk -- is asked why he always wants more when he already has so much. ''Don't ask questions,'' he shouts in response. ''What've you got hands for, huh? Take!''
 Then there was a scene I recall from my childhood during the Army-McCarthy hearings in 1954. After Senator Joseph R. McCarthy of Wisconsin said some nasty thing about a young attorney working for Joseph N. Welch, the canny Boston lawyer representing the Army, Mr. Welch asked Mr. McCarthy: ''Have you no decency, sir? At long last, have you no sense of decency?''
These episodes come to mind because of some recent incidents in the world of managers, stockholders, bond holders and employees. 
 Robert S. Miller Jr., the chairman of Delphi, the auto parts giant that is now in bankruptcy, has said his company cannot compete with parts makers in Asia. To stay in the game, he said, he needs to cut his workers' base pay from about $25 an hour to $9 or $10 an hour, though he recently said he may be able to make it $12.
 Well and good, and Mr. Miller, who is known by his middle name, Steve, has been in the news with some extremely astringent and on-target observations about the American labor force and its need to acquire more education to compete with workers in Asia. We would all like to see Delphi stay in business, and obviously something must be done in the way of sacrifice by all concerned. (I was a Delphi stockholder by inheritance, and I have already done my sacrifice by seeing my very small investment in it destroyed.)
 But what's this echo of Kid Twist? Part of the package submitted to the bankruptcy court by Mr. Miller calls for the top 600 or so executives and managers to share about $510 million out of the corpse of the company to encourage a smooth transition. What? A bankrupt company enriching its executives even as it destroys its stockholders' equity and demands that its workers revert to spartan living standards? (To be sure, the compensation is concentrated at the high end of the corporate ladder -- of course -- and much of it is in stock, which is difficult to value. In these recapitalization situations, though, the stock tends to be a fabulous bonanza for those who got it free or for very little. And in the face of bitter labor union opposition, Mr. Miller says he will recast the package for executives.)
 Now, I am a lawyer by training, and it seems to me, dope that I am, that this money belongs to us stockholders, the owners of Delphi, and not to the managers and executives. Mr. Miller's fiduciary duty runs to us exclusively, not to his colleagues. If he has a nine-figure sum lying around, it belongs to us stockholders first and foremost. I hope the bankruptcy court judge notices this.
 However, despite my losses on Delphi, I still have a solidly comfortable life -- at least for today. I don't desperately need my infinitesimal share of that $510 million (or whatever nine-figure sum it may be). But the workers on the assembly line and in the restocking room who make an hourly wage -- they do need it. They need it badly. How on earth did the idea come into the head of someone as smart as Mr. Miller that he could get away with enriching those who already have high pay (or higher pay) and simultaneously demand that his workers accept poverty or lose their jobs?
 This country is at war abroad. How can an executive try a bold maneuver against decency, like Mr. Miller's, at a time when we need to be united against terror? Maybe Kid Twist had the answer.
 (Just for the future, it's worth taking a special look at Mr. Miller, whose salary is nil, but who no doubt sees a spectacular payday down the road when Delphi is recapitalized in the ashes of the employees' and stockholders' expectations. He is likely to walk off with what could literally be billions, based upon what has happened to smart people who seized companies after bankruptcy -- see below and see the life and times of one Wilbur L. Ross Jr. And I certainly don't begrudge him high pay. I like high pay, too. But when my employees are suffering terribly? I don't think it looks pretty.)
 Then let's briefly look at Edward S. Lampert, a staggeringly successful investor. He recently acquired Kmart, then recapitalized it; its stock soared, making him and his very rich investors a lot richer. 
 Why did its stock soar? Certainly not owing to Mr. Lampert's genius at retailing. Kmart is struggling against the Wal-Mart and Target juggernauts. No, Mr. Lampert's Kmart is considered a real estate play. Its stores, while not selling a lot of merchandise, are in good locations and are expected to deliver huge returns on liquidation. Mr. Lampert, meanwhile, acquired Sears and merged it with Kmart, and is contemplating laying off employees in large numbers. Again, this is expected to be a real estate play.
 But if the poor pre-bankruptcy Kmart was so loaded with valuable real estate that it has made investors in the post-bankruptcy Kmart rich, didn't that real estate belong to the stockholders of Kmart? Why was it not liquidated for the benefit of existing stockholders? Why was it turned over to the new stockholders while the old stockholders walked off with nearly nothing? Where was the management of the old Kmart? Asleep?
 And what about Mr. Lampert's plan to lay off Sears employees, which he inevitably must do if he sells off the stores in which they worked? What about the severe cuts in retirees' medical benefits that Mr. Lampert has announced? How can he square these with decency to the employees? They are hard-working, modestly paid men and women who probably expected to be with Sears for a lifetime. Mr. Lampert is already fantastically rich. Does he really have to fire people in small-town America or cut their health care to become even richer? How many yachts can he sail on? How many meals can he eat a day? How many homes does he need to own?
 Then there is Carl C. Icahn, badgering the brass at Time Warner to make the stock go up so he can make money on his multibillion-dollar stake. One way he is suggesting that Time Warner can do this is by slashing what he says is its ''bloated bureaucracy'' -- meaning, no doubt, laying off thousands of people in New York. 
 I KNOW some of these people from my many visits to CNN. They work hard. They are not paid a lot. Is it really necessary for Mr. Icahn to demand that they be fired, just before Christmas or at any other time, so he can make more on top of the billions he already has? 
 I'm a small Time Warner stockholder, and I would love to see the stock recover from the beating it took when tech crashed. But at the expense of firing a makeup artist or a secretary supporting her children? I don't think so. I don't need the money that badly. If I don't, how can Mr. Icahn need it so badly? I calculate that he has roughly 200 times what I have, maybe a lot more.
 Alas, there are other examples, but I'll say it again: This is a country at war. For men who are already billionaires to look for more billions by firing hard-working middle-class employees or demanding they take a pay cut is not the kind of thing that unites a nation. I'm a devout capitalist, but this is just plain ugly.


GRAPHIC: Drawing (Drawing by Philip Anderson)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: EMPLOYMENT (90%); HOLDING COMPANIES (90%); SHAREHOLDERS (88%); LAWYERS (75%); LAYOFFS (74%); MOTOR VEHICLE PARTS MFG (72%); LABOR UNIONS (72%); LABOR FORCE (72%); BUSINESS INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (72%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (71%); BONDS (67%); DIVESTITURES (67%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY COURTS (66%); LIVING STANDARDS (64%) Executives and Management; Labor; Layoffs and Job Reductions; Executives and Management; Automobiles; Organized Labor; Mergers, Acquisitions and Divestitures

ORGANIZATION: Delphi Corp; Sears Holdings; Time Warner Inc; Kmart Holding Corp; Aol (America Online)

PERSON: CARL ICAHN (67%); EDDIE LAMPERT (66%) Robert S Jr Miller; Edward S Lampert; Carl C Icahn; Ben Stein

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (91%); ASIA (70%)

LOAD-DATE: December 18, 2005



362 of 607 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 18, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 3; Column 4; Money and Business/Financial Desk; OPENERS: THE GOODS; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 617 words

HEADLINE: The Surgeon General Has Never Mind

BYLINE: By BRENDAN I. KOERNER

 BODY:
WHEN traveling abroad, American smokers are often taken aback by the bluntness of cigarette warnings.
 While packs in the United States are stamped with small-print notices mentioning the risks of emphysema and birth defects, packs elsewhere often don't mince words.
 ''Smoking can cause a slow and painful death,'' reads one government warning in Britain, spelled out in large bold letters; in Canada, packs are required to feature graphic pictures of smoking's consequences, like diseased lungs and clogged arteries. 
 No smokers, of course, like to be reminded of their habit's grisly downside, least of all when they're puffing away their daily stress. Joerg Knobloch, who lives in Hamburg, Germany, was pondering this in November 2003 when he came up with a potentially lucrative solution: why not cover up those grim government reminders with festively colored fabric?
 That is the primary goal of Smokeshirts, a line of cigarette-pack holders invented by Mr. Knobloch and his brother, Michael. But the men also see their product as a way for smokers to express their creativity. Why would smokers with artistic leanings settle for an unadorned pack of Marlboros, the Knoblochs say, when they could swaddle their smokes in polka dots or leopard-skin prints? 
 ''What we have created,'' Michael Knobloch said, ''is a new lifestyle product.'' 
 Though the Smokeshirts are decidedly simple -- cotton holsters that flip open near the top -- the development took several months. 
 First, the brothers enlisted a lawyer to survey the world's patent offices to make sure that Smokeshirts would be treading new ground. They also researched pack sizes around the globe to settle on the ideal dimensions for their product.
 ''We determined that 70 percent of the worldwide packaging is the king size,'' Michael Knobloch said. ''This is very lucky for us.''
 Students from the University of Visual Arts in Hamburg were hired as freelance designers, and they came up with 40 potential patterns for the Smokeshirts' exteriors, including Chinese-style dragons and Dalmatian spots. Prototypes were taken to college campuses in Germany, where the Knoblochs looked for members of their target demographic group: fashionably attired women, ages 18 to 35. 
 The 1,200 people who were surveyed helped the Knoblochs to winnow their list of Smokeshirts designs to a dozen. But they also helped set the price: they generally said they would pay 8 to 12 euros (about $9.60 to $14.40) for a Smokeshirt.
 In 2004, the brothers started selling Smokeshirts in test markets, in ''very trendy fashion stores'' in Hamburg and Cologne, Michael said. When customers left the stores, employees of Lifestyle and Fashion, the Knoblochs' company, asked what they liked about the product and whether they thought that the price was fair.
 The Knoblochs point to the Smokeshirts, now available in European clothing and design shops stretching from Portugal to Hungary, as evidence not only of their own business prowess but also of their nation's untapped potential. 
 ''We have a lot of problems in Germany; the unemployment rate is very high,'' Michael said. ''People say, 'O.K., they are not motivated.' But we are -- we are highly motivated.'' 
 Motivation alone, however, has not helped the Knoblochs find an American distributor; interested smokers on these shores must settle for ordering a Smokeshirt from a European online retailer like Lazybone (lazyboneuk.com), where the pack covers sell for about $9, not including shipping. 
 Until cigarette warnings in the United States are as in-your-face as those of some other countries, American smokers may not see a need to cover up their Camel Lights with mauve and fuchsia fabric.


GRAPHIC: Photo

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: SMOKING (90%); DISEASES & DISORDERS (90%); TOBACCO & HEALTH (90%); TOBACCO PRODUCTS (90%); CHRONIC OBSTRUCTIVE PULMONARY DISEASE (78%); VISUAL ARTS (76%); TEST MARKETING (76%); INTERNATIONAL TOURISM (73%); FABRICS (73%); MARKET DEMOGRAPHICS (72%); CONGENITAL DISORDERS (72%); MARKET SEGMENTATION (70%); POPULATION & DEMOGRAPHICS (67%); DEMOGRAPHIC GROUPS (67%); VISUAL & PERFORMING ARTS (66%); WOMEN'S CLOTHING STORES (64%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (61%); COLLEGES & UNIVERSITIES (61%); FREELANCE EMPLOYMENT (61%); CLOTHING & ACCESSORIES STORES (60%) Smoking and Tobacco; Inventions and Patents; Containers and Packaging

ORGANIZATION: SURGEON GENERAL (84%)

PERSON: Brendan I Koerner; Joerg Knobloch; Michael Knobloch

GEOGRAPHIC: HAMBURG, GERMANY (93%) GERMANY (93%); UNITED STATES (93%); CANADA (92%); CENTRAL EUROPE (71%)

LOAD-DATE: December 18, 2005



363 of 607 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 18, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 3; Column 5; Money and Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 209 words

HEADLINE: Inflation-Fighting Bonds

 BODY:

To the Editor:
 Re ''The Bonds That Fight the Monster Called Inflation'' (Dec. 11): 
The article notes that unless Treasury inflation-protected securities, or TIPS, are in tax-deferred accounts, investors pay taxes on the inflation adjustments to the par value, even though that money is not paid out until the securities are redeemed. This taxing is unjust -- even more so because it is at the ordinary income rate.
 When the Treasury issues TIPS, it does two things at the same time. It borrows some money and it effectively offers to act as the underwriter of a casualty insurance policy -- the casualty in question being a significant acceleration of inflation.
 TIPS investors pay for this protection by accepting a lower rate of nominal return than they could have received by buying a usual Treasury security of equivalent maturity. If inflation behaves, the related interest saving to the Treasury is the effective equivalent of an underwriting profit. If inflation accelerates, the TIPS owner is protected.
 Taxing the inflation adjustments is no different in principle than taxing the owner of a house that burned down on the settlement received from the insurance company. (For the record, I own some TIPS.)

Jetson E. Lincoln
Montclair, N.J., Dec. 13

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BONDS (91%); TAXES & TAXATION (91%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (90%); TREASURY SECURITIES (90%); GOVERNMENT BONDS (78%); INSURANCE POLICIES (76%); INSURANCE (74%); INSURANCE SECTOR PERFORMANCE (74%); PROPERTY & CASUALTY INSURANCE (74%); PUBLIC FINANCE (72%); COMPANY PROFITS (70%); INSURANCE UNDERWRITING (57%) Stocks and Bonds; Taxation; Government Bonds; Tax Shelters; Finances

PERSON: Jetson E Lincoln

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW JERSEY, USA (64%) UNITED STATES (64%)

LOAD-DATE: December 18, 2005



364 of 607 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 18, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 6; Column 2; Magazine; THE WAY WE LIVE NOW: 12-18-05: IDEA LAB; Pg. 24

LENGTH: 1393 words

HEADLINE: The Price of Oil

BYLINE: By Peter Maass. 
Peter Maass, a contributing writer, is working on a book about oil.

 BODY:
More than 35 years ago, an offshore drilling rig spilled approximately three million gallons of oil into the waters near Santa Barbara. A massive slick covered hundreds of square miles and killed thousands of birds, seals and dolphins; the white beaches of California turned black with crude. Night after night, the TV networks showed oil-covered birds flopping in their death throes on fouled beaches. Popular outrage was heightened by the attitude of Fred Hartley, president of Union Oil, which operated the offending rig. In Senate testimony, he chided environmentalists and journalists for over-reacting to the loss of bird life.
The Santa Barbara spill was a galvanizing event that raised support for the first Earth Day, hastened the creation of the Environmental Protection Agency and led to state and federal moratoriums on new drilling. Today, drilling for oil and gas is barred off 90 percent of America's coastlines; it is allowed, mainly, in the Gulf of Mexico, though not near tourism-dependent Florida. The offshore moratoriums, along with a ban on drilling in the Arctic National Wildlife Refuge, are regarded as triumphs of the environmental movement. 
 But these victories came at a cost. As politicians in the White House and Congress are pushing again for exploration in coastal waters and drilling in ANWR, it is worth reconsidering the changes won by the environmental movement, but not only for the supply-enhancing reasons cited by advocates of extracting oil wherever it may be found. The latest battle has not touched upon a depressing fact: every barrel of oil that is not extracted from America must be drilled from someone else's backyard, often with little regard for the consequences. Because our appetite for energy has grown over the decades, new drilling, along with the damage it tends to create, has not been halted; it has been outsourced. 
 Take a look at Nigeria, which has the misfortune of possessing more than 35 billion barrels of oil, much of it around the Niger Delta. When I visited last year, traveling through stunted mangrove swamps near Port Harcourt, there was a near-absence of birds, and oil was everywhere -- not only dripping from rusty platforms atop the delta waters, but in the water itself, in the air, which smelled of petroleum, and in the gas flares that are a scalding feature of the injured landscape. Because of a host of political and economic ills triggered by the drilling, the Niger Delta is alive not with marine life but with violence -- bands of tribal warriors wage an off-and-on war against one another and army troops.
 Ecuador is another victim. After oil was discovered in its Oriente region in 1967, Texaco and a state-owned oil company operated an extraction program that, a quarter century later, had reduced parts of the Amazon to a deforested miasma of pollution and poverty. Chevron, which purchased Texaco, now faces a billion-dollar lawsuit accusing it of poisoning the land. Ecuador had a negligible foreign debt before oil was found but now owes $16 billion and, the greatest insult of all, more than 70 percent of the population now lives in poverty.
 The harms suffered by these countries (and many others) are symptoms of what is known as the resource curse. Though it seems counterintuitive -- countries with a lot of oil are lucky and rich, right? -- a succession of studies, the most notable of which was conducted by the economists Jeffrey Sachs and Andrew Warner, show that countries dependent on natural-resource exports experience lower growth rates than countries that have nonresource economies, and they suffer greater amounts of repression and conflict too. The reasons are complex -- and there are exceptions to these dismal rules -- but in general, a reliance on oil discourages investment in other industries, makes governments less responsive to the desires of citizens and fosters corruption by officials seeking and receiving funds that are not their due. An oil state is, almost by definition, a dysfunctional state.
 If those problems are not of urgent interest to Americans, it's because we do not pay much attention to the troubles of foreigners unless they threaten us directly; this is the crux of things. Perhaps understandably, many environmental groups indulge our inherent parochialism by devoting the bulk of their funds and publicity to domestic issues. For example, most of the ''strategic initiatives'' of the Sierra Club, with an annual budget of about $80 million, involve domestic matters, like protecting our forests and increasing citizens' participation in environmental decision-making. The Natural Resources Defense Council, which spent $52 million last year, keeps a ''Biogem Watchlist,'' but only 3 of the 10 locations on it are outside the United States and Canada. Both groups have lobbying campaigns on Capitol Hill that focus on environmental issues with global ramifications, but if you want to learn about oil's impact in the countries that supply us, you would do best to look elsewhere. One of the best watchdogs on resource issues is Global Witness, a small organization in London that publishes excellent reports even though its 2004 budget of $3.4 million would not cover the fund-raising costs of its big American brothers. Although the big organizations express solidarity with environmental efforts overseas -- N.R.D.C.'s motto is ''The Earth's Best Defense'' -- their spending priorities indicate a narrower interest.
 Of course, any effort to address the global consequences of our oil dependence faces an enormous obstacle -- the apparent bipartisan consensus in Washington to make whatever compromises are necessary to ensure that America receives the ever-increasing quantities of petroleum that it requires. Although it is fashionable to blame oil companies and right-wing Republicans for caring not a whit about the downsides of resource extraction, the truth is that few Democrats have spoken of halting or minimizing oil imports because regime X or Y despoils its environment or represses its people. When it comes to oil, expediency is the rule, and a marvelously adaptable one. Because voters in Florida and California, which are scenic and prosperous, have made it clear they don't want or need oil rigs in their waters, Republicans in those states are nearly as vociferous as Democrats in opposing any loosening of the drilling bans. On offshore drilling, Jeb Bush and Arnold Schwarzenegger stand shoulder to shoulder with Barbra Streisand, though the governors' ecological sentiments do not necessarily extend beyond their coastal horizons.
 The gymnastics of people like Schwarzenegger -- probably the most famous Hummer owner in the world -- are emblematic of the cognitive dissonance that runs in our national bloodstream. We demand clean beaches and untouched wildernesses at home but live in an energy-intensive fashion that leads other countries to sacrifice their waters and forests. This disconnect is easily explained. You don't need to alter your lifestyle much to help protect baby seals or punish Kathie Lee for supporting sweatshops, but you might need to suffer inconveniences -- like higher gas prices, energy-conservation efforts and new taxes for alternative-fuels research -- if better energy policies were adopted. In the end, the only red line that Americans insist upon, in terms of unacceptable ways for gasoline to be supplied to our cars, is that it must not come from ANWR or the waters off California and Florida. The politicians and environmental groups are, in many ways, just following the wishes of voters and donors.
 If the protection of our environment comes at the expense of others, might it bean expression of selfishness rather than virtue? The more we focus on defending our environment, the less we may focus on environments outside our borders; activism can become anesthesia. Domestic restrictions on drilling have had the unintended effect of insulating our tender consciences from the worst impacts of oil extraction. Out of sight, out of mind. For that reason, could it be that drilling rigs within sight of Key West or in a part of Alaska that is an Alamo of conservationism would be a useful thing? Perhaps a few more drilling platforms in our most precious lands and waters would make us understand that the true cost of oil is not posted at the gas pump.


GRAPHIC: Photo (Photograph by Sophia Evans
 NBPictures/Contact)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ENVIRONMENT & NATURAL RESOURCES (90%); WILDLIFE CONSERVATION (90%); CRUDE OIL & NATURAL GAS EXTRACTION (90%); MARINE MAMMALS (90%); BEACHES (90%); ENVIRONMENTALISM (90%); OIL EXTRACTION (90%); BIRDS (90%); OIL & GAS EXTRACTION (90%); OIL & GAS PRICES (90%); OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (89%); COASTAL AREAS (89%); PETROLEUM PRODUCTS (78%); OIL EXPLORATION (78%); OUTSOURCING (78%); OIL & GAS EXPLORATION (78%); WILDLIFE (77%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (76%); POLITICS (76%); ENVIRONMENTAL DEPARTMENTS (75%); EARTH DAY (75%); DEFORESTATION (70%); ARMIES (64%); ARMED FORCES (60%) 

ORGANIZATION: US ENVIRONMENTAL PROTECTION AGENCY (56%)

PERSON: Peter Maass

GEOGRAPHIC: SANTA BARBARA, CA, USA (90%) ALASKA, USA (93%); CALIFORNIA, USA (92%); GULF OF MEXICO (79%); ATLANTIC OCEAN (79%); FLORIDA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (93%); ARCTIC (92%); NIGER (92%); NIGERIA (79%); ECUADOR (79%) Arctic National Wildlife Refuge; Alaska

LOAD-DATE: December 18, 2005



365 of 607 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 18, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 9; Column 4; Style Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1371 words

HEADLINE: Hey, Bartender, Can You Break $1,000?

BYLINE: By DAVID BERNSTEIN

DATELINE: CHICAGO 

 BODY:
GEORGE SANTIAGO, a 23-year-old nightclub promoter, wanted to impress Danielle DiCantz, 22, whom he had met at a club, on their first date. So on a recent Thursday night he took her to Reserve, a lounge and dance club that is a favorite of the trend-setting crowd here. 
 To break the ice, Mr. Santiago ordered a $350 bottle of Dom Perignon. After they had swilled the Champagne dry, Mr. Santiago returned to the bar. This time he ordered her an exotic concoction called the Reserve Ruby Red.
Served in a traditional martini glass, the cocktail is made with super-premium Grey Goose L'Orange vodka, Hypnotiq liqueur, orange and pomegranate juices and topped off with Dom Perignon. The coup de grace: a one-carat ruby affixed to the stirrer. And the bar tab for a Ruby Red? An eye-popping $950. 
 Was she impressed?
 ''It was the best 950 bucks I ever spent,'' Mr. Santiago said. ''Let's put it that way.'' 
 It wasn't long ago that cocktails broke the $10 barrier at high-end restaurants and nightclubs in cities like Chicago, Las Vegas, Los Angeles and New York. Now a vodka martini or a basic margarita for $10 seems like a bargain, as prices have hit double, triple and, believe it or not, quadruple digits (even without glittery gems for garnishes). 
 Among bartenders, managers and club owners there is a spirited (pun intended) race to concoct the most exotic, most attention-getting and most expensive cocktails. Examples abound. 
 The Seablue restaurant in the MGM Grand Las Vegas has a martini made with super-premium vodka and Beluga caviar at $275. At Duvet, a restaurant-lounge in the Chelsea area of Manhattan, the price of a Duvet Passion -- an off-the-menu drink made with aged cognacs, vintage Champagnes and garnished with a vanilla orchid petal -- is meant to astound: $1,500. The club says it has sold five or six Duvet Passions since introducing the drink Valentine's Day. 
 Not to be outdone Teatro Euro Bar, a nightclub at the MGM Grand Las Vegas, has the High Limit Kir Royale, a $2,200 after-dinner drink. ''So far nobody's one-upped us,'' said Catherine Bingue-Hawkins, the general manager. ''And we have no gems in ours either. We just have good liquor,'' including Louis Roederer Cristal Champagne and 140-year-old Cognac.
 Big spenders with stacks of hundreds to burn and business executives on expense accounts apparently don't blink at paying those top-dollar prices for cocktails with top-shelf spirits. Even some people in the cheap-beer and wine-in-box crowd occasionally indulge in them.
 Despite the jittery economy, bartenders and managers say customers are still celebrating big deals and special occasions with big bar tabs. ''Things have not gone down at all,'' said Jennifer Hansen, the director of operations at Le Passage, a hot spot in downtown Chicago. ''There's been an increase, if anything. People want to go out and have a good time, and they're willing to pay for it.''
 But the hefty prices are also turning away some drinkers, said Willie Williams, the bar manager of Vine Street Lounge in Hollywood, where a Million Dollar Grandtini made with Patron Silver tequila, Citronage liqueur and a 150-year-old Grand Marnier floater costs $35. ''If you're going to go out drinking and spend $50, you don't want to spend it all on one drink,'' he said. 
 Still, Mr. Williams said even customers who don't have a lot of money will buy Million Dollar Grandtinis and other expensive cocktails for the image they convey. ''How many people lease a BMW when they can't afford it and their car payments are more than their rent?'' he said. ''A lot of it has to do with status, especially out here.'' 
 Julie Clark, 28, an options trader from Chicago, celebrated one of her biggest trading windfalls with a $135 Champs-Elysees cocktail at Le Passage. The Champs-Elysees is made with Remy Martin Louis XIII cognac, Grand Marnier, orange juice and sour mix; it is served in a Bottega del Vino crystal cognac snifter, which the drinker can keep. ''I wanted to celebrate,'' Ms. Clark said. ''It was great. I really liked it.'' 
 Like Ms. Clark, Fran Weinberg, 42, a sales representative from Hackensack, N.J., had no qualms about treating a few customers to $95 Royal Apple Sidecar cocktails at Beacon, a restaurant on West 56th Street in Manhattan. ''I wouldn't say I was showing off, but it's kind of impressive to customers who don't get to New York,'' Ms. Weinberg said. It also impressed (and shocked) friends and colleagues whom she told the next day. ''Some people looked at me like I was crazy,'' she said. ''And some people were like: 'When can we go? I want to try it.' '' 
 Jason Smith, the bar manager at the Setai Hotel in Miami Beach, said drinkers have become more adventurous and sophisticated and are more frequently ordering higher end spirits. He said the Setai sells 8 to 12 Garden of Edens -- a $100 cocktail that serves three or four and is made with vodka, gin, rum, cognac and sparkling red wine -- on a typical night. ''It's a status thing,'' Mr. Smith said. ''There's a level of pretentiousness. Then you've got that one guy that just wants his Budweiser.'' 
 According to the Distilled Spirits Council, high-end and super-premium liquors are the fastest growing segments of the $15.1 billion spirits market. Annual sales of super-premium liquors grew by 14.2 percent in 2004; sales of high-end liquors grew by 7.4 percent in the same period. By contrast, sales of value spirits, the cheapest kind, grew by just 1.7 percent in that period. 
 ''People are drinking less, but they're drinking better,'' said Mark Grossich, owner and operator of the World Bar in Trump World Tower in Manhattan. ''You don't find a lot of generic drinkers anymore.'' 
 When the World Bar opened three years ago, it introduced the World Cocktail. The $50 mixture of Remy XO; Veuve Clicquot Champagne; Pineau des Charentes, a sweet aperitif; white grape juice; freshly squeezed lemon juice; Angostura bitters; and 23-carat edible liquid gold was billed as the world's most expensive cocktail. 
 ''We started the trend of very expensive cocktails,'' Mr. Grossich said. ''We thought: 'What the heck? Where better than in a Trump building to create something excessive?' '' 
 But now, Mr. Grossich said, cocktail prices have ''gotten out of hand.'' ''People are coming up with all kinds of ridiculous combinations to push the prices of cocktails through the roof,'' he said. ''It's hard to ratchet up the price up to $1,000 and have the cost justify the ingredients. They're priced to the point where they get to be novelty items.'' 
 Scott DeGraff, an owner of N9NE Steakhouses in Las Vegas and two other cities, said the $69 Ultimate Margarita he sells at his restaurant isn't a gimmick, at least the ingredients aren't. Made with two rare tequilas, Grand Marnier 150 Year and fresh juices, the cocktail, he said, caters to true tequila connoisseurs, not to ''the people who only remember the tequilas they got sick on in high school.'' 
 Even though Mr. DeGraff said he serves 75 to 100 Ultimate Margaritas each month at his restaurant in Las Vegas (and 15 to 20 a month at the one in Chicago), the profit margins and sales volume are much lower than those for basic cocktails, shots and beer by the bottle. ''Would I have a whole menu of $69 drinks?'' he said. ''No, but I think it's fun to have something that's so unique and special and that's out there if you want to try it.'' He added: ''I wouldn't want to base my business on drinks like this. I might go hungry that way.'' 
 Not if there are a lot more people like George Santiago out there. If Mr. Santiago spent $950 for a cocktail on a first date, how much would he pay for a drink on a second or third date, or even for his engagement? ''You can't put a price on love,'' Mr. Santiago said. ''I'd spend countless.'' 

The World Cocktail
Adapted from the World Bar at Trump World Tower, New York

1 ounce Courvoisier XO
1 ounce Pineau des Charentes
1 ounce white grape juice
Dash of Bitters
1/2 ounce lemon juice
Float of Veuve Clicquot
4 Drops of 23-carat edible liquid gold.

Combine all ingredients (except Champagne and liquid gold) in iced shaker. Shake vigorously, and pour into a trumpet flute. Top with Veuve Clicquot. Top with liquid gold.


GRAPHIC: Photos: IN THE MIX -- Cyrille Pawelko preparing the $135 Champs-Elysees at Le Passage in Chicago (Photo by Peter Thompson for The New York Times)(pg. 1)
CASH BAR -- The Garden of Eden from the Setai in Miami Beach. (Photo by Richard Patterson for The New York Times)
HIGH END -- The Ruby Red, above, is served at the Reserve in Chicago. The High Limit Kir Royale, right, at the Teatro Euro Bar in the MGM Grand Las Vegas. (Photo by Peter Thompson for The New York Times)
 (Photo by Isaac Brekken for The New York Times)(pg. 18)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGES (90%); RESTAURANTS (90%); DRINKING PLACES (90%); RESTAURANT REVIEWS (89%); PRECIOUS STONES & GEMS (77%); BEVERAGE PRICES (76%); BEER & ALE (71%); FULL SERVICE RESTAURANTS (66%); EXECUTIVES (64%); FRUIT & JUICE DRINKS (56%) Bars; Nightclubs and Cabarets; Alcoholic Beverages; Restaurants; Hotels and Motels; Prices (Fares, Fees and Rates)

PERSON: David Bernstein

GEOGRAPHIC: LAS VEGAS, NV, USA (92%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (90%); LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (79%); MIAMI, FL, USA (75%) NEVADA, USA (92%); NEW YORK, USA (90%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); FLORIDA, USA (75%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: December 18, 2005



366 of 607 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 18, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 14; Column 1; The City Weekly Desk; CITY LORE; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 1111 words

HEADLINE: King Cab

BYLINE: By TED WEST. 
Ted West is a contributing editor of Car and Driver magazine.

DATELINE: NEW YORK, Dec. 18, 1984 

 BODY:
You're late. The Checker cab you hail lurches to the curb, brakes squealing like a throttled pullet. You reach for the trademark stripe of black-and-white checkers on its yellow doors and climb in. Slamming the door shut makes a bucket-of-bolts clatter that goes on like an echo in a box canyon. The back seat is way back there, a short stroll from the door. You pass the two ''jump seats,'' folded into the floor. They look ravaged, though rarely have you seen them used. 
 Maybe it was a 60's thing.
You slump down on the broad, featureless back seat and worry. (You're still late.) You give no thought to the chasm between you and the Checker's signature ''Life-Guard'' metal and plexiglass partition. It's there for the driver's protection, not yours. And no recorded message from Al Jolson implores you to fasten your seat belt. What seat belt? In a violent stop, you'll reach peak velocity just as you meet the ''Life-Guard'' partition, teeth first. 
 And yet, and yet. For nearly 50 years, since 1956, the Checker Marathon cab has been a New York emblem. It hasn't rumbled down the city's streets for years, yet its hallmark checker motif still looms large at an exhibition on the New York cab of the future, being held through Jan. 15 at Parsons the New School of Design. 
 Why such staying power in New York memories? The Checker cab was as New York as Fiorello La Guardia's grin. Sure, there were a few Checkers plying the streets of Chicago and other cities aspiring to greatness -- but who asked? Before the Checker, various humdrum 50's family sedans -- Chevrolet Delrays, Plymouth Savoys and such -- were auditioned, but they were no match for Manhattan's rugged realities. New York demanded a taxi that was nothing but a taxi, a taxi built like a Walker Bulldog medium tank. The Checker made its debut, and it was love at first bounce. 
 As if to underscore its unique suitability, the Checker looked like no other vehicle, and Detroit's automakers worked hard to keep it that way. It had four headlamps and a big, gaping chrome grille like a frozen automotive rendering of ''The Scream.'' It functioned differently, too, sending a simple message: ''I carry five fares -- no other cab can. Period.'' If you numbered fewer than five (and you did), a Checker offered vast room to rattle around in, its suspension banging and slamming, taking note of every pavement paint stripe, pebble and pothole along the way. 
 To gentle souls from Topeka, this all sounds awful. Yet I, like many New Yorkers, would give anything for one more full-throttle Checker cab ramble up Madison Avenue, clattering around the back like a ball bearing in a blender. 
 That's impossible, of course. Six years ago today, on Dec. 18, 1999, the last Checker to give a rider a Manhattan tumble was sold in an auction at Sotheby's. That final Checker cab, owned by Earl Johnson since 1978, had logged 994,050 New York miles, about 40 times around the world. The cab was auctioned for $134,500. Mr. Johnson, who remembered paying $9,000 for it new, retired to Montego Bay, Jamaica.
 Depending on the state of New York City's finances, the fate of a taxicab here could be cruel. In the near-bankrupt 70's, a drive down pockmarked Second Avenue was like driving down the Grand Canyon. By comparison, today's playing surface is bowling-alley smooth. Nonetheless, since 1956, feast or famine, the beloved Checker cab had taken every blow New York dealt -- and delivered it straight to the consumer.
 It took a very special vehicle to approach one million New York miles. That gritty vehicle arose from decades of trial, error and worse. The man most responsible was a Russian immigrant, Morris Markin, of Smolensk. He arrived in the United States in 1913 with $2 in his pocket. The urban taxicab business was in its infancy when Mr. Markin settled in Chicago. By 1922, somewhat miraculously, he owned the Checker Cab Manufacturing Company. Taxi wars eliminated company after company, and when the dust settled, Checker emerged with only one major competitor, Yellow Cab of Chicago, owned by John Hertz. Yes, that Hertz.
 In 1923, Mr. Markin moved Checker taxi construction to Kalamazoo, Mich. At the time, 600 Checkers were on New York streets. In 1930, Checker introduced its eye-catching Series ''M'' cab, boasting flashy flared fenders, a high, narrow grille, rectangular headlights, wheel covers that were smooth cones -- and rear seat cushions filled with down! 
 Each time a fare got out, the driver reached back with a special paddle to fluff up the down for arriving nobility. 
 During the Depression, Mr. Markin lost, then regained control of Checker. Business improved gradually. By the late 30's, 18,000 Checkers were plying the nation's biggest cities. Along the way, Mr. Markin brought all nine of his brothers and sisters from Russia to America. 
 During World War II, Checker patriotically and profitably built trailers and troop-truck cabs for Ford. 
 But on Jan. 26, 1956, New York met the first Checker ''A8,'' the taxi we all loved. At 200 inches long, it was more compact than the 224-inch cabs in use, yet it was vastly more spacious. Checker production hovered at 4,500 to 6,500 cars a year through the 60's and 70's. Various engines by Continental, Chevrolet and Chrysler were used. The general public could buy its own version of the Checker, called the Superba, which in 1961 was renamed the Marathon. In 1963, ambitious Checker announced a luxury Town Custom Limousine, with all power accessories and a partitioned driver compartment. Never hurts to try.
 Still, the rugged-riding Checker compared poorly with softer passenger cars. New Yorkers knew it had only one role, as the best taxicab in the world.
 Things went swimmingly until the 70's. Very suddenly, serious gas crises made smaller cars with more economical engines attractive, especially if a threatened gas-guzzler tax took effect. And the Checker's toughness had always made it more expensive than other taxis. The graffiti was on the wall. The end was nigh.
 The last Checker was built on July 13, 1982. By 1993, only 10 New York Checkers remained. And in these waning years, if you saw a Checker with its hood up -- you might -- you'd see a length of chain holding the front fenders together. After several hundred thousand miles, Checkers went a bit bow-legged.
 It was the end of an era. Gone was the practice of wearing your hat in a cab. (What's a hat?) Bid farewell to the five-on-a-fare undergrad rides to the Village. Say goodbye to taxicabs with room for strollers in back and taxicabs with kids fighting to sit on the jump seats. The Checker dwindled. Dwindled. And then there were none.


GRAPHIC: Photos: BLACK AND WHITE AND RODE ALL OVER -- The Checker, above, in 1956, at its New York debut
in 1979, above left
and, below, a Checker-like design in a 2005 show at the Parsons school. (Photos by Above left, Chris Collins/Corbis
above, Bettmann/Corbis
 below, Bob Brunner/Pentagram Design)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: SEDANS (69%); MOTOR VEHICLES (67%); AUTOMAKERS (62%); AUTOMOBILE MFG (62%); AUTOMOTIVE MFG (62%) 

ORGANIZATION: Parsons the New School for Design; Checker Cab (Co)

PERSON: Ted West; morris markin

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%) NEW YORK, USA (93%) UNITED STATES (93%) New York City

LOAD-DATE: December 18, 2005



367 of 607 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 18, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 14; Column 2; The City Weekly Desk; WINE UNDER $20; Pg. 11

LENGTH: 88 words

HEADLINE: Bubbles, Yes; Inflation, No

BYLINE: By HOWARD G. GOLDBERG

 BODY:
California's best sparkling wine, nonvintage Roederer Estate brut from Anderson Valley in cool Mendocino County, is widely sold at discount. This light chardonnay-pinot noir blend delivers fine bubbles, toasty flavor and subtlety.
A retailer's standard 50 percent markup above the wholesaler's lowest price for a case can raise the bottle price to $20.27. PJ Wine, 4898 Broadway (204th Street), Inwood, which delivers citywide, charges $15.97. Some French Champagnes that cost twice as much taste half as good. HOWARD G. GOLDBERG 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Review

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: WINE (90%); WINERIES (86%); RETAILERS (85%) 

ORGANIZATION: roederer estate (winery)

PERSON: Howard G Goldberg

GEOGRAPHIC: CALIFORNIA, USA (90%) UNITED STATES (90%)

LOAD-DATE: December 18, 2005



368 of 607 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 18, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 14; Column 1; The City Weekly Desk; URBAN TACTICS; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 1055 words

HEADLINE: Marlboro Men

BYLINE: By BORIS FISHMAN. 
Boris Fishman is the editor of ''Wild East: Stories From the Last Frontier.''

 BODY:
ON wintry nights in Manhattan, little bands of smokers huddle under restaurant awnings, shivering as they struggle to light their cigarettes in the icy wind.
 You will not find them outside many of the Russian restaurants in Brighton Beach. Here, smokers simply stay inside. They may wait a bit longer before lighting up, and they may have to crush a few cigarettes into their appetizer plates before the waiters reluctantly break out the ashtrays, but the evening still ends in a smoky haze. As the journalist Alexander Grant wrote in Novoye Russkoye Slovo, the city's main Russian-language daily, in 2003, when the city's antismoking law went into effect, cigarette smoke is to the Russian restaurant as steam is to the steam bath.
For many Russians, smoking was virtually a national pastime when they lived in the Soviet Union; a 1988 study showed that in some cities, the number of male smokers exceeded 70 percent. Government-sponsored self-improvement campaigns, like Mikhail Gorbachev's ill-fated crackdown on alcoholism, were a fixture of Soviet life, but most Russians, disillusioned by decades of government disregard for individual rights, tended to dismiss such efforts with derision. 
 This attitude hasn't prevented another government agency, the New York City Department of Health and Mental Hygiene, from taking up the cause. Alarmed by statistics showing that 30 percent of Russian-American New Yorkers smoke -- the citywide average is 18 percent -- the agency has been blanketing Russian-language newspapers and radio since last month with an antismoking advertising campaign. 
 In Brighton Beach, a billboard has gone up featuring glowering images of Igor Zinoviev, the Russian-American extreme fighter, pummeling and crushing cigarettes. The tagline, in Russian, reads, ''Who's Stronger You or Cigarettes?'' 
 ''It was obviously really important to have an advertising campaign that was culturally sensitive,'' said Thomas R. Frieden, the city's health commissioner. ''Initially, we thought we'd have this big antitobacco pitch because we presumed the Russians would have a distrust of power -- 'The tobacco companies are trying to rip you off, don't be a pawn.' But they said: 'Hey, this is why we came to this country. We like capitalists.' ''
 Though many New York neighborhoods have concentrations of people who speak Russian, among them the Upper East Side and Rego Park, Queens, the campaign has focused on Brighton Beach, home to 200,000 Russian-speakers. The campaign, which continues through next month, began with an event at the Shorefront Y in Brighton, where 200 people were given a free six-week supply of nicotine-replacement patches worth $150. 
 To an enterprising cynic, the patches might have seemed to offer an opportunity for profit, especially among people raised in a country where such sidelines were necessary to survive a sclerotic economy. But so far, there have been no reports of on-the-sly resale to local pharmacies or on the street. And Mr. Frieden insisted that he wouldn't mind if that happened. ''I don't care about resale,'' he said. ''As long as someone is using it, that's great.'' 
 Alex Agroskin, a Russian-speaking addiction counselor at Coney Island Hospital, said some participants in the program seemed to be doing well. ''Quite a few of the 200 have cut down, and several have quit altogether,'' said Mr. Agroskin, who has been making follow-up calls to people who took the patches. ''I just spoke to a gentleman who used to smoke two packs a day and is now down to three, four cigarettes.''
 But encouraging Russians to stop smoking is like weaning Americans off baseball: it may be no accident that Sergey Lavrov, a chain smoker who was then Russia's ambassador to the United Nations, led diplomatic resistance to a 2003 smoking ban at the United Nations building.
 ''Soviet people are not very well-informed about the dangers of smoking,'' said Boris Talis, publisher of a Brighton Beach newspaper called Odessa on the Hudson. ''In the Soviet Union, they always used to paint rosy pictures for us. No one ever revealed that lung cancer and heart disease were the No. 1 killers.''
 IN the Soviet Union, smoking was a prop of national mythology. ''The most iconic Soviet image was the battle-weary soldier returning from World War II and rolling some tobacco in a piece of newspaper,'' said Simon Millerman, a Brighton Beach resident who runs an economic development consulting firm. ''A whole country grew up on it.''
 Nor did national efforts to combat smoking gain much traction.
 ''The propaganda against it was so stupid,'' said Ari Kagan, who also lives in Brighton Beach and writes for the Russian weekly Evening New York. ''They used to have this film that showed a horse keeling over from cigarette smoke under the message, 'A drop of nicotine can kill a horse.' People would just laugh.''
 Mr. Kagan continued: ''Generally, smoking was a way to get over the nervous stress of just living in that place. And the ultimate symbol of another life was a pack of Marlboros. If someone happened to go abroad, a carton of Marlboros was a better gift than $1,000.''
 Even people who have found New York's campaign worthwhile can see how it could be more persuasive. ''The patches aren't enough,'' said Mr. Zinoviev, the campaign's poster boy, who will make promotional appearances in Brighton Beach with a bevy of ''boxing girls'' throughout the winter. ''You have to frighten people a little bit, show them what a tumor looks like.''
 At some of the restaurants that line Brighton Beach Avenue, the neighborhood's main thoroughfare, the city may have better luck persuading the owners than the patrons that smoking is not a good idea.
 ''It used to be that the income from a client who wanted to smoke -- and would go to a different restaurant if he wasn't allowed -- was higher than the fine that was levied by the inspectors from the health department, who don't come in the evening, anyway,'' said Mr. Grant, the journalist. ''But the fines went up, and the owners cracked down.''
 Still, he added, there are plenty of loopholes -- ''in a hallway, on a stairwell, in the bathroom -- that are tolerated because the restaurants don't want to lose the business.''
 ''If a restaurant has 200 guests on a weekend night,'' Mr. Grant said, ''half of them are smoking.''


GRAPHIC: Photos: THE HABIT -- Boris Natenzon in Brighton Beach. Puffing away for 45 years.
 TOUGH LOVE -- ''Who's Stronger You or Cigarettes?'' demands the Russian-American extreme fighter glaring from the billboard on Brighton Beach Avenue. (Photographs by Angela Jimenez for The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: SMOKING (90%); RESTAURANTS (90%); TOBACCO PRODUCTS (89%); HEALTH DEPARTMENTS (87%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING (86%); SMOKING CESSATION (78%); LANGUAGE & LANGUAGES (77%); CITY GOVERNMENT (75%); PUBLIC SERVICE ADVERTISING (74%); SMOKING BANS (73%); TOBACCO MFG (73%); MARKETING CAMPAIGNS (72%); ADVERTISING SLOGANS (72%); WRITERS (70%); SUBSTANCE ABUSE (67%); MENTAL HEALTH (67%); STATISTICS (67%) 

ORGANIZATION: Health and Mental Hygiene Department (NYC)

PERSON: Boris Fishman

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (95%) NEW YORK, USA (95%) UNITED STATES (95%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (93%) New York City; Brighton Beach (NYC)

LOAD-DATE: December 18, 2005



369 of 607 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 18, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 14; Column 3; The City Weekly Desk; NEW YORK IN FOCUS; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 267 words

HEADLINE: Long-Distance Love

BYLINE: By DEBBIE NATHAN

 BODY:
TUCKED in the shadow of the No. 7 elevated tracks in Woodside, Queens, the photographs resemble the Depression-era images captured by Walker Evans. The people in these pictures wear humble clothes and stark expressions. They are very poor, but they are not Americans from the 1930's. They are 21st-century Ecuadoreans, framed by little luxuries sent by their kin from the big city. 
 One result of the economic crisis that hit Ecuador in the 1990's was an exodus of immigrants to New York; almost 115,000 Ecuadoreans live in the city, according to the 2000 Census.
 Many of the new arrivals, most of whom live in Queens, are young husbands who came to New York without their families. As soon as they get work, typically in construction or restaurants and delis, they send money home. They also send shiny new stoves, refrigerators, televisions, boom boxes and blenders.
 A store in Woodside makes the sending easier. Creditos Economicos is a little showroom on Roosevelt Avenue and 67th Street that is crowded with appliances and Ecuadorean salespeople. Customers point to sample products, pay cash and supply addresses back home. A warehouse in Ecuador fills orders and delivers to anywhere in the country, from huts in the Andes to shacks by the Pacific.
 To assure New York customers that their purchases have arrived, agents in Ecuador photograph the deliveries and send snapshots back to Queens. Some are taped to the store's picture windows, concrete evidence of the grinding poverty that many Ecuadoreans in New York have come from, and the loved ones who have been left behind. DEBBIE NATHAN


GRAPHIC: Photos (Photo by Joyce Dopkeen/The New York Times)
 (Photographs by Debbie Nathan for The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC DEPRESSION (90%); GREAT DEPRESSION (90%); RESTAURANTS (73%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (73%); POVERTY & HOMELESSNESS (72%); CENSUS (55%) 

ORGANIZATION: creditos economicos (co)

PERSON: Debbie Nathan

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (73%) NEW YORK, USA (93%); ANDES (79%) ECUADOR (96%); UNITED STATES (93%) Ecuador

LOAD-DATE: December 18, 2005



370 of 607 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 18, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 14LI; Column 5; Long Island Weekly Desk; IN BRIEF: SUFFOLK; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 287 words

HEADLINE: 6 Arrested in Probe Of Cigarette Sales

BYLINE: By MARY REINHOLZ

 BODY:
The arrests of at least six people outside the Poospatuck Reservation in Mastic this month were part of a new investigation after reports of the illegal sale of large quantities of untaxed cigarettes at the Poospatuck and Shinnecock Reservations, a Suffolk County assistant district attorney said Wednesday. 
 Edward Heilig, the assistant who heads the district attorney's economic crimes bureau, said that thousands of cartons of cigarettes were being sold to non-Indians on both reservations and resold on the black market, primarily in New York City, at much higher prices. The state excise tax is $1.50 a pack.
 ''This is a new initiative we're undertaking because of the amount of lost revenues to the state in the millions of dollars,'' he said. ''This is not an initiative targeted at people going on the reservations to buy two, three or even five cartons of cigarettes. We'll be targeting those people coming off the reservations with hundreds of cartons of cigarettes.'' 
 Mr. Heilig said it was a crime under the state law for any non-Indian to possess untaxed cigarettes purchased at Indian reservations or through online vendors, although the law had not been enforced for years. 
 Suffolk County police officers working with Mr. Heilig's unit gave leaflets to customers entering the Poospatuck reservation, warning that the purchase of untaxed cigarettes was a crime.
 Harry Wallace, the Unkechaug chief and an owner of one of the four smoke shops on the Poospatuck reservation, said that purchases were not illegal when made for personal use. 
 Randy King, chairman of the Shinnecocks' board of trustees, said in a statement that his Indian nation was ''reviewing the legalities'' involved. MARY REINHOLZ

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: INVESTIGATIONS (90%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (90%); TOBACCO PRODUCTS (90%); INDIGENOUS PEOPLES LANDS & GOVERNMENT (78%); CRIMINAL OFFENSES (78%); RETAILERS (78%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (78%); TOBACCO STORES (77%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (77%); POLICE FORCES (75%); EXCISE & CUSTOMS (73%); EXCISE TAX (72%); UNOFFICIAL ECONOMY (71%) 

PERSON: Mary Reinholz

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%) NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%) Mastic (NY)

LOAD-DATE: December 18, 2005



371 of 607 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 18, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 14WC; Column 1; Westchester Weekly Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1114 words

HEADLINE: Why Hedge Funds Heed Siren Song, Right Past the County

BYLINE: By MAREK FUCHS

 BODY:
HEDGE fund companies, the hot growth sector of modern Wall Street, pretty much bypassed Westchester when they sought more-accommodating quarters over the past decade, ending up just on the county's far side, in Greenwich, Conn. 
 In fact, the number of companies settling in Greenwich has more than tripled, by some estimates, over the past five years; the industry now makes up a major portion of the town's commercial real estate base, showering untold amounts of money on Greenwich Avenue, the town's main commercial strip -- a sloping Rodeo Drive where white-gloved policemen direct traffic.
Companies making presentations to investors used to take their ''road shows,'' or ''dog and pony shows,'' as they are known, exclusively to cities like New York, Boston, Los Angeles and London. Now they have added Greenwich to their must-visit list, huddling with fund investors at places like the Delamar Hotel, which fronts Long Island Sound. Well-heeled reverse commuters come out of crowded trains from Manhattan to their suburban workplace, and the Greenwich residents in the hedge fund factory have been top contributors to local charities. 
 As Zachary Bagdon, executive director of the International Center for Finance at Yale's School of Management, sees it: ''Connecticut lost its industrial days, but did get itself financial services in what is a competitive environment.''
 Hedge funds are investment pools that operate with much more freedom -- and much less regulation -- than ordinary mutual funds, because their clientele is supposed to be limited to wealthy, sophisticated investors who understand the risks. They often use aggressive techniques like short-selling and derivatives trading that may be off limits to more-conservative funds, and they aim to prosper even when the market falls -- thus the name. Running such a fund can be extremely lucrative, and top money managers have been flocking to the business for years. 
 But Greenwich's clearly superior magnetism in drawing them raises questions for Westchester. If such a concentrated industry of wealthy professionals chooses Greenwich -- with an overflow going up the line through and even past Stamford, Conn. -- and seldom moves sideways into areas like Rye, Harrison or White Plains, does that say anything about Westchester's long-term ability to attract dynamic niche industries and thereby defray public costs?
 Dean Shapiro, executive managing director of the real estate firm CB Richard Ellis, headed its Connecticut-Westchester office from 1999 to 2004. According to Mr. Shapiro, only a minority of the hedge fund companies seeking office space seriously weighed settling in Westchester. Mostly, it was dismissed as an option because of high taxes and isolated office space. Most in the industry, Mr. Shapiro said, were seeking central locations -- not the remote office parks that predominate in Westchester. 
 County officials often emphasize the declining vacancy rate for commercial real estate as evidence that Westchester has drawing power when it comes to large and midsized corporations. Not long ago, for instance, New York Life Insurance paid $35 million for a 383,000-square-foot Mount Pleasant building designed in the early 1970's for I.B.M. on land bought from the Rockefellers. The property had sat empty for a decade. Similarly, Morgan Stanley was enticed into buying Texaco's former headquarters in Harrison.
 But even as County Executive Andrew J. Spano and his director of economic development, Sal Carrera, talk about the biotech companies that have settled in Westchester, they admit that their county cannot boast a concentration of a fast-growing niche industry comparable to the one in Greenwich. 
 They are not alarmed, though. 
 ''The perspective here is simple,'' Mr. Spano said. ''The hedge funds go to Greenwich because others have gone there. It's a nice address, and we don't deny that. And we don't worry about it.'' 
 He added that many hedge fund managers see Greenwich as ideal in part because of the proximity of the airport -- over the border in Westchester. ''The airport is closer to Greenwich than many parts of Westchester,'' said Mr. Spano, who added that about 40 percent of the airport's traffic was made up of travelers from Connecticut. 
 In Mr. Carrera's view, firms on the lookout for new homes consider Westchester just as seriously as they do Greenwich. Recently, he added, Westchester has even begun to attract a trickle of hedge fund business back from Greenwich, like the Kenmar Group, which is moving to Rye Brook.
 But Mr. Bagdon says that to those who make a lot of money -- and pay a lot in taxes -- the total tax picture is central. This is particularly true of hedge fund managers, whose success or failure can turn on fractions of percentages. 
 ''For them the details are everything,'' he said, pointing to Greenwich's property taxes, which remain comparatively reasonable, thanks to a strong corporate base. 
 Westchester, conversely, is gaining a reputation as a land of high taxes. The most recent news: After a steep tax rise in recent years, Mr. Spano gave assurances during the recent election that he would hold the line. But a week after winning, he proposed another increase, this one for 4.5 percent. 
 ''The firms tend to be structured as limited partnerships,'' said Bruce McGuire, president of the Connecticut Hedge Fund Association, ''so the tax ramifications flow down to the individual.''
 As a result, said Mr. Bagdon, the corporate tax incentives that lure larger corporations are less effective with smaller ones. 
 In addition, Mr. Shapiro said, ''Fairfield County just isn't a hotbed of government incentives,'' except for disadvantaged areas that governments are looking to improve, ''and that's clearly not Greenwich.'' 
 Even so, the two men added, taxes are not the only deciding factor. There is also the allure of a Greenwich address, Mr. McGuire said -- a ''Tiffany stamp,'' as he called it. After all, when the hedge fund first started to come to prominence a decade or so ago, successful managers like Paul Tudor Jones were already ensconced there. 
 When the Kenmar Group began to look for more space recently, managers knew only that they did not want to go to Manhattan, which would have dismayed many employees. But finding more space in Greenwich was problematic, as prices have now been pushed high by stiff demand, so nearby Rye Brook seemed the best option -- in fact, about 50 percent cheaper. And county officials, said, Marc Goodman, the Kenmar Group's president, were accommodating. 
 Said Mr. Goodman: ''I believe you need to be in the Greenwich area, but not necessarily have a Greenwich address.''


GRAPHIC: Photo: Marc Goodman of Kenmar, one of the few hedge fund businesses to leave Greenwich for Westchester. Now that his firm has grown, he says, Rye Brook is near enough. (Photo by Suzy Allman for The New York Times)(pg. 6)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: HEDGE FUNDS (93%); COMMERCIAL PROPERTY (89%); REAL ESTATE (89%); COUNTIES (89%); OFFICE PROPERTY (89%); MUTUAL FUNDS (89%); EXECUTIVES (89%); MARKET OPEN CLOSE (89%); WEALTH MANAGEMENT (89%); DERIVATIVE INSTRUMENTS (79%); INVESTMENT MANAGEMENT (78%); BANKING & FINANCE (73%); CHARITIES (73%); COUNTY GOVERNMENT (72%); TRAINS (67%); BUSINESS EDUCATION (65%) 

COMPANY: CBRE GROUP INC (57%)

ORGANIZATION: THE INTERNATIONAL CENTER (55%)

TICKER: CBG (NYSE) (57%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS531312 NONRESIDENTIAL PROPERTY MANAGERS (57%); SIC6531 REAL ESTATE AGENTS & MANAGERS (57%)

PERSON: Dean Shapiro; Marek Fuchs

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%); LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (79%); BOSTON, MA, USA (79%); LONDON, ENGLAND (58%) CONNECTICUT, USA (94%); NEW YORK, USA (92%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%) Greenwich (Conn); Westchester County (NY); Rye (NY); Harrison (NY); White Plains (NY)

LOAD-DATE: December 18, 2005



372 of 607 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 18, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 14WC; Column 1; Westchester Weekly Desk; COMMUTERS; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 872 words

HEADLINE: Ferry + Train - Car = No Bridge Woes 

BYLINE: By JEFF GROSSMAN

 BODY:
KRISTEN KOZIAK has given up her two-year quest for a permit to park at the Beacon train station. Instead of driving across the Newburgh-Beacon Bridge every morning, she now leaves her car in Newburgh and rides the New York Waterway ferry across the Hudson to meet the train in Beacon.
 Although she saves $60 a month in toll and parking-meter expenses, she said, that is not the reason she decided to take the boat. Without a permit, she would have to park far from the train platform. And in the evening, if she didn't jog to her parking spot, traffic would build up before she could get out. But parking in Newburgh is free and plentiful, and the boat crew takes care not to leave stragglers behind. 
''I'm pregnant, and they wait for me to waddle down,'' she said.
 Recent snowstorms and subfreezing temperatures have not deterred intrepid commuters from taking the ferry route, which began its service Oct. 17. Ridership is up to about 100 commuters a day, according to Danny O'Connell, assistant director of marketing strategy for the Metro-North Railroad. New York Waterway runs ferry routes under contract to Metro-North. 
 ''It's usually a little more adventurous kind of commuter that initially comes down to take the ferry,'' said Mark Summers, captain of the ferry, called the West New York. The boat is equipped with electronic navigation equipment that allows it to run through the fiercest snow, the captain said. Its sister ship, the Adm. Richard E. Bennis, runs between Haverstraw and Ossining.
 Both vessels can operate with some ice in the river, as long as their passage remains open, New York Waterway officials say. Ferry service between Haverstraw and Ossining was shut down for three and a half weeks last winter, Mr. O'Connell said. The enclosed passenger areas on both boats are heated. The Haverstraw route began five years ago, and is up to about 240 commuters a day.
 The riders on the Newburgh-Beacon route ''are just getting their sea legs now,'' Mr. Summers said, noting that the hollow hull under the passenger deck amplifies any noise like a drum, as the boat glides over ice chunks or floating debris. ''When the ice comes, I know the look in these people's eyes,'' he said. ''Their eyes are going to get this big, they're going to say, 'Oh, my God,' and all it is is just a lot of sound.''
 If the river freezes over, the Metropolitan Transportation Authority says, it will provide shuttle-bus service to replace the boats. The ferry that runs the Haverstraw-Ossining route is more susceptible to cold weather, its operators say, because it depends on circulated river water to cool its engines. Ice could block the hoses, causing an engine to overheat.
 Two seasons ago, New York Waterway ran a ferry equipped with a steel hull to plow through the ice, but the boat ran so slowly that the trip, which normally takes 15 minutes, instead required 40 minutes. Passengers said they preferred the bus, which is a 30-minute ride. Year-round bus service over the Tappan Zee Bridge and the Newburgh-Beacon Bridge is also available.
 The ferry routes are timed to coordinate with Metro-North's rush-hour trains to Grand Central Terminal. Metro-North sells UniTickets, combining boat and rail passage. A monthly pass from Newburgh costs $331, and the Haverstraw package costs $243. A single one-way fare between Haverstraw and Ossining is $3, and $2.75 for older people. The single one-way fare between Newburgh and Beacon is $1.
 The service is subsidized by federal grants. Total financing from October 2003 through November 2008 comes to $13 million, Mr. O'Connell said. Although the current grants will expire in 2008, the M.T.A. considers the ferries a permanent part of its service, he said. 
 New York Waterway has an option in its contract to provide additional ferry routes for Metro-North, although none are planned. The Port Authority is collecting bids through Dec. 28 for a competing Haverstraw-Yonkers-Manhattan route. Service on that route is expected to start next spring and will be financed by a grant from the Lower Manhattan Development Corporation. The Port Authority gave the City of Yonkers $2 million for pier improvements.
 The New York Metropolitan Transportation Council, of which Westchester is a member, concluded a three-year study of Long Island Sound transportation options at the end of November. The group found that a ferry route across the Sound from New Rochelle to Manhattan deserves further study.
 As part of its transportation plans, the Village of Haverstraw is planning a new dock and a 450-car parking garage at the foot of Main Street. ''The village is re-establishing itself as a transportation hub,'' said Mayor Francis (Bud) Wassmer. 
 Newburgh residents ''are looking forward to tourism and economic development, and all those sorts of things,'' said Aquanetta Wright, of Newburgh, who sells coffee and muffins from a stand she sets up at the Newburgh dock every morning. ''That's what I'm doing there. I am standing there saying, as people are running by, I'm saying, 'Good morning,' 'How was your day?' 'How was your weekend?' giving a smile, just giving a positive start to each and every passenger that crosses this river to go to work in New York City.''


GRAPHIC: Photos: Passengers waiting to board the 7:28 a.m. ferry from Newburgh to Beacon, far left. The Adm. Richard E. Bennis runs between Haverstraw and Ossining, left
 passengers debark from the ferry, below. (Photographs by Alan Zale [far left] and Susan Stava for The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TRAINS (91%); FERRIES (90%); RAILROAD ROLLING STOCK (90%); URBAN TRANSIT SYSTEMS (89%); CANALS & WATERWAYS (89%); URBAN RAIL SYSTEMS (87%); RAIL STATIONS & TERMINALS (78%); PARKING SPACES & FACILITIES (78%); HARBOR & PORT OPERATIONS (77%); LICENSES & PERMITS (73%); WEATHER (73%); URBAN BUS SYSTEMS (72%); MOTORCOACHES & BUSES (67%); SHUTTLE BUS & VANPOOL SERVICES (67%); COMPANY STRATEGY (52%) 

ORGANIZATION: Metro-North Commuter Railroad; New York Waterway

PERSON: Jeff Grossman

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%) Newburgh (NY); Beacon (NY); Hudson River; Haverstraw (NY); Ossining (NY)

LOAD-DATE: December 18, 2005



373 of 607 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 18, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 4; Column 1; Week in Review Desk; THE WORLD; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 930 words

HEADLINE: Ending Aid to Rich Farmers May Hurt the Poor Ones

BYLINE: By EDUARDO PORTER

 BODY:
BY now, it's almost a truism: the protectionist agricultural farm policies of the big, rich nations -- mainly the European Union, the United States and Japan -- are essentially barring poor countries from development. 
 That belief is what led to much of the bickering last week between trade ministers from rich and poor countries at the World Trade Organization meeting in Hong Kong. Many development advocates argued that subsidies and tariff protections for farmers in industrialized countries lock poor farmers out of the rich world market. ''High tariffs keep them out of key markets, and tariffs and subsidies together drive down the world price of their exports,'' wrote Paul Wolfowitz, the head of the World Bank, in a recent opinion article in The Los Angeles Times. ''Without the income that trade could provide, it is their children who go hungry and who are deprived of clean water, medicines and other basic necessities of life.''
Virtually every economist will agree that agriculture is one of the world economy's most distorted sectors, and that dismantling industrialized nations' farm supports would give many farmers in the developing world better access to markets in wealthy countries. 
 However, some economists are warning that if the industrialized world ends its farm subsidies and lowers its tariff barriers to agricultural imports, poor countries may not be helped, but harmed. 
 ''Everybody is saying that the last barrier to the development of these poor countries are the subsidies in rich countries. That's the wrong diagnosis,'' said Arvind Panagariya, an economics professor at Columbia University. ''The least developed countries would be hurt by agricultural liberalization by the developed countries.'' 
 In a paper published in April, three economists -- Nava Ashraf from Harvard, Margaret McMillan from Tufts, and Alix Peterson Zwane from the University of California, Berkeley, concluded that agricultural supports boosted the per capita income of two-thirds of 77 developing nations, including most of the poorest countries, like Burundi and Zambia. 
 Developing countries that are big agricultural exporters -- including Brazil, Argentina, Indonesia, Thailand -- are undoubtedly hurt by the farm subsidies. But these countries are not among the poorest.
 Rather, many poor nations are big importers of farm goods, so they benefit from the lower agricultural prices caused by support policies in rich countries. Tariffs and subsidies keep cheaper imports out of the industrialized countries and encourage their local farmers to produce more. This raises the domestic prices of their farm goods. Yet, as it artificially boosts production of agricultural products, it pushes worldwide prices down. 
 A 1999 study by economists Alex McCalla of the University of California, Davis, and Alberto Valdes of the World Bank, found that 105 of 148 developing countries, including 48 of the 63 poorest nations, imported more food than they sold. Some poor countries export nonfood agricultural products, like cotton. Yet even including these commodities, 85 of 148 developing countries and 30 of the 63 poorest imported more than they exported. 
 True, some very poor nations, like Guyana, are food exporters. Yet even for them, Mr. Panagariya argues, the end of subsidies and tariffs might prove counterproductive, because some of their farm products can already enter the industrialized nations duty free.
 For instance, most farm goods from the world's least developed countries get into the European Union without paying high tariffs under a preferential program called ''Everything but Arms.'' This allows the poorest nations to sell within the union at the artificially inflated European price. If the European Union were to dismantle its protections, letting its price for farm goods fall, these poor country exporters would be worse off. 
 Mr. Panagariya concedes there is one important exception to this argument: cotton. Europe doesn't produce or subsidize it. But the United States and China provide enormous subsidies to domestic producers. Depressed world cotton prices are intensely hurting African cotton farmers.
 Yet even in this case, there is another side to the argument. Bangladesh, one of the world's poorest countries, imports cotton to feed its textile factories. Bangladesh isn't clamoring for an end to cotton subsidies because higher prices would hurt its main export industry.
 William Cline, an economist at the Center for Global Development, argues that this analysis omits the fact that more than half the world's poor are in countries that are net agricultural exporters or that could become net exporters if the distortions were eliminated. 
 Yet what virtually all economists agree on is that developing countries could help themselves greatly by liberalizing their own agricultural markets. 
 Poor countries often heavily protect their farmers, supporting vast uncompetitive agricultural sectors and drawing investment and labor into farming that would be better used elsewhere. Two World Bank economists, Kym Anderson and Will Martin, concluded that if the world were to dismantle its agricultural protections, most of the benefits for developing countries would come from the reduction of their own systems of farm support. ''Liberalization in the rich countries is a good thing, but in my opinion a small thing,'' said William Masters, a professor of resource economics at Purdue University and an expert on agriculture in Africa. ''Poor countries' own barriers are the biggest constraint to their own development.''


GRAPHIC: Photo: No Support -- Cotton subsidies in the United States hurt African farmers, but not those in Bangladesh. (Photo by Thierry Gouegnon/Reuters)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: AGRICULTURAL SUBSIDIES (91%); TARIFFS & DUTIES (91%); TRADE DEVELOPMENT (90%); AGRICULTURE REGULATION & POLICY (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); PROTECTIONISM (90%); PUBLIC POLICY (90%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (90%); TAXES & TAXATION (90%); DEVELOPING COUNTRIES (90%); AGRICULTURE (89%); AGRICULTURAL EXPORTS & IMPORTS (89%); FARMERS & RANCHERS (89%); IMPORT TRADE (89%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (89%); EXPORT TRADE (89%); EMERGING MARKETS (88%); EXPORT PRICES (88%); AGRICULTURAL TRADE (78%); AGRICULTURAL PRICES (78%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (78%); EUROPEAN UNION (78%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (74%); NEWS BRIEFS (74%); PRICE CHANGES (74%); COMMERCE DEPARTMENTS (72%); PERSONAL & FAMILY INCOME (68%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (64%); BUSINESS EDUCATION (64%) 

COMPANY: LOS ANGELES TIMES (70%)

ORGANIZATION: EUROPEAN UNION (91%); WORLD TRADE ORGANIZATION (83%) European Union; World Trade Organization

INDUSTRY: NAICS511110 NEWSPAPER PUBLISHERS (70%); SIC2711 NEWSPAPERS: PUBLISHING, OR PUBLISHING & PRINTING (70%)

PERSON: Eduardo Porter

GEOGRAPHIC: SAN FRANCISCO BAY AREA, CA, USA (79%) CALIFORNIA, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (93%); HONG KONG (93%); JAPAN (92%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (88%); THAILAND (79%); BRAZIL (79%); ZAMBIA (79%); ARGENTINA (79%); BANGLADESH (79%); INDONESIA (79%); BURUNDI (79%) Japan; Hong Kong

LOAD-DATE: December 18, 2005



374 of 607 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 18, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 4; Column 1; Week in Review Desk; THE WORLD; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 1141 words

HEADLINE: Latin America Looks Leftward Again 

BYLINE: By JUAN FORERO

DATELINE: TACAMARA, Bolivia 

 BODY:
AT first glance, there's nothing cutting edge about this isolated highland town of mud-brick homes and cold mountain streams. The way of life is remarkably unchanged from what it was centuries ago. The Aymara Indian villagers have no hot water or telephones, and each day they slog into the fields to shear wool and grow potatoes.
 But Tacamara and dozens of similar communities across the scrub grass of the Bolivian highlands are at the forefront of a new leftward tide now rising in Latin American politics. Tired of poverty and indifferent governments, villagers here are being urged by some of their more radical leaders to forget the promises of capitalism and install instead a community-based socialism in which products would be bartered. Some leaders even talk of forming an independent Indian state. 
''What we really need is to transform this country,'' said Rufo Yanarico, 45, a community leader. ''We have to do away with the capitalist system.''
 In the burgeoning cities of China, India and Southeast Asia, that might sound like a hopelessly outdated dream because global capitalism seems to be delivering on its promise to transform those poor societies into richer ones. But here, the appeal of rural socialism is a powerful reminder that much of South America has become disenchanted with the poor track record of similar promises made to Latin America. 
 So the region has begun turning leftward again.
 That trend figures heavily in a presidential election being held today in Bolivia, in which the frontrunner is Evo Morales, a charismatic Aymara Indian and former coca farmer who promises to decriminalize coca production and roll back market reforms if he wins. Though he leads, he is unlikely to gain a clear majority; if he does not, Bolivia's Congress would decide the race.
 Still, he is the most fascinating candidate, because he is anything but alone in Latin America. He considers himself a disciple of the region's self-appointed standard-bearer for the left, President Hugo Chavez of Venezuela, a populist who has injected the state into the economy, showered the nation's oil profits on government projects aimed at the poor, and antagonized the Bush administration with constant invective. 
 ''In recent years, social movements and leftist parties in Latin America have reappeared with a force that has no parallel in the recent history in the region,'' says a new book on the trend, ''The New Left in Latin America,'' written by a diverse group of academic social scientists from across the Americas. 
 Peru also has a new and growing populist movement, led by a cashiered army officer, Ollanta Humala, who is ideologically close to Mr. Chavez. Argentina's president, Nestor Kirchner, who won office in 2003, announced last week that Argentina would sever all ties with the International Monetary Fund, which he blames for much of the country's long economic decline, by swiftly paying back its $9.9 billion debt to the fund. 
 The leftist movement that has taken hold in Latin America over the last seven years is diverse. Mr. Chavez is its most extreme example. Brazil's president, Luiz Inacio Lula da Silva, by contrast, is a former labor leader who emphasizes poverty reduction but also practices fiscal austerity and gets along with Wall Street. Uruguay has been pragmatic on economic matters, but has had increasingly warm relations with Venezuela. In Mexico, the leftist who is thought to have a good chance to be the next president, Andres Manuel Lopez Obrador, has distanced himself from Mr. Chavez.
 What these leaders share is a strong emphasis on social egalitarianism and a determination to rely less on the approach known as the Washington Consensus, which emphasizes privatization, open markets, fiscal discipline and a follow-the-dollar impulse, and is favored by the I.M.F. and United States officials. 
 ''You cannot throw them all in the same bag, but this is understood as a left with much more sensitivity toward the social,'' said Augusto Ramirez Ocampo, a former Colombian government minister who last year helped write a United Nations report on the state of Latin American democracy. ''The people believe these movements can resolve problems, since Latin American countries have seen that the Washington Consensus has not been able to deal with poverty.''
 The Washington Consensus became a force in the 1980's, after a long period in which Latin American governments, many autocratic, experimented with nationalistic economic nostrums like import-substitution and protectionism. These could not deliver sustained growth. The region was left on the edge of economic implosion. 
 With the new policies of the 1980's came a surge toward democracy, a rise of technocrats as leaders and, in the last 20 years, a general acceptance of stringent austerity measures prescribed by the I.M.F. and the World Bank. Country after country was told to make far-reaching changes, from selling off utilities to cutting pension costs. In return, loans and other aid were offered. Growth would be steady, economists in Washington promised, and poverty would decline.
 But the results were dismal. Poverty rose, rather than fell; inequality remained a curse. Real per capita growth in Latin America since 1980 has barely reached 10 percent, according to an analysis of I.M.F. data by the Washington-based Center for Economic and Policy Research. Meanwhile, many Latin Americans lost faith in traditional political parties that were seen as corrupt vehicles for special interests. That led to uprisings that toppled presidents like Bolivia's Gonzalo Sanchez de Lozada and Ecuador's Lucio Gutierrez; it also spawned demagogues who blame free-market policies for everything without offering detailed alternatives. 
 The new populism is perhaps most undefined here in the poorest and most remote corner of South America. Mr. Morales promises to exert greater state control over foreign energy firms and focus on helping micro-businesses and cooperatives. ''The state needs to be the central actor,'' he said in a recent interview. But he is short on details, and that worries some economists.
 Jeffrey Sachs, a Columbia University development economist and former economic adviser here, says he empathizes with Bolivia's poor and agrees that energy companies should pay higher taxes. But he says Bolivia cannot close itself off to the world. ''Protectionism isn't really a viable strategy for a small country,'' he said.
 If Mr. Morales does become president, he might well find that the slogans that rang in the streets are not much help in running a poor, troubled country.
 Mr. da Silva, the Brazilian president, acknowledged as much in comments he made Wednesday in Colombia: The challenge, he said, is ''to show if we are capable as politicians to carry out what we, as union leaders, demanded of government.''


GRAPHIC: Photo: The New Dream -- Evo Morales, a presidential candidate in Bolivia who promises to roll back free-market reforms, seeks votes in the jungle town of Cobija. (Photo by Noah Friedman-Rudovsky for The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: POLITICS (75%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (75%); ELECTIONS (75%); LIBERALISM (75%); NEWS BRIEFS (74%); POVERTY & HOMELESSNESS (70%); APPOINTMENTS (69%); HUMANITIES & SOCIAL SCIENCE (64%); DECRIMINALIZATION (64%); OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (63%); ARMIES (50%) 

PERSON: HUGO CHAVEZ (55%); NESTOR KIRCHNER (50%) Juan Forero; Evo (Pres) Morales

GEOGRAPHIC: BOLIVIA (97%); LATIN AMERICA (94%); INDIA (92%); ARGENTINA (92%); PERU (79%); VENEZUELA, BOLIVARIAN REPUBLIC OF (79%); CHINA (79%); UNITED STATES (79%); SOUTH AMERICA (79%); ASIA (79%) Bolivia; Tacamara (Bolivia); Latin America

LOAD-DATE: December 18, 2005



375 of 607 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 18, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 14CN; Column 1; Connecticut Weekly Desk; DINING; Pg. 17

LENGTH: 850 words

HEADLINE: Eastern Philosophy for a Quiet Holiday Respite

BYLINE: By PATRICIA BROOKS

 BODY:
FOR a change of pace this season, it is nice to find an oasis of quiet where you can have a quick, reasonably priced meal and a little relief from the shopping hassle. I found such a place in a strip mall on Route 7 in Wilton recently. It is the East Cafe, which is usually tranquil, with a small menu and prices to match. 
 East Cafe subtitles itself ''the food of Asia,'' which somewhat overstates its geographic range. In essence, it is primarily Chinese with a few Thai dishes, one Indonesian and one Malaysian. Japanese elements consist of miso soup, tempura shrimp (too heavily breaded) and edamame (boiled soy beans in their shells) for nibbling. 
Of all the Asian cuisines, Chinese is most compatible with Thai, Malaysian, Indonesian and Vietnamese, all of which share some ingredients and cooking styles. But the only Vietnamese item on the menu is beer. 
 As a Thai food enthusiast, I naturally gravitated at once to those items on the menu. First I tried the Thai egg roll, which was packed with bean sprouts and other veggies inside a deep-fried wrapper. While the stuffing was tasty, it was much denser and the wrapper heavier than the usual Thai version. I had better luck with tom yam goong, a clear Thai soup sparked by lemon grass and hot pepper, with a generous assortment of shrimp, mushrooms and onions. It was not as diabolically fiery as it can be, but it took the chill off the wintry evening.
 For entrees, East Cafe has a winning, economical system. There is a list of sauces -- spicy mango, sambal, black bean, ginger glaze, coconut curry and Szechwan peppercorn -- and then a choice of chicken, tofu, pork, beef, scallops or prawns to be mixed with the chosen sauce. 
 I chose Thai coconut curry combined with chicken and tofu. It was a zesty match, arriving in a sizzling hot casserole, packed with slices of white meat, hunks of tofu, thin slices of squash, red and green peppers, onions and other vegetables. While the curry was not as rich-textured as such a curry can be, it worked well enough and made a generous entree.
 My companion tried the Thai seafood casserole with equally happy results. It was a sizzling hot melange of lobster tail, scallops and shrimp in a sauce with a coconut-milk base, wafting into the air aromas of coriander, fennel seeds, turmeric and lemon grass.
 On a later lunch visit, having worked our way through most of the Thai items on the menu, three of us concentrated mostly on Chinese dishes, all of which were freshly cooked and full of savory flavors. A won ton watercress soup consisted of a clear broth full of plump won tons and a goodly quantity of watercress. It really hit the spot. 
 Just as pleasing were the Szechwan dumplings, six of them steaming and oversize in a sauce both subtle and tangy. Crispy calamari had a well-seasoned batter and, more intriguing, a mound of crisp salted glass noodles that was delicious. My only complaint: While the dumplings were hot, the plate was icy cold. This was the case with all the plates and bowls at East Cafe. Keeping them at room temperature would be an improvement.
 Best of our entrees was the Szechwan peppercorn sauce combined with pork strips, fried tofu chunks, onions, scallions, mushrooms, carrot slivers and asparagus. Both peppery and hot in temperature, it was a great way to warm up for the afternoon ahead. 
 Pad Thai, the national noodle dish, had the requisite accouterments -- cooked egg strips, ground peanuts and scallions -- and was pleasingly profligate with shrimp, bean sprouts and onions. Sambal sauce with shrimp and a wide assortment of vegetables delivered a zesty wallop, too. 
 There is an inconsequential wine selection, but, in my view, the Chinese, Thai and Vietnam beers make better companions than wine to this mildly spicy Asian food. 
 East Cafe is unpretentious, but accomplishes what it promises, making it just the invigorating lunch or dinner break this tired shopper needed.

East Cafe

Good

920 Danbury Road (Route 7), Wilton, (203) 544-8878.

ATMOSPHERE -- Narrow storefront, artfully arranged with banquettes, tables and chairs, spot lighting and Asian artifacts.
NOISE LEVEL -- Moderate.
SERVICE -- Cheerful and quick, if perfunctory.
RECOMMENDED DISHES -- Crispy calamari, Thai coconut curry, Thai seafood casserole, Szechuan noodles, tom yam goong soup, Szechuan peppercorn sauce with pork and tofu, Thai curry, sambal sauce with beef.
PRICE RANGE -- Lunch: entrees, $6 to $7.50, includes soup and rice. Dinner: appetizers, $2 to $8; entrees, $10 to $20; desserts, $5.
CREDIT CARDS -- Most accepted.
HOURS -- Lunch: weekdays, 11:30 a.m. to 3 p.m. Dinner: Monday through Thursday, 3 to 10 p.m.; Friday and Saturday, 3 to 11 p.m.; Sunday, noon to 10 p.m. (no lunch).
RESERVATIONS -- Accepted, but usually unnecessary.
WHEELCHAIR ACCESSIBILITY -- Street level; restrooms the same.
REVIEWED BY THE TIMES -- Dec. 18, 2005.
RATINGS -- Extraordinary, Excellent, Very Good, Good, Satisfactory, Fair, Poor. Ratings reflect the reviewer's reaction to food, ambience and service, with price taken into consideration. Menu listings and prices are subject to change.


GRAPHIC: Photos (Photographs by Thomas McDonald for The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Review

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MENU PRICES (78%); RETAILERS (72%); PORK (71%); MEATS (68%) 

ORGANIZATION: east cafe (wilton, conn)

PERSON: Patricia Brooks

GEOGRAPHIC: CONNECTICUT, USA (73%) UNITED STATES (73%); MALAYSIA (72%); INDONESIA (72%)

LOAD-DATE: December 18, 2005



376 of 607 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 18, 2005
Correction Appended 
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 1; Column 4; Foreign Desk; THE REACH OF WAR: SECURITY; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1620 words

HEADLINE: New Mission for U.S. Division: To Put Iraqi Forces to the Test

BYLINE: By THOM SHANKER and ERIC SCHMITT

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Dec. 17 

 BODY:
The Fourth Infantry Division returns to Iraq next month for a complex, yearlong tour that illustrates the risks and goals of the American military's postelection mission across Iraq. 
 The more than 20,000 troops in the division, about 15 percent of the 138,000-strong American commitment scheduled to remain in Iraq at least through the early part of the year, will be responsible for security across a swath of central and south-central Iraq that is much larger than previous commands have tried to cover there.
The expanded mission includes more than a hope, but a requirement, that Iraqi security forces take over the security mission in larger areas of their own country. The planning is also driven by a cold reality that many of the allied troops -- including Ukraine, Bulgaria, Italy and possibly even Poland -- seem likely to leave Iraq over coming months. 
 So, like American troops all across Iraq, the Fourth Infantry Division, from its headquarters in Baghdad, will have no choice but to rely on increasing numbers of Iraqi troops, testing as never before the American and Iraqi forces -- and the new government to be assembled from the parliamentary election that was held Thursday. 
 The Americans are planning to turn over bases to Iraqis, and more significantly plan to turn over a much larger share of the battle space to Iraqis, with the goal to minimize a visible American presence that alienates many Iraqis and provides a target for the insurgency. When possible, the American military will remain in a stand-back role, available to rush in if Iraqi forces need assistance.
 American commanders make it no secret that the coming Iraqi government, with its sovereign stature and a full, four-year tenure, means they will be operating in new political terrain. Mounting pressures in the United States -- and a new Iraqi government all but certain to assert its authority in coming months -- will require that the American military demonstrate some kind of success and then withdraw as many troops as quickly and as safely as possible.
 The goal is to make Iraqi patrols the norm, with stability no longer dependent on the large foreign force that has so constantly enraged Iraqis. That goal has become every bit as important as quelling the insurgency, if not more so. The new mission for the Fourth Infantry Division is planned around that new goal. 
 ''It is very much a laboratory for the overall mission, linked not just to the development of the Iraqi armed forces but to efforts to make the special security forces act like national police forces,'' and not loyal only to local religious or ethnic leaders, said Anthony H. Cordesman, a military specialist with the Center for Strategic and International Studies in Washington. 
 ''How much of the battle space can the Iraqi forces take over, and who is actually doing the fighting -- those are the key measurements,'' Mr. Cordesman said. 
 ''The measure cannot be the elimination of the insurgency, as desirable as that would be,'' he said. ''You cannot eliminate all of the bombings.''
 In a strong indication of the tenor of the coming months, several of the incoming commanders are also returning veterans of the Iraq mission, and come from a school of thought that balances both the rebuilding of Iraq's economy and civil institutions and the contest of arms against the insurgents. 
 Still, the American reliance on overwhelming firepower will remain central. 
 The Fourth Infantry Division is the largest and most technologically advanced heavy division in the Army, with the most modern Abrams tanks, Bradley infantry fighting vehicles and armored Humvees in the military's inventory.
 The division re-enters Iraq redesigned to be more flexible, growing to four brigade combat teams from three, each a self-contained fighting unit hauling the latest high-tech communications and surveillance gear to operate with greater certainty of its locations -- and that of adversaries.
 The new, enlarged boundaries assigned to the Fourth Infantry Division were described by officials at the Pentagon and in Iraq, but the military asked that the details not be printed because they might assist the insurgency in its planning.
 In this postelection phase, incoming commanders are starting off free from the burden of earlier bitter debates about war planning, prewar intelligence or the number of troops engaged in the first months of the invasion and occupation. 
 ''They are not looking over their shoulders,'' said Gen. Richard A. Cody, the Army vice chief of staff. ''They are looking forward.''
 The Fourth Infantry Division is headed by Maj. Gen. J. D. Thurman, who served as chief of operations for the Coalition Forces Land Component Command, which planned and ran the rapid ground war into Baghdad, and then spent a tour at the Pentagon helping the Army redesign the way its attack helicopters would be sent into combat.
 Lt. Gen. Martin E. Dempsey, the new commander of the Iraqi training mission, previously served two years in Saudi Arabia and already has served 15 months of combat duty in Iraq, as he commanded the First Armored Division for its earlier tour, when it was assigned to provide security in Baghdad after the fall of the old government, and battled a Shiite militia uprising to the south of the capital. 
 General Dempsey said the elections on Thursday offered a new framework -- and a new time frame, if not a deadline, for the allied effort. 
 ''For the first time since this mission began, we've got a government that will come into power with the expectation that it will sit for four years,'' he said. 
 ''You've got a six-month window of opportunity to assist them in putting in place a system that reflects democratic processes in a free market economy,'' he added. 
 ''Why do I say six months? Any nation is gong to begin to assert itself after that first six-month period, and will develop habits and processes of its own,'' the general said. ''Our influence begins to wane a bit.'' 
 Another returning veteran is the three-star officer who early next year takes command of the day-to-day fight and military-led reconstruction mission all across Iraq; he is Lt. Gen. Peter W. Chiarelli, who left Baghdad this year after a tour as commander of the First Cavalry Division. 
 General Chiarelli provided insight into the way ahead for next year in an essay for an Army journal over the summer in which he argued that the military mission must provide essential city services, create jobs and promote local governmental control.
 ''A gun on every street corner, although visually appealing, provides only a short-term solution,'' the general wrote in the journal, Military Review, and ''does not equate to long-term security grounded in a democratic process.''
 ''If there is nothing else done other than kill bad guys and train others to kill bad guys, the only thing accomplished is moving more people from the fence to the insurgent category,'' he wrote. ''There remains no opportunity to grow the supporter base.''
 Training Iraqi security forces has been delayed in part by a lack of American trainers, but commanders say that by early next year, the full complement of 2,500 American military advisers will be in place working and living directly with Iraqi units, from battalions up to ministries in Baghdad.
 These advisers to Iraqi Army, special police and border patrol forces will instruct Iraqi forces and provide a vital link to American intelligence and logistics support. 
 In addition, entire American units will partner with Iraqi units to provide more training. General Dempsey's latest count of Iraqi forces -- about 75,000 police officers and about 100,000 soldiers -- is projected to grow rapidly. 
 As the Iraqi forces take on additional responsibility, and prove their combat worthiness, American commanders in the country are poised to recommend a reduction of United States forces, with a tentative planning target of dropping to 100,000 by autumn.
 Across Iraq, American forces say they will be ready to rely on the Iraqis, though many acknowledge that previous assessments of how quickly domestic security forces would step up to the fight have been far too optimistic, with well-publicized instances of Iraqi troops fleeing the fight or not returning to duty after a particularly intense battle. 
 Maj. Gen. Thomas R. Turner II, commander of the 101st Airborne Division, said that within six months, he expected Iraqis to lead operations in about half of his division's area of responsibility in north-central Iraq, an area the size of Louisiana. 
 Over the past four to five months, Iraq police officials have reverified the credentials of police officers on the payrolls in all 18 provinces by creating an automated database that took fingerprints and retinal scans. These measures have slashed hundreds of ''ghost'' officers from the payrolls. 
 General Dempsey said another major focus next year would be on building up the Iraqi Defense and Interior Ministries to manage their own forces. Over the past month, raids on two Iraqi-run detention centers in Baghdad found scores of abused Iraqi detainees, prompting the military to order inspections of hundreds of Iraqi detention centers. 
 General Dempsey acknowledged that hundreds of militia gunmen had joined police departments around the country, while still retaining loyalties to their militia commanders.
 ''Some of these units are corrupt,'' said one Army company commander on his second yearlong tour in Iraq, who asked for anonymity in order to discuss his critical assessment of the Iraqi police forces candidly. ''They are also poorly equipped in many cases, although they are becoming more of a focus and this is improving.''


CORRECTION-DATE: December 24, 2005

 CORRECTION:
A front-page article on Sunday about the training of Iraqi security forces by American troops carried incomplete statistics supplied by the United States military on the number of Iraqis who have been trained and equipped. (The error was repeated on Tuesday in an article about President Bush's Iraq speech on Sunday night.) There are 113,399 police officers, commandos and border enforcement workers and 103,182 soldiers -- not 75,000 police officers and 100,000 soldiers.

GRAPHIC: Photos: Lt. Gen. Peter W. Chiarelli, left, in a 2004 photo, will return to Iraq to run the day-to-day fight and reconstruction. Gen. Richard A. Cody, Army vice chief of staff, says incoming commanders are ''looking forward.'' (Photo by Christopher Berkey for The New York Times)
 (Photo by Jewel Samad/Agence France-Presse -- Getty Images)(pg. 26)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ARMED FORCES (94%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); WAR & CONFLICT (89%); REBELLIONS & INSURGENCIES (89%); MILITARY WEAPONS (78%); POLICE FORCES (72%); RESEARCH INSTITUTES (72%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (71%); ELECTIONS (71%); TERRORISM (59%); RELIGION (50%) Elections; Legislatures and Parliaments; Terrorism; United States International Relations; United States Armament and Defense

PERSON: Thom Shanker; Eric Schmitt

GEOGRAPHIC: BAGHDAD, IRAQ (73%) IRAQ (99%); UNITED STATES (99%); BULGARIA (79%); UKRAINE (79%) Iraq; Iraq

LOAD-DATE: December 18, 2005



377 of 607 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 18, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 1; Column 1; Foreign Desk; Pg. 13

LENGTH: 606 words

HEADLINE: Presidential Vote Could Alter Bolivia, and Strain Ties With U.S.

BYLINE: By JUAN FORERO

DATELINE: LA PAZ, Bolivia, Dec. 17 

 BODY:
Bolivians go to the polls on Sunday with the possibility of transforming this isolated Andean country, where frequent uprisings have toppled two presidents in the past two years. 
 The leading candidate, Evo Morales, an Aymara Indian and an ally of President Hugo Chavez of Venezuela, promises to exert greater state control over natural gas reserves and decriminalize the cultivation of coca, from which cocaine is made.
Polls have put Mr. Morales five percentage points ahead of the next contender, Jorge Quiroga, a former president who recommends open trade to help Bolivia extricate itself from poverty. A third candidate, Samuel Doria Medina, is a La Paz cement magnate who owns Bolivia's Burger King restaurants. 
 A candidate must capture more than 50 percent of the vote to win the presidency outright. If that does not happen, Bolivia's new Congress -- all 157 seats in the bicameral legislature are also up for grabs -- will choose between the top finishers.
 The system is considered anachronistic and, in theory, an obstacle to the political ambitions of Mr. Morales, 46, who went from leader of the coca growers' union to internationally known opponent of globalization. But political analysts believe it could be politically calamitous for the Congress not to select Mr. Morales as president if he wins a plurality.
 ''If Evo wins by a significant difference, and a significant difference is 5 percent or above, there is nobody who can take the presidency away from him,'' said Eduardo Gamarra, the Bolivian-born director of Latin American affairs at Florida International University. But if the margin is tighter, Mr. Gamarra said, Mr. Quiroga could be chosen.
 For the Bush administration, the prospect of Mr. Morales in the presidency is seen as a potentially serious setback in the war on drugs, one which could jeopardize hundreds of millions of dollars in American anti-drug, economic and development aid. 
 Sean McCormack, a State Department spokesman, told reporters in Washington on Thursday that the United States would take its time to evaluate its relationship with Bolivia. ''We'll see what policies that person pursues,'' he said. ''And based on that, we'll make an evaluation of what kind of relationship we're going to have with that state.''
 Political analysts say Mr. Morales, an adept campaigner, charged ahead in part because Mr. Quiroga failed to highlight his accomplishments as vice president and president, when he helped strike a trade deal with the United States that has stoked exports. Mr. Quiroga, an American-educated engineer, left office in 2002 with a high popularity rating.
 Mr. Morales has offered few details about how he would govern. Much of his campaigning has focused on what he sees as the evils of capitalism, including the development of Colombia's natural gas reserves by foreign companies. 
 ''On natural resources,'' he said in a recent interview, ''we are the owners of this noble land, and it is not possible that they be in the hands of the transnationals.''
 Whoever wins will face a divided country in which even the majority indigenous population appears split. Many radical groups see in Mr. Morales less an indigenous stalwart than a consummate insider who could sell them out.
 One senator from Mr. Morales's own party, Roman Loayza, said this week that whoever won would have three months to nationalize the energy industry and press forward on rewriting the Constitution, or face crippling protests. ''This is not something we are saying just to the neoliberals, but also to our brother, Evo,'' he said. ''For that reason, he has to be ready to respond to the people.''

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: COCAINE (91%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (91%); VOTERS & VOTING (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (90%); DRUG POLICY (89%); OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (89%); NATURAL GAS PRODUCTS (89%); POLITICS (89%); OIL & GAS EXPLORATION (89%); INTERNATIONAL ASSISTANCE (86%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); US PRESIDENTS (78%); ELECTIONS (78%); NATURAL RESOURCES (77%); INTERVIEWS (77%); SUBSTANCE ABUSE (76%); DECRIMINALIZATION (76%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (75%); TRADE DEVELOPMENT (75%); EXPORT TRADE (75%); WAR & CONFLICT (73%); GLOBALIZATION (71%); STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (69%); RESTAURANTS (69%); TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (50%) Elections; United States International Relations; Foreign Aid; Drug Abuse and Traffic; Cocaine and Crack Cocaine; Gas (Fuel)

COMPANY: BURGER KING WORLDWIDE INC (70%)

TICKER: BKW (NYSE) (70%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS722513 LIMITED-SERVICE RESTAURANTS (70%); SIC5812 EATING PLACES (70%)

PERSON: HUGO CHAVEZ (57%) Juan Forero; Evo Morales; George W (Pres) Bush

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (96%); BOLIVIA (96%); VENEZUELA, BOLIVARIAN REPUBLIC OF (92%); LATIN AMERICA (79%); COLOMBIA (79%) Bolivia

LOAD-DATE: December 18, 2005



378 of 607 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 18, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 1; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk; Meadowlands Journal; Pg. 54

LENGTH: 1039 words

HEADLINE: Development Project Is Finally Getting Its Second Wind

BYLINE: By RONALD SMOTHERS

DATELINE: SECAUCUS, N.J. 

 BODY:
It is, not so suddenly, more of a real place.
 After years as a destination for sports fans but not much else, the Meadowlands is on the verge of becoming much more.
One indication was the creation six months ago of the Meadowlands Liberty Convention and Visitors Bureau. A collection of government, commercial and civic groups, the bureau seems determined to market the area, largely wetlands reclaimed from industrial and environmental blight, as a destination for family activities, business gatherings, conventions, shopping and recreation. 
 The ''Liberty'' in the name refers to the area along the Hudson River around Liberty State Park, in Jersey City. The area the bureau is promoting lies between the Hudson and Hackensack Rivers and stretches from the George Washington Bridge to Liberty State Park, all told 30 square miles, once best known for old dumps and fetid swamps. 
 The visitors bureau cites a list of projects, planned or under construction, that are burnishing the Meadowlands's image and improving its prospects. They include the $1.4 billion Xanadu family entertainment and sports complex under construction near the Continental Airlines Arena; a proposed $800 million football stadium for the Giants and the Jets that will keep the teams playing at the Meadowlands for the next 40 years; new conservation and bird-watching areas; three golf courses now being built; plans for new housing; and the first commuter rail spur into the area, due in 2007. 
 And if a train station is to bear the name Meadowlands, there must be a there, there. Local and Meadowlands officials say that now developers, politicians and environmentalists seem ready to work together, a contrast to the squabbling and lawsuits among them that have erupted in the past. The new debate among officials is the chicken and egg one -- whether it was this new spirit of cooperation that led to the new and promised developments or whether the cooperation in fact resulted from them.
 ''In the final analysis, this not your father's Meadowlands,'' Robert Ceberio, executive director of the Meadowlands Commission, told a recent gathering of the convention and visitors bureau members.
 ''And this is not my father's Meadowlands,'' chimed in the state's tourism director, Nancy Byrne, whose father, former Gov. Brendan T. Byrne, presided over early, fractious efforts to introduce change and economic development to the region.
 The area has been a battleground since the late 60's and early 70's, when the state created the Meadowlands Commission and the New Jersey Sports and Exposition Authority and gave both agencies broad and often conflicting powers over developing and protecting its vast acreage. Local officials were fearful that the project was in fact a land grab by the state, and that the two agencies would encroach on their home rule powers without compensating them for the loss of property taxes. As a result, they fought, delayed and sometimes killed the state plans that did not coincide with their own visions or immediate needs.
 ''There were only a few then who could see the future through the fog of home rule,'' said Anthony Scardino Jr., chairman of the Meadowlands Regional Chamber of Commerce and a former director of the Meadowlands Commission. The attitude of the officials shifted only in the past few years, as the commission became instrumental helping many of the 14 municipalities in or bordering the region win state grants for projects including flood control and environmental cleanups.
 Environmentalists also zealously fought development proposals, in an effort to protect once abused and waste-sodden areas that they believed were in the midst of becoming wildlife habitats again. At times, this made them allies of local officials. At other times, it made them antagonists. 
 ''There was a time when it seemed that they wanted to basically pave over the whole area,'' said William Sheehan, the Hackensack Riverkeeper, who has been key in making sure that plans for the area keep some 8,400 acres walled off and undeveloped. But now the lions are lying down with the lambs.
 James Kirkos, executive director of both the Meadowlands Regional Chamber of Commerce and the convention and visitors bureau, promotes development plans along with eco-tourism in the vast wetlands. 
 At the visitors bureau's recent gathering, Mr. Kirkos told the audience how angry he had become over a newspaper article calling the area a swamp. 
 ''But then I realized that we are not a swamp anymore,'' he said. ''We have multiple destinations, and this will be huge for the region in years to come.''
 The bureau's three Web sites, financed by a grant from the Meadowlands Commission, have links to the sports venues and event schedules, to the area's 8,400 hotel rooms and to the projects under development, including the golf courses and Xanadu. They also link to information about ecological tours of the region conducted by Mr. Sheehan, the Meadowlands Commission and Liberty State Park. (Those sites are www.meadowlandslibertycvb.com/, www.stayinthemeadowlands.com and www.meadowlands.org.) 
 Sally Altman, the director of sales at the Holiday Inn in Hasbrouck Heights, is a veteran of the failed effort 15 years ago to create a convention and visitors bureau for the Meadowlands. She recalled that many convention and business prospects ''looked at us like we had 10 eyes'' when she and others spoke of the area's low prices and convenient location, six miles from New York City.
 ''We would get the New Jersey jokes like 'What exit are you from,' '' she said. ''But this new effort is Web driven, and hotels so far are getting 300 to 500 bookings a month from it. It's paying for itself.''
 Mr. Ceberio, the Meadowlands Commission's executive director, trying to parse the change in the mindset of the area, cited efforts over the last five years to solicit input from environmentalists, local officials and businesses in charting the Meadowlands' future. He noted the construction of Xanadu and the three golf courses. He talked about the efforts of environmentalists to promote eco-tourism. Finally, he gave up and attributed it the change to just serendipity.
 ''It was just like everything aligned itself,'' he said.


GRAPHIC: Photo: The Xanadu family entertainment and sports complex is one of several projects in the Meadowlands region that a visitors bureau has been publicizing. Others include plans for new housing and for a train station. (Photo by Keith Meyers/The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: STADIUMS & ARENAS (90%); SPORTS (90%); SPORTS & RECREATION (90%); CONVENTION & VISITORS BUREAUS (89%); TOURISM (89%); TOURISM DEVELOPMENT (89%); TRAVEL HOSPITALITY & TOURISM (89%); CONSTRUCTION (88%); SPORTS FANS (78%); AIRLINES (78%); SPORTS & RECREATION FACILITIES & VENUES (78%); REAL ESTATE (77%); ENVIRONMENT & NATURAL RESOURCES (76%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (76%); WETLANDS (76%); STATE PARKS (75%); BIRDING (71%); CIVIC & SOCIAL ORGANIZATIONS (71%); ENVIRONMENTALISM (71%); BIRDS (71%); URBAN RAIL SYSTEMS (69%); RAIL STATIONS & TERMINALS (65%); PROPERTY TAX (65%); EXECUTIVES (61%); ECONOMIC NEWS (60%) 

COMPANY: UNITED CONTINENTAL HOLDINGS INC (55%)

ORGANIZATION: NEW YORK JETS (55%); NEW YORK GIANTS (55%) Meadowlands Xanadu; Xanadu (Proposed Entertainment Complex) (NJ)

TICKER: UAL (NYSE) (55%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS481112 SCHEDULED FREIGHT AIR TRANSPORTATION (55%); NAICS481111 SCHEDULED PASSENGER AIR TRANSPORTATION (55%); SIC4512 AIR TRANSPORTATION, SCHEDULED (55%)

PERSON: Ronald Smothers

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW JERSEY, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%) New Jersey; Meadowlands (NJ); New Jersey

LOAD-DATE: December 18, 2005



379 of 607 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 18, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 1; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 54

LENGTH: 855 words

HEADLINE: The Place to Be for Arts, Until the Bills Pile Up

BYLINE: By JENNIFER STEINHAUER

 BODY:
They may not have the money of the hedge fund managers who line up at bonus time at the open houses for $5 million homes, and their numbers do not equal that of health care workers. But New York City's creative sector -- which includes architects, potters, filmmakers and clothing designers -- has long helped fuel the city's economy because of its size and its role in drawing the wealthy to town.
 But relentless inflation in real estate and health care costs are endangering New York's long dominance in the creative sector, according to a new report, as artists and companies migrate to less expensive cities eager to lure them. 
For example, 20 years ago, New York was the headquarters for half of the world's advertising agencies, but is now home to fewer than a third, according to the report, written by the Center for an Urban Future, a left-leaning New York research group that analyzes urban policy issues.
 While the city still is home to most of the American publishing industry, the number of jobs in that field fell 3 percent in the last decade in New York, while increasing in San Francisco, Boston and Denver. And from 2001 to 2004, the number of jobs in New York City's motion picture and sound recording industries declined by 36 percent.
 ''The danger for New York is, if we don't really start addressing the needs in the creative sector,'' said Robin Keegan, the lead researcher of the study, ''we will not be able to do the origination'' of many artistic products that the city has long been known for.
 It is generally agreed that world-class cities are defined by a vibrant and diverse cultural life that offers both a large symphony and small theater companies, couture dress designers and tiny hat makers, art museums filled with impressionist paintings and hole-in-the-wall galleries where local glass makers show their stuff. 
 Only in New York and London, the report pointed out, could Willem Dafoe make a big-budget holiday film by day and then make his nightly constitutional downtown to work with an experimental theater group.
 Among other scholars, Richard Florida, who has written extensively on the topic, has argued that a ''creative class'' attracts workers and industries outside of the creative world who want to live in a tolerant, heterogeneous culture. This combination stimulates the economy. At a recent conference, Mr. Florida put it simply: ''When a place gets boring, even the rich people leave.''
 The problems faced by the more than 309,000 creative workers -- who make up roughly 8 percent of all city workers, according to the data in the report -- are similar to those faced by workers in many other industries.
 Skyrocketing prices on housing and professional space have driven many artists out of the very neighborhoods they helped to pioneer, and other cities, including Philadelphia and Minneapolis, have been very aggressive at luring artists their way with marketing campaigns and housing incentives. 
 Two years ago, Hope Forstenzer, a graphic designer and glass blower who had lived and worked in Brooklyn for 10 years, left for Seattle because of the high cost for work space.
 ''There was just no way with the way my finances were set up so that I could ever buy a co-op in New York,'' Ms. Forstenzer said in an interview. ''What you need to put down has gone from 10 percent to 20 percent, and that, combined with the fact that the price for electricity skyrocketed, I chose to come here, where I could buy a house for 5 percent down.''
 Like many other artists who have traditionally set up shop in the city's less expensive quarters, ''What I want for my life is to get by on as little money as possible and do as much of my art is possible,'' she said. ''But there is no such thing as what SoHo was or even Williamsburg once was, where a group of artists could buy a building. That is no longer possible in New York.'' 
 The consolidation of industries that serve artists or distribute their goods has also pushed artists out. Kevin Cunningham, executive artistic director of 3-Legged Dog, a media and theater company, cited the consolidation of vendors that rent lights and equipment in the last decade, which has resulted, he said, in a 250 percent rise in costs for that equipment. 
 The city's Department of Cultural Affairs, aware of the potential for brain drain in the arts, is working to create new housing and financing packages for people in the arts. For example, the city has found ways to use bonds traditionally sold for investments in public property to help private arts concerns.
 The city is also pursuing an arrangement to allow artists to invest in buildings with philanthropists putting up half of the money, with the agreement that they would get half the profits in a sale, a program without real precedent in New York. 
 ''There is widespread appreciation of the role arts plays in shaping our economy,'' said Kate D. Levin, New York's cultural affairs commissioner. ''We think there is a sense of possibility in addressing these issues that wasn't there before. We frankly defined some of these areas of concern. They are complicated issues.''


GRAPHIC: Photos: Some of Ms. Forstenzer's latest glass work, still in progress.
 Hope Forstenzer, a glass blower who lived in Brooklyn for 10 years, at the Pratt Fine Arts Center in Seattle, where she moved two years ago. (Photographs by Kevin P. Casey for The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (90%); MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (89%); FILM (89%); REAL ESTATE (78%); HEALTH CARE (77%); ENTERTAINMENT & ARTS (77%); PUBLIC POLICY (77%); FASHION & APPAREL (77%); FASHION DESIGN (77%); ARTISTS & PERFORMERS (77%); CITY LIFE (77%); HAUTE COUTURE (77%); FASHION DESIGNERS (77%); HEALTH CARE COSTS (77%); VISUAL ARTISTS (77%); RESEARCH REPORTS (75%); PAINTING (74%); HEDGE FUNDS (73%); CITIES (72%); URBAN DEVELOPMENT (70%); ECONOMIC NEWS (70%); HAT CAP & MILLINERY MFG (62%); THEATER (57%); GLASS MFG (55%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING (54%); PUBLISHING (52%) 

PERSON: Jennifer Steinhauer

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (95%); SEATTLE, WA, USA (79%); LONDON, ENGLAND (76%) NEW YORK, USA (97%); WASHINGTON, USA (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (97%) New York City

LOAD-DATE: December 18, 2005



380 of 607 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 18, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 14CN; Column 4; Connecticut Weekly Desk; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 430 words

HEADLINE: Redding Project Nearer to Reality

BYLINE: By NANCY DONIGER

 BODY:
BENJAMIN GILBERT of Redding, a tanner and currier, saw a business opportunity in 1818 in weaving horse and cattle hair into sieves for sifting. And so began the Gilbert & Bennett Manufacturing Company, which later substituted wire for hair and made wire products for 150 years in the Georgetown section of Redding. 
 Times changed, and manufacturing at the 55-acre mill ceased in 1989. An effort in the early 1990's to reinvent the site as a mixed-use village failed, because of problems with the contaminated soil around it. The company filed for bankruptcy in 1998 as back taxes mounted. Alarmed by the growing demise of the site, the Redding board of selectmen jump-started a reuse initiative.
This time, the board made sure it found a developer with a background in brownfield redevelopment.
 ''In interviewing developers, we didn't go to the lowest bidder,'' said Natalie Ketcham, the first selectwoman. ''We hand-selected the Georgetown Land Development Company because of its experience with brownfields and vision consistent with ours.''
 After three years of planning, paying off a $1 million tax lien, and acquiring the note and mortgage from the Commercial Bank of Kuwait, Stephen Soler, president of the Georgetown company, is poised to transform the dilapidated mill into what he says will be a sustainable pedestrian-friendly town center with a focus on the arts.
 The $300-million project includes 416 housing units, artists' lofts, retail stores, restaurants, a theater, a Y.M.C.A., a parking garage and new Metro-North train station. 
 Major approvals are in place. Redding's Zoning Commission approved the master plan for the site, the Connecticut Department of Transportation approved the train station, and the State Department of Environmental Protection approved a new waste-water treatment plant. Final site plans have been presented to local land-use boards; the developer hopes to win approval in January. Groundbreaking is scheduled for March.
 The United States Environmental Protection Agency awarded Redding a $200,000 grant to remove metal sludge. A $600,000 grant from the State Department of Economic and Community Development will help demolish metal warehouses that block the view of the Norwalk River.
 The site includes a pond, waterfall and historic brick and stone buildings, most of which will be preserved. The old brick post office appeared on the cover of the Saturday Evening Post in 1947.
 An analysis by the Connecticut Center for Economic Analysis at the University of Connecticut estimates the project will bring 1,500 jobs to the region.


GRAPHIC: Photo: The Gilbert & Bennett Manufacturing Company in Redding. Manufacturing there stopped in 1989. (Photo by Scott Mullin for The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BROWNFIELD SITES (90%); REAL ESTATE DEVELOPMENT (90%); URBAN DEVELOPMENT (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); ENVIRONMENTAL DEPARTMENTS (89%); APPROVALS (89%); MAMMALS (89%); HISTORIC DISTRICTS & STRUCTURES (78%); TAXES & TAXATION (77%); ZONING (76%); MIXED USE DEVELOPMENTS (76%); LAND USE PLANNING (76%); ENVIRONMENTAL LAW (75%); LAND SUBDIVISION (74%); ENVIRONMENT & NATURAL RESOURCES (74%); BUSINESS INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (73%); SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT (72%); COMMERCIAL BANKING (71%); PARKING SPACES & FACILITIES (71%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (70%); SOIL CONTAMINATION (70%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (70%); TAX LAW (70%); SEWERAGE SYSTEMS (69%); RAIL STATIONS & TERMINALS (69%); ARTISTS & PERFORMERS (69%); TRAINS (69%); URBAN RAIL SYSTEMS (64%); RESTAURANTS (64%); RETAILERS (50%) 

COMPANY: GILBERT & BENNETT MANUFACTURING CO (91%); COMMERCIAL BANK OF KUWAIT SAK (55%)

ORGANIZATION: YOUNG MEN'S CHRISTIAN ASSOCIATION (59%) georgetown land development co; commercial bank of kuwait; gilbert & benning manufacturing co; Young Men's Christian Assn; Metro-North Commuter Railroad

TICKER: CBK (KUW) (55%)

INDUSTRY: SIC3496 MISC. FABRICATED WIRE PRODUCTS (91%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (55%); SIC6021 NATIONAL COMMERCIAL BANKS (55%)

PERSON: Nancy Doniger

GEOGRAPHIC: CONNECTICUT, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%) Redding (Conn); Redding (Conn)

LOAD-DATE: December 18, 2005



381 of 607 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 18, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 14NJ; Column 1; New Jersey Weekly Desk; BRIEFS: TRANSPORTATION; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 117 words

HEADLINE: GASOLINE TAX COULD RISE 

BYLINE: NYT

 BODY:
A possible increase in the state's gasoline tax is back on the table. During his election campaign, the governor-elect, Jon S. Corzine, said he would not raise the tax while gasoline prices were so high. But with the state facing a projected budget deficit that could be as much as $6 billion, he told reporters last Tuesday that he could not rule out an increase to the 14.5-cent-per-gallon tax. Speaking at a meeting of the New Jersey Business and Industry Association in Iselin, Mr. Corzine echoed a theme that has marked nearly all of his significant speeches since being elected last month: with a hole in the state's $38 billion budget, New Jersey faces challenges to put its economic house in order. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: FUEL TAX (91%); GASOLINE (90%); ELECTIONS (90%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (90%); TAXES & TAXATION (90%); BUDGETS (90%); GOVERNORS (88%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (88%); OIL & GAS PRICES (88%); GASOLINE PRICES (88%); GASOLINE MARKETS (73%); TALKS & MEETINGS (72%); BUDGET FORECASTS (70%); BUDGET DEFICITS (70%) 

ORGANIZATION: NEW JERSEY BUSINESS & INDUSTRY ASSOCIATION (57%)

PERSON: JON CORZINE (90%) Jon S (Sen) Corzine

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW JERSEY, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%) New Jersey

LOAD-DATE: December 18, 2005



382 of 607 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 18, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 3; Column 1; Money and Business/Financial Desk; STRATEGIES; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 965 words

HEADLINE: Thrown for a Yield Curve

BYLINE: By MARK HULBERT. 
Mark Hulbert is editor of The Hulbert Financial Digest, a service of MarketWatch. E-mail: strategy@nytimes.com.

 BODY:
ALAN GREENSPAN, the Federal Reserve chairman, raised more than a few eyebrows in November when he said in testimony before the Joint Economic Committee of Congress that there was no need to worry that the yield curve had flattened and was close to inverting. The yield curve, he said, has lost its ability to forecast recessions.
 As is the case with many other issues, economists are all over the map on this one. But many are not as sanguine as Mr. Greenspan about recent interest rate trends. And even many who are sympathetic to his argument say that the statistical evidence for it is weak. 
The yield curve, of course, refers to the difference between short-term and long-term interest rates. Most of the time, longer-term rates are higher than shorter-term ones. But occasionally this relationship is turned on its head -- a phenomenon that economists call an inverted yield curve.
 Many standard economics textbooks report that an inverted curve is a leading indicator of an imminent economic slowdown. The traditional reasoning goes something like this: when short-term rates are relatively high, demand for loans slackens, weakening the economy. And bond traders, collectively seeing so many signs of an impending economic slowdown, have already driven down longer-term rates in anticipation of an eventual loosening of short-term credit. 
 The statistical support for this indicator looks impressive. Arturo Estrella, an economist at the Federal Reserve Bank of New York, contends that an inverted yield curve ''has predicted essentially every U.S. recession since 1950 with only one 'false' signal.''
 At first blush, there is no evidence that the indicator is losing its touch. It worked like a charm, for example, in forecasting the economy's most recent recession. According to the National Bureau of Economic Research, the widely recognized arbiter of when recessions begin and end, that recession began in March 2001. The yield curve went negative the previous summer.
 Mr. Estrella and Frederic S. Mishkin, a professor of banking and financial institutions at Columbia University, have built an econometric model that relates various levels of the yield curve with the probability of a recession within 12 months. With the rate on 10-year Treasury notes now just about half a percentage point higher than that for three-month Treasury bills, for example, the researchers' model calculates a 10 to 15 percent probability of a recession within the next year. That probability would grow to about 25 percent is the difference in rates disappeared, and would grow even further if the curve inverted, meaning that the short-term rate was higher than the longer-term one. 
 The track record of the yield curve helps to explain why it is among the factors in the index of leading economic indicators maintained by the Conference Board, the nonprofit business research organization. This past summer, the board conducted a review as to whether the yield-curve indicator should continue as part of the index. Its answer was yes. Ken Goldstein, a Conference Board economist, says his group's research ''does not show that the yield curve has lost its predictive power.''
 So what is there to debate about the yield curve, given its apparently impressive forecasting record? One reason to be tentative, many economists say, is that monetary conditions have changed markedly. In comments echoed by several other economists interviewed for this column, Mr. Goldstein speculated that if a recession followed an inverted yield curve today, it would be for reasons other than those that led to economic slowdowns after the curve inverted in previous decades.
 In the high-inflation years of the late 1970's and early 80's, for example, inverted yield curves resulted from the Federal Reserve's aggressive monetary braking. By contrast, the Fed's rate increases over the last two years have been very gradual, and have occurred in the context of low inflation expectations.
 Apparently that was at least part of what Mr. Greenspan had in mind when he said that the yield curve had lost its forecasting power. He told members of the Joint Economic Committee that ''the markets have become far more complex'' than they were in previous decades. 
 Robert F. Stambaugh, a finance professor at the Wharton School of the University of Pennsylvania, offered another reason to be tentative: there have been few recessions over the last 50 years -- just nine, according to the National Bureau of Economic Research. Even if the world were not so different today, Professor Stambaugh argues, this sample size is not big enough to support much confidence in any statistical conclusions.
 NOTE that these doubts about methodology do not support Mr. Greenspan's confident assertion that the yield curve has lost its forecasting ability. Instead, they suggest that economists need to be cautious in drawing any conclusion about the yield curve's significance. According to John H. Cochrane, a finance professor at the University of Chicago, the small sample size makes it very difficult ''to determine what the relationship in the first place was between an inverted yield curve and recessions, much less to know if that relationship may have changed recently.''
 Dan Seiver, an emeritus professor of economics at Miami University of Ohio and now a visiting professor of economics and finance at San Diego State University and the University of San Diego, said that while Mr. Greenspan has been an exemplary chairman, he might have been motivated by considerations other than economic theory in saying that an inverted yield curve does not portend a recession. Mr. Greenspan is ''on the way out, and has a vested interest in wanting everything to appear to be perfect as he leaves,'' Professor Seiver said.


GRAPHIC: Chart: ''Recession Gauge?''As short-term interest rates catch up with -- or even surpass -- long-term rates, the probability of a recession grows, according to an econometric model based on 50 years of data.Graph tracks Yield comparison (10-year Treasury note rate minus 90-day T-bill rate, in percentage points) and probability of recession within 12 months.(Source by Arturo Estrella and Frederics Mishkin)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: YIELD CURVE (95%); ECONOMIC NEWS (91%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (90%); INTEREST RATES (90%); RECESSION (90%); ECONOMIC INDICATORS (89%); BANKING & FINANCE (89%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (89%); TREASURY SECURITIES (89%); INDEX OF LEADING ECONOMIC INDICATORS (78%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (78%); CENTRAL BANKS (78%); ECONOMIC DEPRESSION (78%); BONDS (77%); BOND MARKETS (77%); TRENDS (76%); MODELING & SIMULATION (76%); RESEARCH INSTITUTES (72%); TEXTBOOKS (67%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (66%); NONPROFIT ORGANIZATIONS (65%) United States Economy; Interest Rates; Recession and Depression

COMPANY: FEDERAL RESERVE BANK OF NEW YORK (66%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS521110 MONETARY AUTHORITIES - CENTRAL BANK (66%); SIC6011 FEDERAL RESERVE BANKS (66%)

PERSON: ALAN GREENSPAN (89%) Mark Hulbert; Arturo Estrella; Frederic (Prof) Mishkin; Robert Stambaugh

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: December 18, 2005



383 of 607 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 18, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 3; Column 2; Money and Business/Financial Desk; OPENERS: SUITS; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 176 words

HEADLINE: RETAIL THERAPY 

BYLINE: By Elizabeth Olson

 BODY:
Teaming up last week for an unlikely shopping foray, House Speaker J. Dennis Hastert and Commerce Secretary Carlos M. Gutierrez toured stores in a Chicago-area shopping center and talked up the economy. ''We're off to a good start'' this holiday season, said Mr. Gutierrez, who said that only 9 percent of American families had completed their holiday shopping. 
 But if he and Mr. Hastert hoped to set an example for the remaining 91 percent, they might have opened their wallets a bit wider at the shopping center, the Westfield Fox Valley Mall in Aurora, Ill., on the eastern side of Mr. Hastert's district.
When they stopped at a Champs sporting goods store, Mr. Gutierrez, the former chief executive of the Kellogg Company, bought a Washington Nationals baseball cap, and Mr. Hastert bought a Chicago Cubs hat. Mr. Hastert, a former high school wrestling coach, went on to buy an antique-car calendar and some dog biscuits at other stores. Mr. Gutierrez settled for just his hat. He had to rush to catch a plane, his spokeswoman said. Elizabeth Olson


GRAPHIC: Photo: Commerce Secretary Carlos Gutierrez, center, and House Speaker J. Dennis Hastert at the mall. (Photo by Brian Kersey/Associated Press)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: RETAILERS (91%); BASEBALL (90%); COMMERCE DEPARTMENTS (78%); SPORTING GOODS STORES (77%); FOOD INDUSTRY (77%); HOLIDAYS & OBSERVANCES (76%); WRESTLING (68%); EXECUTIVES (53%) Retail Stores and Trade; United States Economy

COMPANY: KELLOGG CO (69%)

ORGANIZATION: CHICAGO CUBS (56%)

TICKER: K (NYSE) (69%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS311412 FROZEN SPECIALTY FOOD MANUFACTURING (69%); NAICS311230 BREAKFAST CEREAL MANUFACTURING (69%); SIC2052 COOKIES & CRACKERS (69%); SIC2043 CEREAL BREAKFAST FOODS (69%); SIC2038 FROZEN SPECIALTIES, NEC (69%)

PERSON: CARLOS GUTIERREZ (92%) J Dennis (Speaker) Hastert; Carlos Gutierrez; Elizabeth Olson

GEOGRAPHIC: CHICAGO, IL, USA (88%) ILLINOIS, USA (88%) UNITED STATES (88%)

LOAD-DATE: December 18, 2005



384 of 607 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 18, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 3; Column 3; Money and Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 2674 words

HEADLINE: Expelling the Ghost Of A.I.G. Past

BYLINE: By JENNY ANDERSON

 BODY:
LESS than two weeks after Hurricane Katrina ravaged New Orleans, Scott Tramel, an insurance executive, was sitting in a makeshift office -- a former filing room in a sales office -- in Baton Rouge when he saw a shock of white hair cross the hallway. He turned to his colleague, a fellow underwriter at the American Home Insurance Company, a subsidiary of the American International Group, with a look of surprise. ''I think that's Martin Sullivan,'' he said, referring to A.I.G.'s chief executive.
 Less than a week after the storm, Mr. Sullivan, along with his wife, Antoinette, and a small group of employees, loaded the company's Bombardier Global Express, a high-speed business jet, with $5,600 in consumer goods, $1,000 worth of polo shirts and $1,300 in battery-operated electronics, which he delivered, unannounced, to offices in the region struck by the hurricane. ''They weren't just worried about us being on the job; they were honestly concerned about our well-being as people,'' Mr. Tramel said. 
Katrina is not the only storm that Mr. Sullivan has had to weather this year. After 34 years at A.I.G., the world's largest insurance company, he took over the top job in March amid a decidedly man-made disaster. Regulators had discovered accounting problems at A.I.G., and the board swiftly ousted the chairman and chief executive, Maurice R. Greenberg, who over the course of 38 years had built the insurer into a behemoth with a market capitalization of $170 billion. 
 Last week, regulators lashed out at Mr. Greenberg again, issuing a report accusing him and others of having cheated a foundation he runs 35 years ago. No charges have been brought, and Mr. Greenberg, who is known as Hank, denies any wrongdoing.
 When Mr. Sullivan, 51, took the reins of A.I.G. -- whose 2004 revenue, $98 billion, exceeded the current gross domestic product of Venezuela -- the company's lawyers and regulators were running it temporarily; its former boss and mentor was in exile (with acrimony between Mr. Greenberg and A.I.G. growing by the day); and investors were wondering whether they might have the next Enron on their hands.
 Nine months later, it is clear that A.I.G. is no Enron. It has survived the restatement of five years' earnings and has reported three quarters of solid profit, and its army of lawyers is close to hammering out the final details of a civil settlement with federal and state regulators over allegations that ranged from bid-rigging to improper reinsurance arrangements.
 LIKE some other chief executives catapulted into power amid crisis -- Richard D. Parsons at Time Warner comes to mind -- Mr. Sullivan has steadied the ship. He has done this through the force of his personality -- he can be charming and ingratiating -- and by the simple fact that he is not the manager accused of creating the problems. But with the skies clearing, investors are left wondering whether the nice, new chief executive will be able to match the performance of the company's former patriarch, architect and bully-in-chief.
 ''The big question they have is: What kind of growth rate can they achieve?'' said David Schiff, the editor of Schiff's Insurance Observer, an industry newsletter. ''In the old days, investors believed they'd have 15 percent growth year after year. If you are going to grow at 15 percent forever, that growth can make up for anything.''
 Andrew S. Kligerman, an analyst at UBS, added: ''Hank Greenberg is a genius, he knows A.I.G. like the palm of his hand and he can speak to any detail of his company without the assistance of any executive. Martin's certainly a capable executive, but whether he can master the intricacies of A.I.G. is another question.''
 Those kinds of comments, which are common, suggest that A.I.G. is Mr. Greenberg. Mr. Sullivan declined to discuss Mr. Greenberg, but he did make clear that he planned to keep A.I.G.'s entrepreneurial spirit and thought that the company could continue to grow at double-digit rates. ''The single biggest question I get is, 'Will the culture change?' And candidly my answer is no,'' he said in his holiday-adorned 18th-floor office in Lower Manhattan. ''The culture is the entrepreneurial culture, and my view is, it's in the organization.''
 As for whether he is tough enough, Mr. Sullivan said, ''I would not be able to be in this position without tough choices.'' After all, Mr. Greenberg was ready to name him heir apparent.
 Mr. Sullivan exudes a kind of ruddy optimism that, when combined with his broad smile and stocky stance, has a certain Santa Claus-like cheer to it. In conversation he laughs easily and does not shy away from jokes: he recently asked an analyst who was host for a lunch conference at the Pierre Hotel in Manhattan whether he could get some gin in his water glass. His warmth appears irrepressible and he seems to have charmed even the most irascible regulators. When he met the New York attorney general, Eliot Spitzer, who was leading the investigation into A.I.G., Mr. Sullivan, who is British, cheekily asked if he was part of the O'Spitzer clan.
 While Mr. Greenberg also had a famous wit, it often appeared in public when he was using it against someone. He loved to deride analysts for what he felt were stupid questions, and managers for what he thought were lackluster results.
 The contrast is lost on few: if Mr. Greenberg ordered, Mr. Sullivan asks. If the former chief knew more than everyone, Mr. Sullivan asks to be educated. Mr. Greenberg surrounded himself with a tight circle of senior executives, while Mr. Sullivan eats lunch with midlevel employees who are permitted to submit anonymous questions ahead of time, lest they be intimidated. And if the former chief executive and chairman took pride in how he built A.I.G., Mr. Sullivan loves to tell midlevel employees that if he can be chief executive, anyone can be chief executive.
 ''Martin's the first to find out, to listen and to get different points of view,'' said Frank G. Zarb, the chairman of A.I.G.'s board. ''It's a great quality for a young C.E.O. He doesn't have his mind made up before he has the facts.''
 A native of London's gritty East End, Mr. Sullivan joined American International Underwriters as a clerk in 1971, when he was 17. It was his second job in insurance, and he earned $:850 a year, or a bit more than $2,000 at the time, in his first year. He admired his boss, who he said taught him, ''Always have standards; never let them slip.'' Within three years he had become an underwriter, and by 1983 he was running the insurance-property department for all of Britain.
 A.I.G. has diversified over the years, but underwriting -- writing premiums and estimating the risk underlying them -- is the heart of its business and where Mr. Sullivan made his career. He rose quickly through the European ranks, taking over AIG Europe in 1993. He was brought to New York three years later to become the chief operating officer of all foreign property and casualty operations, and in 2002, Mr. Greenberg chose him and Edmund Tse, then senior vice chairman of life insurance, to be co-chief operating officers. It was a clear horse race to succeed Mr. Greenberg.
 Mr. Sullivan had to put his experience to the test last February. That month, federal and state authorities issued subpoenas to A.I.G. over questionable accounting transactions, one of which Mr. Greenberg initiated himself, according to a lawsuit filed later by Mr. Spitzer. 
 It was not A.I.G.'s first round with regulators. In 2003, A.I.G. paid $10 million to settle a civil suit brought by the Securities and Exchange Commission contending that it had helped Brightpoint, a struggling cellphone distributor, mask losses with certain insurance products. A year later A.I.G. paid $126 million to settle all criminal and regulatory liabilities with state and federal regulators over the Brightpoint deal and similar allegations about products it sold to the PNC Financial Services Group.
 Mr. Greenberg made clear that he did not welcome regulatory scrutiny. In the Brightpoint settlement, the S.E.C. cited a lack of cooperation by A.I.G. in determining the fine, and Mr. Greenberg famously ended one earnings call by accusing regulators of turning foot faults into murder charges. ''Hank's attitude was that we were interfering with his running of the business,'' said one regulator who was prohibited from talking on the record about continuing investigations.
 While A.I.G. had tussled with federal regulators, it was the February subpoenas that catalyzed A.I.G.'s board, which was already concerned about the handling of Brightpoint and other matters. After eight hours of contentious debate on a Sunday in March, the board decided to ask Mr. Greenberg to resign and to promote Mr. Sullivan.
 Oddly enough, Mr. Sullivan had already been picked for the job. Earlier in the year, members of the board, with Mr. Greenberg's blessing, had decided that Mr. Sullivan would succeed Mr. Greenberg, though not right away, say two people briefed on the discussions. But the escalating investigation accelerated the timing of the transition and the heir apparent became king in the most unceremonious of coronations.
 The conditions for Mr. Sullivan's arrival could not have been worse: the firm was virtually paralyzed by the investigations. Lawyers were running the company, his mentor of many years was in exile and Mr. Sullivan suddenly had one of the most complex financial-services companies on his hands. He knew the property and casualty business, which accounts for about one-third of A.I.G.'s revenue, but there were divisions, including capital markets and aircraft leasing, that he had to learn from scratch.
 Both easing and complicating the transition was Mr. Sullivan's long tenure at the company. ''I've grown up with these guys,'' he said of the management team around him. ''We've worked together for so many years, it's not like I'm the new kid on the block.'' But there was also his personal relationship with Mr. Greenberg, for whom he had worked for decades. ''I've put a lot of the feelings to one side,'' he said. ''From Day 1, I have stayed focused on what's good for A.I.G.'' 
 One senior A.I.G. executive said he had assumed that Mr. Sullivan was upset by what happened to Mr. Greenberg, but added that ''he would feel it was poor form to show it.'' Others agreed that Mr. Sullivan has concealed his feelings about Mr. Greenberg's fate, focusing instead on what the senior executive said was a simple message: ''We don't have the luxury of emotion. No matter how we feel we have to move forward.''
 He certainly had plenty to distract him in his first eight weeks on the job. Federal and state investigations widened, and investors feared that Mr. Spitzer might indict the company. It was unclear whether A.I.G.'s bizarrely consistent results were just a fiction.
 As A.I.G.'s stock plummeted -- it fell more than 30 percent from Feb. 10 to April 25 -- Mr. Sullivan met personally with Mr. Spitzer and told him that he and A.I.G. would cooperate, negating the need for any more subpoenas, according to someone briefed on the meeting. Mr. Spitzer put out a statement saying that he anticipated a civil resolution with A.I.G. The stock's free fall halted.
 Mr. Sullivan, meanwhile, had to move to get A.I.G. out of the mess it had landed in. He oversaw an internal review of all of the company's businesses, which was no small challenge. A.I.G. operates in 130 countries and has 92,000 employees. Domestic brokerage, for instance, which is just one unit of one business, has 49 companies.
 The company's profile reads like a financial services yellow pages. It has four major businesses, and it is a giant in each of them. A.I.G. is, for example, the largest underwriter of commercial and industrial insurance in the United States, as well as the top underwriter of director and officer insurance, professional liability insurance and environmental and aviation insurance, to name a handful. It is the top life insurer in Japan, the largest corporate investor in United States Treasury bonds and has the second-largest consumer finance business in the world.
 The entire colossus had to be examined under a microscope. Thirty-seven internal teams were formed, reporting back to the board's outside counsel as well as to Mr. Sullivan and the company's chief financial officer, Steven J. Bensinger, who was also new to his post. They worked 15 to 18 hours a day, seven days a week, for two and a half months, Mr. Bensinger said. The message to employees was this: cooperate -- or else. Many did. Some cooperated and then stopped; they were fired. Others cooperated and lost their jobs anyway. 
 ''The sole objective of every person involved in this effort was to make the best reasoned judgments, get it right and put it behind us,'' said Mr. Bensinger, who, along with Mr. Sullivan, would have to sign the company's financial statement. The process took a toll. ''No one involved in this process would ever want to repeat it,'' said Mr. Bensinger.
 THE internal investigation revealed widespread wrongdoing, much of which it laid on the doorstep of Mr. Greenberg and A.I.G.'s former chief financial officer, Howard I. Smith. On May 26, after the internal investigation was completed, Mr. Spitzer sued the company, along with Mr. Greenberg and Mr. Smith, accusing them of using accounting gimmickry to mask A.I.G.'s true financial condition. Both men deny any wrongdoing and say they plan to fight the charges.
 Three days later, A.I.G. restated five years' worth of earnings. Net income for 2004 was cut by $1.32 billion, or 12 percent, to $9.73 billion. Over all, the restatement reduced A.I.G.'s net income from 2000 through 2004 by $3.9 billion, or 10 percent. 
 The regulatory clouds have not cleared. The company is expected to settle civil charges filed by state regulators and the S.E.C. early next year, said two people briefed on the negotiations. The Justice Department continues to weigh potential criminal charges against Mr. Greenberg, and the United States Attorney's office in Manhattan is investigating whether Mr. Greenberg orchestrated an effort to manipulate the company's stock price, according to people officially briefed on the inquiry.
 Mr. Greenberg has not faded into the background. He continues to control two former A.I.G. affiliates -- one that controls $25 billion worth of A.I.G. stock and another that operates insurance brokerage agencies. 
 As Mr. Greenberg considers what to do in the ninth decade of his life, the company he built is thriving without him. A.I.G. reported a profit of $1.72 billion in the third quarter, including after-tax catastrophe-related losses of $1.57 billion. ''We've demonstrated a real resilience,'' Mr. Sullivan said.
 There have been awkward moments. In October, Mr. Sullivan was in China meeting with government and business leaders when he ran into Mr. Greenberg, whose relationships in China are long and deep. ''It was sad,'' one senior executive said, referring to the meeting of former friends halfway around the world. ''It should not have come to this.''
 The challenges for Mr. Sullivan are formidable. He must prove that being different from Mr. Greenberg does not mean being not as good. He must deliver the double-digit growth that he has said is possible. And he would like to see more of his family. (At a recent dinner, he joked that he had not anticipated that an industry event would constitute a ''date night'' with his wife.)
 Regardless of Mr. Greenberg's fate, the future of A.I.G. is in the hands of a chief executive with deep loyalties and roots in the business. Mr. Schiff, the industry analyst, said that while Mr. Greenberg was certainly central to A.I.G., the company's future was not lost without him. ''It's just one person,'' he said.
 There is already a lot of work for the next person. Mr. Sullivan heads back to China for one last trip before Christmas. Is he concerned he might miss the holiday?
 ''Christmas? I haven't celebrated Easter,'' he laughed.


GRAPHIC: Photos: Martin Sullivan, above, cleaned up the accounting mess left by Hank Greenberg, but can he keep A.I.G. growing as rapidly? (Photo by Brian Palmer for The New York Times)
(Photo by Daniel Acker/Bloomberg News)(pg. 1)
Steven Bensinger, above, A.I.G.'s new chief financial officer, helped lead an internal review
 Frank G. Zarb, right, the chairman, praised the new chief executive, Martin Sullivan, as open-minded. (Photo by Seokyong Lee/Bloomberg News)(pg. 11)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: INSURANCE (90%); NATURAL DISASTERS (90%); HURRICANE KATRINA (90%); HURRICANES (90%); ACCOUNTING (90%); EXECUTIVES (89%); PROPERTY & CASUALTY INSURANCE (78%); HOMEOWNERS INSURANCE (73%); REINSURANCE (73%); FINANCIAL RESTATEMENTS (70%); ANTITRUST & TRADE LAW (70%); COMPANY EARNINGS (68%); MARKET CAPITALIZATION (64%); ETHICS (63%); SETTLEMENT & COMPROMISE (61%); ECONOMIC NEWS (50%); GROSS DOMESTIC PRODUCT (50%) Insurance; Ethics; Biographical Information; Accounting and Accountants; Securities and Commodities Violations; Insurance

COMPANY: AMERICAN INTERNATIONAL GROUP INC (72%); AMERICAN HOME INSURANCE AGENCY INC (57%); BOMBARDIER INC (56%); ENRON CREDITORS RECOVERY CORP (51%)

ORGANIZATION: American International Group

TICKER: AIG (NYSE) (72%); 8685 (TSE) (72%); BBD.A (TSX) (56%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS524126 DIRECT PROPERTY & CASUALTY INSURANCE CARRIERS (72%); NAICS524113 DIRECT LIFE INSURANCE CARRIERS (72%); NAICS336411 AIRCRAFT MANUFACTURING (56%); SIC3721 AIRCRAFT (56%); SIC4911 ELECTRIC SERVICES (51%)

PERSON: MARTIN J SULLIVAN (91%); RICHARD D PARSONS (58%) Maurice R Greenberg; Martin Sullivan; Jenny Anderson

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW ORLEANS, LA, USA (92%) LOUISIANA, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: December 18, 2005



385 of 607 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 18, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 3; Column 1; Money and Business/Financial Desk; OFFICE SPACE: ARMCHAIR M.B.A.; Pg. 12

LENGTH: 1215 words

HEADLINE: In G.M.'s Sight Lines: Washington and Tokyo

BYLINE: By WILLIAM J. HOLSTEIN. 
William J. Holstein is editor in chief of Chief Executive magazine.

 BODY:
RICK WAGONER, the chairman and chief executive of General Motors, has announced plans to cut 30,000 jobs and to close several factories in an effort to stem the company's losses. He says he is leading the company through this crisis by concentrating on a handful of priorities and communicating the right messages to multiple constituencies. Here are excerpts from an interview: 


Q. What's it like to be in the eye of such a big storm?

A. I'd rather not be in the financial position that we're in, but I would use an analogy from when I played sports growing up. Is it more fun to play in a game that you won by 40 points or to play in one that your backs were against the wall and you really had to use all of your capabilities and assets and your teammates' capabilities and get the game moving in the right direction? The latter is clearly more satisfying when you get it done.

Q. Can you sleep at night?

A. I probably have had less sleep this year than I normally have, but when I do, I sleep just fine.

Q. What's the psychology at G.M.?

A. Our people understand this is one of those few defining moments in the history of our enterprise. I think our people around the world, and particularly here in the United States, see this is a time of great change.

Q. How are you making people do their jobs differently?

A. We have historically run the business locally, then nationally, then regionally. Now, it's becoming a global business. So we need to kind of rejigger the way we run the enterprise. We made some big moves this year to run product development globally and run manufacturing globally and purchasing globally, and so I get on the Web chat and talk to people in India, engineers in India and Europe and Brazil, and they're saying, ''Gee, we're changing the way we develop products because we're leveraging global resources.''

Q. Were your problems caused by internal decisions, or external forces?

A. Well, it's obviously a combination of both. I think it would be disingenuous for us to point to things like U.S. health care policy or trade policy and the exchange rates, things like that, and say they are the whole cause of the problem. The flip side, though, is that anybody who says they are not part of the problem just doesn't have their feet placed in reality. Like it or not, if we pay $1,500 per car for health care and our cheap global competitors pay $200, that's a disadvantage. And we don't have that situation because we're stupid -- it's been the U.S. government policy for us to pay that bill and we've been doing it.

Q. What should the government do?

A. I don't understand why the U.S. government isn't more proactive on health care. Regardless of whether one believes in sort of the individual-responsibility model or single-payer system, there's a lot of things that can be done to get the cost of health care and the quality of health care moving in the right direction. I think this is an area where strong leadership from the government could play a key role. Information technology is one possibility. Another is leveraging the buying power of the government, which is the biggest purchaser of health care under Medicare and things of that sort.

Q. Could the government action fix G.M.'s problems?

A. Those steps don't fix G.M.'s ills today. We have things we need to do, and we are taking tough medicine.

Q. Some people say you can't fix G.M. so you want a bailout.

A. Right. That's for people who don't like to read more than the first line or the headline of a story. Any thoughtful person who looks at the facts would recognize that it is possible to talk about both. The company needs to improve, and we will take the necessary actions. But if one looks at the fact that we're in a global economy and people can move work in jobs to different environments and the flow of trade is more open, the U.S. government has a responsibility to make sure that we have policies which enable us to compete on that global scale. If we don't have those policies, individual companies, one by one, will make decisions that will move those jobs elsewhere.

Q. What do you mean when you say that you would like to have a level playing field from Washington?

A. The issue that has been particularly grating to us has been the long-term policy of allowing the Japanese government to manipulate the yen valuation to provide export advantages. Japanese manufacturers are very competitive on a global basis. They do not need currency manipulation to protect them. That policy has been followed for 20 to 30 years, and it continues to be followed. It seems the U.S. government should be cracking the whip on them. Everybody's running around excited about China. It's fair that we should have the right kind of exchange-rate policy out of China. But it all starts with Japan.
 Start with the global trade balances of the countries. Japan has a massive positive trade balance. This is a fully developed country with the second-largest economy in the world, and they have a massive positive trade balance. That's relatively unusual, and a huge amount of that trade balance is in one area: vehicles. China has a huge surplus with the U.S. but it is basically in balance with the world. 

Q. Would changing the value of the yen have any impact on Japanese ''transplant'' factories that manufacture in the United States?

A. Massive. They have huge imported content. Don't forget that out of total transplant sales, a significant percentage, if not a majority, are exported into the U.S. If you look at their financial results, they acknowledge that a one-yen move against the dollar moves their financial results hundreds of millions of dollars.

Q. Are you saying that Washington is focused on the wrong target because Japanese competition is more important?

A. There are no Chinese automotive sales in the U.S. at this point. What degree of difference is there between China and Japan? It's a million to zero.

Q. What advice do you have for chief executives who find themselves in turnaround or recovery situations?

A. First of all, it's critically important to focus on the few key factors that drive the turnaround. So you have to know what those are, and I think most C.E.O.'s know what the key factors are. But when times get tough, stay focused on moving those, even if they're the hard things to move.
 Second of all, do what's right for the business. That sounds obvious, but sometimes there are pressures to make big announcements about things that really aren't necessarily getting at the core problems. So you really need to stay focused and do what's right for the business, short and long term, and that means making tough calls but make the tough calls in the right areas.
 The third area is the importance of effective communications. I stress ''effective'' because you can overcommunicate and you can undercommunicate and you can communicate the right messages and the wrong messages, particularly within the company. People are always hungrier for information when times are challenging. The importance of communicating with key constituencies -- in our case our dealers, unions and suppliers -- would be good examples. Certainly I've communicated a lot more with our board of directors this year. So I think effective communications is real important when you're going through tough times.

GRAPHIC: Photo: Rick Wagoner says that General Motors is working hard on a turnaround but that some government policy changes would be helpful. (Photo by Carlos Osorio/Associated Press)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Interview

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PLANT CLOSINGS (90%); LAYOFFS (90%); PUBLIC POLICY (84%); ENTERPRISE GLOBALIZATION (78%); INTERVIEWS (78%); EXECUTIVES (73%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (69%); HEALTH CARE POLICY (64%); PRODUCT DEVELOPMENT (63%); EXCHANGE RATES (50%) Automobiles; Labor; Layoffs and Job Reductions; Shutdowns (Institutional); Factories and Industrial Plants

COMPANY: GENERAL MOTORS CO (58%)

ORGANIZATION: General Motors Corp

TICKER: GM (NYSE) (58%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS336112 LIGHT TRUCK & UTILITY VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (58%); NAICS336111 AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING (58%)

PERSON: RICK WAGONER (90%) William Holstein; Rick Wagoner

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%); INDIA (90%)

LOAD-DATE: December 18, 2005



386 of 607 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 18, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 6; Column 3; Magazine; THE WAY WE LIVE NOW: 12-18-05; Pg. 15

LENGTH: 1017 words

HEADLINE: New World Economy

BYLINE: By Matt Bai. 
Matt Bai, who covers national politics for the magazine, is working on a book about the Democratic Party.

 BODY:
In recent weeks, looking toward next year's midterm elections, leaders of both parties have engaged in highly charged arguments about withdrawal from Iraq, Medicaid shortfalls and allegations of Republican corruption. Anyone bothering to peruse the rest of the front page, however, might have noticed a few items that seemed tangentially related, but that, together, tell a story that is far more consequential for the next 50 years of American life. First, just before Thanksgiving, General Motors, buckling under the weight of $2 billion in losses, announced that it now planned to lay off 30,000 workers and scale back or close a dozen plants. A few days later, at the traditional commencement of the holiday season, thousands of American consumers began lining up in the dark hours of morning to be among the first to pile into Wal-Mart, hoping to re-emerge with discounted laptops and Xboxes under their arms. Wal-Mart has now inherited G.M.'s mantle as the largest employer in the United States, which is why these snapshots of two corporations, taken in a single week, say more about America's economic trajectory than any truckload of spreadsheets ever could. 
G.M., of course, was the very prototype of 20th-century bigness, the flagship company for a time when corporate power was vested in the hands of a small number of industrial-era institutions. There is no question that rising labor costs hurt G.M., but that obscures the larger point of the company's decline; caught in the last century's mind-set, it has often been unable or unwilling to let consumers drive its designs, as opposed to the other way around. Must the company keep making Buicks and Pontiacs until the end of days, even as they recede into American lore? Many of the workers G.M. decided to lay off last month were its best and most productive. Their bosses simply couldn't give them a car to build that Americans really wanted to buy.
 As it happens, G.M.'s inability to adapt offers some perspective on our political process, too. Democrats in particular, architects of the finest legislation of the industrial age, have approached the global economy with the same inflexibility, at least since Bill Clinton left the scene. Just as G.M. has protected its outdated products at the expense of its larger mission, so, too, have Democrats become more attached to their programs than to the principles that made them vibrant in the first place. So what if Social Security and Medicaid functioned best in a world where most workers had company pensions and health insurance and spent their entire careers with one employer? The mere suggestion that these programs might be updated for a new, more consumer-driven economy sends Democratic leaders into fits of apoplexy.
 While G.M. rusts away like some relic from the last century, Wal-Mart beckons us toward our shrink-wrapped and discounted future. Wal-Mart's founding family is said to be wealthier than Bill Gates and Warren Buffet combined, and yet more than half of the company's employees don't receive health care, and its enduring quest to bring us lower prices drives down wages everywhere. Here we have the model for globalization as Republicans envision it -- a world in which rugged entrepreneurialism is overly romanticized and the unskilled expendable, and where shareholder profits are the only measure of success. Republicans have embraced the future of the global marketplace, but to them the future looks a lot like ''Road Warrior.''
 The debate over Wal-Mart centers on whether it is, on the whole, good or not so good. Jason Furman, a Democratic policy expert, has prepared a persuasive report for the Center for American Progress in which he notes that Americans may have saved as much as $263 billion last year -- that's $2,329 per household -- by shopping at Wal-Mart, which amounts to the equivalent of a massive tax break. This argument over Wal-Mart's virtue or villainy is interesting but ultimately academic; it is like having had an argument, at the dawn of the microchip, about the merits of automation. The service economy is a reality of our time, and it would be wishful to expect that its engine can sustain the middle class in the way that industry once did. Wal-Mart didn't ask to be the new G.M., and even if it wanted to treat its employees as generously, it couldn't; Furman concludes that Wal-Mart's profits would be obliterated by adopting companywide health care or a significant raise in wages. It makes little sense to blame one company for the pain caused by a profound economic transformation.
 What would be more constructive, probably, is a total reimagination of the basic contract between government, businesses and workers -- a process that Clinton tentatively put in motion but that has since stalled as both parties retreated from the vexing challenges of globalization. After all, if you were going to sit down and create a system for our time, it probably wouldn't look much like the one we have. Does it make sense to expect businesses to finance lavish health care plans when foreign competition is forcing companies to cut their costs? Isn't government better equipped to insure a nomadic work force while employers take on the more manageable task of childcare -- a problem that hardly existed 50 years ago? If government were to remove the burden of health care costs from businesses, enabling them to better compete, wouldn't it then be more reasonable to create disincentives for employers who are thinking of shipping their jobs overseas? Isn't the very notion of a payroll tax for workers antiquated and inequitable in a society where so many Americans earn stock dividends and where a growing number are self-employed? If they were to spend more time debating these and other longer-term questions, our politicians might have some small hope of leaving a legacy to match their predecessors' -- a legacy better than the choice between the New Deal and no deal at all.

 Publicly traded companies, ranked by number of employees (2004)
 Source: Fortune magazine (2005 Fortune 500 special issue), April 18, 2005.

GRAPHIC: Photo (Photograph by Kevin Cooley)Chart: ''WHERE THE WORKERS ARE''

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (90%); MEDICAID (89%); LAYOFFS (89%); POLITICAL PARTIES (89%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (89%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (89%); CORRUPTION (78%); POLITICS (78%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (78%); ELECTIONS (78%); SOCIAL SECURITY (77%); HOLIDAYS & OBSERVANCES (76%); MIDTERM ELECTIONS (73%); HEALTH INSURANCE (73%); THANKSGIVING (71%); GLOBALIZATION (65%) 

COMPANY: GENERAL MOTORS CO (57%)

ORGANIZATION: General Motors Corp; Wal-Mart Stores Inc

TICKER: GM (NYSE) (57%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS336112 LIGHT TRUCK & UTILITY VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (57%); NAICS336111 AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING (57%)

PERSON: BILL CLINTON (78%) Matt Bai

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (96%); IRAQ (92%)

LOAD-DATE: December 18, 2005



387 of 607 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 18, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 4; Column 1; Editorial Desk; Pg. 13

LENGTH: 741 words

HEADLINE: Taking a Long View of the Iraq Conflict

BYLINE: By DAVID BROOKS

 BODY:
Over the past few years, the Iraq war has morphed from a war of liberation against Saddam into a civil conflict between Sunnis and Shiites. And when you look at this civil conflict -- or civil war if you want to call it that -- you see how typical it is of many of the civil wars we've seen in the world over the past six decades. Over that time, there have been 225 civil wars, and many of them have featured the same sort of insurgency and counterinsurgency, the same ethnic feuding and the same pattern of elections intermingled with violence that we see in Iraq today.
 American policy makers and think-tank Johnnies have not really looked at Iraq in the broader context of these other conflicts. That's in part because when Americans think of civil war, we tend to think of our own Civil War, which was utterly atypical. It's also because American experts were almost all trained to think about wars between nations, even though civil wars are nine times more common. 
 If, however, you do happen upon the Journal of Peace Research, where specialists do write about civil wars, you find that their broad perspective helps you see Iraq in clear and refreshing ways. 
 It's interesting to know, for example, that the median civil war lasts about six years. It's also interesting to know that most civil wars start, as Iraq's did, because of a power vacuum at the top. When a country's central government becomes ineffective, as Iraq's did after the toppling of Saddam, groups begin to grab for power and resources. (Civil wars are much more likely in countries with oil or other mineral wealth.)
 The leaders of insurgent armies certainly magnify ethnic grievances as part of their grab for spoils, but sectarian hatred usually isn't sufficient to start civil wars. These wars are started by local elites that are essentially making an investment. They decide to commit violence now in the hopes of grabbing great wealth later. The people who do the killing might be whipped up by ethnic grievances, but the people who lead civil wars are usually rational and greedy.
 Once a war starts, the length of the war is influenced by how strong and effective the central government is. If the central government is strong enough to fight back against insurgents, demonstrate resolve in the face of setbacks and also bribe insurgent leaders into joining the establishment, then the war can be cut short. If the central government is weak or corrupt, or if it reacts to the insurgency with excessive brutality, then the war drags on. 
 This is why it is essential that the U.S. remain in Iraq until we are sure the central government is strong. 
 There are three ways civil wars end. In countries where ethnic hatreds have been whipped to fever pitch, there may be no answer but partition -- separating the two groups. In countries where one side will settle for nothing less than total victory, then the war rages until one side suffers a crushing defeat. 
 But the best news out of Iraq last week was that the Sunnis voted joyfully and in large numbers. In what they said and the way they acted, both the Sunnis and Shiites made it clear that while they are engaged in a fierce rivalry, they fervently believe in a democratic and unified Iraq. This is not yet a to-the-death struggle.
 That makes the third option for ending a civil war -- a joint governing agreement -- more likely. The difficulty in ending a civil war via compromise is that neither side can trust the other enough to lay down its arms. That's why it is necessary to have a third party -- in Iraq, the United States -- to cajole the two sides toward the settlement, to enforce the agreement afterward, to nurture a functioning social contract after that, and to prevent hostile outside powers from spoiling the deal. 
 That's why, again, it is essential that the U.S. remain in Iraq long enough to de-escalate the conflict. 
 At the very moment that American gloom-mongers are opting for panicked withdrawal, there's been a pileup of good news on Iraq: the improved training of Iraqi troops, the more effective counterinsurgency strategies, the booming Iraqi economy, the vastly improved White House communication strategy, the amazing confidence of the Iraqi people and, most of all, this glorious election.
 All of which means that Iraq's civil war doesn't have to be a cataclysmic one -- that is, if Iraqis keep their heads and the United States has the perseverance to finish the job.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CIVIL WAR (92%); MUSLIMS & ISLAM (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); WAR & CONFLICT (89%); REBELLIONS & INSURGENCIES (89%); IRAQ WAR (78%) 

PERSON: SADDAM HUSSEIN (78%) David Brooks

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%); IRAQ (94%) Iraq

LOAD-DATE: December 18, 2005



388 of 607 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 18, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 14CN; Column 1; Connecticut Weekly Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1673 words

HEADLINE: In a Hurry to Diversify Beyond Submarines and Luck 

BYLINE: By JANE GORDON

 BODY:
IN southeastern Connecticut, long the land of big submarines and, more recently, big gambling, business and government leaders say they have learned their lesson. No more dependency on one or two industries -- or three, if the drug maker Pfizer, which is trying to trim $4 billion from its household budget by 2008, is counted -- and no more betting on dumb luck to keep the economy humming. 
 Economic diversification has long been a buzzword on the Connecticut shoreline. Yet the southeastern region still struggles to attract much beyond the three job categories already there: defense, gambling and bioscience. In some ways, casinos have just been a salve for defense-related job losses, not really a diversification of the economy, as workers simply switch back and forth between the two industries as jobs open up in one or the other, trading a dependency on defense for one on casinos.
But with the news earlier this month from Electric Boat that it would cut 2,400 jobs in 2006, and possibly half its work force by 2008, there is new resonance to the old problem: how to create other avenues for the economy to grow? 
 ''Diversification isn't continuing to do the same thing you've done for the last 50 years,'' said Mark Oefinger, the town manager in Groton. ''Chances are, it's going to take 10 to 20 years to diversify this economy away from defense dependency, away from casinos. Don't get me wrong -- we are fortunate to have these things in our area, and we've been lucky -- but we've had time to think about these things but haven't been able to implement them, because when everybody is fat, dumb and happy, they are resistant to change. To some degree, the news at Electric Boat may in fact help us as a region in trying to grow other parts of the economy.''
 The effort has certainly begun. A strategic plan for economic diversification has been printed and distributed to anyone who will read it. Town planners and managers in the region list diversification efforts on their Web sites the way other towns list social-service groups.
 Gov. M. Jodi Rell recently named several members to the new Commission on Economic Diversification in Southeastern Connecticut, including the chairman, Douglas G. Fisher, an executive at Northeast Utilities and a graduate of the John F. Kennedy School of Government at Harvard.
 And various regional efforts have sprouted up, including a nonprofit South Eastern Connecticut Enterprise Region that provides information on available properties and demographics to companies interested in the area. 
 ''The problem isn't so much that the economy isn't diversified,'' Mr. Fisher said. ''But it's all concentrated in three employer bases: bioscience, defense and the casinos and leisure and hospitality industry. And when there are cutbacks at Electric Boat, one of the major legs of the stool is being damaged. 
 Defense once accounted for well more than half the economic output for the southeastern region. That figure has fallen to less than 30 percent, or about $3 billion, in the region's $10 billion economy. The number of jobs at Electric Boat reached a high of 23,000 workers in the 1960's and 70's, during the Cold War, then declined to 7,000 in the 1990's, after the Cold War's end. The number has since risen to its present level of 11,500.
 In the Groton and New London areas, Electric Boat workers or those with Electric Boat histories are plentiful. Many of those workers, though, have gone on to other jobs, particularly at the casinos. 
 Keith Greene worked at Electric Boat from 1975 to 1991, starting out as a pipe fitter and departing as a piping supervisor. He lost his job as part of layoffs at Electric Boat in the early 1990's, and with two young children to support, immediately took a job at Foxwoods casino as a dealer.
 ''It's funny, when I'm in the cafeteria at Foxwoods and I look around, I'll say, 'Hey, that guy was a welder at E.B.,' '' said Mr. Greene, who is now a poker supervisor at Foxwoods. ''And just recently, a guy said to me, 'Keith, didn't you work at E.B.?' The guy was a machinist there. And it's weird, because I haven't worked there in a long time. But when you were in high school, your father worked at E.B., and then you worked there. It's what everyone did.'' 
 Fred Vocatura worked at Electric Boat for 40 years until he was laid off in 1992. He went to work at Foxwoods, fingerprinting new employees. Then he returned to Electric Boat to augment his retirement benefits and retired from Electric Boat to take a job as a fingerprinter at the Mohegan Sun casino. Now 71 and a widower, he has no plans to retire anytime soon. 
 ''Electric Boat provided me a good living, and Foxwoods and Mohegan Sun picked up the slack,'' Mr. Vocatura said. ''It's a sad thing, but there's no more Cold War. What do you need submarines for?'' 
 Mr. Vocatura's job-hopping, to some degree, points up the lack of choices available to workers in the region. The governor's new commission on diversification may seek to change that, although Mr. Oefinger, the Groton town manager, is concerned that the group may simply seek to hold on to defense jobs. 
 But Mr. Fisher, its chairman, said he was hoping to broaden several industries, including the bioscience and biotechnology sector in the region. ''I'd like to try to tap into clean energy, with all the investment being made at the federal level with relation to that kind of thing, especially with the nuclear power plants and the expertise in the area,'' he said.
 He also talked about how statewide cooperation might help bring the financial-services industry to southeastern Connecticut, particularly given the presence of Fidelity Investments and other major financial service companies in Hartford and Providence, R.I. 
 ''There may be a tie-in with Fairfield County with their financial services industry,'' Mr. Fisher said. ''This is a very attractive place to live, and it can be an area where you might be able to initially attract smaller and midsize firms, then grow from there.''
 This is a wide-ranging focus for an area that has thought narrowly for years, but with the state's eyes trained on helping the region, state money may not be far behind. 
 ''Not that there's state funding lying under trees these days,'' Mr. Fisher said. ''But I would think that a state commission has a better chance at getting that state attention now, as opposed to another entity that is operating out of the region. This process is no longer just regionally driven.''
 To state legislators, diversification does not mean giving up the defense jobs already in place, though. Electric Boat, a division of the General Dynamics Corporation, has survived cuts in submarine building over several years by maintaining existing submarines and still has contracts to build nine submarines through 2014. Then the Navy announced in the fall that it would be using public shipyards to maintain those submarines in the future, effectively excluding Electric Boat from bidding on the work. 
 On Dec. 6, the same day Electric Boat announced impending layoffs, Sen. Joseph I. Lieberman sent out a news release by e-mail assuring constituents that he would press for the Navy to build two submarines a year.
 ''I intend to do everything possible to protect jobs at E.B.,'' Mr. Lieberman wrote. ''The nation has a core national security capability in undersea warfare expertise that is centered in Connecticut.''
 Now it also has a core in gambling. Foxwoods Resort Casino announced a $700 million expansion in February, adding a hotel, a 5,000-seat theater, space for conventions, a ballroom and more shops, restaurants and nightclubs. 
 Foxwoods and Mohegan Sun bring in about 70,000 visitors a day. 
 But one businesswoman lamented that once visitors arrive at the casinos, they stay there. ''The casinos keep building more rooms, and that takes rooms away from us,'' said Joan Egy, the owner of Stonecroft, a bed-and-breakfast in Ledyard, Foxwoods' hometown. ''Whenever I talk to various types of businesspeople here, from the beverage distributors and waitstaff, I see that business is down for everyone.'' 
 The state consolidated its regional tourism boards last year, also cutting back their budgets. Ms. Egy, who is Ledyard's representative to the Mystic Country Tourism board, said the state had not been spending enough money on tourism advertising, which particularly irks innkeepers who must collect the 12 percent occupancy tax that the state uses for purposes other than tourism advertising.
 ''Tourism in the whole state seems to be having a hard time, ever since 9/11,'' Ms. Egy said. ''Not many of us are doing as well as we did in the late 90's.''
 The area doesn't even get to wallow in euphoria for very long. Just a few months after state legislators announced that the Naval Sub Base in Groton had been spared from closing, Electric Boat announced its cuts. 
 ''There's a significant concern about those cuts,'' said Tony Sheridan, executive director of the Chamber of Commerce of Eastern Connecticut, in Gales Ferry. ''With that said, you have to put everything in perspective. We're accustomed to the cyclical nature of the defense business. Now add today's perspective, when everybody's worked about global competition. We can't outsource military manufacturing, so we're secure with that. But the economy is making a major shift, and it's hard to predict where it's going to end up.'' 
 Even though progress in economic diversification has been slow in the region, in part because of circumstances beyond the control of business leaders, some find hope in past advances.
 ''Thank God this isn't 15 years ago, because the E.B. announcement would have been much more brutal,'' said Fred Carstensen, the director of the Center for Economic Analysis at the University of Connecticut. ''The area has managed to diversify moderately with the casinos and especially with the big expansion of Pfizer. We have a tremendous amount of activity. The challenge is to translate that into a competitive advantage.''


GRAPHIC: Photos: A shift change at Electric Boat this year, right. The company plans to cut 2,400 jobs in 2006, and possibly half its work force by 2008. Submarines and gambling, along with bioscience, are keystones of the region's economy. (Photo by Thomas McDonald for The New York Times)
(Photo by Bob Child/Associated Press)(pg. 1)
The Jimmy Carter, a nuclear submarine built by Electric Boat, participating in sea trials in December 2004. (Photo by Electric Boat)
 Foxwoods Resort Casino plans a $700 million expansion, which will add a hotel, theater and space for conventions. (Photo by C. M. Glover for The New York Times)(pg. 4)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: GAMING (90%); DEFENSE INDUSTRY (78%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (78%); BUDGETS (77%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (76%); LABOR FORCE (76%); LAYOFFS (75%); PHARMACEUTICAL PREPARATION MFG (72%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (71%); HOSPITALITY INDUSTRY (70%); STRATEGIC PLANNING (68%); NONPROFIT ORGANIZATIONS (60%) 

COMPANY: PFIZER INC (72%); NORTHEAST UTILITIES (51%)

ORGANIZATION: Electric Boat

TICKER: PFZ (LSE) (72%); PFEB (BRU) (72%); PFE (NYSE) (72%); NU (NYSE) (51%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS325414 BIOLOGICAL PRODUCT (EXCEPT DIAGNOSTIC) MANUFACTURING (72%); NAICS325412 PHARMACEUTICAL PREPARATION MANUFACTURING (72%); NAICS325411 MEDICINAL & BOTANICAL MANUFACTURING (72%); SIC2836 BIOLOGICAL PRODUCTS, EXCEPT DIAGNOSTIC SUBSTANCES (72%); SIC2834 PHARMACEUTICAL PREPARATIONS (72%); SIC2833 MEDICINAL CHEMICALS & BOTANICAL PRODUCTS (72%); NAICS221210 NATURAL GAS DISTRIBUTION (51%); NAICS221122 ELECTRIC POWER DISTRIBUTION (51%)

PERSON: M JODI RELL (78%); JIMMY CARTER (50%) Jane Gordon; M Jodi (Gov) Rell

GEOGRAPHIC: CONNECTICUT, USA (95%) UNITED STATES (95%) Connecticut; Connecticut

LOAD-DATE: December 18, 2005



389 of 607 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 18, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 14CN; Column 1; Connecticut Weekly Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1651 words

HEADLINE: A Laboratory For Liberals? 

BYLINE: By AVI SALZMAN

 BODY:
ON Dec. 1, readers of the popular liberal blog TPM Cafe (www.tpmcafe.com) woke up to a celebratory posting: ''In Connecticut, Victory is Sweet!''
 The writer continued, sounding more like a witness to a moon landing than a policy wonk: ''History was made at 2:45 a.m., EST, this morning, when the Connecticut House joined the Senate in passing a comprehensive campaign reform bill that will establish full public financing of campaigns for all state offices.''
The tone of that post was echoed on other left-leaning Web sites. And it's nothing new for Connecticut circa 2005, where liberals go for good news when they can't find it anywhere else.
 Markos Moulitsas, founder of Daily Kos (www.dailykos.com), the most popular political blog on the Internet according to Technorati, which tracks Web sites, thinks Connecticut is ''on the cutting edge of policy.'' 
 ''They've become a sort of laboratory for some of these progressive policies,'' he said in a telephone interview earlier this month.
 But is the land of steady habits really ready for the cutting edge? Even more than that, is Connecticut becoming a liberal bellwether?
 If 2005 was any indication, it could be.
 This year, the Legislature passed a law permitting civil unions, becoming the first state to offer gay unions without being pressured by the courts. Unlike in other states, where gay rights groups see civil unions as a long shot, groups in Connecticut were so uninspired by the civil unions bill that they initially opposed it, pushing for full marriage rights or nothing at all.
 While the federal estate tax has been whittled away in recent years, the Connecticut Legislature reimposed its own estate tax this year. It also passed a law financing stem-cell research, despite widespread disputes over such research in other states and in the federal government. Liberal groups were delighted when the state sued the federal government over the requirements of the No Child Left Behind Act.
 And recently Senator Joseph I. Lieberman has been under attack in the state for his hawkish views on the Iraq war. In the past few weeks, a Web site was set up with the sole purpose of getting former Gov. Lowell Weicker to challenge Mr. Lieberman on an antiwar platform, a prospect that has many in the state's left-wing circles positively giddy.
 Then there is the campaign finance law, which strictly limits contributions to political candidates and establishes public financing of campaigns. Taking interest-group money out of politics is not necessarily a liberal or conservative idea; the measure would not have passed without prodding from Gov. M. Jodi Rell, a Republican who does not consider herself either liberal or conservative, as her spokesman said in a recent interview. 
 But while the bill incorporated many of Mrs. Rell's proposals, it was pushed by liberal groups and written by Democrats, and was opposed by most of the Legislature's Republicans. The enthusiasm of liberal bloggers for the measure was not echoed on conservative sites, like the one at www.redstate.org, where one poster wrote that ''Connecticut's 'reform' is sure to have many unintended consequences, such as stifling free speech rights and inviting litigation.''
 If the definition of a liberal is someone who irritates conservatives, Connecticut may qualify. Ann Coulter, the conservative columnist, cut off a recent speech at the University of Connecticut after she was heckled. Asked if there was any reason for a conservative to be proud of Connecticut, Ms. Coulter, who grew up in New Canaan, wrote in an e-mail message, ''good manners, argyle socks, and Joe Lieberman,'' adding ''also, good training ground for future right-wingers.''
 Determining whether the state is becoming more liberal is complicated, because the concept of liberalism is itself fuzzy. While Democrats are often considered liberals, the ideas of liberalism do not belong to one party, and the meaning of the word liberal depends on its context. 
 Liberal fiscal policies are based on the belief that the government plays an integral role in solving economic problems, said Douglas C. Foyle, an assistant government professor at Wesleyan University in Middletown. On social issues, the split between liberals and conservatives is often more nuanced, and depends heavily on how the debate is framed, Dr. Foyle said; while liberals would say abortion is about the individual rights of the mother, anti-abortion conservatives often argue that they are protecting the individual rights of the unborn child, he said.
 Increasingly, the word liberal is used pejoratively. Few people who called the failed presidential candidate John F. Kerry ''the liberal Senator from Massachusetts'' meant it as a compliment. Liberal in that case was used as a substitute for ''out of touch,'' or even ''un-American'' said Bill Curry, a Democrat who lost the most recent gubernatorial election to John G. Rowland.
 ''It's all part of trying to demonize and marginalize,'' said Mr. Moulitsas, the founder of Daily Kos.
 But in New England generally, the word liberal does not carry the same sting, at least not in local and statewide elections. 
 ''In certain states, you don't see candidates running away from the term liberal in their campaigns,'' Dr. Foyle said. ''In that sense, New England is an exception.''
 Much of the legislation passed this year in Connecticut would be unheard of in other parts of the country. On numerous highly charged issues, the state has distanced itself from the federal government and from other states, where lawmakers and voters have turned strongly against liberal social policies.
 In the 2004 elections, for instance, voters in 11 states supported bans on same-sex marriage. In Alabama, a red state to be sure, all four major candidates for governor, regardless of party, support an amendment banning same-sex marriage that goes before voters next year, said William Stewart, a professor emeritus in the department of political science at the University of Alabama.
 ''It would be committing political suicide otherwise,'' Dr. Stewart said. 
 If Connecticut became a liberal bellwether, it would be stealing the moniker from Massachusetts. The liberal label is more closely associated with Connecticut's neighbor to the north, and on certain issues Connecticut has a long way to go to catch up.
 Connecticut, unlike Massachusetts, still has the death penalty, and recently conducted the first execution in New England in the past 45 years. All Massachusetts's congressional representatives are Democrats, while three of Connecticut's five members of the House of Representatives are Republicans. And Connecticut's Democratic senators do not have the liberal reputations of their peers to the north. For left-wing Democrats, Mr. Lieberman will never be confused with Senator Edward M. Kennedy. 
 Connecticut tilts Democratic in presidential elections. But an analysis of voting records by the Bay Area Center for Voting Research in Berkeley, Calif., released this year, found that certain Connecticut cities, like Hartford and New Haven, rank among the most liberal in the nation, while others, like Waterbury and Stamford, were more conservative.
 The center looked at all 2004 presidential candidates who won more than 0.1 percent of the vote in each city in the nation with more than 100,000 people, and separated them into liberal, conservative and neutral camps based on their views. Cities were ranked based on the percentage of voters who chose liberal or conservative candidates.
 Connecticut ''still has pockets of fairly conservative residents," said Jason Alderman, the center's director and a researcher on the study. ''While Connecticut certainly isone of the Northeast's most liberal states, its liberalism is tempered by the wealth of its residents.''
 Voting results present a complicated picture, particularly since the state has not elected a Democratic governor since William A. O'Neill won in 1986. That flexibility in picking candidates from different parties shows the state is not driven by ideology, said Mr. Curry, Mr. Rowland's failed opponent, who is now working on writing projects. 
 The state is not so much liberal as ''civil and tolerant,'' he said. ''We've never been at each other's throats over the culture wars. It says something nice about us that we've been able to negotiate so many hard changes with so little ill will.''
 Adam Liegeot, a spokesman for Mrs. Rell, said she fostered ''a spirit of cooperation and public service that transcends partisanship.'' 
 ''Governor Rell,'' he added, ''does not make decisions based upon political philosophy or political angles.'' 
 In that vein, some say the legislation passed this year was driven by pragmatic concerns about specific issues facing the state, and had nothing to do with political ideology. Campaign finance reform would not have passed if Mr. Rowland had not gone to jail, Mr. Curry said. And civil unions would not have had the same momentum if Massachusetts had not set the example with same-sex marriage, Dr. Foyle said. 
 Mr. Moulitsas said the policies Connecticut has adopted are an important model, but do not necessarily put the state at the forefront of liberal politics.
 ''It's less a liberal bellwether,'' he said. ''It's more of an innovator in public policy.''
 While Connecticut may continue to set an example for people in other parts of the country to push for liberal policies, it will likely do so in response to specific needs within its borders, not ideological imperatives, Mr. Curry said.
 Dr. Foyle echoed this thought. ''These are local issues in Connecticut that are being addressed based on local attitudes,'' he said. 
 Meanwhile, conservatives still have other states to kick around. When asked what she thought of the UConn students who heckled her, Ms. Coulter wrote in her e-mail message, ''I believe they were from Massachusetts.''


GRAPHIC: Photo: Liberals say Senator Joseph I. Lieberman is hawkish on Iraq. (Photo by Carol Phelps/Associated Press)(pg. 19)Drawing (Drawing by Douglas Fraser)(pg. 1)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LIBERAL MEDIA (90%); BLOGS & MESSAGE BOARDS (90%); LIBERALISM (90%); CAMPAIGN FINANCE (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); CONSERVATISM (89%); LEGISLATION (89%); INTERVIEWS (89%); SAME SEX MARRIAGE & UNIONS (89%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (89%); DOMESTIC PARTNERSHIPS (86%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (78%); POLITICAL ORGANIZATIONS (76%); POLITICS (76%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (76%); ESTATE TAX (76%); INTERNET & WWW (75%); IRAQ WAR (74%); EDUCATION LAW (71%); GAYS & LESBIANS (69%); LGBT RIGHTS (69%); HUMAN RIGHTS ORGANIZATIONS (68%); US NO CHILD LEFT BEHIND ACT (65%); BIOTECHNOLOGY & GENETIC SCIENCE (64%); STEM CELL RESEARCH (62%) 

PERSON: JOE LIEBERMAN (78%); M JODI RELL (57%) Avi Salzman

GEOGRAPHIC: CONNECTICUT, USA (99%) UNITED STATES (99%); IRAQ (91%) Connecticut; Connecticut

LOAD-DATE: December 18, 2005



390 of 607 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 18, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 1; Column 3; National Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1427 words

HEADLINE: Tensions Rise As More Flee Cuba for U.S.

BYLINE: BY ABBY GOODNOUGH; Terry Aguayo contributed reporting from Miami for this article.

DATELINE: MIAMI, Dec. 17 

 BODY:
The number of Cubans intercepted at sea while trying to reach the United States is at its highest level since tens of thousands took to the Florida Straits on makeshift rafts and in small boats in the 1994 exodus sanctioned by President Fidel Castro. 
 The sharp rise -- and an increase in clashes between would-be immigrants and the Coast Guard -- are inflaming tensions over a policy enacted in response to the 1994 migration that allows Cubans without visas to stay if they reach American soil but turns back those caught at sea.
The ''wet foot, dry foot'' policy, which does not apply to any other immigrant group, is being blamed by critics for at least 39 deaths this year in the Florida Straits and is testing the resolve of the Coast Guard, which the critics say has become too aggressive in enforcing the restrictions.
 In offering a permanent escape to Cubans who make it here, they say, the policy encourages them to risk their lives. 
 Coast Guard data show that as of Friday, 2,683 Cubans had been intercepted at sea this year, nearly double the number for all of 2004. And while the high season for migrant crossings, when the sailing tends to be smoothest, is already past, scores have kept trying the journey despite the perils.
 Some of the migrants, hoping to avoid confrontations with Coast Guard patrols, are taking unusual routes, to the United States Virgin Islands and the Gulf Coast of Florida. A fast-growing number -- including 6,744 counted by Customs and Border Patrol in the fiscal year that ended in September -- are entering the United States by slipping across the Mexican border, often after sailing some 500 miles to Honduras from Cuba.
 The State Department says the new wave of migrants is a result of increasingly repressive policies in Cuba, the island's crumbling economy and Mr. Castro's refusal to let more Cubans sign up for a lottery under which the United States is supposed to grant 20,000 visas a year. 
 But some Cuban-Americans in South Florida say that new limits on their visits and on the money they can send to relatives on the island, imposed by the Bush administration last year, have led to greater desperation among many Cubans. 
 Ever more aggressive smuggling has also played a role. Far more Cubans are making it to American shores, including, for example, 14 migrants discovered near a parking lot on Marco Island, Fla., a few days after Thanksgiving. About 2,530 completed the journey to South Florida in the last fiscal year, compared with 954 the year before, according to the Border Patrol.
 ''The message to Cuban families is that if you don't want to wait in line, your relatives in Miami can pay $8,000 and you've got a good chance to make it here,'' said Philip Peters, a Cuba analyst at the Lexington Institute, a research group in Washington. ''It really is a glaring exception in the whole homeland security policy.''
 One incident this fall perhaps best encapsulated the growing resolve of Cubans to slip into this country and of the federal government to keep them out.
 Florida television audiences watched as government agents struggled to keep 10 migrants in a homemade metal vessel from reaching the beach just north of Miami after a Customs and Border Protection boat bumped it hard enough to spill some of the migrants overboard. Coast Guard boats had also sprayed the vessel with a hose and tried stalling its engine with a rope during a prolonged showdown with the migrants, all men.
 ''We are needlessly putting innocent lives at risk,'' said Cheryl Little, executive director of the Florida Immigrant Advocacy Center, which helps Cuban and other migrants pursue asylum claims. ''Our Coast Guard is being put in the untenable position of endangering lives in order to keep people from reaching our shores.'' 
 Luis Diaz, a spokesman for the Coast Guard in Miami, said that the agency's tactics had not become more aggressive but that unlike in the past, it was working closely with agencies like Customs and Border Protection since becoming part of the Department of Homeland Security in 2002.
 ''We are working better and smarter with our partners,'' Mr. Diaz said. ''Before we were in Homeland Security we had different radios, different frequencies, and now we are working together behind the same equipment.''
 The number of Cubans being intercepted is by far the highest since 1994, when 37,000 took to the Florida Straits after Mr. Castro announced that his government would no longer stop boats or rafts leaving the island. It was a hostile move against the United States and a way for Mr. Castro to divert attention from his domestic problems and quell an uprising against him on the island, similar to when he let 125,000 Cubans leave in the Mariel boatlift of 1980.
 The 1994 exodus led the United States and Cuba to agree on the wet foot, dry foot policy in 1995, ending this country's longtime practice of admitting all Cuban migrants as refugees. 
 Many of the Cuban migrants are paying thousands of dollars, often provided by relatives here, to smugglers who whisk them across the Florida Straits on speedboats, several of which capsized this year. In one such case, a 6-year-old boy drowned after the boat he was riding in fled a Coast Guard cutter in October. In another, an Antiguan merchant ship rescued three migrants who said that 31 others had drowned when their 28-foot boat overturned in August. 
 Others are still trying the dangerous trip on rafts or vessels of their own making, some of which are spotted by fishing boats and cruise ships that report them to the Coast Guard. Those intercepted at sea can get preliminary asylum interviews aboard Coast Guard cutters, but only a few are deemed eligible for second interviews. They get sent to the United States Naval Station in Guantanamo Bay, Cuba.
 If found to have a credible fear of persecution, they still cannot come to the United States and instead are resettled in other countries like Spain and Australia. 
 Only about 2.5 percent of Cubans intercepted at sea in the last fiscal year were taken to Guantanamo and considered for asylum, according to the Department of Homeland Security. Even of those, most were eventually returned to Cuba. 
 Even as the number of Cuban migrants balloons and President Bush proposes new laws to curb illegal immigration, there is no plan to re-examine the wet foot, dry foot policy, said Janelle Hironimus, a State Department spokeswoman. She said Mr. Castro's policies were behind the increase in migration efforts. 
 ''Castro's repression of his own people and refusal to allow the basic freedoms enjoyed by people everywhere have led to a mass migration by the Cuban people,'' Ms. Hironimus said.
 But some Cuban-Americans in South Florida say Mr. Bush's refusal to make exceptions to the current policy is evidence that he is deserting the anti-Castro cause. 
 They were particularly angered by a case last month in which Jorge Ernesto Leyva, who had recently emigrated from Cuba, drove a rented speedboat to Havana from Key West, packed the 27-foot boat with 37 relatives and tried to return here clandestinely. But the sea turned violent and as the passengers were bailing water, a Coast Guard helicopter spotted the boat and directed a cutter to intercept it. 
 The Coast Guard crew had transferred only about half of the migrants to its cutter when the speedboat capsized, trapping two grandmothers and a 9-year-old girl underneath. The girl's mother dived under the boat to rescue the girl, but nobody saved the two women -- even though Mr. Leyva and others on his boat said they begged the Coast Guard crew to do so.
 Mr. Diaz, the Coast Guard spokesman, said rescue diving was not part of the Coast Guard's standard procedures.
 ''People ask us, 'Go underneath the hull,' '' he said. ''Well, we don't carry divers. If our personnel jumped in the water, then no one is going to be manning the ship. We have just enough persons to run a vessel. We don't have extra bodies to do things some of these relatives want us to do.''
 Mr. Leyva and a teenager on the boat were brought to Florida because they had been admitted previously. The others asked permission to attend the funerals of the drowned women, who were 74 and 60. But the Department of Homeland Security denied their request and returned them to Cuba.
 ''We are concerned about the policy and the effect it has on the way the Coast Guard does its business,'' said Matthew Archambeault, a lawyer for Mr. Leyva and his family. ''We do feel they sacrifice safety to keep people away from dry land.''


GRAPHIC: Photos: Martha Rodriguez de Lopez, left, was consoled by a friend, Vivian Leon, in Miami after the death of her mother, who tried to reach Florida by boat. (Photo by Richard Patterson for The New York Times)
 The Coast Guard kept 10 Cuban men from reaching a Florida beach in September. (Photo by WTVJ/NBC6)(pg. 44)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: IMMIGRATION (91%); TERRITORIAL & NATIONAL BORDERS (89%); BORDER CONTROL (89%); SPECIAL INVESTIGATIVE FORCES (88%); US PRESIDENTS (78%); HISPANIC AMERICANS (78%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (78%); REFUGEES (77%); EXCISE & CUSTOMS (73%); ISLANDS & REEFS (71%); SMUGGLING (70%); STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (68%); THANKSGIVING (66%); PARKING SPACES & FACILITIES (50%) United States International Relations; Immigration and Refugees; Lotteries

ORGANIZATION: Coast Guard (US)

PERSON: FIDEL CASTRO (79%) Abby Goodnough; Fidel (Pres) Castro

GEOGRAPHIC: MIAMI, FL, USA (93%) FLORIDA, USA (97%); SOUTHEAST USA (79%) UNITED STATES (97%); CUBA (97%); MEXICO (79%); HONDURAS (79%); VIRGIN ISLANDS, U.S. (79%) Cuba; Cuba

LOAD-DATE: December 18, 2005



391 of 607 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 18, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 1; Column 1; The Arts/Cultural Desk; Pg. 58

LENGTH: 696 words

PERSON: Sydney Leff

HEADLINE: Sydney Leff, 104, Artist With an Eye for Music

BYLINE: By MARGALIT FOX

 BODY:
Sydney Leff, a commercial artist who was almost certainly the last surviving illustrator of sheet music from the golden age of Tin Pan Alley, died on Dec. 10 at his home in Ossining, N.Y. He was 104 and had lived for many years in West Palm Beach, Fla.
 Mr. Leff's son-in-law Alfred Miller confirmed the death. 
In the 1920's and 30's, Mr. Leff designed and drew the covers for nearly 2,000 songs, from enduring standards like ''Stormy Weather'' and ''Sweet Georgia Brown'' to more ephemeral numbers like ''Rock Me in a Cradle of Kalua'' and ''Baby Feet Go Pitter Patter Across My Floor.''
 Associated in particular with Irving Berlin, Mr. Leff also illustrated the work of Harold Arlen, Duke Ellington and many others. In 2000, several of his covers, including his elegant illustration for ''Underneath the Harlem Moon,'' by Mack Gordon and Harry Revel, were featured in ''New York: Songs of the City,'' an exhibition at the Museum of the City of New York.
 In the MP3 era, with consumers awash in sound, it is hard to remember that through the first half of the 20th century, new songs typically met the world as sheet music. Nearly every middle-class home had a parlor, and nearly every parlor had a piano. Before radios and record players became ubiquitous, families gathered round the piano to sing the latest numbers, available in any dime store. The music's illustrated cover was meant to sell the song.
 Mr. Leff's covers spanned the transition from the dripping tendrils of Art Nouveau to the clean lines and bold tonal contrasts of Deco. Not all of them are memorable; Mr. Leff, who earned about $25 a cover, sometimes drew three or four a day. A few, which depict black Americans in the stereotypical manner of the period, are badly dated. But much of Mr. Leff's work is striking even now. 
 With their promise of romance, glamour and sophistication, Mr. Leff's best covers were small graphic dramas, neatly encapsulating the story inside. One of his most enticing images is for ''Yes Sir! That's My Baby,'' by Gus Kahn and Walter Donaldson. On the cover, a fur-swathed young woman, wearing a plumed cloche and an alluringly short hemline, strides toward the viewer.
 Behind the woman lies a sleepy village, with white houses and a church spire. Was she fleeing her staid home for the lights of the city? Was she a scarlet woman, run out of town? Or had she arrived there to shake things up? Spend a quarter and find out, the cover seemed to say.
 Sydney Leff was born in Brooklyn on Nov. 18, 1901, and attended a vocational high school for the arts in Manhattan. A classmate and lifelong friend was Al Hirschfeld, the noted theater caricaturist. Though the two men had very different visual styles, both were concerned throughout their work with a controlled economy of line.
 Mr. Leff got into the song business in the early 1920's, after answering an ad for an illustrator placed by the songwriter Sam Coslow, who would later write ''My Old Flame.'' Over the next two decades, Mr. Leff illustrated a range of standards, among them ''Sophisticated Lady,'' with music by Ellington; ''Ain't Misbehavin' '' (Fats Waller and Harry Brooks); ''Me and My Shadow'' (Al Jolson and Dave Dreyer); ''Five Foot Two, Eyes of Blue'' (Ray Henderson); and Berlin's ''Blue Skies.''
 By the early 1940's, photographs had become the norm on sheet music covers, putting a generation of illustrators out of work. Mr. Leff went into advertising, working as an art director at several agencies.
 Mr. Leff's wife, Rita Zion Leff, an artist and illustrator, died in 1979. He is survived by two daughters, Joan Miller and Gail Raab, both artists living in Manhattan; four grandchildren; and five great-grandchildren.
 The American sheet-music business, which began in Colonial times and was by the 19th century a thriving concern, is today mostly a thing of the past. But through the work of Mr. Leff and his colleagues, the era of spats and Champagne endures in miniature.
 ''I knew when to hang out the moon and the stars,'' Mr. Leff told The New York Times in 2000. He also knew where to hang a hemline, studying the fashion plates to ensure that his ladies' attire was fetchingly up to date.


GRAPHIC: Photo: Sydney Leff in 1990. His covers sold the songs of Tin Pan Alley.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Obituary (Obit); Biography

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MUSIC (91%); ARTISTS & PERFORMERS (91%); VISUAL ARTISTS (90%); KEYBOARD INSTRUMENTS (89%); MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (78%); WOMEN (71%); AFRICAN AMERICANS (67%) 

COMPANY: PANASONIC APPLIANCES INDIA CO LTD (91%)

TICKER: PANASONIC (NSE) (91%)

Margalit Fox

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (87%) FLORIDA, USA (91%); NEW YORK, USA (87%) UNITED STATES (91%)

CATEGORY: Art

LOAD-DATE: December 18, 2005



392 of 607 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 18, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 3; Column 2; Money and Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 2552 words

HEADLINE: In Sickness and in Health They Did

BYLINE: By JEFF BAILEY

DATELINE: Tempe, Ariz. 

 BODY:
THE most influential flight attendant at the US Airways Group is not employed by the airline; in fact, she quit working in the industry nearly a decade ago. But Gwen Parker, for 12 years a flight attendant and an active union member at American Airlines, regularly advises US Airways' chief executive about how to treat the company's 35,000 employees.
 The chief executive, W. Douglas Parker, is her husband. Having engineered the merger of his smaller America West Airlines with US Airways, Mr. Parker, 44, faces the daunting task of combining their vastly different, though equally wary, work forces in an industry noted for its volatile labor relations. ''He has an uphill battle,'' Mrs. Parker said in an interview at their children's elementary school, where she is a volunteer. She has no formal role at US Airways, but both husband and wife say that she has helped him to appreciate the plight of airline workers, and to learn to express empathy with employees, even as Mr. Parker, a veteran airline executive, helped to lead the industry's cost cutting. 
Mr. Parker said he has come to appreciate how uncaring and defensive executives sound when announcing that workers must make concessions. ''In this business you'll hear, 'Well, what else are we going to do?' '' he said, referring to repeated management demands to cut workers' pay, increase their work and reduce benefits. ''I was guilty of it in the past.'' But, he added: ''You can't say to Gwen, 'What else are we going to do?' It's not going to make for a nice evening at home.''
 Mr. Parker may well need all the empathy he can muster. An angry work force can quickly sap the quality of service at an airline, chasing away customers and leading to financial problems even in the best of economic times. Both US Airways and America West suffered embarrassing and costly service meltdowns in recent years. Mr. Parker is treading lightly as he travels the country seeking worker support for additional changes that he says are essential to the success of the merged company, which adopted the US Airways name and the America West headquarters, here in Tempe.
 The stakes are sizable. A successful merger at US Airways, now the fifth-largest domestic airline, could lead to further consolidation among major car-
 riers. That would help drain more costs out of the shaky industry and allow it to better weather the next downturn. But disarray at US Airways could scare other airlines away from mergers, leaving the industry less robust.
 ''There's a reason carriers have not combined,'' said John E. Luth, chief executive of the Seabury Group, an investment banking firm that advised US Airways on the second of its two post-Sept. 11 bankruptcies and on the merger. Without compatible labor costs at the two airlines, he said, mergers are a mess. Flight networks cannot overlap too much or the combination will attract antitrust scrutiny. And managements are reluctant to cede control. Still, Mr. Luth, whose firm collected $19 million in fees for its work with US Airways, said that ''I think we're going to see one or two additional mergers this decade'' among the major airlines.
 WALL STREET, meanwhile, is already giddy about US Airways' prospects. Lower labor and other operating costs, with the exception of fuel, as well as rising fares attributable to a reduction in fleets by bankrupt airlines, have some investors excited about the industry for the first time in five years. That allowed the new US Airways, around the time of the merger, to raise $866 million by selling stock -- a commitment by investors that seemed unthinkable a few months earlier.
 Shares of US Airways have nearly doubled since the merger was completed on Sept. 27, pushing its market capitalization to more than $2.71 billion. That is not bad, considering that the two airlines have three bankruptcies between them and that the merger, when announced last spring, was disparaged by some people as two drunks trying to hold each other up. Mr. Parker said he had also endured having the merger, code-named Project Barbell because the two airlines' operations are concentrated on opposite sides of the country, lampooned as Project Dumbbell.
 ''I take huge pleasure in surprising people,'' he said during an interview aboard a flight from Phoenix to Boston, where he would be host for a spirited employee-gripe session.
 Tall and boyish-looking -- some pilots call him Doogie, as in ''Doogie Howser, M.D.,'' the old television series about a teenager who becomes a doctor -- Mr. Parker was little known before the merger made headlines. In 2001, he took the helm of America West, which has hubs in Phoenix and Las Vegas.
 He grew up around the Midwest, the family following his father's rise from meat cutter to executive at Kroger, the grocery chain. Out of college, Mr. Parker joined American Airlines in Fort Worth, doing financial work. There he met Gwen, a flight attendant and daughter of a liberal Methodist minister with a strong belief in unions and social justice.
 ''I've always been a supporter of unions,'' Mrs. Parker said. ''It caused a lot of conflict in the beginning of our relationship.''
 She found American Airlines -- she worked there until 1996 -- particularly tough on workers. ''They always gave you the feeling you were so easily replaced,'' she said. ''I helped Doug understand that. You want to be respected for the job you do.''
 Too much confrontation and an airline can descend into chaos. Too nice a guy in the corner office and unions can walk away with all the money. Striking a balance is inherently risky, but Mr. Parker seems to crave a thrill.
 On his honeymoon, he bungee-jumped. ''I'd do it again,'' he said. A few years later, he ran with the bulls in Pamplona, Spain. And he still likes playing blackjack in Las Vegas, where he said he usually starts at a table that limits bets to $25 but shifts to a $50 table if he is winning -- though he knows that it's easy to lose money quickly there. ''That's the bad part,'' he said. 
 By the early 1990's, Mr. Parker had moved on to a more senior finance job at Northwest Airlines, and Mrs. Parker was still flying for American, when a brief strike occurred there. She took him along to a rally of American's flight attendants. ''I was just there as a spouse,'' he said. ''These people were foaming at the mouth'' as they talked about how badly they were being treated by the airline's executives -- ''guys I knew and respected,'' he said.
 From Mr. Parker's perspective, the American flight attendants didn't grasp the industry's problems. ''Don't they get it?'' he remembered wondering at the time. Later, as chief executive of America West, he said he encountered a similar perception gap with the pilots' union. ''A lot of ill will,'' he recalled. ''Unrealistic expectations.'' But Mr. Parker said he reacted differently, thinking, ''Shame on management over the years for not communicating how the business is going.''
 He was named America West's chief executive 10 days before the Sept. 11 terrorist attacks shut down the nation's airlines for several days and greatly accelerated a financial crisis in the industry. His airline, running short of cash, had negotiated some crucial loans, but lenders backed out after 9/11. At the same time, ticket sales plunged. With just $85 million on hand, ''we were by far in the worst shape,'' he said.
 At a meeting of airline chiefs and federal officials to discuss an industry bailout, Mr. Parker, 39 at the time, remembers having to raise his hand when government officials asked if any companies were in immediate danger of insolvency. ''America West has two weeks,'' he told them.
 After being turned down twice, the airline got the first government loan guarantee, and the $429 million it was able to borrow kept it alive. Still, the company has piled up a cumulative loss of about $670 million over the past four years.
 By 2005, America West badly needed more capital. Longer term, even with its low costs, America West faced trouble because it serves markets dominated by leisure travel, which generally commands lower fares. Competitors, which have reduced their own costs, have business-travel routes on which they can often charge higher prices, giving them wider profit margins.
 US Airways, meanwhile, with a dense network of shorter East Coast routes, had cut its labor costs roughly down to America West's level. It badly needed capital, too, to emerge from its second trip to bankruptcy court in three years. Some analysts speculated that it would liquidate. 
 Out of mutual desperation came opportunity, and the two airlines said last April that they would merge. The deal closed quickly, in only five months, and investors obviously have bought into the idea. But can management sell the merger to workers? Mr. Luth, the investment banker, said he thinks that the conditions are right. ''Both of these labor groups have been right up to cliff's edge and looked into the abyss,'' he said.
 The airlines will operate separately for the next 18 to 24 months, as the merged company applies for a single federal operating permit and reconciles the labor agreements that each predecessor had worked out with its unions. The combined airline has $2.6 billion of cash, giving it time, but it needs workers' help to achieve the full $600 million a year of savings and other benefits expected from the merger.
 Those savings would make the new US Airways solidly profitable once it pays off its merger-related expenses. The new company expects to save $100 million a year by combining computer systems, another $100 million by eliminating overlapping management jobs and $50 million by shedding redundant offices and work sites.
 By reducing its fleet by 60 airplanes, costs go down by an additional $175 million a year. And the company expects to increase revenue on existing flights by $175 million a year because the combined routes offer customers better connections. Beyond the merger benefits, the generally rising fares in the airline industry, expected well into 2006, should add to the bottom line.
 For workers, however, the biggest issue now is seniority. That determines not only their pay but also many aspects of their work schedules -- the routes they fly, the shifts they work, vacation and days off. America West's management runs the company. But US Airways' workers are generally far more senior. Unions for flight attendants and pilots are negotiating to merge the seniority lists, and there are already some hard feelings. Workers don't want to be bumped out of their current jobs.
 America West's flight attendants appealed to the international union's board to protect them by altering seniority rules for mergers. Gary Richardson, president of the America West unit of the Association of Flight Attendants union, said he feared US Airways' ''coming in here on top of our flight attendants and pushing us down.''
 The plea irked US Airways employees, even though it was denied. ''I've been getting bumped my whole career,'' said John McCorkle, who has been a US Airways flight attendant for 16 years and who also writes an unofficial employee newsletter. A series of earlier mergers and consolidations had repeatedly jumbled the airline's seniority list. Some of his new America West colleagues ''truly believe they've saved US Airways'' and thus deserve top seniority, he said. But, he added, ''I don't want to hear them gripe about bumping.''
 Wage concessions and loss of some pension benefits make workers focus even more intently on seniority. ''I have a career expectation of being an international captain someday,'' said Jack Stephan, a US Airways pilot of 22 years and a union official. ''That pays the most.'' If a seniority list change delayed or eliminated that opportunity, ''that would be intolerable for me,'' he said.
 Both airlines operate at Logan International Airport in Boston, where Mr. Parker held the first post-merger meeting to hear employees' concerns. About 80 workers filled an unused waiting area, and it soon became apparent that the US Airways' workers were sitting on one side and America West's workers on the other. ''That is so lame,'' Mr. Parker said, laughing.
 He explained the airline's situation, using slides. Labor costs are now competitive ''due to a lot of pain, I'm aware, at US Airways,'' he said with a nervous chuckle. A baggage-handling meltdown last Christmas in Philadelphia and other service lapses, however, hurt the airline's reputation with fliers, he added. ''We have to fix that,'' he said. ''The image of the company has taken a hit.''
 WHILE the integration of the two airlines is on schedule, he continued, ''We're still losing money; we haven't accomplished anything yet.'' Looking at employees, he saw tension. ''You get the sense if you say the wrong word to someone, it might blow up,'' he told them. ''It's so fragile.''
 He invited questions. A US Airways worker complained that Alan W. Crellin, a former marine and Los Angeles police officer who is unpopular with some workers, was in the post-merger management team as the executive vice president of operations. ''It was very disappointing to see you brought on some old baggage,'' the worker told Mr. Parker.
 ''Look,'' Mr. Parker replied evenly, ''we went and built the best management team with what we had. I think he's actually a very good executive. It's unfair -- in good times and bad you personalize things. Give it a chance. Don't focus too much on individuals. It's a fair question. I've heard it a lot.''
 There was a request that middle management be replaced in Philadelphia, US Airways' biggest hub. ''We can never get the respect of the middle manager,'' Michael K. Higgins, a US Airways flight attendant based there, told Mr. Parker. ''How long do you wait?''
 Mr. Parker conceded that ''I simply don't know'' about managers there. ''It would be a mistake to walk in on day one and blow everyone away,'' he said, before adding: ''There's a real defensiveness among the US Airways management. That defensiveness has to go away.''
 Then, a 25-year-old regional jet pilot got up and, in the course of a rambling statement, complained about US Airways' gate agents being grumpy. Cami D'Amato, a gate supervisor at Logan, cut him off. ''Since 9/11 we've been humiliated,'' she said, adding that some angry passengers have vented their frustrations about security measures by shouting nasty personal insults to ground crew members like her. 
 The room grew tense. Mr. Parker turned to the young pilot. ''You might want to sit down,'' he deadpanned, explaining that his money would be on Ms. D'Amato if things turned physical. 
 Mr. Parker changed the subject. ''This is a great group of people,'' he said. ''Nothing in our plan says the employees need to give more. We're done.''
 Questions and complaints continued, though calmly.
 Back home in Arizona, while Gwen Parker has taught her husband to be sensitive to the plight of workers, she, in turn, has come to better appreciate management's point of view. Can Mr. Parker be similarly persuasive with US Airways' employees?
 ''Doug helped me understand the business side,'' Mrs. Parker said. As a union member suffering through cost cutting, she said, ''we saw it as nickel-and-diming -- but those nickels and dimes add up.''


GRAPHIC: Photos: The merger of US Airways and America West has been an eye-opener in the marriage of the combined company's chief executive and his wife, a former flight attendant. (Photo by Mike Mergen/Bloomberg News)(pg. 1)
W. Douglas Parker, above, is chief of US Airways. His wife, Gwen, left, with their daughter, Eliza, is a former flight attendant. She has given him a better understanding of the workers' plight
he has helped her empathize with managers. (Photo by Robert Spencer for The New York Times)
 (Photo by Carlo Bertolini/US Airways)(pg. 8)Chart: ''Approval From Wall St.''Since US Airways and America West merged, the new company's stock price has increased by about 75 percent.Graph tracks US Airways stock price since October.(Source by Bloomberg Financial Markets)(pg. 10)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: AIRLINE EMPLOYEES (93%); AIRLINES (91%); LABOR UNIONS (90%); EXECUTIVES (90%); MERGERS (89%); LABOR FORCE (89%); INTERVIEWS (77%); CORPORATE RESTRUCTURING (76%); CHILDREN (74%); COLLECTIVE BARGAINING (74%); WAGES & SALARIES (73%); DIVESTITURES (71%); BANKING & FINANCE (62%); INVESTMENT BANKING (50%) Airlines and Airplanes; Mergers, Acquisitions and Divestitures; Flight Attendants; Labor; Givebacks (Collective Bargaining); Organized Labor; Airlines and Airplanes

COMPANY: U S AIRWAYS GROUP INC (96%); AMERICA WEST AIRLINES INC (84%); AMERICAN AIRLINES INC (58%)

ORGANIZATION: US Airways; America West Airlines

TICKER: LCC (NYSE) (96%)

INDUSTRY: SIC4512 AIR TRANSPORTATION, SCHEDULED (96%); NAICS481111 SCHEDULED PASSENGER AIR TRANSPORTATION (96%)

PERSON: WILLIAM DOUGLAS PARKER (93%) Douglas M Parker; Gwendolyn Parker; Jeff Bailey

GEOGRAPHIC: ARIZONA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (97%)

LOAD-DATE: December 18, 2005



393 of 607 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 19, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section E; Column 5; The Arts/Cultural Desk; THEATER REVIEW; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 1070 words

HEADLINE: Her Profession, Herself, Her Daughter Problem

BYLINE: By CHARLES ISHERWOOD

 BODY:
It has become popular for postfeminist writers to cast a scornful backward glance at the once-ballyhooed notion that is possible for women to ''have it all,'' in the famous phrase marketed by the Cosmo queen, Helen Gurley Brown. High-powered career, loving husband, contented family, hot sex life -- a heady combo not as easy to secure as it is to slap phrases on the cover of magazines.
 But arguments against the cheery ethos espoused by Ms. Brown can be traced back further than you might think. Another tri-named celebrity and polemicist, George Bernard Shaw, wrote a cautionary tale about a successful career woman facing a family meltdown more than a century ago. ''Mrs. Warren's Profession,'' written in 1893 and first staged in the United States in 1905, was deemed scandalous for its teasing arguments that prostitution was a business no more or less exploitative than others in Victorian England, no more morally compromising than most marriages. 
Today, the play's points about the economic subservience of women no longer carry the topical sizzle they once did, although there are snatches of dialogue -- ''Women have to pretend to feel a great deal that they don't feel'' -- that retain a surprising potency. But ''Mrs. Warren's Profession'' is by no means a dry slab of old anti-capitalist agitprop.
 Indeed, in Charlotte Moore's sensitively acted new production at the Irish Repertory Theater, which stars an absolutely splendid Dana Ivey, the play compels interest as an intriguingly nuanced drama about the high emotional cost of independence, and the philosophical chasms that can suddenly yawn between two similarly smart, independent-minded women who happen to be mother and daughter.
 Mrs. Kitty Warren (Ms. Ivey), the managing director of a string of European brothels, has devoted her life to securing a strong economic foothold for herself and her daughter, Vivie (Laura Odeh). The disreputable nature of Kitty's business and her natural ambition have ensured that her career and her daughter's education have largely proceeded on separate tracks. Kitty was often seeing to her businesses in Europe, leaving Vivie to the care of governesses and private schools.
 Kitty has returned to England just as Vivie is getting ready to embark on a career as a Victorian numbers cruncher. At the family's country cottage, Kitty makes a few rusty gestures toward establishing the kind of cozy mother-daughter relationship she has spent years dreaming of. But the dutiful companion she imagined she had been raising by proxy turns out to have little in common with the stranger before her. The divide between them is most potently signaled when Vivie responds to Kitty's classic motherly retort, ''Do you know who you're speaking to, Miss?'' with a curt ''No,'' followed by two cool questions of her own: ''Who are you? What are you?''
 Ms. Ivey, a veteran New York stage actress who is often relegated to dotty comic character roles, here has a choice opportunity to display the full range of her talents. Kitty's dismay at Vivie's devastating rebuffs is movingly tinged with confusion and pathos. And when Kitty lets slip her mask of faux gentility, Ms. Ivey reveals the grit and fierce pride that economic success has instilled in this low-born woman. Consonants evaporate, vowels are flattened and the voice hardens to iron as long-buried memories of early struggles emerge.
 Confiding her troubled early life to her daughter, Kitty wins Round 1, playing on Vivie's sympathy as well as on her ability to see beyond the conventional cant about women's roles. But Kitty's lecture about the importance of self-respect works like a slow poison in Vivie's soul. By the play's devastating last scene, Vivie, played with a nice mixture of surface rectitude and submerged warmth by Ms. Odeh, has repudiated her mother as a hypocrite and a woman whose greed has blinded her to her complicity in a destructive social order. One generation's free-thinking radicalism is the next generation's accommodating conservatism.
 The captivating scenes between Vivie and Kitty are by far the play's -- and the production's -- strongest, but the supporting cast assembled by Ms. Moore is uniformly strong. David Staller brings a winning air of genial naivete to his performance as Mr. Praed, Mrs. Warren's vague, artistic friend. Despite a couple of jarringly shrill outbursts, Sam Tsoutsouvas makes a powerfully repellent Sir George Crofts, Mrs. Warren's none too silent partner. And Kevin Collins manages to find the easygoing charm in the priggish Frank Gardner, Shaw's proto-himbo, whose dialogue is laced with hearty exclamations like, ''By Jove, what a lark!''
 Briskly directed by Ms. Moore to march quickly past the occasional melodramatic contrivance in Shaw's plotting, the production arrives at the final reckoning between Kitty and her daughter with no loss of momentum. A chastened Kitty implores Vivie not to throw away the advantages that Kitty has worked so hard to secure in favor of cold principles, but her worldly wisdom strikes her daughter as cynical, and her appeals to daughterly feeling are met with scorn.
 Lurching from defensiveness to antagonism, radiating the wild intensity of a trapped animal, Ms. Ivey's Kitty is pathetic, cunning, at times majestic in her Lear-like accusations of filial ingratitude. Ms. Odeh's Vivie, brisk and businesslike, remains impervious to her pleas. An authentically tragic note is struck as Kitty slinks away in lonely defeat. Having toiled and sacrificed to make a ''good woman'' of her daughter, she has certainly succeeded. But she may also have created a monster.

Mrs. Warren's Profession

By George Bernard Shaw; directed by Charlotte Moore; sets by Dan Kuchar; costumes by David Toser; lighting by Mary Jo Dondlinger; hair and wig design by Robert-Charles Vallance; sound by Murmod Inc.; production stage manager, Elis C. Arroyo; dialect coach, Stephen Gabis; stage manager, Rebecca Goldstein-Glaze; managing director, Patrick A. Kelsey. Produced by Ciaran O'Reilly. Presented by the Irish Repertory Theater, Ms. Moore, artistic director; Mr. O'Reilly, producing director. At 132 West 22nd Street, (212) 727-2737. Through Jan. 29. Running time: 2 hours 20 minutes.

WITH: Kevin Collins (Frank Gardner), Kenneth Garner (Rev. Samuel Gardner), Dana Ivey (Mrs. Kitty Warren), Laura Odeh (Vivie Warren), David Staller (Mr. Praed) and Sam Tsoutsouvas (Sir George Crofts).


GRAPHIC: Photo: Dana Ivey as Shaw's Mrs. Warren: ''Do you know who you're speaking to, Miss?'' (Photo by Carol Rosegg)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Review

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: THEATER (90%); THEATER & DRAMA (90%); WOMEN (90%); WOMEN WORKERS (78%); CELEBRITIES (78%); WRITERS (78%); MARRIAGE (77%); EDUCATION SYSTEMS & INSTITUTIONS (73%); THEATER COMPANIES (67%); PRIVATE SCHOOLS (63%) Theater; Reviews

ORGANIZATION: Irish Repertory Theater

PERSON: Charles Isherwood; George Bernard (1856-1950) Shaw; Dana Ivey; Charlotte Moore

GEOGRAPHIC: ENGLAND (92%); EUROPE (79%); UNITED STATES (56%)

LOAD-DATE: December 19, 2005



394 of 607 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 19, 2005
Correction Appended 
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 1146 words

HEADLINE: Rural Living, but With Access To High-Speed Internet Service 

BYLINE: By KATIE ZEZIMA

DATELINE: NEW VINEYARD, Me. 

 BODY:
Rob Newell spends his days fixing high-speed Internet connections. But when he returns to his home office here in western Maine, a two-hour drive from Portland, Mr. Newell is forced to use an abysmally slow dial-up connection that takes hours to download material he needs for business and makes it impossible to fix clients' computers remotely. 
 ''It's quite difficult,'' said Mr. Newell, who owns Newell Consulting, a computer networking company. He cannot get high-speed Internet access from the phone company because the nearest central office, in Farmington, is 10 miles away, too far to maintain a connection. Hooking up his house by satellite would cost about $800 a month, he said. Any time he has to download new programs to upgrade his computer devices, he said, ''it's almost unfeasible.''
Mr. Newell and others will finally be able to join the broadband world with help from an unlikely source: the state of Maine. 
 Gov. John E. Baldacci is leading an initiative to bring wireless Internet service to 90 percent of Maine communities that meet a population threshold (five people per square mile) by 2010. Mr. Baldacci, who announced the initiative, Connect Maine, last January, is also pledging universal cellphone coverage by 2008.
 ''The thing about technology is that you can never rest on your laurels,'' said Kurt Adams, counsel to Mr. Baldacci. ''With how quickly technology is developing, Governor Baldacci believes we have to keep up with the pace in order to keep an advantage.''
 Part of Mr. Baldacci's inspiration for the project came from his own experience driving around the state and losing cellphone coverage, Mr. Adams said. 
 Details are still being worked out. The state has nearly completed a program mapping out cellphone and broadband dead zones, and a task force of telecommunications company representatives, business owners and others will deliver recommendations to Mr. Baldacci by the end of the month. 
 While the price of outfitting Maine with broadband service is still being determined, it will cost roughly $55 million to build enough cell towers to cover the state, Mr. Adams said.
 Phone and cable companies have not expanded broadband service outside the state's large towns because they see no profit from such an investment; large areas still lack cable television service altogether. The same is true with cellular towers; coverage has been difficult because the state's 1.2 million residents are widely dispersed, and D.S.L., the phone companies' broadband technology, requires users to be within about three miles of a central office.
 Rather than underwrite the entire effort, the state will most likely use a combination of measures that could include tax incentives, direct subsidies to companies and grants to municipalities, those involved with state technology efforts said. 
 It is also looking toward businesses like Ubiquitair, a broadband company in York, Me., that is bringing the technology to residential islands in Casco Bay, in southern Maine.
 ''Initially it was a straight need, a lack of competition and an ability to do something that no one else has done,'' said Stuart Santoro, the company's founder, of its move to the islands. ''Ideally, if you can get into rural areas and be able to provide services that others can't provide, you're helping increase property values, and telecommuters can stay home and work.'' 
 The state is also exploring use of the federal government's Universal Service Fund to help pay for the effort. 
 ''There are going to be areas of the state where the economics may be poor, and those are the areas where we need government intervention,'' said Peter Reilly, a spokesman for Verizon, the state's largest broadband and wireless provider. ''The opportunity is there for the government to partner with private industry in those areas where market economics are considered questionable for natural development.''
 State officials say the program is a way to make the state more competitive by attracting businesses and residents, and giving existing small businesses a way to expand their reach outside Maine.
 They also see it as a way to stem the tide of young college graduates who leave the state for jobs, and a means to help recover some of the thousands of manufacturing and industrial jobs the state has lost in the last 20 years with the closing of plants and factories.
 ''There's an economic development imperative, a human resource drain imperative and an environmental imperative,'' said Tony Buxton, an energy lawyer who is involved in the initiative. ''There's a challenge for any state like Maine with issues such as the loss of talented people to other markets, the effects of globalization on natural-resources-based industries and competition for industries such as call centers, all which can be affected dramatically by the ability of people to use technology.''
 In many cases downtown areas have broadband service, but not homes one mile away. About one in six residents currently lack broadband access, Mr. Adams said.
 The state's hilly terrain also makes it difficult to ensure cellphone coverage, and many involved in the effort said this made the notion of statewide service impossible. The state set up a program for residents to report dead spots, which the state is mapping. More than 3,000 people have responded since spring. Most of the spots are along Interstate 95, which runs the length of the state. 
 For people like Sam Elowitch, a Web developer and editor from Farmington, broadband access is reason enough to move to a new house, as he and his family did two years ago. 
 Four years ago, Mr. Elowitch founded the Rural Broadband Initiative, a program to help bring broadband to western and rural Maine. 
 Mr. Elowitch, who is on the governor's broadband access committee, worries that places like New Vineyard, on the outskirts of a small town, may still not receive service. He is also concerned that the technology may develop faster than the initiative. 
 ''Just because a town offers D.S.L. and cable doesn't mean the problem is solved,'' Mr. Elowitch said. 
 Some, including Richard Davis, the Farmington town manager, say they think any new technology will be better than dial-up. The rural region, he said, is still struggling to get back on its feet after the loss of manufacturing jobs, and is looking for ways to help ramp up the economy.
 ''Up here in the wilds of Maine, we're somewhat isolated from the rest of the world, but we have a lot of folks who do business out of their homes,'' Mr. Davis said. ''It's important for the economy anywhere, but it will be particularly helpful here in this area, where we don't have a lot of manufacturing jobs anymore.''

 New Vineland
Broadband coverage including cable, D.S.L. and wireless service.
 Population distribution by township.

(Source by Maine Geographic Information Systems)

CORRECTION-DATE: December 29, 2005

 CORRECTION:
A map in Business Day on Monday with an article about Maine's effort to provide high-speed Internet service to rural areas incorrectly located the town of New Vineyard. It is in southwest Maine, near Farmington, another town on the map, not in northwest Maine. A corrected map can be found online at www.nytimes.com/2005/12/19/technology/19maine.html.
An article in Business Day on Dec. 19 about Maine's effort to provide high-speed Internet service to rural areas referred imprecisely to the availability of broadband service in New Vineyard. Cable and DSL service is available throughout most of the town, though not all of it.

GRAPHIC: Photo: Sam Elowitch, a Web developer in Maine, moved his family into a new house two years ago so they could have broadband access. (Photo by Michael C. York for The New York Times)Chart/Map: ''High-Speed Internet in the State of Maine''Map of Maine highlighting the following:

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: INTERNET & WWW (91%); COMPUTER NETWORKS (91%); COMPUTER EQUIPMENT (90%); BROADBAND (90%); MOBILE & CELLULAR COMMUNICATIONS (89%); MOBILE & CELLULAR TELEPHONES (89%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS SERVICES (89%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS SECTOR PERFORMANCE (89%); GOVERNORS (78%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS (78%); WIRELESS INTERNET ACCESS (78%); POPULATION DENSITY (78%); CABLE INDUSTRY (78%); WIRELESS INDUSTRY (73%); RURAL COMMUNITIES (71%); GOVERNMENT GRANTS & SUBSIDIES (60%); TAX INCENTIVES (50%) Terms not available from NYTimes

GEOGRAPHIC: PORTLAND, ME, USA (73%) MAINE, USA (98%) UNITED STATES (98%)

LOAD-DATE: December 19, 2005



395 of 607 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 19, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 5; Business/Financial Desk; TECHNOLOGY; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 451 words

HEADLINE: Guidelines Set On Software Property Rights 

BYLINE: By STEVE LOHR

 BODY:
To remove obstacles to joint research, four leading technology companies and seven American universities have agreed on principles for making software developed in collaborative projects freely available.
 The legal wrangling over intellectual property rights in research projects involving universities and companies, specialists say, can take months, sometimes more than a year. This legal maneuvering, they say, is not only slowing the pace of innovation, but is also prompting some companies to seek university research partners in other countries, where negotiations over intellectual property are less time-consuming. 
''This a great start to addressing the problem,'' said Peter A. Freeman, assistant director for computer and information science and engineering at the National Science Foundation. ''It's a recognition by both sides that for precompetitive research, 'It's the science, stupid.' It's not the intellectual property.''
 The companies involved in the agreement, which will be announced today, are I.B.M., Hewlett-Packard, Intel and Cisco. The educational partners are the Renssalaer Polytechnic Institute, the Georgia Institute of Technology and the universities of Stanford, California at Berkeley, Carnegie Mellon, Illinois and Texas. 
 Concern about the issue of intellectual property restraints on collaborative research has been growing among academic and private-sector scientists. The new effort is a byproduct of a gathering of university and industry researchers in Washington last August, sponsored by I.B.M. and the Ewing Marion Kauffman Foundation in Kansas City, Mo., which studies and finances innovation and entrepreneurial activity.
 The current problem, said Lesa Mitchell, a vice president at the Kauffman Foundation, was partly an ''unintended consequence'' of policies meant to encourage universities to make their research available for commercial uses, thus stimulating innovation and economic growth. 
 The tone was set, Ms. Mitchell said, by the Bayh-Dole Act of 1980, which allowed universities to hold the patents on federally funded research and to license that intellectual property to industry.
 Since then, universities, like many corporations, have sought to cash in wherever possible on their intellectual property. The companies and universities have agreed to make intellectual property developed in open collaborations available free for commercial and academic use. 
 They have also agreed to a set of guidelines addressing the rights of the participating companies and universities, and the public. 
 The guidelines and framework for the agreement will posted this week at www.ibm.com/university, and at the Kauffman foundation's site, www.kauffman.org. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: INTELLECTUAL PROPERTY (92%); INTELLECTUAL PROPERTY LAW (91%); COLLEGES & UNIVERSITIES (90%); RESEARCH & DEVELOPMENT (90%); COMPUTER SOFTWARE (90%); SCIENCE FUNDING (89%); GOVERNMENT RESEARCH FUNDING (78%); COMPUTER SCIENCE (78%); PATENTS (78%); ALLIANCES & PARTNERSHIPS (78%); FOUNDATIONS (74%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (73%); ENTREPRENEURSHIP (73%); INFORMATION SCIENCE (69%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (66%) Terms not available from NYTimes

COMPANY: INTERNATIONAL BUSINESS MACHINES CORP (84%); INTEL CORP (58%); HEWLETT-PACKARD CO (56%)

ORGANIZATION: NATIONAL SCIENCE FOUNDATION (56%)

TICKER: IBMC (BRU) (84%); IBM (NYSE) (84%); IBM (LSE) (84%); INTC (NASDAQ) (58%); HPQ (NYSE) (56%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS334118 COMPUTER TERMINAL & OTHER COMPUTER PERIPHERAL EQUIPMENT MANUFACTURING (84%); NAICS334112 COMPUTER STORAGE DEVICE MANUFACTURING (84%); NAICS334111 ELECTRONIC COMPUTER MANUFACTURING (84%); NAICS334413 SEMICONDUCTOR & RELATED DEVICE MANUFACTURING (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: SAN FRANCISCO BAY AREA, CA, USA (79%); KANSAS CITY, MO, USA (53%) TEXAS, USA (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); MISSOURI, USA (69%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: December 19, 2005



396 of 607 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 19, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk; LOOKING AHEAD; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 426 words

 BODY:

TRAVEL TIPS -- The cheapest days to fly before the coming holiday are today, tomorrow and Christmas Day, according to Priceline.com. The most expensive are Thursday and Friday. Of course, you have to have the day off to travel. Alternatively, you can join the masses of American workers who will be goofing off in the run-up to Christmas. In a recent poll by Accountemps, an employment agency, 44 percent of corporate executives said workers were less productive before a major holiday. But cynics take note: 23 percent of managers said their employees were more productive than ever. 


LOVE FEEDS PROFITS -- Well, that might be overstating it, but it is one interpretation of the bright outlook for the American Greetings Corporation. On Thursday, it will issue its quarterly results for the period that ended Nov. 30 (just about the time that the annual Christmas card writing frenzy was getting under way), and Wall Street's consensus estimate is for earnings of 71 cents a share, up from 51 cents a year earlier. True, its stock has been languishing below $23 of late, down from its 52-week high of $28.02, but with Valentine's Day just around the corner, this may not be the time to bet against it.

CORPORATE TEA LEAVES -- FedEx, always a bellwether for the economy, will release its earnings report tomorrow. So will Morgan Stanley, the biggest investment bank by market value. Other Wall Street firms have been reporting robust fourth-quarter profits, but analysts foresee a modest gain of 1 percent at Morgan Stanley, which has gone through a management shake-up this year.

HUMMING ECONOMY -- Don't expect any surprises startling enough in economic indicators in the days ahead to deter the Federal Reserve from its campaign for tighter credit. It seems almost ordained that the Fed will increase interest rates by a quarter-point for the 14th time in a row on Jan. 31. That is the Fed committee's final meeting under the leadership of Alan Greenspan. This week's highlights include housing starts and the producer price index tomorrow, final third-quarter G.D.P. numbers on Wednesday, personal income and spending figures and leading economic indicators on Thursday and durable goods statistics and new-home sales on Friday.

SHOWTIME -- Two holiday-season movies hitting theaters on Friday may help Hollywood's sagging box-office fortunes for 2005. Steven Spielberg's ''Munich'' is about the aftermath of the terrorist attack on Israeli athletes at the 1972 Olympics, and ''Rumor Has It'' is a romantic comedy starring Jennifer Aniston and Kevin Costner.

GRAPHIC: Photo

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CHRISTMAS (90%); HOLIDAYS & OBSERVANCES (90%); COMPANY EARNINGS (90%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (89%); INTERIM FINANCIAL RESULTS (89%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); ECONOMIC INDICATORS (89%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (86%); NEW HOME SALES (76%); REAL ESTATE (76%); HOUSING MARKET (76%); EXECUTIVES (76%); GREETING CARD PUBLISHING (74%); HOUSING STARTS (74%); EMPLOYMENT (73%); COMPANY PROFITS (73%); EMPLOYMENT SERVICES (72%); PRODUCER PRICES (72%); TEMPORARY EMPLOYMENT (72%); MANUFACTURING OUTPUT (71%); DURABLE GOODS (71%); OLYMPICS (63%); FILM (63%); COMEDY FILMS (60%); TERRORISM (60%); INTEREST RATES (50%); TERRORIST ATTACKS (50%) Terms not available from NYTimes

COMPANY: AMERICAN GREETINGS CORP (70%); PRICELINE.COM INC (58%); MORGAN STANLEY (54%)

TICKER: AM (NYSE) (70%); PCLN (NASDAQ) (58%); MS (NYSE) (54%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS511191 GREETING CARD PUBLISHERS (70%); SIC2771 GREETING CARD PUBLISHERS (70%); NAICS561510 TRAVEL AGENCIES (58%); NAICS454112 ELECTRONIC AUCTIONS (58%); NAICS454111 ELECTRONIC SHOPPING (58%); SIC7375 INFORMATION RETRIEVAL SERVICES (58%); SIC4724 TRAVEL AGENCIES (58%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (54%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (54%)

PERSON: ALAN GREENSPAN (52%); STEVEN SPIELBERG (50%); JENNIFER ANISTON (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: December 19, 2005



397 of 607 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 19, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 2; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1081 words

HEADLINE: Trade Officials Agree to End Subsidies for Agricultural Exports

BYLINE: By KEITH BRADSHER

DATELINE: HONG KONG, Monday, Dec. 19 

 BODY:
Trade ministers representing most of the world's governments reached a deal here on Sunday night that sets a deadline for wiping out subsidies of agricultural exports by 2013, realizing a goal that United States negotiators have been pursuing for two decades. 
 The final declaration from the talks, which resolved several issues that have stood in the way of a global trade agreement, also requires industrialized countries to open their markets to goods from the world's poorest nations, a goal of the United Nations for many years. 
 The declaration gives fresh impetus for negotiators to try to finish a comprehensive set of global free trade rules by the end of next year, in time for President Bush to submit it to Congress before his special negotiating authority expires. 
 ''I now believe it is possible, which I did not a month ago,'' said Pascal Lamy, the World Trade Organization's director general.
 But the declaration does not settle the biggest trade issues facing the W.T.O.'s members. 
 Some of these issues were barely discussed here because the sides are so far apart, including lower tariffs on agricultural and manufactured goods, and limits on domestic farm subsidies.
 Senator Charles E. Grassley, the Iowa Republican who is the chairman of the Senate Finance Committee, said that more negotiations were needed, noting that ''on the toughest issues, it just kicks the can down the road.''
 Other provisions in the declaration include a broad agreement to ban fishing industry subsidies that contribute to overfishing; special help for impoverished cotton-growing countries in Africa; and a plan for the United States, the European Union and Japan to provide several billion dollars a year in aid to developing countries to help them compete in global trade.
 With the exception of an end to cotton export subsidies, which is already moving through Congress, American commitments in the declaration will not require Congressional action until a comprehensive trade deal is ready for a vote.
 All of the W.T.O.'s 149 member nations and customs territories approved the declaration. The leaders of delegations from Cuba and Venezuela stood up in the last five minutes of the six-day conference to reserve the right to exempt their countries later from new rules being negotiated for service industries like banking, insurance and telecommunications.
 As with many trade agreements at the ministerial level, the declaration also papers over differences that could prove troublesome later. The agreement to end agricultural export subsidies by 2013, which was reluctantly accepted by the European Union, calls for a ''substantial'' part of these subsidies to be eliminated well before then, but does not specify what this means.
 Similarly, the ban on fishing subsidies does not define overfishing. And the agreement on cotton postpones the tricky question of how quickly the United States should lower its subsidies, which West African nations blame for depressing the prices that their farmers receive.
 Mr. Lamy said that the agreement left negotiators 60 percent of the way to finishing a round of negotiations that began four years ago in Doha, Qatar. Peter Mandelson, the European Union's trade commissioner, acknowledged that the Hong Kong declaration was far from comprehensive.
 ''If we didn't make the conference a success, we certainly saved it from failure,'' Mr. Mandelson said.
 Susan Schwab, a deputy United States trade representative, was more optimistic. ''The progress made today really lays the groundwork for a major negotiation going forward,'' Ms. Schwab said.
 Kamal Nath, India's minister of commerce and industry, especially welcomed a decision by rich countries to eliminate quotas and tariffs by 2008 on 97 percent of categories of goods from the world's 50 poorest nations. The United States currently does not impose tariffs and quotas on 83 percent of categories, and Japan on 87 percent.
 The European Union already exempts virtually all imports from tariffs and quotas if they come from the world's poorest nations. It restricts these imports instead with stringent rules specifying that each poor country must produce much of the value of the product itself, instead of importing sophisticated components from wealthier countries for final assembly.
 Developing countries had criticized the outcomes of previous ministerial talks as too often dictated by rich countries. ''For the first time, it doesn't appear like a script written by developed countries,'' Mr. Nath said in an interview.
 The conclusion of a deal on Sunday evening marked a sharp turnaround from the gloom on Saturday afternoon, when negotiators were deadlocked over several issues while about 1,000 protesters fought the police outside. The violence left at least 116 people injured, including 56 officers, although no one suffered critical injuries, the police said.
 A turning point in the talks came Saturday evening, when Mr. Mandelson and Mariann Fischer Boel, the European Union's agriculture commissioner, introduced a proposal calling for a worldwide ban on agriculture export subsidies by 2013.
 The successful proposal came after Europe's leaders agreed Saturday morning in Brussels on a budget extending existing farm subsidies through 2013. Mr. Mandelson said he and Ms. Fischer Boel had acted independently, introducing their own proposal Saturday evening.
 Industrial countries had agreed in July 2004 that the export subsidies should end, but had been unable after that to set a date.
 Until Saturday evening, European negotiators had insisted that they would not accept any deadline for an end to subsidies unless the United States accepted a ban on sending free American-grown food to poor countries. The European Union asked that the United States buy food in poor countries from local farmers instead, pushing up local prices.
 Many countries, notably Brazil and the United States, had been discussing a 2010 deadline and had expressed concerns, echoed by the United Nations, that a ban on food aid might interrupt vital shipments to places like the Darfur region of Sudan.
 The United States ended up accepting a ban on shipping free American-grown food to areas without shortages and where the American food would displace locally grown food in the marketplace, an arrangement that Mr. Mandelson welcomed. 
 ''We will continue to demand that others move with us, every step, every cut,'' he said in an interview with a small group of journalists.


GRAPHIC: Photo: Pascal Lamy, director general of the World Trade Organization, spoke at the closing of the conference in Hong Kong. (Photo by Mike Clark/AFP-Getty Images)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: AGRICULTURAL SUBSIDIES (90%); AGRICULTURE (90%); TRADE TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (90%); AGRICULTURAL EXPORTS & IMPORTS (90%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (90%); EXPORT TRADE (90%); TRADE DEVELOPMENT (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); AGRICULTURAL EXPORT & IMPORT CONTROLS (90%); AGRICULTURAL TRADE (90%); COTTON & COTTONSEED (89%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE LAW (89%); EXPORT PROMOTION (89%); GLOBALIZATION (89%); GOVERNMENT GRANTS & SUBSIDIES (89%); TALKS & MEETINGS (89%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (89%); TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (89%); COMMERCE DEPARTMENTS (79%); INTERNATIONAL ASSISTANCE (78%); EUROPEAN UNION (78%); DEVELOPING COUNTRIES (78%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (77%); TARIFFS & DUTIES (77%); CONFERENCES & CONVENTIONS (74%); DELAYS & POSTPONEMENTS (74%); COTTON FARMING (71%); UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (70%); FISHERIES ADMINISTRATION (69%); FISHERIES (69%); APPROVALS (69%); TAXES & TAXATION (68%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS (60%); MANUFACTURING OUTPUT (51%) Terms not available from NYTimes

ORGANIZATION: WORLD TRADE ORGANIZATION (83%); UNITED NATIONS (57%)

PERSON: PASCAL LAMY (67%); CHUCK GRASSLEY (53%)

GEOGRAPHIC: IOWA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%); HONG KONG (92%); AFRICA (92%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (90%); WESTERN AFRICA (79%)

LOAD-DATE: December 19, 2005



398 of 607 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 19, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 3; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1524 words

HEADLINE: As Talks Stall, Workers Begin Queens Strike 

BYLINE: By SEWELL CHAN and STEVEN GREENHOUSE; Colin Moynihan contributed reporting for this article.

 BODY:
Workers at two bus companies serving 57,000 riders in Queens went on strike this morning as transit contract talks remained deadlocked and millions of commuters braced for a possible systemwide strike against New York City subways and buses tomorrow.
 After a weekend of stop-and-start talks, negotiators on both sides were no closer to an agreement last night than they were early Friday morning, when talks broke off acrimoniously and the union put off its deadline for a citywide strike until 12:01 a.m. tomorrow.
Yesterday, the two sides met from 3:45 to 6 p.m., and recessed with no sign of a settlement. ''There's no progress,'' the union's secretary-treasurer, Ed Watt, said afterward. ''Talking is talking. Progress is progress.''
 At 10:30 p.m., the chief negotiator for the Metropolitan Transportation Authority, Gary J. Dellaverson, offered the same assessment. ''Unfortunately, the simple fact is that I don't have any progress to report,'' he said, adding, ''The M.T.A. is quite concerned that we are now down to the last day before the union-imposed deadline.'' Talks are set to resume today. 
 Neither Roger Toussaint, president of Local 100 of the Transport Workers Union, nor Peter S. Kalikow, the transportation authority's chairman, joined the talks yesterday.
 Mr. Toussaint entered the hotel at 1:40 p.m. but saw no point in bargaining, aides said, if Mr. Kalikow was not present. 
 The bus strike in Queens that began this morning could be a foretaste of the citywide strike the union has vowed to begin tomorrow if the authority does not change its demand that future workers accept less generous pension and health benefits. 
 At 9:45 p.m., the union directed its 707 members at Jamaica Buses Inc. and the Triboro Coach Corporation, two of seven private bus companies that are being taken over by the authority, to begin a strike at 12:01 a.m. 
 ''This is the first phase of the transit strike of 2005,'' Neil P. Winberry, the union vice president who represents the workers, said this morning. ''There is no alternative. We had passed one deadline already and avoided striking so as not to strand the commuters on Friday. We thought there was some movement and then it took a turn for the worse.'' 
 At the Triboro Coach depot in East Elmhurst, Queens, this morning, about 20 workers wore or carried red union bandannas and held placards with messages like, ''The Mayor Lied, There Goes Your Ride'' and ''On Strike.'' 
 Workers said they were acting on behalf of fellow union members at New York City Transit, the authority's largest subsidiary, which runs the subways and the vast majority of the city buses.
 If a citywide transit strike is declared, ''the amount of money the city is going to lose is staggering,'' said Jeffrey Augugliaro, 38, a Triboro mechanic who lives in East Stroudsburg, Pa. He said he hoped the authority would relent.
 Joseph J. Hein, 23, a Triboro garage worker who lives in Massapequa, N.Y., said he trusted the union to make the right decision. ''The union wants us to do this,'' he said. ''We elected them to make decisions for us, and hopefully they're doing the right thing by us. As a union, we all need to stand together behind Toussaint right now.'' 
 The union represents workers at five of seven bus companies that are being transferred to the authority's control, including Jamaica and Triboro. The workers have been without a contract since March 2003.
 An authority official, Thomas J. Savage, met with union officials yesterday in a last-ditch effort to avert the Queens bus strike. The union maintains that the state's Taylor Law, which prohibits public-sector workers from striking, does not cover Jamaica and Triboro because they have not yet been transferred. 
 In Albany last night, the union hand-delivered a complaint to the State Public Employment Relations Board, alleging that the authority could not legally insist on its pension proposal as part of its final offer. The biggest obstacle to a settlement, both sides say, is the authority's insistence that new hires be ineligible for full pensions until age 62, compared with 55 for most current workers.
 The authority maintained that the benefits changes are necessary to reduce a large ''structural deficit'' projected for 2007 and beyond. Mr. Dellaverson said it was the authority's responsibility to identify fiscal problems ''before they are literally a tidal wave coming over your head.'' 
 The union is asking the board to seek a court injunction that would compel the authority to drop its pension demands; under state law, the union cannot seek the injunction directly. The authority said the complaint was a publicity stunt. ''We do not believe it has got any merit,'' the authority's spokesman, Tom Kelly, said yesterday. 
 In any event, there may not be enough time for the board to act to prevent a strike. Under board rules, the authority has five days to reply to the union's request for an injunction unless directed to reply sooner. And it has 10 days to reply to the union's related accusation that the authority had engaged in an improper labor practice if a board official certifies that the accusation has merit. 
 ''As an agency, we pride ourselves on being able to respond to applications for injunctive relief as soon as the parties have submitted their papers to us,'' said the board's chairman, Michael R. Cuevas. 
 Mr. Kalikow, the authority's chairman, has not joined the talks since early Friday, sending Ms. Lapp, its highest salaried official. 
 Mr. Kelly said yesterday that an offer Mr. Kalikow extended on Friday -- a package of 3 percent wage increases in each of the next 3 years, along with the pension proposal and a requirement that new hires contribute 1 percent of their earnings to health-care premiums -- was final. 
 But Mr. Kelly added, ''That doesn't mean it can't be tinkered with.'' The workers have an average base salary of $47,000 and average earnings of $55,000, including overtime. 
 The maneuvering on both sides unfolded against a backdrop of unease. 
 ''For the past few days, New York has been a city in limbo,'' Mayor Michael R. Bloomberg said in his weekly radio address yesterday. The mayor said that a strike would slow the response of police officers and emergency workers, drain $400 million a day from the local economy, and cost the city government $22 million a day in police overtime and tax revenue. He also warned that transit workers could face steep fines for breaking the law.
 Mr. Bloomberg reiterated his belief that the authority's contract offer is fair. ''The truth of the matter is, every single current employee of the M.T.A. would have their medical benefits and their pension benefits unchanged whatsoever,'' he said.
 In the event of a citywide strike tomorrow, officials intend to allow only cars with at least four occupants to enter Manhattan south of 96th Street between 5 and 11 a.m. 
 In Queens today, the Taxi and Limousine Commission plans to allow commuter vans and livery cars to pick up passengers from any bus stop where service is not operating. Commuter vans are authorized to charge up to $5 per passenger, and livery cars up to $10 per passenger, for travel within Queens.
 Observers continued to hold out hope for a settlement today. ''It's like a TV show where you don't know the ending and everyone is glued to the tube,'' said Gene Russianoff, a lawyer for the Straphangers Campaign, a project of the New York Public Interest Research Group. 
 ''No matter how many twists and turns the drama is taking,'' he added, ''I think the final curtain will be a settlement.'' 
 Mike Wallace, director of the Gotham Center for New York City History at the City University of New York, said that because the last transit strike was in 1980, a strike in 2005 seemed just as unimaginable as the Northeast blackout of 2003. ''It had been a long time since the last blackout, but it did not turn out to be the end of the world,'' he said. 
 Of a dozen riders interviewed yesterday, most said they still believed that a settlement was likely, but some said both sides seemed to be set on a collision course. 
 ''They're playing a cat-and-mouse game, cutting it as close to the cuff as possible,'' said David Bernstein, 65, a cabdriver who lives in the West Village. ''Maybe it's a negotiating tactic, to use the leverage of this holiday period as much as possible.''
 Sheila Needes, 25, a waitress who lives in Washington Heights, said she felt a strike was less likely after the Friday deadline passed. ''If they didn't do it last week, when they said they would, I don't think they'll do it now,'' she said. ''I'm assuming they're getting a lot of pressure not to have a strike. I think they'll work this one out.''
 Transit workers themselves were uncertain about the fast-moving situation, but said they would support a strike if it were called. 
 Asked what he thought about the authority's last offer, Jose Lopez, 53, a cleaner at the Broadway-Lafayette station, said: ''I don't like it. Co-pays are going up, and salaries should go up, too.''
 Asked whether a strike was likely, he said: ''I don't know. It's a tough decision.''


GRAPHIC: Photos: Members of Transit Workers Union picket the Triboro Coach Company this morning after the union went on strike against two bus companies. (Photo by Robert Stolarik for The New York Times)
 Mayor Michael R. Bloomberg warned against a strike, saying it would cost the city millions of dollars a day. (Photo by Ruth Fremson/The New York Times)(pg. B4) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MOTORCOACHES & BUSES (90%); URBAN BUS SYSTEMS (90%); URBAN TRANSIT SYSTEMS (90%); STRIKES (90%); LABOR UNIONS (89%); CITY LIFE (89%); CITIES (89%); COLLECTIVE BARGAINING (89%); TALKS & MEETINGS (76%) Terms not available from NYTimes

COMPANY: TRIBORO COACH CORP (81%); JAMAICA BUSES INC (64%)

INDUSTRY: SIC4111 LOCAL & SUBURBAN TRANSIT (81%)

PERSON: MICHAEL BLOOMBERG (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (95%) NEW YORK, USA (95%) UNITED STATES (95%)

LOAD-DATE: December 19, 2005



399 of 607 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 19, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Foreign Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1604 words

HEADLINE: Helping North Koreans Defect Is Easy Part, Missionaries Find

BYLINE: By NORIMITSU ONISHI

DATELINE: SEOUL, South Korea 

 BODY:
In from the freezing cold on a recent Sunday morning, sitting on the heated floor of a cozy apartment in northeast Seoul, the North Korean defector seldom looked up at the South Korean missionary who had been trying, for the last year, to convert him to the Christian faith.
 The North Korean mechanically checked the messages on his Samsung cellphone and restrained his two daughters from using hymn sheets as telescopes to peer at the half-dozen North Koreans in the home church.
 When the South Korean started strumming his guitar and led his congregation in a hymn, the North Korean's lips barely moved, even as a young man next to him raised his hands, palms up, and intoned, ''Can't replace the Lord with anything!''
 After the service, the North Korean said, ''Even when I pray, I'm not sure it comes naturally.'' 
 Perhaps realizing that the South Korean missionary, Peter Jung, sat within earshot, the North Korean softened his words.
 ''When you've had the kind of life I've had, it's difficult to believe in anything,'' said the North Korean, who, fearing for his relatives in his hometown, asked that he be identified only by his surname, Park. ''It's even difficult to believe in myself.''
 Mr. Jung made no attempt to hide his frustration after Mr. Park had left, holding himself ''responsible'' that the North Korean, after a year, had yet to ''feel the Holy Spirit.''
 ''If I can't spread the Word,'' said the missionary, who spent 16 months in prison for proselytizing in China, ''God might as well put a stone around my neck and throw me into the ocean.''
 As the two Koreas have moved closer in recent years, the complicated relationship between defector and missionary has come to symbolize, perhaps more than anything else, the yawning gap of a half-century of division. While the North remains Communist, the South has grown into the foothold for Christianity in Northeast Asia.
 With a nearly 30 percent Christian population, the South has the world's second largest missionary movement, after the United States, with 14,000 people abroad. An estimated 1,500 are deployed in China, evangelizing secretly and illegally among Chinese and among North Koreans living in China -- a population that various estimates say ranges from 10,000 to as many as 300,000. South Korean missionaries shelter North Koreans and have brought thousands here to the South; others train them to return home to proselytize, as well as smuggle Bibles into the North.
 For the South's missionaries, converting people from the North, where Christianity first spread before the peninsula's division, dovetails with their dream of a reunified peninsula. ''Oh Lord, please send us, for our brethren up North,'' reads a verse in the most popular hymn among missionaries working with defectors, ''Evangelical Song of Unification.'' It is also part of a larger dream of spreading the Gospel along the Silk Road back to its source.
 ''Only when we open up China, with South and North Korea as one, will we be able to go back to Jerusalem,'' said the Rev. Cho Gi Youn, the manager of missions at the Christian Council of Korea, whose missionary school graduates 300 students a year.
 Behind these movements, though, are personal ties between defector and missionary, complicated by a balance of power tipped in the South Korean's favor and the inevitable mix of religion, politics and money.
 To the North Korean defectors, some South Korean missionaries seem more concerned about brokering deals to smuggle them out of China and using them in Seoul as publicity tools against North Korea. To South Korean missionaries, who have risked their lives to evangelize in China, some North Korean defectors appear ungrateful. Although no precise figures exist, only a fifth to a third of North Korean defectors ultimately convert to Christianity, according to most South Korean missionaries interviewed.
 It was a year ago that Mr. Park and Mr. Jung, now both 38 years old, met in Seoul through a mutual friend. The missionary had just returned here after spending several years in China. The defector had arrived here with his wife and two girls after spending several years in China.
 Although the defector's wife had converted to Christianity in China, he remained ambivalent, despite his friendship with the missionary.
 ''There are missionaries who look like con men to me; they're just interested in taking money from defectors in China,'' said Mr. Park, who fell victim to such a swindler before making it out of China. ''But Peter even went to jail to help North Korean defectors. I wonder how can he love so much that he would put himself in jail for us?
 ''He's a pastor, he's a good friend, we're the same age, so I go to church,'' the defector went on. ''But if you're a Christian, you have to feel from the bottom of your heart. Even though Peter is right next to me, I still haven't felt that. But I'm very, very grateful to him.''
 Peter Jung became a missionary after spending a chunk of his childhood studying and sleeping in the local church where his mother sent him when his father had drunk too much. He studied theology in the 1990's, just as South Korea's missionary movement was furiously growing, and decided that there was only one place to spread the Gospel: China.
 From 1997, the missionary worked in northeast China, near the border with North Korea, evangelizing among Chinese and North Koreans there. China views the North Koreans as illegal economic refugees and often deports them to the North. Typically, Mr. Jung would be in charge of taking care of a couple of defectors, sheltering and feeding them.
 ''After they'd settle down, I'd start teaching them the Lord's Prayer,'' the missionary said. ''But it wasn't easy to change their hearts into Christians.''
 Mr. Jung was more cautious than other missionaries, refusing to send North Koreans to smuggle Bibles across the border and sing hymns inside home churches. Still, in mid-2003, he and his colleagues, as well as several North Koreans in their care, were arrested. After he was released from prison, Mr. Jung was deported here.
 It was around the same time that Mr. Park, the defector, found his way here. In the North, he lived in a town along the border with China, not far from the Chinese city Yanji. A member of the Korean Workers' Party, he said he had been assigned to work at a mining company but never went.
 Instead, Mr. Park made money in the growing unofficial trade between North Korea and China. A strong swimmer, he smuggled people back and forth across the Tumen River, charging about $60 for the 30-minute swim and sometimes making as much as $1,000 a month. He often bribed a North Korean intelligence official to protect him.
 At the time, while most people in his town counted themselves lucky if they ate three meals of corn a day, he and his family ate chicken, pork and rice daily. He said that he liked the freedom and opportunities in South Korea, but that he missed his relatives and the power he had back home.
 ''Here I'm just a follower, but over there I was a leader,'' the defector said. ''It's not because I was a party member, but because capitalism is creeping into North Korea, if you have a lot of money, you can have power.''
 But in the middle of one night, in 1999, the friendly intelligence officer woke him up. He told Mr. Park that he had been implicated in a case and warned him to flee to China. With his wife, seven months pregnant with their second child, Mr. Park swam across the river, barely making it to the other side. A month later, he returned to North Korea one last time,to get his older daughter and money for a lattice machine for his wife.
 In China, a missionary couple arranged for his wife to be admitted at a hospital, and visited often. Mr. Park's wife delivered safely and persuaded him to name their second daughter Mary as a reflection of her new faith.
 In South Korea since late 2003, Mr. Park recently started a job as a real estate agent, hoping that will give him the experience to buy land one day. His wife, busy with two jobs, entrusts him to attend Mr. Jung's home church every Sunday.
 ''There are times I'm tired and I don't want to come here,'' the defector said. ''But my wife says it's good for the children.''
 ''My wife was never a party member, so it was easier for her to accept Christianity,'' he said. ''I was a party member for 10 years, and they indoctrinated us with the party ideology. When I hear Christian preaching, it sounds similar to the party teachings. Christians praise God, but North Koreans praise Kim Il Sung and Kim Jong Il,'' the founder of the North Korean state and his son, the current leader. ''At least, they are mortal and we can see them. In Christianity, they ask me to praise the Lord, whom we cannot even see.''
 At the home church on Sunday, the missionary, in his sermon, counseled his congregation that winning the lottery or marrying Julia Roberts would not bring eternal happiness. Only God's love would.
 ''In North Korea, there is no God,'' the missionary said. ''There is only Kim Jong Il and Kim Il Sung. But there are North Korean defectors who have stopped worshiping them and have gotten the Holy Spirit. It's a miracle that they come to believe in God as quickly as they do.''
 After everyone had left, though, the missionary said he knew he had not won over Mr. Park. He knew that Christianity reminded Mr. Park, as well as other defectors, of ''North Korean ideology.''
 ''It's understandable,'' the missionary said. ''We can only pray that he'll meet the Holy Spirit one day. Only God knows where and when that will happen.''


GRAPHIC: Photos: Peter Jung, a South Korean missionary, praying in a home in Seoul. (Photo by Seokyong Lee for The New York Times)(pg. A1)
 A North Korean defector who identified himself by his surname, Park, praying with his daughters in Seoul. (Photo by Seokyong Lee for The New York Times)(pg. A20) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CHRISTIANS & CHRISTIANITY (92%); RELIGION (89%); MOBILE & CELLULAR TELEPHONES (71%); SMUGGLING (60%) Terms not available from NYTimes

GEOGRAPHIC: SEOUL, KOREA, REPUBLIC OF (90%) KOREA, DEMOCRATIC PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF (99%); KOREA, REPUBLIC OF (95%); CHINA (91%); NORTHERN ASIA (90%); UNITED STATES (79%); ASIA (73%)

LOAD-DATE: December 19, 2005



400 of 607 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 19, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 5; National Desk; Pg. 29

LENGTH: 893 words

HEADLINE: Leaders in Congress Agree On Aid for Gulf Recovery

BYLINE: By ERIC LIPTON

DATELINE: GULFPORT, Miss., Dec. 18 

 BODY:
Since Hurricane Katrina hit, billions of dollars in federal aid has poured into the devastated areas of Mississippi and Louisiana, primarily for the most critical emergency needs: providing temporary housing, restarting governments and cleaning up the mountains of debris. 
 On Sunday, leaders in the House and Senate moved to switch from a relief effort to recovery, agreeing to appropriate large chunks of money to rebuild the region and, at least in part, to bail out some of the tens of thousands of people who were financially devastated by the storm. 
The recovery package allocates $11.5 billion in new grant money, mostly for Mississippi and Louisiana. State officials have indicated they intend to use much of it to compensate some of the estimated 110,000 families whose homes were flooded by Hurricane Katrina but who did not have flood insurance.
 The deal also includes $2.68 billion to strengthen the levees, protect the watershed and take other flood-control measures around New Orleans and elsewhere on the Gulf Coast. There is $2.75 billion to reimburse states for highway repairs. 
 An additional $1.6 billion is for education aid, including reimbursement of schools that took in students displaced by Hurricanes Katrina and Rita. And $125 million is designated for helping state and local police departments replace lost or damaged equipment and vehicles.
 The $29 billion package, which still must be approved by the full House and Senate, comes on top of action on Friday by Congress that created about $8 billion in tax breaks and incentives to stimulate the Gulf Coast economy.
 The new aid is intended to not add to the deficit because it involves the reallocation of money from the original $62 billion in relief that Congress approved this summer as well as cuts elsewhere in federal spending.
 To elected officials from the Gulf Coast region, the agreement Sunday was a sign that Washington was making good on the promise that President Bush made in a Sept. 15 speech in Jackson Square in New Orleans, where he vowed ''to help the citizens of the Gulf Coast to overcome this disaster, put their lives back together and rebuild their communities.''
 In a statement Sunday, Representative Chip Pickering, Republican of Mississippi, said, ''When these funds make it to Mississippi, individuals and families will be able to rebuild their homes, restore their communities, reopen their schools and hospitals, and boost the Gulf Coast economy to create and retain jobs.''
 News of the recovery package brought relief in such cities as Gulfport, Pascagoula and Biloxi, where Hurricane Katrina's floodwaters affected thousands of residents in areas not defined by official federal maps as susceptible to flooding.
 Typically, only homeowners in areas defined as within the so-called 100-year flood zone are required to buy federal flood insurance. Yet standard homeowners' insurance offered by private companies includes a provision that excludes water damage caused by ''flood, surface water, waves, tidal water, overflow of a body of water, or spray from any of these, whether or not driven by wind.'' 
 Because there is a $26,200 cap on federal disaster aid to families, many people faced the possibility of taking out a second mortgage to rebuild their homes or perhaps even filing for bankruptcy. 
 When Hurricane Katrina hit, Bob Frederic, 51, of Pascagoula had just invested $70,000 on renovations to his home, putting in a new kitchen and living room. His neighborhood is about a mile from the beach and there are no streams, ponds or other bodies of water in the area, so it had never occurred to area residents that their homes might be flooded, Mr. Frederic and several neighbors said.
 ''I hate to get a handout, but then again, this is something that has never happened before,'' said Mr. Frederic, adding that Hurricane Katrina brought whitecaps into his backyard.
 James Kirby, 74, of Gulfport had made payments for 28 years on his 30-year mortgage when Hurricane Katrina flooded his house, leaving it nearly worthless. ''You work all your life on something,'' he said. ''And then it is nothing.''
 Approval of the additional assistance was credited in part to two important Republican allies from Mississippi, Senator Thad Cochran, who is chairman of the Senate Appropriations Committee, and Gov. Haley Barbour, a former Washington lobbyist and chairman of the Republican National Committee.
 Louisiana officials said they too welcomed the aid, though it was probably far short of what is needed to compensate the estimated 70,000 households that were flooded but did not have flood insurance. While the new package includes enough money to rebuild the levee system in New Orleans, it is far short of what is needed to protect the city from a Category 5 storm.
 ''This is a shot in the arm to the recovery that will make a big difference,'' said Andy Kopplin, executive director of the Louisiana Recovery Authority, the body set up to help lead the rebuilding effort.
 So far, the federal government has committed to $19.53 billion for Hurricane Katrina relief, including $3.1 billion for trailers and mobile homes, $3.5 billion for emergency housing, $2.2 billion for state and local governments and $4.35 billion to other federal agencies, particularly the Army Corps of Engineers, which is leading the debris-removal work.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: HURRICANE KATRINA (91%); HURRICANES (91%); NATURAL DISASTERS (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); PROPERTY & CASUALTY INSURANCE (89%); HOMEOWNERS (89%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (89%); FLOOD INSURANCE (89%); FLOODS & FLOODING (89%); COASTAL AREAS (87%); BAILOUTS (78%); FLOOD ZONES (78%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (78%); EDUCATION FUNDING (78%); DISASTER RELIEF (78%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (78%); HOMEOWNERS INSURANCE (77%); FAMILY (77%); PUBLIC FINANCE (76%); GRANTS & GIFTS (75%); APPROVALS (74%); FLOOD CONTROL (74%); DISPLACED PERSONS (73%); TAXES & TAXATION (72%); ROAD & BRIDGE MAINTENANCE (71%); ROAD & BRIDGE CONSTRUCTION (71%); POLICE FORCES (69%); AQUIFERS & WATERSHEDS (68%); MAINTENANCE & REPAIR (67%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (66%); JOB CREATION (64%); HIGHWAYS & STREETS (52%) Terms not available from NYTimes

PERSON: CHARLES W PICKERING (50%); GEORGE W BUSH (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW ORLEANS, LA, USA (92%); GULFPORT, MS, USA (92%); BILOXI, MS, USA (79%) MISSISSIPPI, USA (96%); LOUISIANA, USA (94%); SOUTHEAST USA (94%) UNITED STATES (96%)

LOAD-DATE: December 19, 2005

 
