

201 of 757 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: July 9, 2000

SECTION: Section 11; Page 1; Column 2; Real Estate Desk 

LENGTH: 2743 words

HEADLINE: Commercial Property;
Web Gives White Elephants a New Life

BYLINE: By JOHN HOLUSHA 

 BODY:
GENERATIONS of New Jerseyans shopped the Bamberger's store at the corner of Market and Halsey Streets in Newark for clothing, accessories and household goods. The throngs of shoppers have long since departed for the suburbs but the store, later named Macy's and closed in 1992, has gained an unexpected new life.
Rows of computers and telecommunications equipment now fill the floors that once displayed women's dresses and men's suits. The building has been transformed into a high-technology center, the physical repository of the machines that support the rapid growth of the Internet. 
 It is just one example of how old industrial and retail properties, formerly considered unrentable white elephants, have suddenly become highly attractive to Web hosting and communications companies who need sites to expand -- and need them now.
The old buildings have what the Internet companies need: sturdy floors and high ceilings to accommodate heavy, delicate equipment; abundant electrical power to keep the machines humming and easy access to the optical-fiber cables that are the highways of the Internet. In the case of the old industrial buildings, proximity to the high-volume fiber cables has come because the cables have been installed along established railroad lines.
As a result of this newfound desirability of certain types of industrial buildings, old factories in Jersey City, a sprawling and underutilized marine terminal and an old tire factory in Brooklyn, and various locations in New Jersey's Meadowlands are all being promoted as technology centers.
Even buildings that were at the heart of old telecommunications technology, such as AT&T's onetime manual switching center at 32 Avenue of the Americas, at Walker Street, are being adapted to new technology. The building has been purchased by the Rudin family, which is adapting it for use by companies like MCI WorldCom and Qwest.
While a new generation of equipment will be installed upstairs at the old switching center, the landmarked lobby will retain the 1932 murals and the declaration that "Telephone wires and radio unite to make neighbors of nations."
What is happening in the New York area is being replicated around the country and around the world. Everything is driven by time because new-economy companies believe that the ones who grab market share first will dominate their sectors.
"Telecommunications and the Internet are closely related, they go hand in hand," said Goodwin Gaw, the chairman of Global Gateway, a company that is building a network of servers and telecommunications equipment in the western United States and Asia. "Our customers like to be there before the wave."
Global Gateway is one of two companies being backed by $1.25 billion from Morgan Stanley Real Estate Funds to build a global Internet communications network. The other is MetroNexis, which is responsible for the eastern United States and Europe. MetroNexis recently agreed to purchase the 1.1-million-square-foot former American Can factory at 50 Dey Street in Jersey City.
For companies building the networks of computers, cable and software that undergirds the Internet, "speed to market is the name of the game, and the space has to be available now," said Mark A. Teitelbaum, a partner in Argent Ventures, a New York real estate investment company. "Anything that will not be ready for 18 months is a non-starter."
Argent has been acquiring property, including buildings in Weehawken and Jersey City and an old shopping mall in Miami, all for use as technology centers for Internet companies. "We have acquired between 6 and 7 million square feet of property in the last 12 months," said Andrew S. Penson, another Argent partner. "But that is like 10 years in Internet time."
He said that when Argent acquired the long-empty 300,000-square-foot building at 300 Boulevard East in Weehawken, Exodus Communications agreed to lease 230,000 square feet even before the purchase had closed. When Argent acquired the old Muller Noodle factory at 180 Baldwin Street in Jersey City, all 300,000 square feet were leased by AboveNet Communications, an affiliate of Metromedia Fiber Network, within two months of closing.
Now Argent is waiting for a self-storage tenant to move out of the adjacent 80,000-square-foot building at 190 Baldwin so that it can move in technology tenants, Mr. Penson said. A little more than a year ago, previous owners of 190 Baldwin were trying to market the property to printers being forced out of Manhattan by rising rents. The possibility of attracting telecommunications or Internet-based tenants was not part of the discussion.
THE million-square-foot Omni Mall on Biscayne Boulevard in Miami had one particularly significant advantage, Mr. Penson said. It was empty. He said the site could be a gateway to planned underwater communications links to Central and South America.
The increase in marketability of older buildings suitable for use by Internet infrastructure companies has come suddenly. "Nobody knew anything about this until about a year ago," said John Peters, a former broker with Cushman & Wakefield who now runs his own company, Technology Real Estate. "Now it is the 'in' thing for everybody."
Real estate executives said the scramble for growth by telecommunications and Internet-related companies made them relatively unconcerned about the cost of space. A good example, said Mr. Peters, is the old Port Authority inland warehouse at 111 Eighth Avenue, between 15th and 16th Streets in Manhattan.
Not long ago, he said, the owner, Taconic Investment Partners, was happy to sign leases in the mid $20's per square foot annually. The most recent lease, to Broadlink Communications, was at $55 a square foot, he said.
"Telecommunications has become the most profitable sector in real estate," said Sean Brady, a broker with Cushman & Wakefield. "There are buildings in Jersey City that were bought for $5 a square foot that are renting space for $30 a square foot" annually. He said there is scarcely an industrial building in Jersey City, even such unlikely candidates as two abandoned former cold storage warehouses, that have not been studied as a possible data center and telecommunications locations.
For high-technology companies, which make their money transmitting and processing information, the cost of the real estate they occupy is not much more than a decimal point in their financial calculations. According to a recent report by the Lehman Brothers investment company, Internet hosting companies average $3,000 a square foot in annual revenues.
The high-technology boom, ironically, is rehabilitating buildings that had been dismissed as obsolete, because of their size, ceiling height or amount of room for parking. But a facility that might be obsolete for warehousing and distribution could work well for Web hosting and telecommunications.
"We have old buildings that are coming back to life," said Richard Marchisio, managing director of Grubb & Ellis of New Jersey. "This is a whole new sector of real estate that did not exist previously."
An established infrastructure, particularly railroad lines, is helping old, previously industrialized areas of the region. The reason is that many of the telecommunications companies have used railroad rights of way to install fiber cables.
"Perhaps the most important requirement for a telecom hotel is a nearby fiber-optic network," Grubb & Ellis said in a recent market report. "This is the gold beneath the streets, the lifeline for an obsolete industrial building. Much of the fiber-optic networks run along existing rail rights of way in urban areas."
In Newark, it noted, the old Bamberger's-Macy's building is near fiber lines, making it attractive to such companies as Qwest Communications, MCI WorldCom and Level 3 Communications.
The success of that location has prompted some brokers, and some owners and prospective tenants, to look at the old, and long abandoned, retail buildings that line Broad Street, once Newark's prime shopping location. But if the buildings, which include the old Hahne's and S. Klein stores, are to be converted into technology centers, the change may run afoul of the city's efforts to revive the area as a SoHo-like village of residences, shops and restaurants.
There is little on the outside of the Bamberger's building to indicate that there is something approaching $1 billion worth of equipment inside. The tenants like that just fine because the last thing they want is to attract attention to themselves and their delicate equipment and vulnerable fiber links.
The problem is that the building looks abandoned, except for some stores on the ground level and an underground parking operation.
If the Hahne's or S. Klein stores were to be occupied by Internet and telecommunications companies, they would look abandoned as well. As such they could be an eyesore in an area the city wants to see redeveloped in conjunction with its sparkling new Performing Arts Center, which is on the other side of Military Park from the old stores.
The New Newark Foundation owns or controls 2 million square feet of space in an eight-block area north of Broad Street, which is wired with fiber. The foundation is charged with developing a plan that will draw people to an area that is largely unpopulated outside business hours.
But James Schmidt, the executive director of the foundation, said that technology companies have been inquiring about taking space in the old stores, which have been closed and boarded up since the mid-1980's. "We have had expressions of interest from computer-related companies and telcos for the Hahne's and S. Klein buildings as well as inquiries for offices for dot-com people interested in moving here from New York and Jersey City," he said.
He said the current plan is to convert the Hahne's store into residences, although he conceded that the building's 80,000-square-foot floors raised questions whether there would be enough light and air for the interior spaces. "The most desirable outcome for the Hahne's building would be residential," he said, "because it would provide 24-hour activity and more street life."
He said the foundation would be soliciting bids for the redevelopment of the buildings within a few weeks to determine whether expressions of interest are going to be backed by financial commitments.
Bush Terminal in the Sunset Park section of Brooklyn is a 5-million-square-foot complex of buildings that have sat underutilized on the waterfront since the 1960's, when containerized ocean shipping replaced labor-intensive methods of loading and unloading ships.
But the sturdy old buildings that date to the early part of the 20th century are capable of supporting heavy loads, have high ceilings and have ample room for the powerful air-conditioning systems that Internet and telecommunications companies require.
In addition, there is space nearby to place the diesel-powered electrical generators that these companies insist on as insurance against what they see as an increasingly unreliable power supply. There is below-ground space available to store fuel to power the diesel motors in quantities intended to keep the place running for three days without an outside utility. The streets between the buildings were long ago decommissioned by the city, so cables can be installed without seeking official permission, and seven-foot-high tunnels further connect the 12 buildings in the complex.
Bush Terminal was also called Industry City because it was one of the first industrial parks in the nation. Industry has gone elsewhere, but the current owner, a private partnership named Industry City Associates, and the brokers who represent them are trying to convert it to a technology campus. This includes cutting vertical shafts called risers in the buildings, so that each tenant will have multiple connections to power and telecommunications cables.
The city has assisted the transformation process by designating the area as a technology zone similar to the Plug 'n' Go program that attracted dot-com and other computer-based companies to lower Manhattan. The six-story, 100,000-square-foot building at 269 37th Street is being developed as the Brooklyn Information Technology Center -- pronounced "Bit-sy."
Fledgling companies will be able starting Sept. 1 to rent prebuilt space that is wired for fiber-optic connections to each desk. Richard T. Kennedy, a senior director of Cushman & Wakefield, said a new lobby and elevators were being added to the structure, which now has only manually operated freight elevators. Annual rents, at $19 a square foot plus electricity, are way below the level commanded in Manhattan.
"This is the people building," said Mr. Kennedy, who added that the center will have affiliations with local educational institutions such as Polytechnic University and the Southwest Brooklyn Industrial Development Corporation.
Two other buildings in the complex will largely be devoted to electronic machinery. One early tenant is WinStar Wireless, which is said to be the first Web-hosting company to locate in the city outside Manhattan. The company signed a lease for 80,620 square feet in Telecom Center I, in part to take advantage of the 12-story building's direct, line-of-sight connection to lower Manhattan and New Jersey.
Another tenant is World Link, which is in the process of installing switching equipment in the building.
The decision to start converting Bush Terminal to a telecommunications center was made last year after observing the growth of the industry in Manhattan, said Bruce B. Federman, a partner in Industry City Associates.
"We decided to get into the telecom game in 1999 after watching it become very successful in Manhattan, and started wondering where it would land in the outer boroughs and New Jersey," he said.
He said the terminal is near two fiber lines, making it possible to position the buildings as a location for high-technology companies.
ANOTHER Brooklyn entrant into the tech-center business is the 750,000-square-foot factory building at 470 Vanderbilt Avenue in Prospect Heights. The building is vacant and is undergoing a $72 million redevelopment to erase its industrial past and to wire it for the future, said Gary Kamenetsky, a broker with Insignia/ ESG, a real estate services company based in New York.
It is being developed by the Carlyle Group, which Mr. Kamenetsky described as a $14 billion investment fund based in Washington.
He said the building is near the tracks of the Long Island Rail Road and a Bell Atlantic central office, giving it access to fiber-optic lines, and will be wired for electric power to provide 100 watts per square foot, compared with 4 or 5 watts a square foot in the typical office building. He said that the conversion work was under way and that the building would be ready for tenants on Sept. 1.
The building at 32 Avenue of the Americas was never a factory, but its floors have ceiling heights ranging from 14 to 19 feet. In the days before air-conditioning, the volume was needed to circulate air past the more than 5,000 people who worked there making connections for long-distance calls, said John J. Gilbert, executive vice president of Rudin Management.
"This building was the original telco hotel," Mr. Gilbert said. "In the 40's and 50's, if you made a call from Omaha, Neb., to Atlanta, Ga., it came through this building. There were 3,000 circuits connecting 360 cities."
AT&T's Long Lines division once occupied most of the structure, but the restructured company had no future need for all 1.2 million square feet. The company has consolidated into 400,000 square feet on the lower floors, and sold the building to Rudin last December.
Rudin is rebuilding the remaining space to accommodate the new telco tenants, including the powerful air-conditioning systems they require and the dry fire-suppression systems needed to protect expensive equipment. Backup generators are being installed on building setbacks and on the 15th floor, which has been set aside as a mechanical floor. Two 150-foot towers are being installed on the roof to permit wireless communications.
The building is being designed so that each tenant has a mechanical condominium. "Each tenant has their own generators and fuel tank and controls," Mr. Gilbert said. "They do not have to rely on shared building systems."
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photos: Robert Vaz, above, checks antenna waterproofing at Bush Terminal in Sunset Park, Brooklyn. The terminal, a 5-million-square-foot complex of buildings, has sat underutilized since the 1960's. One of its buildings, right, has been designated the Brooklyn Information Technology Center, where fledgling companies will be able to rent prebuilt space with fiber-optic connections. At another terminal building, WinStar Wireless is to occupy the fourth floor, below. (Photographs by Philip Greenberg for The New York Times)(pg. 1); MetroNexis has agreed to buy old American Can factory in Jersey City. (Dith Pran/The New York Times); MetroNexis has leased space in old American Can factory in Jersey City. (Dith Pran/The New York Times)(pg. 4)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: VZC (LSE) (84%); VZ (NYSE) (84%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS517210 WIRELESS TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (EXCEPT SATELLITE) (84%); NAICS517110 WIRED TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (84%); SIC6531 REAL ESTATE AGENTS & MANAGERS (50%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (95%); EUROPE (79%); ASIA (72%); 

STATE: NEW JERSEY, USA (95%); NEW YORK, USA (94%); WEST USA (79%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%); NEWARK, NJ, USA (88%); 

COMPANY: VERIZON COMMUNICATIONS INC (84%); MORGAN STANLEY REAL ESTATE CO (50%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: JERSEY CITY (NJ); NEW YORK CITY; MEADOWLANDS (NJ); UNITED STATES (95%); EUROPE (79%); ASIA (72%); NEW JERSEY, USA (95%); NEW YORK, USA (94%); WEST USA (79%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%); NEWARK, NJ, USA (88%); 

SUBJECT: COMPUTERS AND THE INTERNET; FACTORIES AND INDUSTRIAL PLANTS; RETAIL STORES AND TRADE; FIBER OPTICS REAL ESTATE (90%); COMMERCIAL PROPERTY (90%); INDUSTRIAL PROPERTY (90%); FIBER OPTICS (90%); INTERNET & WWW (90%); CLOTHING & ACCESSORIES STORES (90%); SUBURBS (90%); TELEPHONIC EQUIPMENT (89%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS (89%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS SERVICES (86%); RETAIL PROPERTY (78%); RETAILERS (78%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS EQUIPMENT (76%); NETWORK SERVERS (76%); MANUFACTURING FACILITIES (74%); LOBBYING (74%); WOMEN'S CLOTHING (73%); COMPUTER EQUIPMENT (73%); MARKET SHARE (72%); NEW ECONOMY (71%); TIRE MFG (65%); MEN'S CLOTHING (56%); 

PERSON: HOLUSHA, JOHN ANDREW S PENSON (61%); 

LOAD-DATE: July 9, 2000



202 of 757 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: July 9, 2000

SECTION: Section 6; Page 11; Column 3; Magazine Desk 

LENGTH: 847 words

HEADLINE: The Way We Live Now: 07-09-00;
Summertime Dues

BYLINE: By Walter Kirn; Walter Kirn is a critic and a novelist. His latest book is "Thumbsucker."

 BODY:
On my first summer job I learned to cheat. I was working in one of those cute, old-timey ice cream shops where the sundaes are decorated with toothpick flags and the staff sings "Happy Birthday" to the customers. The day I clocked in, the owner showed me how to scoop up a generous-looking ball of ice cream that was perfectly hollow in the center. The trick was in the wrist, and it took practice, but eventually I mastered the subterfuge and was serving up great gobs of rocky road that weighed, according to a hidden kitchen scale, exactly 1.5 ounces. I felt rotten. Kids would come in holding flimsy dollar bills -- all the money they'd ever had, it seemed -- and in return I would give them globes of air that collapsed inward the moment they were licked. I complained to the owner, who threatened to let me go and accused me of being a secret "heavy scooper" who didn't understand the ways of business.
Like millions of other American teenagers, I was doing what was expected of me that summer: preparing myself for the world of work by holding down a minimum-wage job that conveyed no special skills or knowledge but did breed a certain early cynicism. Like prom night and graduation, a summer job was a rite of passage in my town. Whether or not we needed the money or felt we had better uses for our time than topping off radiators at the mini-lube or repainting the foul lines on the city tennis courts, we teenagers labored straight through to Labor Day, emerging strengthened and toughened at summer's end. 
 That was two decades ago, another time. These days, according to several recent reports, the summer-job tradition is in decline. Fewer and fewer kids, the experts tell us, are showing an interest in whiling away their holidays folding boxes and weed-whipping cracked sidewalks.
What's more, the once-popular government programs that subsidized such jobs are drying up, the victims of a prosperous economy and a shrinking pool of applicants. A troubling development? Perhaps. Then again, if my own experience means anything, maybe not.
Summer jobs are supposed to build character in teenagers -- the question is, What sort of character? A lot of the jobs, let's face it, are pure make-work: clearing dead-end trails through national forests, planting violets around school flagpoles. They're the sort of duties assigned to prison inmates and pensioners in the Soviet Union, and what they mainly teach is the necessity of appearing busy for the boss while doing something that no one really needs done. At the end of the week there's a paycheck, small but helpful, which you promptly pump into the gas tank of your car or blow on Christina Aguilera tickets. The jobs are entitlement programs, basically, or political schemes to keep rambunctious kids out of the way of adults and off the streets.
Not that learning to look busy isn't valuable. One of my own summer jobs was moving books between two floors of a college library. My supervisor was barely in his 20's, a member of one of those upbeat New Age movements that preach prosperity through optimism. He called me and my coworkers his "team" and referred to our simple duties as "the mission." What he failed to notice, though, in his zeal to convert us to his beliefs, was that, after only four weeks on the job, we'd finished moving every single book. There was no more to do, and two more months to do it. The team made a decision then: say nothing. The job was so easy and the pay so generous that we agreed to keep a good thing going. We emptied half of the shelves that we'd just filled, carried the books downstairs, and started over.
Better training for corporate life would be hard to find. In that sense, the library job fulfilled its promise. I not only learned to work, I also learned when not to work. I learned to protect my friends and even my boss, who might have been laid off had someone realized that he'd fulfilled his objective prematurely. These lessons have come in handy ever since. In office after office, I've seen the price paid by those who complete assignments early, only to be handed yet more work in a continual, exhausting spiral that ends in hospitalization or unemployment. Such eager beavers tend to burn out early, perhaps because they never had summer jobs that taught them how to conserve their vital energy.
The kids who are eschewing summer work in favor of more broadening pursuits like travel, athletics and daily moviegoing may find themselves at a disadvantage someday. There's so much they won't know. Like when to steal. I learned to steal while working at a gas station. I resisted at first, but my manager pushed hard, and since he was the nephew of the proprietor, I found him persuasive. The guy stole everything, from cans of Dr. Pepper to tanks of gas, explaining that they belonged not to the station but to a multinational oil company. What's more, he said, if I tattled to his uncle he'd blame me for the thefts. I'd lose my job.
Summer work is important. Hop to it, kids. There are some things you just can't learn in school.
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photo (Aaron Lee Fineman)
 
Chart: "Help Wanted: Whiskers Need Not Apply"
"THE SUMMER'S TOO SHORT FOR A BORING JOB!! Worlds of Fun and Oceans of Fun offer excellent training, skills and experience in over 60 types of positions. From landscaping to lifeguarding, food operations to running a ride, we have a job that's just right for you. Food Operations. Traffic Control. . . . Accounting. . . . Rental. Toll Plaza. Office/Clerical. Revenue Control. . . . Males -- A neat haircut is a must at WOF/OOF. Styling should be tapered at the sides and back so that the lower one-half of the ear is visible and the back is no longer than the top of a normal shirt collar. Employees should be cleanshaven daily. No beards or goatees are allowed. . . . No earrings are allowed." -- From an online job listing
 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (79%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%); 

SUBJECT: LABOR; CHILDREN AND YOUTH SEASONAL WORKERS (90%); ICE CREAM (90%); ADOLESCENTS (89%); WAGES & SALARIES (78%); US LABOR DAY (78%); HOLIDAYS & OBSERVANCES (77%); CHILDREN (74%); MINIMUM WAGE (73%); SPORTS & RECREATION FACILITIES & VENUES (64%); FORESTS & WOODLANDS (60%); 

PERSON: KIRN, WALTER

LOAD-DATE: July 9, 2000



203 of 757 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: July 9, 2000

SECTION: Section 6; Page 16; Column 3; Magazine Desk 

LENGTH: 1053 words

HEADLINE: The Way We Live Now: 07-09-00: Word & Image;
The Nirvana News

BYLINE: By Max Frankel 

 BODY:
This being my last word in this space, I dare to imagine what will become of the news business. What will the newspaper of the future look like? Does it even have a future?
The answer, with apologies to the White House, is that it all depends on what your meaning of newspaper is. And of news. And of paper. 
 If you think a newspaper must always involve an imprint of inks on costly pulp that is processed from Canadian trees, trucked into urban factories and trucked out again to ever more widely dispersed readers, then its prospects are dim indeed. There is no feature of that paper product that will not soon be replicated and improved by digital technologies.
A Daily Digital can be delivered to you faster, cheaper and in much more versatile and desirable forms than any Truck Times. You could download it anywhere and read it on a portable tablet the size of a magazine. Or you could print out as much as you like on electronic sheets that feel like paper but can be endlessly reused in your home computer. Nothing magical about these forms; the technology is at hand.
Indeed, there is little that a paper journal does for you that a Web journal could not do better. A good old newspaper brings you both headlines and articles that are relevant to your life and citizenship, news that is instructive or interesting or both, plus diversions, opinions and advertisements that you either seek out or discover by browsing. The paper is portable, easily scannable and, with effort, preservable. Moreover, it forms a community of readers whose shared experience of it enhances their interests and conversations.
A Daily Digital could do all that -- faster and cheaper. It would also have infinite cyberspace for readers who want elaboration and illustration of any news item, including vivid videos and recordings. It would facilitate both rapid searching and extensive research and allow easy filing and retrieval of all articles. And it would let readers range far beyond the prix fixe menu of any single group of editorial chefs. News on the Web can be ordered la carte, from a thousand kitchens.
Without much effort, you can already consume a news stew that takes the foreign news from The Times, politics from The Washington Post, sports from USA Today, business from The Wall Street Journal and the opinions of every columnist in America. You can program this Daily Composite so that the desired features are packaged with your local weather report, TV and movie schedules and Help Wanted ads. Or you can have the mix prepared by Web editors who keep a record of your interests, down to the stocks you own and the baseball teams you follow. And as you cruise the Web, you will be pursued by electronic spies that then surmise your interests and those of like-minded people to tempt you with a customized package of articles and advertising.
As for community, the Daily Digital will instantly propel you into as many circles as you wish, with instant e-mail and chat rooms to debate public issues or share shopping experiences, recipes and gardening tips.
So when will you get The Nirvana News? Alas, not until the Web worshipers quit their rhapsodizing about "free" digital news and figure out a way to pay for its production. The Web has so far supplanted only the newspaper's trucks. It has not produced very good reporter robots or electronic editors. Nor has it figured out how to pay the costly humans needed to gather, interpret, write and package information in the coming world.
News that analyzes events and investigates all aspects of life is an expensive, handmade commodity. For the moment, the Web is getting it free of charge from the old ink media that are searching for ways to adapt to the new technology. Indeed, the Web is temporarily enriching newspapers with the self-promotions of dot-com companies. But electronic commerce will inevitably siphon off much of the advertising that has been supporting news gatherers without reinvesting that revenue in sophisticated journalism.
Unfortunately, the economics of newspapering are not easily replicated on the Web. Newspapers draw three-fourths of their income from advertising and most derive about half of that from classified ads -- the very ads for real estate, jobs and cars that will be the first to depart for the Internet and flourish there without being married to news content. General advertising will also migrate to Web sites that resemble shopping catalogs or television entertainments, sites that lack any journalistic purpose.
An enterprising electronic newspaper, therefore, will have to depend much more heavily than its printed forebears on revenue from readers. It may try to charge admission, perhaps pennies per page on a "pay as you read" basis if it can compete with the free headline services that will proliferate on the Web. The Daily Digital will surely seek income by collecting fees for reprints from its archives or for searches of reference works and other databases. Popular news sites will not only address groups of readers with "personalized" advertising but also seek to earn commissions for turning readers into customers for other merchants.
It is far from certain, however, that these forms of income will support the costs of producing a sophisticated news report. Television provides a scary example of what can happen to news gathering when a technological shift diverts the revenues of print. Although billions of advertising dollars migrated to TV from newspapers and magazines, only a fraction -- indeed, a still declining fraction -- of that money has been devoted to the pursuit and analysis of important news. On local TV, a mere handful of reporters and producers pretend to cover events that newspapers traditionally covered with hundreds. And the number of network correspondents covering national and foreign affairs has dwindled to a precious few.
There is no doubt that the Web is a much more efficient distributor of information than the two-ton truck. Newspapers must adapt to digital technologies or die. The foreseeable techniques of presenting news are dazzling, but they do not yet point to a reliable stream of income to pay for the harvesting of news. The oft-heard promise of "free news" is an oxymoron. Americans will get the journalism they pay for.
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photo

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: WPO (NYSE) (58%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS517110 WIRED TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (58%); NAICS515120 TELEVISION BROADCASTING (58%); NAICS511120 PERIODICAL PUBLISHERS (58%); NAICS511110 NEWSPAPER PUBLISHERS (58%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (90%); 

STATE: DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: WASHINGTON POST CO (58%); WALL STREET JOURNAL (51%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (90%); DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: NEWSPAPERS; COMPUTERS AND THE INTERNET; ADVERTISING; NEWS AND NEWS MEDIA MARKETING & ADVERTISING (89%); INTERNET & WWW (88%); WRITERS (78%); PAPER & PACKAGING PRODUCTS (76%); ONLINE MARKETING & ADVERTISING (71%); BLOGS & MESSAGE BOARDS (71%); ONLINE ADVERTISING (71%); EMPLOYMENT LISTINGS & SITES (64%); BASEBALL (60%); MENU PRICES (50%); 

PERSON: FRANKEL, MAX

LOAD-DATE: July 9, 2000



204 of 757 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: July 9, 2000

SECTION: Section 14WC; Page 18; Column 3; Westchester Weekly Desk

LENGTH: 935 words

HEADLINE: IN THE GARDEN;
Some Lessons of Old From Williamsburg

BYLINE: By ELISABETH GINSBURG

 BODY:
I WENT to Colonial Williamsburg not long ago. It was Garden Week in Virginia, and, like thousands of my fellow enthusiasts, I was eager to see some of the extraordinary private gardens that were open for the festivities. I also wanted to find out what a 21st-century Northeastern gardener can learn from gardens that have been recreated over the past 60 years to resemble those that existed in 18th-century Virginia.
I am not the only one with such interests. Historic gardens are very hot right now. Expensive subdivisions seem to be full of people willing to spend vast sums of money to adorn the grounds of their new McMansions with everything from Victorian bedding-out schemes to French parterres. 
 The McMansionites are clearly the spiritual descendants of the colonial governor, Alexander Spotswood, who was convinced that he could create a fashionable watering hole within the confines of a colonial backwater by installing an ornamental water feature at the rear of the mansion. The governor's canal and fishpond have been recreated, and are sited conveniently near another of his innovations, a boxwood maze. He would undoubtedly be gratified to learn that water features and mazes have become fashionable all over again.
But pleasure gardens were not the only gardens flourishing within the colonial capital. Neatly planted symmetrical kitchen gardens, containing combinations of edible plants, herbs, ornamentals and even fruit trees, existed near the homes of working class, professional and wealthy residents. According to Kent Brinkley, director of horticulture for the Colonial Williamsburg Foundation, it is these gardens that have the most relevance for today's gardeners.
"Most of the gardens at Colonial Williamsburg are comparable in size to today's home lots," he said. "This helps modern gardeners relate to them in a more intimate way." Large estate gardens may be inspiring, added Mr. Brinkley, but it is easier to translate ideas when they are presented on a residential scale.
Williamsburg's gardens were also full of old-fashioned plant varieties that are identical or at least similar to varieties that were cultivated during the 18th century. Contemporary gardeners are becoming interested in older varieties, and a look at Williamsburg's plant lists can serve as a jumping-off point for selection of specific cultivars for a period bed or garden area. In an era when even the most devoted amateur gardeners are pressed for time, the tough plants favored by the colonists merit attention. One example of such toughness, Mr. Brinkley said, is the roses grown in some of the colonial gardens. The plants may not have the largest blossoms, but they are tremendously hardy.
Perhaps the most important lesson that I learned from Williamsburg is also the least tangible. Over the course of the past 15 years, changes in scholarship and developments in landscape archaeology have led Mr. Brinkley and other horticulturists to reexamine the way colonial gardens have been portrayed. The gardens that were reconstructed in the 1930's and 40's when Colonial Williamsburg was a new venture, were Colonial Revival rather than true colonial gardens. The difference between the two is sometimes subtle, according to Mr. Brinkley, but in general the Colonial Revival gardens in the historic area, while presenting an elegant period feel, did not reflect the economic and social status of the colonial-era owners of specific properties. Now, that has become an integral part of garden restoration.
"The use of finely crafted pickets instead of plain boards for fences says something about the status of the owner of a garden," Mr. Brinkley said. Personal wealth might also have led a colonial homeowner to install brick walks between garden beds, as opposed to dirt paths covered with a less costly material.
This emphasis on class distinctions does not please everybody, but it made me feel closer to the original gardeners, many of whom were also busy working people, with gardens that were not necessarily models of exquisite tidiness.
The other lesson that I learned from Mr. Brinkley and the gardens of Williamsburg is that in historic garden recreation, as in any kind of gardening, there is no such thing as being finished. Mr. Brinkley's cited the example of the Taliafero (pronounced toliver) Apple, a variety discovered by the father-in-law of a prominent Williamsburg resident George Wythe and cultivated by Thomas Jefferson. The apple has disappeared from cultivation, but Mr. Brinkley hopes that somewhere, on an abandoned farmstead, a Taliafero apple tree clings to life. If such a tree exists, he looks forward to providing a safe haven for it in Williamsburg, and eventually, returning both the tree and its fruit to commerce.
 
THIS WEEK
Plant Some History In the Backyard
If you have time to visit Virginia and still want something colonial in your garden, contact the Thomas Jefferson Center for Historic Plants. The center, founded in 1987, is located at Tufton Farm, a satellite of the Monticello estate. While the historians and horticulturists of the center focus on the plants that Jefferson knew and grew, research is also conducted on "the broad history of plants cultivated in America," as explained on the center's Web site.
To receive the center's catalog of heirloom flower and vegetable seeds, send your request, accompanied by a long self-addressed stamped envelope to: Thomas Jefferson Center for Historic Plants Monticello, P.O. Box 316, Charlottesville, Va. 22902.
The center's Web site: www.monticello.org/chp/
index.html.
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Drawing (Sasha Meret)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (97%); 

STATE: VIRGINIA, USA (97%); 

CITY: WILLIAMSBURG, VA, USA (97%); 

COMPANY: COLONIAL WILLIAMSBURG FOUNDATION (58%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (97%); VIRGINIA, USA (97%); WILLIAMSBURG, VA, USA (97%); 

SUBJECT: GARDENS AND GARDENING GARDENING (90%); HORTICULTURE (89%); BOTANICAL GARDENS (89%); ARCHAEOLOGY (70%); ANTHROPOLOGY & ARCHAEOLOGY (50%); 

PERSON: LAMAR ALEXANDER (53%); 

LOAD-DATE: July 9, 2000



205 of 757 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: July 9, 2000

SECTION: Section 14WC; Page 5; Column 3; Westchester Weekly Desk

LENGTH: 893 words

HEADLINE: ROAD AND RAIL;
6 Miles for $6 Million

BYLINE: By CLAUDIA ROWE

 BODY:
A MERE six miles of new train track means Nick Zaderay can shave 15 minutes from his commute of 3 hours and 15 minutes. It means Chris Silvera can bicycle to the train from his home in northern Dutchess County, and it means the Metro-North Railroad could pick up hundreds of new riders.
That's why Metro-North invested five years and $6 million to build two stations opening today. The Tenmile River and Wassaic stations, both in the town of Amenia in Dutchess County, have extended Metro-North's Harlem Line just under six miles. But it might as well be 50, for all the excitment this has generated. Gov. George E. Pataki is expected at a ribbon-cutting ceremony at Wassaic station tomorrow morning, and E. Virgil Conway, chairman of the Metropolitan Transportation Authority, will be on hand as well. 
 "This is the first time in our history that we've ever expanded," Mr. Conway said. "The whole suburban area is pushing north. Ridership is increasing all the time. I think it's going to continue to increase."
Indeed. Mr. Zaderay, a financial consultant who lives in Pittsfield, Mass., has no trouble rising every day around 5 a.m. for his trip to the office a few blocks from Grand Central Terminal. He shrugs off a total of six-and-a-half hours of daily commuting as the price of the good life.
"I love the Berkshires, and my business is in New York City," he said. "So I have the best of both worlds."
Mr. Zaderay will now be able to pare 10 or 15 minutes from his drive to and from the train by boarding at the Wassaic station, 5.6 miles closer to his home. "Early in the morning, even a few minutes is something," he said. He is not an anomaly. Metro-North has seen a dramatic increase in ridership over the last 15 years, and most of it comes from commuters boarding at its northernmost stations. At 6:30 a.m. one recent Thursday, all the parking spaces at the end of the line in Dover Plains were filled with commuters' cars, many bearing Massachusetts or Connecticut license plates. Since 1984, weekday ridership on those trains jumped 463 percent, to a total of 535 people riding south each day.
Peter A. Cannito, Metro-North's president, said ridership was up nearly 5 percent compared with last year, with the greatest increase on the upper Harlem and upper Hudson lines. (He and Mr. Conway both ride Harlem line trains to work, though not from as far away as Mr. Zaderay.)
Business is booming so much that Metro-North has considered building an extension into Pennsylvania Station and rehabilitating an old east-west line, which would run from Beacon in Dutchess County to the Brewster station in Putnam.
The new Wassaic and Tenmile River stations, built on existing rails, which were used from the mid-1800's through 1972, will bring commuters almost six miles north of Dover Plains and provide a total of 300 new parking spaces.
Chris Silvera, a Teamsters' official, may not need one, though. With the Wassaic station only three minutes from his home in Amenia, Mr. Silvera, who commutes to Manhattan every day, said he might bike to the train.
"Maybe I can lose some of this flab," he said with a laugh and grabbed his belly. "I think they should actually extend the line all the way north to Chatham or even Great Barrington, Mass. People are moving there and coming in to the city every day, so clearly there's a market for it."
Mr. Silvera, who moved north from New York City four years ago, said the change in locale had been well worth the logistical hassles.
"It's a quality-of-life issue," he said. "There's an inconvenience in travel, but there's a mental recoupment living in a quieter area."
Commuters who willingly ride for hours to get into the city have become such a regular part of business that Metro-North has a shuttle bus running back and forth between Dover Plains (a two-hour ride from Manhattan) and Great Barrington.
A few days before its new train station was to open, all was quiet in the tiny Hamlet of Wassaic, best known as the birthplace and former home of Borden Condensed Milk. The biggest action in town these days is a weekly livestock auction. Hand-lettered signs advertising "Piglets for Sale," hang outside some homes, and many driveways hold vintage cars in various states of repair. The station, with 250 parking spaces right off the Route 22 thoroughfare, is clean and quaint, with a pitched green roof and tasteful-looking brickwork. The platform stands between two towering mountains, which are often draped with mist in the early morning.
To many residents, even more important than an easier commute is the possibility that trains running from the opposite direction will provide a boost to tourism.
"We've focused on the reverse commute," said Kathleen Schibanoff, executive director of the Harlem Valley Partnership, an economic development and regional planning group. "The trains, we hope, will bring people from the city to this area to recreate, enjoy the biking, the restaurants, the wineries."
No one expects an immediate boom in business or wildly escalating real estate values, she said, but as suburbia creeps ever northward the effects of the railroad are undeniable.
"We've always viewed the train as our connection to the metropolitan area," she said. "I feel like it keeps us connected to life and activity, so we're not just forgotten out here."
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photos: Commuters at the Dover Plains Station, last stop on the Harlem Line, left. The Wassaic train station platform, right off the Route 22 thoroughfare. Metro-North has seen a sharp rise in patronage in the last 15 years, most of it from riders at far-north stations. (Photographs by Don Heiny for The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); 

STATE: MASSACHUSETTS, USA (92%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); CONNECTICUT, USA (79%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: METROPOLITAN TRANSPORTATION AUTHORITY (56%); GRAND CENTRAL MARKETS (54%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (92%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); CONNECTICUT, USA (79%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: Terms not available from NYTimes. URBAN RAIL SYSTEMS (90%); TRAINS (90%); URBAN TRANSIT SYSTEMS (78%); RAIL STATIONS & TERMINALS (78%); SUBURBS (73%); CONSULTING SERVICES (73%); PARKING SPACES & FACILITIES (60%); 

PERSON: EDWARD ALAN JOHN GEORGE (56%); EDDIE GEORGE (56%); 

LOAD-DATE: July 9, 2000



206 of 757 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: July 9, 2000

SECTION: Section 3; Page 22; Column 1; Money and Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 1140 words

HEADLINE: MUTUAL FUNDS REPORT;
Value Stocks Helped Some Foreign Funds Beat the Trend

BYLINE: By VIVIAN MARINO 

 BODY:
INVESTORS who thought they could lessen their risk by diversifying overseas found little solace last quarter in international equity funds, many of which underperformed their domestic counterparts.
The funds fell by an average of 6.28 percent for the period, according to Morningstar Inc., compared with a decline of 2.91 percent for all stock funds in the United States. 
 A big reason was the 180-degree reversal of fortune for once-hot technology stocks. Many of last year's stellar funds became this year's laggards by loading up on high-priced foreign Internet and telecommunications stocks that took a downturn during a highly volatile period. Plenty of domestic funds did the same, of course, but the problem was compounded for foreign funds by adverse currency movements, particularly the euro's slide, that further eroded their dollar-denominated returns.
But a few international funds managed to beat the trend, mainly by resisting dot-com temptations and sticking with undervalued old-economy companies on the rebound. Among them were Pilgrim International Value and Longleaf Partners International, which invested primarily in middle- and large-cap stocks in Europe and Japan, and RS Contrarian, which invested heavily in energy stocks largely in Canada.
"We're really looking through the trash that everyone else has thrown out, trying to find undervalued companies run by people with integrity," said Andrew McDermott, who helps run the Longleaf fund along with O. Mason Hawkins of Southeastern Asset Management in Memphis.
Mr. McDermott and Mr. Hawkins, along with Charles Brandes, lead manager of Pilgrim International and Andrew Pilara, a co-manager of RS Contrarian, recently shared some of their stock-picking and investment approaches for the quarter. They also discussed their market outlooks for the remainder of the year.
 
No Nets, but Safety
Mr. Brandes, 57, who runs Brandes Investment Partners of San Diego, submanager for Pilgrim International, says countries and industry sectors do not matter when he chooses stocks for the $758 million fund. "Our secret is to buy good companies at bargain prices, no matter where they happen to be," he said.
That approach brought Pilgrim International a return of 7.46 percent in the second quarter and 28.23 percent for the last 12 months.
Mr. Brandes said he is a student of the Benjamin Graham-David Dodd value approach to investing, detailed in the 1930's: to buy stocks that trade at below-market ratios of price to earnings but that are poised to climb.
For Mr. Brandes, that means holding very few technology shares, which account for just 1.8 percent of the fund's assets. Instead, the bulk of the portfolio last quarter was in financial services, consumer staples, durable goods and industrial cyclicals, mainly in Europe with smaller portions in Latin America, Japan and elsewhere on the Pacific Rim.
The biggest contributors to his fund's performance, according to Mr. Brandes, included Alcatel, the French telecommunications equipment maker; Mitsubishi Heavy Industries of Japan; and National Power, the British electric utility. All three had good cash flow, and their stock prices posted double-digit percentage gains in the quarter.
 
Currency Risk, Canceled
Mr. McDermott, 31, and Mr. Hawkins, 52, echoed many of Mr. Brandes's views on value. The bargain-hunting style, out of fashion in 1999, helped the $300 million Longleaf International fund gain 10.11 percent for the quarter, second best among international stock funds, and 14.05 percent for the last 12 months. But the Longleaf fund mixes in some growth companies, too.
"We don't think we can separate value from growth," Mr. Hawkins said. "We care more about what value will build" in a company.
Mr. McDermott added: "We don't have a quarterly strategy, and we don't have an asset allocation strategy based on geography. We're strictly bottom-up."
The fund's currency-hedging strategy also helped. The managers match the expected foreign-currency earnings of their holdings with short positions in those currencies, cushioning the fund from exchange-rate fluctuations. "It's one of the reasons our funds held up in the second quarter," Mr. McDermott said. "We don't take foreign-currency risks."
It is also why the fund avoids investing in Latin America or other emerging markets, where most currencies are too volatile to hedge easily. The portfolio is concentrated instead in Europe and Japan, and focuses on services, financial stocks, retailers and industrial cyclicals.
Among the fund's top performers, according to Mr. McDermott, were Diageo, the giant British food and spirits company; Safeway P.L.C., the British supermarket chain; and Sampo Insurance of Finland.
Diageo, whose many brands include Burger King, Haagen-Dazs, Guinness and Johnnie Walker, "was selling at the cheapest price in its history," Mr. McDermott noted.
 
Back in Favor
Mr. Pilara, 58, found a few low-priced gems last year for the $100 million RS Contrarian, run by Robertson Stephens of San Francisco, and much of the payoff came during the last quarter. As energy costs have risen sharply in the United States in recent months, so have the fortunes of many oil and gas companies whose shares he accumulated.
"What's bad for the consumer is good for us," said Mr. Pilara, who joined the fund's founder, Paul Stephens, two years ago when the fund was mired in losses. Since then, Mr. Pilara has helped revamp the fund's investment strategy by reducing its heavy concentration in beaten-down industries like metals mining.
Now, about 45 percent of assets are in energy, with the remainder scattered in basic materials, communications, industrial cyclicals, technology and elsewhere. Most of the holdings are in Canada and the United States, Mr. Pilara said.
The fund suffered along with other contrarian funds in the glory years of the bull market, but it is starting to see daylight again, gaining 10.22 percent in the second quarter, the best of any international stock fund tracked by Morningstar. It gained 15.46 percent over the last year.
Among its top performers last quarter, according to Mr. Pilara, were EOG Resources of Houston; Ivanhoe Energy of Bakersfield, Calif.; and Anderson Exploration and Encal Energy, both of Calgary, Alberta. All are involved in the production of natural gas, which has soared in price recently, tripling on the New York Mercantile Exchange in the past year. "Everyone is talking about gasoline, but we think there's a bigger problem with natural gas," he said, referring to the sharp rise in its price.
Though the energy stocks don't quite fit the fund's out-of-favor criteria, Mr. Pilara said he had no plans to sell them.
"We are a contrarian fund," he said, "and we're looking for some more straw hats in the winter."
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photos: O. Mason Hawkins, left, and Andrew McDermott, of the Longleaf International fund, avoid currency risks. (Rollin A. Riggs for The New York Times); Charles Brandes, lead manager of Pilgrim International Value, has focused recently on old-economy stocks, largely in Europe. (Robert Burroughs for The New York Times); Andrew Pilara, co-manager of the RS Contrarian fund, found gems in the energy sector. (Peter DaSilva for The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: MORN (NASDAQ) (72%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS511120 PERIODICAL PUBLISHERS (72%); SIC7375 INFORMATION RETRIEVAL SERVICES (72%); SIC2721 PERIODICALS: PUBLISHING, OR PUBLISHING & PRINTING (72%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (54%); 

COUNTRY: EUROPE (93%); UNITED STATES (92%); JAPAN (92%); LATIN AMERICA (79%); CANADA (79%); 

STATE: CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); 

CITY: SAN DIEGO, CA, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: MORNINGSTAR INC (72%); SOUTHEASTERN ASSET MANAGEMENT INC (54%); BRANDES INVESTMENT PARTNERS INC (53%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: EUROPE (93%); UNITED STATES (92%); JAPAN (92%); LATIN AMERICA (79%); CANADA (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); SAN DIEGO, CA, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: STOCKS AND BONDS; MUTUAL FUNDS MUTUAL FUNDS (95%); FOREIGN INVESTMENT (90%); TRENDS (90%); BONDS (79%); SECURITIES TRADING (78%); COMPANY EARNINGS (78%); MANUFACTURING OUTPUT (77%); CURRENCIES (76%); INTERNET & WWW (76%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS (75%); ECONOMIC NEWS (74%); BANKING & FINANCE (74%); DURABLE GOODS (73%); EURO (69%); CAPITAL MOVEMENTS (69%); 

PERSON: MARINO, VIVIAN; BRANDES, CHARLES; HAWKINS, O MASON; MCDERMOTT, ANDREW; PILARA, ANDREW CHARLES BRANDES (89%); 

LOAD-DATE: July 9, 2000



207 of 757 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: July 9, 2000

SECTION: Section 3; Page 28; Column 4; Money and Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 968 words

HEADLINE: MUTUAL FUNDS REPORT;
The Powers Behind the Net May Be the Next Rocket

BYLINE: By DANNY HAKIM 

 BODY:
IF technology remains the obsession of American investors, where are money managers placing their bets now? The answers can have all the longevity of a cast member on "Survivor." To trace the path of new-economy investing, fast feet and a good line of technospeak are required.
In the beginning, there were B2C (business-to-consumer) stocks. Remember when theglobe.com, the Gen X Web portal, shot up606 percent the day it went public? Love of all things B2C evaporated around the time that Barron's labeled Amazon.com as "Amazon.bomb." Nowadays a share of theglobe is as cheap as a bottle of Snapple and Amazon.com is near its 52-week low. 
 B2C gave way to B2B (business-to-business) until B2B valuations started to look as inflated as B2C's. Then came I.S.P.'s (Internet service providers) and A.S.P.'s (application service providers), software makers, networking companies and incubators -- companies that invest in all of the above. And then there was the hype surrounding Linux, the free operating system that would, we were told, gut Microsoft faster than the Justice Department could.
Ah, for the good old days. Chastened by the technology correction, money managers now look a whole lot less favorably on companies with a future full of projected losses. Infrastructure plays -- companies that build the tangible devices that power the Internet, and actually make money -- are more sought after today.
Not that there is no appetite for speculation, especially when the word "wireless" is mentioned. The next big thing, the buzz has it, will be wireless Internet -- Web-enabled cell phones, Dick Tracy watches, gadgets in the car. Two new technology mutual funds focus exclusively on all things unplugged.
Ryan Jacob, manager of the $150 million Jacob Internet fund, likes two companies that make software for wireless devices, Aether Systems of Owings Mills, Md., and 724 Solutions of Toronto. "They're on the forefront of the next evolution we're going to see in Internet usage, which is bringing the Internet off the desktop," he said.
But for Andrew S. Cupps, manager of the Strong Enterprise fund, the recent attention on wireless-related stocks makes it difficult to find reasonably priced stocks. "We've had a little trouble identifying a stock where the valuation makes sense," he said. "An Aether, a $7 billion valuation with massive losses and very little revenue? I'm going to have to plead ignorance."
Instead, he picked up National Semiconductor in the second quarter, a veteran chip maker that now supplies components for cell phones and other wireless devices.
"We've shifted to lower multiples and profitable companies," as opposed to those that promise more than they can deliver, Mr. Cupps said. "National Semiconductor is the best example, a very profitable company that's trading at a multiple below 20," referring to the stock's price-to-earnings ratio of about 17, less than two-thirds the average for the Standard & Poor's 500.
That preference for companies in the black is shared by Peter Anastos and Gerald T. Malone, managers of the Alliance Technology fund, which with $12.6 billion in assets is one of the largest general technology funds. Their portfolio is very light on Internet stocks and heavy on semiconductors. The strategy has yielded steady, but not top-flight, long-term returns, according to Morningstar Inc.; the fund held up better than most of its peers in the second quarter and was up 11.6 percent in the first half.
The relatively traditional approach puts stocks like Cisco Systems, PMC Sierra and Nokia at the top of the portfolio. The fund has also added to its positions in companies that the managers believe are leading players in emerging areas, including Veritas, JDS Uniphase and BEA Systems. They did bite on one Internet stock, picking up Yahoo as it fell 27.7 percent in the quarter.
"Internet advertising might not show the growth this year that people expected, and advertising is the underpinning of the business model" at Yahoo, Mr. Anastos said. "It's a legitimate but short-term concern" for a company whose market share is still growing, he said.
E-commerce is on many managers' don't-like lists. Struggles in the sector began even before the April technology stock slump, and when other Internet stocks rebounded in June, e-commerce kept heading south. TheStreet.com E-Commerce index was off 59 percent for the first half.
Flying against this downdraft, Firsthand Funds has just opened an e-commerce fund, Firsthand e-Commerce. Tellingly, it owns none of the usual e-commerce suspects: no Amazon.com, no Priceline.com, no eBay.
"It's not that we have a 'sell' call on these stocks," said Kevin Landis, who manages the fund. "We've just always avoided the group. Those companies are already famous, and those stocks are already expensive."
So what is the alternative? Infrastructure. Mr. Landis said that while the fund is not interested in retail dot-coms, "we want to invest in everyone they pay" -- the Internet software makers, the networking companies, the service providers.
Among his favorites are companies that are hired to run Web sites and other computer operations for other companies. Mr. Landis added to a favorite position, Globix, based in Manhattan's Silicon Alley, as it was falling 23.1 percent in the second quarter after a run-up of 1,100 percent last year.
Mr. Landis also "took a big chunk" of the initial public offering of Genuity, which was spun off from GTE late last month.
"The market's correction has given us an opportunity to buy stocks that would normally be too expensive for us," he said. "High-growth, well-regarded, gold-plated tech companies -- you buy because this is the only time they are going to be cheap. You're less likely to go fishing for turnarounds." 
http://www.nytimes.com

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: AMZN (NASDAQ) (57%); MSFT (NASDAQ) (55%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS454111 ELECTRONIC SHOPPING (57%); SIC5961 CATALOG & MAIL-ORDER HOUSES (57%); NAICS511210 SOFTWARE PUBLISHERS (55%); SIC7372 PREPACKAGED SOFTWARE (55%); NAICS334413 SEMICONDUCTOR & RELATED DEVICE MANUFACTURING (50%); SIC3674 SEMICONDUCTORS & RELATED DEVICES (50%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (78%); 

STATE: MARYLAND, USA (78%); 

COMPANY: AMAZON.COM INC (57%); MICROSOFT CORP (55%); NATIONAL SEMICONDUCTOR CORP (50%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (78%); MARYLAND, USA (78%); 

SUBJECT: STOCKS AND BONDS; RETAIL STORES AND TRADE; COMPUTERS AND THE INTERNET WIRELESS INDUSTRY (90%); B2B ELECTRONIC COMMERCE (90%); COMPUTER OPERATING SYSTEMS (90%); INTERNET & WWW (89%); INVESTMENT MANAGEMENT (89%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS EQUIPMENT (89%); COMPUTER SOFTWARE (89%); MUTUAL FUNDS (89%); MOBILE & CELLULAR COMMUNICATIONS (87%); COMPUTER NETWORKS (87%); ELECTRONICS (78%); WIRELESS INTERNET ACCESS (76%); WEB SITES & PORTALS (76%); GENERATION X (73%); NEW ECONOMY (73%); BONDS (73%); INTERNET SERVICE PROVIDERS (72%); APPLICATION SERVICE PROVIDERS (72%); SOFTWARE MAKERS (72%); SEMICONDUCTOR MFG (71%); RETAILERS (71%); COMPANY PROFITS (69%); MOBILE & CELLULAR TELEPHONES (62%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (51%); 

PERSON: HAKIM, DANNY RYAN JACOB (55%); 

LOAD-DATE: July 9, 2000



208 of 757 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: July 9, 2000

SECTION: Section 3; Page 6; Column 2; Money and Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 1422 words

HEADLINE: Personal Business;
How Best to Deduct the High Cost of Gasoline?

BYLINE: By STACY KRAVETZ 

 BODY:
DESPITE recent signs of easing, high prices at the gas pump continue to stir political debate. They may also change the calculus for another, more personal question: Which method should taxpayers use when figuring deductions for business mileage: the standard rate or the actual-expense version?
It is a decision that should be revisited whenever any of the relevant elements change, experts say. For the self-employed, the choice is especially important, though even employees who are reimbursed for their mileage can deduct expenses in excess of the reimbursement. 
 Business mileage refers to any driving done for work other than commuting to and from the office -- trips to see clients, to courthouses or to meetings, for example.
For years, the standard mileage rate -- the business expense allowed by the Internal Revenue Service for each mile driven for business -- has generally ticked up steadily but slowly, mirroring cost-of-living adjustments. The rate is a calculation of the average driver's auto-related expenses, including lease payments, depreciation, interest payments, insurance, gasoline, repairs and maintenance costs. The rationale is that while gas prices and other expenses may fluctuate, they have a relatively small impact on the overall cost of driving.
That does not mean, however, that the standard mileage rate reflects the cost of driving for any individual driver. People who live in large cities, for example, spend more on insurance, while those who finance expensive cars pay more interest. And as gasoline prices climbed this year, Midwesterners paid higher prices than others. But everyone who chooses this method of accounting gets the same standard rate, though some small items, like parking and tolls, can be deducted separately.
When the I.R.S. lowered the standard mileage rate last year, from 32.5 cents a mile to 31 cents as of April 1, it was a blow to those who thought the rate was already too low. And with pump prices up markedly since then, the actual-expense method bears extra consideration.
"We calculate it both ways for our clients, and 99 percent of the time the actual expense provides a better tax deduction than the mileage rate they give you," said Howard Leitner, a partner at the accounting firm Leitner, Zander, Sniderman & Company in Los Angeles. "With rising gas prices, if you were on the border of whether you should take actual or standard, it will push you over to the actual-expense side."
Of course, the main benefit of using the standard rate is its simplicity. A taxpayer need keep records only of the miles driven for business in a given year.
But when should savings trump ease? The only way to know the difference between the standard rate and actual expenses is to run the numbers. The calculation will include the number of business miles driven in a year and the amount spent on gasoline and other allowable costs for the portion of driving that relates to business.
The standard rate is based on average car expenses, with an estimate for gasoline costs based on prices in the previous year -- currently, about $1.50 a gallon. This hardly does justice to prices spiking upward of $2.50 a gallon, as they did recently in many Midwestern cities. For a car that gets 20 miles to the gallon, a $1-a-gallon jump in gas prices means an increase of 5 cents a mile.
"You could look at it as the I.R.S. cheating you by 5 cents a mile," said Gordon Klein, a tax lawyer and a lecturer at the Anderson School at the University of California at Los Angeles. "It could add up."
For people who barely use their cars for business or who have extremely low car expenses, the extra effort of collecting receipts and calculating expenses will generally not produce enough savings to justify the work. Similarly, employees whose companies reimburse their business mileage may not receive a big benefit, because they can deduct only the actual expenses above the amount they are reimbursed. Most employers pay for mileage at the I.R.S. standard rate. In addition, the I.R.S. does not let employees claim the interest portion of car payments as an auto expense, so their allowable "actual expenses" will be lower than those for the self-employed.
ACCOUNTANTS say the differences in savings tend to be biggest for people who are self-employed or who lease cars, or both.
"If you're self-employed, it's a real issue because you're not getting anything if you don't take it on your tax return," said David Green, a partner in the personal financial services practice at PricewaterhouseCoopers in Los Angeles. When they itemize, the self-employed may claim the interest portion of their car payments as an expense, along with all other annual costs of driving for business.
Say a self-employed woman has a $35,000 car that is used 50 percent of the time for business. She can deduct actual expenses totaling 50 percent of her gasoline, insurance, interest and maintenance expenses.
The car was financed at an interest rate of 8.49 percent, is driven a total of 12,000 miles in a year and gets 25 miles to the gallon in a metropolitan area where gasoline costs $1.75 a gallon.
The business half of the expenses includes $750 for insurance, $1,374 for interest, $420 for gasoline and $250 for maintenance. The I.R.S. also considers depreciation an expense, though it is capped for all cars, no matter their cost, and is set at a different amount for each subsequent year of use.
For cars first used for business in 1999, the cap that year was $3,060. (The cap for cars first used in 2000 has not yet been set.) In the example, that means a maximum of $1,530 (or 50 percent of $3,060) could be included as an expense. In this case, the driver would be allowed $1,530 for depreciation, bringing her total allowable expenses to $4,324.
By contrast, the standard mileage rate of 31 cents a mile would let her deduct only $1,860.
The gap between the calculations, of course, grows as fuel efficiency drops or as the price of gasoline jumps. Say the car in the example was a gas-guzzler, getting 15 miles to the gallon in a city where gas prices have risen to $2.50 a gallon. The vehicle's annual fuel costs would jump to $1,000, from $420, and total expenses would rise to $4,904, from $4,324. But the standard mileage rate would still allow for just $1,860.
Big differences are also seen in the computations for leased cars. While there are no interest expenses or depreciation involved, lease payments may be included in the actual-expense calculation. So if that same gas-guzzler were leased, with annual payments of $3,800, the total actual expenses would be $5,800.
If doing the extra math makes sense, remember that choosing the actual-expense method the first year a car is used for business obligates you to continue with it as long as you have that car. (If you choose the standard rate the first year, you may be able to switch to actual expenses in later years.)
True, itemizing expenses can be an ordeal. But the tax savings gained through using the actual-expense method may, among other things, be one small way to feel better about the pain at the pump.
 
One Way to Save: Burn Less Fuel
CAN'T itemize business driving expenses to get back more of the high cost of gasoline from the tax collector? There are other ways to keep high pump prices from stinging quite so much.
* Stick to the speed limit. Fuel efficiency drops markedly at high speeds, even for high-performance cars.
* Switch to regular. Many drivers buy premium who do not need it. High-compression, high-horsepower engines must have the extra octane; for the rest, regular gas is just as good. The difference can be $3 or more for each fill-up.
* Service the car. Changing the oil often -- say, every 3,000 miles -- and keeping the tires fully inflated will improve gas mileage.
* Empty the trunk. Keep the spare, the jack and the emergency kit, of course, but that sack of sand for winter traction and the golf clubs you use twice a year can go, lightening the load on the engine.
* Roll up the windows. At highway speeds, it generally takes less energy to run the air-conditioner than to fight the aerodynamic drag caused by open windows. (Around town, the opposite is true.)
* Turn off the engine. Idling for longer than two or three minutes burns more fuel than restarting a typical car.
* Cadge a lift. "Hey, that's a beaut you've got in the driveway, Phil. Bet she rides great. What say we tool on down to the squash courts together in your car?"
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photo: Peter Nichol of Waltham, Mass., at the gas pump last month. High prices may make business drivers consider switching to a more detailed way of calculating deductions. (Julia Malakie for The New York Times)
 
Chart: "Your Mileage May Vary"
With gasoline prices much higher than a year ago, many people who drive for business and take the standard I.R.S. mileage deduction to save the bother of tracking actual expenses are paying a steep price. Here is how pump prices and fuel economy can alter the equation at tax time for a sample driver.
 
Chart tracks pump prices and fuel economy.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (79%); 

STATE: MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); 

CITY: LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (50%); 

COMPANY: INTERNAL REVENUE SERVICE (56%); INTERNAL REVENUE SERVICE (56%); 

ORGANIZATION: INTERNAL REVENUE SERVICE (56%); INTERNAL REVENUE SERVICE (56%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (50%); 

SUBJECT: TAXATION; TAX DEDUCTIONS; OIL (PETROLEUM) AND GASOLINE; PRICES (FARES, FEES AND RATES) GASOLINE PRICES (93%); OIL & GAS PRICES (91%); TAXES & TAXATION (91%); GASOLINE (90%); TAX DEDUCTIONS (90%); PRICE INCREASES (89%); PRICE CHANGES (89%); INCOME TAX (89%); PETROLEUM PRODUCTS (78%); ACCOUNTING STANDARDS (77%); COST OF LIVING (77%); SELF EMPLOYMENT (76%); PUBLIC FINANCE (76%); GASOLINE MARKETS (72%); TAX AUTHORITIES (72%); ACCOUNTING & AUDITING FIRMS (69%); 

PERSON: KRAVETZ, STACY

LOAD-DATE: July 9, 2000



209 of 757 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: July 9, 2000

SECTION: Section 14CN; Page 12; Column 3; Connecticut Weekly Desk

LENGTH: 790 words

HEADLINE: IN THE GARDEN;
Some Lessons of Old From Williamsburg

BYLINE: By ELISABETH GINSBURG

 BODY:
I WENT to Colonial Williamsburg not long ago. It was Garden Week in Virginia, and, like thousands of my fellow enthusiasts, I was eager to see some of the extraordinary private gardens that were open for the festivities. I also wanted to find out what a 21st-century Northeastern gardener can learn from gardens that have been recreated over the past 60 years to resemble those that existed in 18th-century Virginia.
I am not the only one with such interests. Historic gardens are very hot right now. Expensive subdivisions seem to be full of people willing to spend vast sums of money to adorn the grounds of their new McMansions with everything from Victorian bedding-out schemes to French parterres. 
 The McMansionites are clearly the spiritual descendants of the colonial governor, Alexander Spotswood, who was convinced that he could create a fashionable watering hole within the confines of a colonial backwater by installing an ornamental water feature at the rear of the governor's mansion. The governor's canal and fishpond have been recreated, and are sited conveniently near another of his innovations, a boxwood maze. He would undoubtedly be gratified to learn that water features and mazes have become fashionable again.
But pleasure gardens were not the only gardens flourishing within the colonial capital. Neatly planted symmetrical kitchen gardens, containing combinations of edible plants, herbs, ornamentals and even fruit trees, existed near the homes of working class, professional and wealthy residents. According to Kent Brinkley, director of horticulture for the Colonial Williamsburg Foundation, it is these gardens that have the most relevance for today's gardeners.
"Most of the gardens at Colonial Williamsburg are comparable in size to today's home lots," he said. "This helps modern gardeners relate to them in a more intimate way." Large estate gardens may be inspiring, added Mr. Brinkley, but it is easier to translate ideas when they are presented on a residential scale.
Williamsburg's gardens were also full of old-fashioned plant varieties that are identical or at least similar to varieties that were cultivated during the 18th century. Contemporary gardeners are becoming interested in older varieties, and a look at Williamsburg's plant lists can serve as a jumping-off point for selection of specific cultivars for a period bed or garden area. In an era when even the most devoted amateur gardeners are pressed for time, the tough plants favored by colonists merit attention. One example of such toughness, Mr. Brinkley said, is the roses grown in some of colonial gardens. The plants may not have the largest blossoms, but they are very hardy.
Perhaps the most important lesson that I learned from Williamsburg is also the least tangible. Over the course of the past 15 years, changes in scholarship and developments in landscape archaeology have led Mr. Brinkley and other horticulturists to reexamine the way colonial gardens have been portrayed. The gardens that were reconstructed in the 1930's and 40's when Colonial Williamsburg was a new venture, were Colonial Revival rather than true colonial gardens. The difference between the two is sometimes subtle, according to Mr. Brinkley, but in general the Colonial Revival gardens in the historic area, while presenting an elegant period feel, did not reflect the economic and social status of the colonial-era owners of specific properties. Now, that has become an integral part of garden restoration. "The use of finely crafted pickets instead of plain boards for fences says something about the status of the owner of a garden," Mr. Brinkley said. Personal wealth might also have led a colonial homeowner to install brick walks between garden beds, as opposed to dirt paths covered with a less costly material.
This emphasis on class distinctions does not please everybody, but it made me feel closer to the original gardeners, many of whom were also busy working people, with gardens that were not necessarily tidy.
The other lesson that I learned from Mr. Brinkley and the gardens of Williamsburg is that in historic garden recreation, as in any kind of gardening, there is no such thing as being finished. Mr. Brinkley's cited the example of the Taliafero (pronounced toliver) Apple, a variety discovered by the father-in-law of a prominent Williamsburg resident George Wythe and cultivated by Thomas Jefferson. The apple has disappeared from cultivation, but Mr. Brinkley hopes that somewhere, on an abandoned farmstead, a Taliafero apple tree clings to life. If such a tree exists, he looks forward to providing a safe haven for it in Williamsburg, and eventually, returning both the tree and its fruit to commerce.
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Drawing (Sasha Meret)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (97%); 

STATE: VIRGINIA, USA (97%); 

CITY: WILLIAMSBURG, VA, USA (97%); 

COMPANY: COLONIAL WILLIAMSBURG FOUNDATION (58%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (97%); VIRGINIA, USA (97%); WILLIAMSBURG, VA, USA (97%); 

SUBJECT: GARDENS AND GARDENING GARDENING (90%); HORTICULTURE (89%); BOTANICAL GARDENS (89%); GOVERNORS (73%); ARCHAEOLOGY (70%); ANTHROPOLOGY & ARCHAEOLOGY (50%); 

PERSON: LAMAR ALEXANDER (53%); 

LOAD-DATE: July 9, 2000



210 of 757 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: July 9, 2000

SECTION: Section 3; Page 26; Column 1; Money and Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 1177 words

HEADLINE: MUTUAL FUNDS REPORT: ESSAY;
Of Lions and Bulls And Squares (Oh My!)

BYLINE: By PATRICK McGEEHAN 

 BODY:
IF your investing style could be a geometric figure, what kind would it be?
Perhaps a polyhedron, like the pyramid with the shining upper chamber that serves as the logotype for Fidelity Investments? Or the concentric triangles that symbolize Alliance Capital Management? Or maybe the stylistic circle that representsthe Invesco funds? 
 If you are like me, all these fund family crests leave you cold. Granted, illustrating something so fuzzy as an investment philosophy is no easy feat but can't we do any better than a bunch of polygons, sailing vessels and oak trees?
No wonder studies show that the most memorable icon of the mutual fund industry is the lion that belongs to the Dreyfus Corporation, a unit of Mellon Financial. As Merrill Lynch has proved, when it comes to building a strong public image, you can't beat a magnificent hairy beast. Investors are likely to keep identifying Dreyfus with its mascot long after they have forgotten the $2.95 million the company recently agreed to pay to settle accusations that it failed to adequately disclose the risks of its Aggressive Growth fund and that the fund's early performance was inflated by one its former managers, Michael L. Schonberg. (Neither Dreyfus nor Mr. Schonberg admitted wrongdoing.)
It comes as no surprise that people have trouble remembering that Fidelity's logo resembles the pyramid on the back of a dollar bill -- without that eerie eye -- or that the Franklin fund family logo, a portrait of Benjamin Franklin, looks as if it might come from the front of an old $100 note. If you are going to use cash to represent the promise to shareholders, why not go with a big pile, maybe in a wheelbarrow? But on second thought, that image might be mistaken for the managers carting off commissions of 5 percent plus assorted annual fees.
And, please, no more boats. What is it with money men and all things nautical? You can't walk through the headquarters of a major financial institution in the Northeast without feeling as if you have stumbled into the offices of the Dutch East India Company of the 17th century. The walls are lined with paintings and sketches of schooners and ketches. I've noticed that the money managers have learned to keep the pictures of their own yachts out of sight of the paying customers.
The State Street and Pioneer fund families, which share the home port of Boston, each use a variation on a sailing ship as a logo. The Vanguard Group has taken the seafaring theme to such an extreme that you might never guess that the company is based as far inland as Valley Forge, Pa. The index-fund giant is so hooked on sailing that one ad in a glossy magazine reads, "While many fund companies are learning the ropes of indexing, consider who built the rigging." (Rigging is a word you probably will not see in a Dreyfus ad anytime soon.)
The new symbol for the Scudder funds is distinctive: a racing shell with four rowers pulling their oars in unison. It conveys sleekness, fitness and teamwork and certainly resonates better with baby boomers than Scudder's previous icon -- an old, bearded sea captain, bedecked in foul-weather gear. He always gave me a sudden craving for frozen fish sticks.
The old salt sailed off into the sunset last year after Scudder merged with the Kemper fund family, yet Kemper has kept its more mysterious symbol, a sheaf of wheat. You can't get much more old-economy than a farming metaphor.
A bull may be a perfect symbol for a Wall Street firm, but none of Merrill's competitors has tried to rustle it lately. For the most part their mascots are avuncular bankers promising to earn your trust. But some of Merrill's rivals, who of course manage their own funds, have landed some memorable slogans, like "We make money the old-fashioned way, we earn it" and "We measure success one investor at a time."
The closest analog from a fund company comes from Massachusetts Financial Services, which flatly declares: "We invented the mutual fund."
It is hard to distinguish among Fidelity's "Invest responsibly" theme, the Aim fund family's "Invest with discipline" and T. Rowe Price's "Invest with confidence." But they are durable. Is there any slogan that says "out of step with the times" more clearly than Kemper's "long-term investing in a short-term world"?
Then there's the mythology thing. Janus, the Denver company that has become synonymous with making concentrated bets on fast-growing technology companies, has clearly studied Nike's playbook, not Vanguard's. The evidence: Nike was named for a Greek goddess, Janus for a Roman god. Nike's rallying cry was "Just do it"; Janus says "Get there."
Janus's logo is one of the more recognizable in the industry. There may already be thousands of investors who know that two-faced god symbolizes doorways and beginnings, but there probably are more who think he was the god of beating the market. Of course, more than a few old-school investors would argue that Bacchus would be a more appropriate icon for a company that so thoroughly reveled at the technology-stock feast of the last several years.
Aside from Dreyfus and Merrill, surprisingly few fund companies have turned to the tried-and-true use of animals as symbols. One is T. Rowe Price, whose mascot is a ram that represents surefootedness.
But another is a newcomer, and its choice of a logo may be spot-on. Thomas Marsico already was something of a maverick before he bolted from Janus's stable of managers a few years ago to start his own firm focused on investing in fast-growing companies. The symbol he chose looks a lot like a wild horse; that is appropriate, because his funds have taken shareholders on a exhilarating ride. The flagship Marsico Focus fund returned more than 50 percent in 1998 and again in 1999, though it was down about 9 percent this year through June 30.
For established fund firms that want to project a more sober image, inventive marketing has proved a major challenge. Consider what Fidelity, arguably the most successful fund company since somebody came up with the idea of putting stocks in baskets, has done to promote itself in recent years. To hammer home its "Invest responsibly" mantra, it hired Don Rickles and Lily Tomlin, two people who made their fortunes by sticking their tongues out at strangers.
The truth for the people who run Fidelity is that they have the single most valuable promotional resource in the industry on the board of directors. His name is Peter Lynch and, although he has not managed a Fidelity fund in many years, he is generally accepted as one of the greatest living investors.
At 56, he will probably be around for a long time, but Fidelity executives should be planning how they will continue using Mr. Lynch's Midas-like reputation after he is gone. They might consider replacing the current logo, which conjures up images of some sort of cult or a secret society, with a sketch of Mr. Lynch's brain and a simple, direct slogan, like "We didn't invent the mutual fund but we have dibs on Peter Lynch's gene pool."
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Drawing (Matthew Martin)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: IVZ (NYSE) (58%); BK (NYSE) (56%); 

INDUSTRY: SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (84%); NAICS525910 OPEN-END INVESTMENT FUNDS (74%); NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (74%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (74%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (57%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (57%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (57%); NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (56%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (56%); SIC6712 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (56%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (79%); 

STATE: MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%); PENNSYLVANIA, USA (79%); 

CITY: BOSTON, MA, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: DREYFUS CORP (84%); FMR CORP (74%); INVESCO LTD (58%); VANGUARD GROUP INC (57%); MERRILL LYNCH & CO INC (57%); BANK OF NEW YORK MELLON CORP (56%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%); PENNSYLVANIA, USA (79%); BOSTON, MA, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: STOCKS AND BONDS; MUTUAL FUNDS; LOGOTYPES MUTUAL FUNDS (92%); MARINE VESSELS (89%); INVESTMENT MANAGEMENT (78%); INDEX FUNDS (77%); PAINTING (75%); BANKING & FINANCE (73%); BONDS (73%); SHAREHOLDERS (63%); 

PERSON: MCGEEHAN, PATRICK MICHAEL L SCHONBERG (55%); 

LOAD-DATE: July 9, 2000



211 of 757 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: July 9, 2000

SECTION: Section 3; Page 19; Column 1; Money and Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 1195 words

HEADLINE: MUTUAL FUNDS REPORT;
Betting on the Unloved To Beat a Downturn

BYLINE: By CAROLE GOULD 

 BODY:
THERE were swoons and rebounds, and then more again of the same. But by the end of the second quarter, the stock market had provided enough bad news to push every major category of United States diversified equity funds into negative territory for the period. Over all, domestic diversified stock funds lost 3.1 percent.
What funds managed to shine as stormy weather lashed the markets? Generally, the winners owned shares in companies in old-economy sectors, like oil and gas, as well as in health care and some financial services. 
 Managers of three top-performing funds talked about the resurgence of once-beaten-down sectors and what they expect from the stock market during the remainder of the year.
 
Helped by a U-Turn
Cheap, small stocks propelled the $262.7 million Ariel fund into second place among funds for the quarter, with a return of 14 percent.
"Our stocks were so extraordinarily cheap at the beginning of the quarter that they were really poised to move up sharply," said its manager, John W. Rogers Jr.
Mr. Rogers, 42, looks for companies that sell for a discount of at least 40 percent to their private market value (what they would be worth to an acquirer), and whose shares trade at less than 14 times projected earnings for the next year. The fund holds just 35 issues.
One big winner was Central Newspapers of Phoenix, owner of The Arizona Republic, The Indianapolis Star and other papers. "Newspapers are cheap because investors are worrying about the impact of the Internet," Mr. Rogers said, "and publishers worry about rising paper prices."
The company's share price was so depressed, he added, that management put the business up for sale. Last month, Gannett agreed to buy it for $2.6 billion; the stock rose 89 percent for the quarter.
Another holding, Hussmann International of St. Louis, agreed to be acquired during the quarter by Ingersoll-Rand for a premium of more than 100 percent, Mr. Rogers said. The company makes refrigeration equipment for supermarkets.
"It's an industry that no one cared about earlier in the year, when people were enamored of dot-com companies," he said. "And it missed a few quarters' earnings, which gave people an excuse to neglect it."
Mr. Rogers also made money on Littelfuse, the fund's only technology stock. The company, based in Des Plaines, Ill., is a leading provider of miniature electrical fuses for the automobile industry; it recently began making fuses for cell phones, personal digital assistants and other electronic devices. The stock rose 33.6 percent in the quarter, helped by improving earnings and the move into the new markets.
Looking ahead, Mr. Rogers sees more gains for small- and mid-capitalization value stocks, even after their second-quarter sprint. "So many boards of directors and C.E.O.'s are saying that the stock price of their company doesn't reflect the value of the business," he said, "and they're taking steps to realize that value."
 
Energy and Health Care Bets
Edward J. von der Linde took the No. 13 place for the quarter with his $456.4 million Lord Abbett Mid-Cap Value fund, with a gain of 8.4 percent. "As the market broadens out and diversifies away from large-cap growth stocks," said Mr. von der Linde, 40, "investors have gravitated to the types of stocks that we buy."
One big winner was EOG Resources in Houston, up 57.6 percent, helped by rising natural-gas prices. "Investors are realizing that gas producers haven't been able to keep pace with demand," he said. Enron is more leveraged to natural-gas price increases, he said, than any other domestic gas company.
He also made money in Caremark Rx, a Birmingham, Ala., company that organizes drug benefit programs for health insurers and H.M.O.'s. The stock rose 62.7 percent in the quarter. The drivers of its performance included the divestiture of its unprofitable physician practice management business and the settlement of litigation involving a convertible bond issue. "The company has annual revenue growth of 20 percent," Mr. von der Linde said, "so once the clouds were gone, the stock price began to take off."
St. Jude Medical, a St. Paul maker of heart valves and pacemakers, rose 77.8 percent. Investors began bidding up the price in anticipation of the Food and Drug Administration approval, expected by year-end, of a new, lightweight cardiac device, he said. Moreover, a new chief executive, Terry Shepherd, who took over in 1999, has smoothed out the company's problems meeting earnings expectations. "He is communicating with Wall Street and rebuilding the earnings numbers," he said, "which is generating confidence in the company as it moves toward its new product introduction."
Mr. von der Linde is optimistic about the stock market. "I wouldn't be surprised to see the rally in the old leaders continue for another few months," he said. "Investors suddenly seem to be taking notice of earnings. The next logical step is that they'll pay attention to valuations, which will broaden out leadership in the marketplace."
 
Profiting From Credit Risk
Buying companies with strong earnings growth while keeping a sharp eye on prices pushed the $200 million Wasatch Core Growth into the No. 7 place, up 10 percent. "In the last three quarters, we've seen the strongest earnings growth in our portfolio companies that we've ever seen," said J. B. Taylor, 28, co-manager of the fund with Sam Stewart, 55.
Mr. Taylor said the annual earnings growth of the companies in the fund has been nearly 30 percent, even though their trailing price-to-earnings multiples have been less than 20, which is relatively low. "With high-tech investments in vogue," he said, "a lot of great, solid companies are being passed over."
One of them, he said, is Rent-a-Center, in Plano, Tex., which rose 50 percent in the quarter. The company operates a "rent-to-own" business that leased electronics, appliances, furniture and other goods to consumers, including those without credit cards or checking accounts or with poor credit histories. Its earnings are growing at an annual rate of 25 percent, while shares trade at about 10 times its earnings for the previous 12 months.
Another company that caters to people with poor credit is Americredit, a consumer finance company in Fort Worth whose stock rose 4.3 percent. Americredit's customers "are good loan applicants now, because they've turned around or they're willing to pay premiums for their loans," Mr. Taylor said. Annual earnings growth exceeds 25 percent, and shares trade for about 13 times trailing 12-month earnings.
He also likes Express Scripts of St. Louis, a drug benefits management organization. Its cash flow has been growing 20 percent a year, Mr. Taylor said, but its share price was depressed because of the general downturn in many health care stocks. It rose 47.9 percent in the quarter.
Looking ahead, Mr. Taylor expects value stocks to dominate. "I see an increasing focus -- or return to focus -- on fundamentals, because so many investors have been burned by hyped stocks," he said. "In the last couple of months, Wall Street has been shifting its focus to earnings."
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photos: Edward J. von der Linde, below, manager of the Lord Abbett Mid-Cap Value Fund, made investments in the energy and health care sectors.; J. B. Taylor, above, co-manager of the Wasatch Core Growth fund, focuses on strong earnings growth in sectors like consumer lending.; John W. Rogers Jr., left, of the Ariel fund, near his office in the Chicago Loop. The fund succeeded in its bets on small-company value stocks. (Aaron Lee Fineman for The New York Times); (Thor Swift for The New York Times); (Steve Kagan for The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); 

STATE: ARIZONA, USA (79%); ILLINOIS, USA (74%); 

CITY: CHICAGO, IL, USA (74%); PHOENIX, AZ, USA (54%); 

COMPANY: INDIANAPOLIS STAR (54%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%); ARIZONA, USA (79%); ILLINOIS, USA (74%); CHICAGO, IL, USA (74%); PHOENIX, AZ, USA (54%); 

SUBJECT: STOCKS AND BONDS; MUTUAL FUNDS MUTUAL FUNDS (93%); STOCK EXCHANGES (90%); COMPANY EARNINGS (89%); PULP & PAPER MARKETS (78%); ECONOMIC NEWS (76%); BANKING & FINANCE (73%); BOARDS OF DIRECTORS (73%); INTERNET & WWW (69%); PRICE INCREASES (68%); BONDS (68%); PAPER & PACKAGING (64%); MOBILE & CELLULAR COMMUNICATIONS (63%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS EQUIPMENT (60%); HANDHELD COMPUTERS (50%); MOBILE & CELLULAR TELEPHONES (50%); GROCERY STORES & SUPERMARKETS (50%); 

PERSON: GOULD, CAROLE; TAYLOR, J B; ROGERS, JOHN W; VON DER LINDE, EDWARD J JOHN W ROGERS JR (86%); EDWARD J VON DER LINDE (71%); 

LOAD-DATE: July 9, 2000



212 of 757 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: July 9, 2000

SECTION: Section 9; Page 8; Column 1; Society Desk

LENGTH: 563 words

HEADLINE: WEDDINGS;
Stephanie Jones, Nathan Dudley

 BODY:
Stephanie Lynn Jones, a performance artist, and Nathan Sanford Dudley, a teacher, are to be married today at the First Presbyterian Church of Brooklyn. Donna Walker Kuhne, a minister of religious ceremonies for Soka Gakkai International USA, a Buddhist lay organization in Manhattan, will officiate. The Rev. Dr. Paul Smith, the pastor of First Presbyterian, will take part in the ceremony.
"You won't find too many weddings where there will be Buddhist chanting and gospel singing," said Mr. Dudley, who teaches history, media studies and economics at Arturo A. Schomburg Satellite Academy High School, an alternative public high school in the Bronx. 
 Ms. Jones, who will keep her name, graduated from Howard University and is a member of the Jones Twins, a collaboration with her identical twin sister, Suzanne. They have performed at the Franklin Furnace in Manhattan and the BAM Cafe in Brooklyn, doing a combination of stand-up comedy, music and autobiographical poetry, mostly about growing up in an African-American family in an otherwise all-white neighborhood in Michigan. The bride is also a candidate for a master's in musical-theater writing at New York University.
She is a daughter of Harriet S. Jones and Dr. Edward A. Jones Jr. of Grand Rapids, Mich. Her father retired as the head of pulmonary and critical care at St. Mary's Hospital in Grand Rapids. Her mother, also retired, was the director of nursing at the Riverside Correctional Facility in Ionia, Mich.
Mr. Dudley, who graduated from Yale University, is the son of Shirley Dudley and the Rev. Carl S. Dudley of Hartford. His father is the professor of church and community at the Hartford Seminary.
The couple were introduced by a mutual friend four years ago at Lucky Cheng's, a restaurant in downtown Manhattan. "I remember thinking, 'Wow, she's really tall and really beautiful, and look at that hair!' " Mr. Dudley said. "It was flowing and very striking."
Both describe their courtship as a learning experience. She says he taught her about South America, where he had lived and traveled extensively. And she introduced him to the downtown performance art scene. She also pushed him to quit his job in sports marketing and become a teacher, a longtime dream of his.
"In four years, we went through some rough moments, but the reason I'm really happy to be getting married to Stephanie is she really helped me grow spiritually," he said. "And, I want to be with someone who helps me grow." He proposed last New Year's Eve in Copacabana, Brazil. Throughout the day, he gave her several wrapped packages, each containing a gemstone ring. "She got a ring at 3 and a ring at 6 and a ring at 9 and a ring at midnight," he said. By the time he asked her to marry him, halfway through the millennial fireworks, she had rings on many fingers.
During their wedding, the couple plan to participate in a Japanese sake ceremony in which they drink from three different cups -- a small one representing the past, a medium-size one representing the present and a very large one symbolizing their future and everything they bring together.
"We're both very independent and have our own lives," the bride said, "but when we come together we bridge a lot of different people and communities and backgrounds. I think that's what marriage can be, a way of bringing together different worlds."
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photo

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (97%); BRAZIL (79%); SOUTH AMERICA (77%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (97%); MICHIGAN, USA (91%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (97%); GRAND RAPIDS, MI, USA (90%); 

COMPANY: YALE UNIVERSITY PRESS (54%); HOWARD UNIVERSITY (56%); HOWARD UNIVERSITY (56%); YALE UNIVERSITY (54%); YALE UNIVERSITY (54%); 

ORGANIZATION: HOWARD UNIVERSITY (56%); HOWARD UNIVERSITY (56%); YALE UNIVERSITY (54%); YALE UNIVERSITY (54%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (97%); BRAZIL (79%); SOUTH AMERICA (77%); NEW YORK, USA (97%); MICHIGAN, USA (91%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (97%); GRAND RAPIDS, MI, USA (90%); 

SUBJECT: WEDDINGS AND ENGAGEMENTS WEDDINGS & ENGAGEMENTS (92%); RELIGION (92%); PROTESTANTS & PROTESTANTISM (90%); CHRISTIANS & CHRISTIANITY (90%); VISUAL & PERFORMING ARTS (90%); HIGH SCHOOLS (90%); TWINS & MULTIPLE BIRTHS (90%); ARTISTS & PERFORMERS (90%); RESTAURANTS (88%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (78%); MARRIAGE (78%); TEACHING & TEACHERS (78%); CLERGY & RELIGIOUS (78%); HISTORICALLY BLACK COLLEGES (78%); FAMILY (78%); BUDDHISTS & BUDDHISM (77%); THEATER (73%); AFRICAN AMERICANS (72%); MUSICAL THEATER (71%); SPORTS MARKETING (70%); POETRY (67%); PUBLIC SCHOOLS (55%); 

PERSON: JONES, STEPHANIE LYNN; DUDLEY, NATHAN SANFORD STEPHANIE TUBBS JONES (94%); STEPHANIE JONES (94%); 

LOAD-DATE: July 9, 2000



213 of 757 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: July 9, 2000

SECTION: Section 3; Page 15; Column 2; Money and Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 1630 words

HEADLINE: A Shipwreck Fails to Halt The Technology Tide

BYLINE: By DANNY HAKIM 

 BODY:
FOR Keith B. Brown, the top marketing executive for the $512 million Amerindo Technology fund, one of the most prominent stars in the firmament of technology offerings, the second quarter was, if not the best of times, then not too shabby. Investors deposited some $12 million into his fund during the quarter -- even amid the gyrations of the technology-driven Nasdaq composite index.
For his boss, the money manager Alberto W. Vilar, the second quarter was, by contrast, definitely disappointing: the fund lost a stomach-churning 26.7 percent for its investors. 
 The story played out much the same at other mutual funds with a sweet tooth for technology -- whether aggressive-growth funds that populate so many 401(k) plans, the scores of technology sector funds that run tens of billions of dollars or the dozens of Internet funds that have emerged virtually overnight over the last two and a half years. For these fund groups, the second quarter of 2000 turned out to be a tale of two executives.
While the honeymoon ended for techno-centric money managers, their marketers still seem to be enjoying a surprisingly easy sell. No matter that the average technology sector fund was down 11.2 percent in the quarter. Or that the Nasdaq composite index lost 13.3 percent. Or that Internet companies were forced into a round of belt-tightening, layoffs and, in the case of online retailers like Boo.com and Toysmart.com, into bankruptcy. Or even that institutional investors seemed to be displaying a distinct coolness to the sector.
Indefatigable individual investors kept buying technology funds. Cash flow into technology sector funds totaled $1.97 billion for April, the worst month of the technology sell-off, according to AMG Data Services, a research firm in Arcata, Calif.; investors sank an additional $1.09 billion into the funds in May. Although that is far below the record $10.97 billion that flowed into such funds in February, the month before the Nasdaq composite peaked, it is in line with what investors were putting into the funds in 1999.
Weekly figures compiled by AMG, which cover a smaller universe of funds, show the trend continuing in June: cash flows increased assets by an estimated 2 percent for the month.
In other words, individual investors have not turned tail from technology in the way that scores of institutional money managers and analysts had predicted they would in the event of a market correction.
"What surprises me about the numbers is that they've held up so well," said Robert Adler, president of AMG. "Investors haven't abandoned the market, and they haven't abandoned technology."
Contrast that with investors' behavior during another period of market extremes, the emerging-markets meltdown of 1998. According to AMG, outflows from emerging-markets stock funds totaled $4.05 billion for the year, 12.3 percent of total assets.
In a market environment that many people see as increasingly driven by individual investors, sentiment is crucial. Even as institutional investors -- pension and hedge funds in particular -- showed signs of retreat, individuals are charting their own direction. If their money continues to pour into technology and aggressive-growth funds, the shocks of April and May may well register as only a breather in the aging bull market.
Technology is still perceived, correctly or not, as the likeliest indicator of the market's future direction, if for no other reason than that more than one-third of the market capitalization of the Standard & Poor's 500-stock index is in technology stocks.
TECHNOLOGY, of course, takes several avenues into the American portfolio. Sector funds are only one, accounting for only about 2 percent of the $7 trillion mutual fund industry. Far more important are the nation's growth funds, the 800-pound gorillas of the industry that form the backbone of so many portfolios and retirement plans. During the meteoric run-up in technology stocks in 1998 and 1999, many growth funds became de facto technology funds.
Consider the $29.8 billion Fidelity Growth Company fund, the sixth most popular fund in defined-contribution retirement plans, according to a study by Pensions & Investments magazine. At the end of the first quarter, 53.2 percent of the fund's portfolio was in technology, more than double the fund's position a year earlier.
Likewise, the $28.2 billion Fidelity Blue Chip Growth fund, another top 10 retirement fund, was 43.4 percent invested in technology, up from 26.2 percent a year earlier.
Other popular growth funds were even more heavily weighted in the sector. At the end of the first quarter, the $31.8 billion Janus Twenty fund had nearly 60 percent of its portfolio in technology stocks.
Investors continue to strongly favor these growth funds over funds whose managers practice a value strategy, which emphasizes stocks that are priced at a discount relative to their intrinsic worth. Though the sales gap between value and growth narrowed in the second quarter, value-oriented funds still suffered net outflows of $6.6 billion in April and May, while growth funds took in $31 billion.
"The big picture is that people are still playing where the action has been," said Donald L. Cassidy, a senior research analyst at Lipper Inc. "They haven't panicked and they're not bargain hunting."
John Rekenthaler, research director of Morningstar Inc., added: "I don't think anybody's faith in aggressive-growth investing has been rocked, or fundamentally changed. Two months doesn't change people's belief system."
TO are investors showing foresight or folly in their continuing rush into technology? Or have investors just become used to buying on dips in volatile markets?
Avi Nachmany, president of the consulting and research firm Strategic Insight, called it "a renaissance of national optimism."
"The theory I have, why the commitment to new-economy investing transcends the price level, is that in the end, you look at your own personal experiences and ask, 'How has my life changed with the Internet?' " Mr. Nachmany said.
"There are many experiences that are fundamental to your well-being. The e-mail you get from your grandmother in Florida, the health advice you can get before you go to the doctor, the cheaper plane tickets. We're just in the beginning of these kinds of experiences. They will continue, regardless of the prices on the Nasdaq."
Mr. Vilar, whose fund remains one of the top 10 performers over the past three years despite last quarter's drubbing, agreed. "The trading in Internet stocks has been dominated by individuals. A lot of people who bought the AOL's, the eBays or Yahoos were the people who used them, the clients," he said.
It seems natural, of course, that if investors continue to buy technology stocks, technology stock prices will keep going up. Perhaps that was one reason the Nasdaq recovered in June, gaining 16.6 percent. But James Grant, editor of Grant's Interest Rate Observer and known for his bearish views, says continued flows into technology will just make the day of reckoning that much more painful.
"The disappointment will be sharper," Mr. Grant said. "Artificial support under a fundamentally deteriorating market does not change the fundamentals. It deepens the ultimate disappointment. We do live in an age of technological miracles, but that does not change the cyclical nature of markets.
"Flows will help at the margins, but they can't perpetuate a trend indefinitely," Mr. Grant added. "They can't perpetuate technology indefinitely."
Even as individuals went in, institutional investors showed signs of pulling back. In May, $315.4 million flowed into the technology sector from small trades -- those of less than 10,000 shares -- according to Birinyi Associates, which tracks money flows in and out of the market; such small trades generally come from individual investors. But larger block trades from institutional investors took $502.4 million out of the sector in May; it was the fourth month of outflows in the last five.
That is not a total surprise. Institutional money managers are more prone to short-term portfolio shifts, because they are usually judged on a quarterly basis and adjust their allocations to conform with risk benchmarks.
Many experts say retail investors will play the tune for the current market. "I don't think investors will go on strike," Mr. Vilar said, "and the reluctant brides, the institutional investors, will be dragged to the altar."
IT is testimony to the resilience of technology fund investors that fund families have had the confidence to add technology offerings -- and be rewarded for doing so.
When Munder Capital Management, the company that runs the nation's largest Internet fund, Munder NetNet, started an international Internet fund, Munder International NetNet, on April 10, into the teeth of a collapsing market, investors still poured money in. By the end of May, despite losing money in the market, the fund had $367 million in assets.
And Fidelity Investments, the nation's largest mutual fund company, filed on June 30 with the Securities and Exchange Commission to start Fidelity Select Networking and Infrastructure.
To John C. Bogle, the retired founder of the Vanguard Group, America's continued infatuation with technology sector funds has not brought out the best in the mutual fund industry.
"The industry has had fads all through its history," Mr. Bogle said, citing bursts of interest for atomic energy funds in the 1950's and biotechnology funds in the early 1990's. Last quarter also saw the start of a genomics-only fund, tapping into enthusiasm over the mapping of the human genome.
"We used to sell what we made," Mr. Bogle said. "Now we make what sells."
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Drawing (Nip Rogers)
 
Chart: "Growth Business"
The number of technology mutual funds has surged since 1994 and the assets they control have risen more than twentyfold.
 
YEAR -- 1994
NUMBER OF FUNDS: 17
NET ASSETS (in billions): $6.5
 
YEAR -- 1995
NUMBER OF FUNDS: 21
NET ASSETS (in billions): 13.7
 
YEAR -- 1996
NUMBER OF FUNDS: 29
NET ASSETS (in billions): 18.5
 
YEAR -- 1997
NUMBER OF FUNDS: 34
NET ASSETS (in billions): 21.8
 
YEAR -- 1998
NUMBER OF FUNDS: 44
NET ASSETS (in billions): 31.0
 
YEAR -- 1999
NUMBER OF FUNDS: 78
NET ASSETS (in billions): 113.3
 
YEAR -- 2000*
NUMBER OF FUNDS: 83
NET ASSETS (in billions): 137.4
 
(Source: Morningstar Inc.)(pg. 28)
 
Graph: "Cash Keeps Flowing Into Technology..."
Weekly change in cash flows into technology sector funds.
 
...Despite It's Ups and Downs
Weekly returns of technology sector funds.
 
(Sources: AMG Data Services; Morningstar Inc.)(pg. 15)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

INDUSTRY: SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (53%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (53%); 

STATE: CALIFORNIA, USA (53%); 

COMPANY: AMG DATA SERVICES (53%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (53%); CALIFORNIA, USA (53%); 

SUBJECT: STOCKS AND BONDS; MUTUAL FUNDS; COMPUTERS AND THE INTERNET MUTUAL FUNDS (92%); INTERNET & WWW (90%); STOCK INDEXES (90%); INVESTMENT MANAGEMENT (89%); CASH FLOW (89%); EXECUTIVES (78%); TRENDS (74%); US 401K PLANS (72%); PENSION & RETIREMENT PLANS (72%); BONDS (72%); LAYOFFS (70%); INTERNET RETAILING (68%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (64%); 

PERSON: HAKIM, DANNY ANN LIVERMORE (51%); 

LOAD-DATE: July 9, 2000



214 of 757 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: July 9, 2000

SECTION: Section 3; Page 24; Column 1; Money and Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 1182 words

HEADLINE: MUTUAL FUNDS REPORT;
Converging Forces Have Kept Junk Bonds in a Slump

BYLINE: By KATE BERRY 

 BODY:
REMEMBER junk bonds?
They were the play stuff of Michael Milken, the mother's milk of the 1980's leveraged-buyout craze and eventually a symbol of that decade's decadence. 
 This year, junk bonds, also known as high-yield bonds, have posted some of their worst performance in almost a decade. A total of $7.92 billion flowed out of junk-bond funds from January through May this year, according to estimates by AMG Data Services, a fund tracker in Arcada, Calif. They returned a negative 0.7 percent on average last quarter and negative 1.4 percent over the last 12 months, according to Morningstar Inc. For the five years through June 30, the funds' average annualized return was just 6.6 percent, only half a percentage point more than long-term government bond funds. So far this year, investors who crave the extra yield of junk are actually worse off than they would have been in Treasuries.
"We almost feel like an ostracized asset class," said Peter Andersen, portfolio manager of the Conseco High Yield fund. The sector's returns have previously fallen two years in a row, he said, but "now we're entering our third year," he said.
"The investor is saying: 'I'd be better off putting my money somewhere else, like a C.D.,' " he added.
Problems arose for junk bonds in the Asian financial crisis of 1997 and 1998, as collapsing demand for shipping, paper and oil on the Pacific Rim pummeled those sectors and led to bond defaults. About the same time, junk was also becoming a crucial source of financing for risky technology, telecommunications and Internet companies; when the default rate began rising last year, investors fled junk bonds for stocks.
"Historically, the high-yield market really didn't finance technology companies," said Martin Fridson, senior high-yield strategist at Merrill Lynch. "Portfolio managers preferred companies that had established cash flows, so that recoveries were likely to be high if a company failed." By contrast, he said, there is little chance of recovering anything if a technology start-up with no revenue defaults.
MAKING matters worse, the Federal Reserve's efforts to head off inflation with increases in short-term interest rates have forced junk bonds to move in lock step to maintain an attractive spread.
The spread is the interest premium that investors demand to compensate for the greater risk of default or interruption of interest payments. When yields on investment grade bonds rise, junk-bond prices must fall to keep their yields at an appetizing altitude above them.
A year ago, a typical bond rated a notch or two below investment grade yielded 10.05 percent, or 426 basis points -- hundredths of a percentage point -- above the 5.79 percent to be had on a 10-year Treasury.
Since then, the Fed has pushed up short-term rates by 175 basis points, and junk-bond yields have had to follow, with that same typical bond's yield climbing to 11.81 percent. Longer-term government rates have not risen nearly as much as short-term rates, so the spread over 10-year Treasuries has widened considerably, to 577 basis points.
The implication of all that arithmetic is that junk-bond prices have fallen much more sharply than long-term government bond prices, as is evident in the performance of the funds that hold these bonds.
The risk of default on junk bonds has also worsened lately and is unusually high for good economic times. Today, 18 percent of junk bonds are considered distressed, meaning that default is a real possibility, Mr. Fridson said. That is the highest rate since January 1992, when 22.3 percent were called distressed.
A rising default rate is bad for bond prices, of course, so holders of junk bonds suffer, just as they do when spreads over Treasuries widen. But the allure for new buyers is increasing. "We think the high-yield market is attractively valued and that the high default rate is priced in," said Tom Price, co-portfolio manager of the Strong High-Yield Bond fund, which has returned 0.75 percent this year. "Those credits that have been struggling have been taken out to the woodshed, and if they default, it won't affect the overall rate."
One difficulty in analyzing the junk-bond outlook is in measuring the default rate with precision. Experts differ markedly on how to go about it. Moody's Investors Service includes the high-yield debt of developing nations, as well as convertible bonds, which are often below investment grade; it draws the bearish conclusion that defaults will worsen in coming months. But Sam DeRosa Farag, director of global high-yield portfolio strategy for Donaldson Lufkin & Jenrette, argues that including those asset classes skews the default rates upward, and that investors should look at the domestic corporate high-yield market by itself. Donaldson's forecast is for falling default rates.
The issue is important for investors, because the junk-bond market is extremely cyclical, and the payoffs for those who call the bottom accurately can be big.
"There's been a quiet storm about this, and most indicators are that the worst isn't over," said David T. Hamilton, an analyst at Moody's risk-management services. "There is still a large proportion out there at risk of defaulting."
Moody's version of the default rate for speculative-grade issues was 5.4 percent for the 12 months ended May 31, more than three times the 1.5 percent in the same period three years earlier. By June 2001, Moody's expects the default rate for the trailing 12 months to peak at 7.5 percent.
"It's a pretty big deal," said Mr. Hamilton, who estimated that junk-bond downgrades outnumbered upgrades by three to one in the first quarter of this year. Defaults have been widely distributed among industry sectors, he said, though price-sensitive commodity and shipping companies were among the first to default on their junk debt in the first quarter of last year.
HISTORICALLY, Mr. DeRosa Farag said, returns and defaults have tended to reach peaks together. "There is this assumption that if default rates go up, the returns are going to be poor," he said. "But the historical pattern is that whenever defaults peak, this is when we have the best returns ever."
Junk bonds are now "attractively valued," he said, because the average issue is trading at less than 85 cents per dollar of face value, the lowest rate since July 1991. He attributed last year's surge in defaults to the 1997-98 Asian woes, conditions that have since eased; by his estimation, the default rate is now falling slightly.
Whatever view best describes the bigger picture, an important day-to-day issue bothers the junk-bond market: liquidity. Junk-bond funds have experienced cash outflows in 18 of the last 23 weeks, according to AMG. "Week after week of outflows from the funds is an insurmountable barrier" to a recovery in prices, said Mr. Fridson, at Merrill Lynch.
So there may be a glint of light in the figures for the last three weeks, which show the flow turning positive. Some hardy investors may be responding anew to the siren call of those fat yields.
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Chart: "Junkyard Champs"
Experts are split on the market prospects for high-yield, or junk, bonds -- a group that has performed poorly over the last two years. Here are top high-yield bond funds ranked by three-year returns through June 30. Funds with less than $30 million in assets are excluded.
 
(Source: Morningstar Inc.)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: MORN (NASDAQ) (70%); CNO (NYSE) (55%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS511120 PERIODICAL PUBLISHERS (70%); SIC7375 INFORMATION RETRIEVAL SERVICES (70%); SIC2721 PERIODICALS: PUBLISHING, OR PUBLISHING & PRINTING (70%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (57%); NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (57%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (57%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (57%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (57%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (57%); NAICS524114 DIRECT HEALTH & MEDICAL INSURANCE CARRIERS (55%); NAICS524113 DIRECT LIFE INSURANCE CARRIERS (55%); SIC6321 ACCIDENT & HEALTH INSURANCE (55%); SIC6311 LIFE INSURANCE (55%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (57%); 

STATE: CALIFORNIA, USA (57%); 

COMPANY: MORNINGSTAR INC (70%); AMG DATA SERVICES (57%); MERRILL LYNCH & CO INC (57%); CNO FINANCIAL GROUP INC (55%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (57%); CALIFORNIA, USA (57%); 

SUBJECT: STOCKS AND BONDS; MUTUAL FUNDS MUTUAL FUNDS (95%); HIGH YIELD BONDS (94%); BONDS (93%); BOND FUNDS (90%); BOND MARKETS (78%); GOVERNMENT BONDS (78%); FIXED INCOME RESEARCH (78%); TREASURY SECURITIES (78%); FINANCIAL RATINGS (78%); CASH FLOW (77%); INVESTMENT MANAGEMENT (76%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS (75%); LEVERAGED BUYOUTS (73%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (69%); INTEREST RATES (68%); ECONOMIC NEWS (68%); INTERNET & WWW (63%); 

PERSON: BERRY, KATE MICHAEL MILKEN (73%); 

LOAD-DATE: July 9, 2000



215 of 757 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: July 9, 2000

SECTION: Section 3; Page 18; Column 4; Money and Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 1276 words

HEADLINE: MUTUAL FUNDS REPORT;
A Seven-Year Lesson in Investing: Expect the Unexpected, and More

BYLINE: By CAROLE GOULD 

 BODY:
IN a way, it has been a seven-year cold shower for the idea that an ordinary investor can do any better than the market, even with expert advice.
Because saving for retirement had become a crucial issue for Americans, The New York Times in 1993 asked five mutual-fund experts how they would invest a hypothetical nest egg of $50,000 for someone who planned to retire in 20 years or more. Each quarter since then, the five portfolios have been reviewed and fine-tuned and their performances compared in these pages. 
 With results from the second quarter of 2000, the exercise concludes, and the participants discuss what they, and investors, have learned along the way.
Three of the five participants tripled their money in the seven years ended June 30. The portfolio overseen by Eric M. Kobren, president of the Kobren Insight Group and editor of Fidelity Insight in Wellesley Mass., did the best over all, with a cumulative gain of 210.19 percent.
Close behind were the portfolio managed by Sheldon Jacobs, editor of the No-Load Fund Investor, in Irvington, N.Y., at 204.42 percent, and the portfolio of "socially responsible" funds assembled by Jack A. Brill, vice president of Natural Investment Services in San Diego, with a cumulative gain of 200.10 percent. .
In fourth place was a portfolio tended most recently by Russel Kinnel, editor of Morningstar Fund Investor in Chicago, at 146.97 percent. The fifth entry, managed by Harold R. Evensky, an investment adviser in Coral Gables, Fla., finished at 123.63 percent, according to Lipper Inc.
None of the portfolios, however, managed to outperform the market over the seven-year period. In retrospect, simply investing the whole stake in the Vanguard 500 Index fund and letting it ride would have done better, yielding a gain of 277.51 percent.
But overall performance was intended to be just one dimension of the exercise. Investors also had a chance to explore the thinking behind mutual fund management as the managers discussed strategies, styles and selections each quarter.
The object lessons were limited by the unexpected way the economy and the stock market have moved over the last seven years -- almost exclusively straight up. The Standard & Poor's 500-stock index returned an annual average of 20.625 percent over the period; by contrast, stocks returned an annual average of 12.1 percent in the 65 years from 1926 to 1990, according to Ibbotson Associates in Chicago.
Big growth stocks dominated the stock market for much of the last seven years, lifting the performance of large-capitalization index funds and dragging down the returns of actively managed mutual funds, which tend to own smaller stocks. According to Morningstar Inc., just 21.4 percent of 990 actively managed domestic diversified equity funds in its database outperformed the S.& P. 500 over the period.
And the stock market has become more volatile in the 1990's, jumping or slumping abruptly -- as a whole or sector by sector -- in hard-to-predict ways. Fast-moving markets stumped the experts several times along the way.
Even so, stocks -- and funds that hold them -- are still the best way to meet long-term financial goals like retirement, the experts said, because they have always outperformed other investments over time.
"This exercise shows what a prudent, diversified mutual fund portfolio can return, given time and compounding," Mr. Kobren said. "It isn't necessary to dart in and out of the market, take foolish risks in the hopes of scoring a home run or get overly complicated by owning dozens of funds."
ALL five participating managers continue to recommend diversified fund portfolios, even though diversification was a far from optimal strategy during much of the last seven years. Carefully balancing big stocks with smaller ones, or American issues with international issues, turned out to be counterproductive because of the relentless market leadership of the big-growth stocks.
But there is no way of knowing if the same will be true in the future. "I still thoroughly believe in diversification for my own portfolio and for my clients," Mr. Kobren said, "because you can never know with certainty which sectors of the market will yield the biggest returns in the future."
Sticking to a diversified portfolio while market favorites come and go can be trying, the experts conceded. "Long-term investing is my mantra and my faith," Mr. Evensky said, "but I will admit that sometimes, long-term seems interminable."
The exercise also reaffirmed the power of the financial markets to confound expectations, said John Rekenthaler, now director of research at Morningstar, who started the portfolio that was later managed by Susan Dzuibinski and then Mr. Kinnel. He stuffed his initial portfolio with funds holding small stocks, value issues and overseas holdings; they had been superior performers over the long term but had slumped around the time the exercise began, and Mr. Rekenthaler thought they looked ripe for a rebound. As it turned out, though, none caught up with the large caps. "Expect to be surprised," he said.
Mr. Rekenthaler said his own results occasionally caught him off guard. "I remembered my good picks," he said, "and then forgot the fact that I had a big stake in emerging-markets funds as the whole sector tanked." The lesson: Track your investment results carefully, so you can learn from your decisions.
Mr. Brill's success ratifies an investing approach that seemed unorthodox and untried in 1993. "Socially responsible investing works," he said. "We have competitive returns because our screening identifies high-quality, well-managed companies." He added, "I never tried to outsmart the market or get in on hot sectors."
When he started, he said, there were only about 15 comprehensively screened social-investing funds, plus an additional 25 funds without the social label that qualified based on the types of stocks they held. Those 40 choices have grown to more than 150 today, he said.
Mr. Evensky recommends diversifying within asset classes. In that vein, he used to include in client portfolios three funds run by managers who choose large-cap growth stocks. In his hypothetical portfolio for this exercise, though, he felt he had room for only one, and chose the Yacktman Fund, whose subsequent performance was disappointing. These days, he prefers index funds for large-cap growth.
Mr. Evensky said he learned another lesson the hard way: not to make a big bet on a new fund idea. At the outset he allocated some of his portfolio to the Barr Rosenberg Market Neutral fund, which aims to neutralize market volatility through a mix of long and short sales. The idea fell flat; Mr. Evensky said the fund's managers told him its undoing was a run of extraordinary behavior by the stock market that no one could have anticipated. Now, Mr. Evensky said, he advises waiting for a few years until a new concept has proved itself in different market environments.
Realigning a portfolio periodically is wise, all five experts said, because strong performance in one area could lead to an ill-advised concentration of assets. The five hypothetical portfolios could be rebalanced quarterly, and generally were; once a year is probably often enough for most long-term investors.
Finally, don't be too quick to sell, Mr. Evensky said. After he researches a fund and buys its shares, he will stick with it through two years of bad times if performance seems likely to improve. But he dumps funds immediately when managers change their stripes, say by adding big overseas positions or by switching style from growth to value-oriented.
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Chart/Photos: "Final Score: How the Investments Fared"
Quarterly and cumulative performance of hypothetical retirement savings portfolios managed for The New York Times by five investment advisers. Each began with $50,000 on July 7, 1993. Weight refers to the percentage of the portfolio's assets in each fund. Figures do not reflect sales charges, if any. Russel Kinnel now manages the portfolio begun by John Rekenthaler.
 
ERIC M. KOBREN
President of Kobren Insight Group and editor of Fidelity Insight in Wellesley, Mass. This portfolio invests solely in Fidelity funds.
 
SHELDON JACOBS
Editor of the No-Load Fund Investor, Irvington, N.Y.
 
JACK A. BRILL
A San Diego investment adviser who created asocially responsiblefund portfolio.
 
RUSSEL KINNEL
Editor of Morningstar Fund Investor, Chicago.
 
HAROLD R. EVENSKY
An investment adviser in Coral Gables, Fla.
 
(Source: Lipper Inc.)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: MORN (NASDAQ) (82%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS511120 PERIODICAL PUBLISHERS (82%); SIC7375 INFORMATION RETRIEVAL SERVICES (82%); SIC2721 PERIODICALS: PUBLISHING, OR PUBLISHING & PRINTING (82%); NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (66%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (66%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); 

STATE: MASSACHUSETTS, USA (92%); FLORIDA, USA (90%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); 

CITY: SAN DIEGO, CA, USA (57%); 

COMPANY: MORNINGSTAR INC (82%); LIPPER INC (66%); KOBREN INSIGHT GROUP (57%); 

ORGANIZATION: KOBREN INSIGHT GROUP (57%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (92%); FLORIDA, USA (90%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); SAN DIEGO, CA, USA (57%); 

SUBJECT: STOCKS AND BONDS; MUTUAL FUNDS MUTUAL FUNDS (95%); PERSONAL FINANCE (90%); INDEX FUNDS (89%); STOCK INDEXES (89%); INVESTMENT ADVISERS (78%); INVESTMENT MANAGEMENT (78%); BONDS (78%); RETIREMENT & RETIREES (77%); ETHICAL INVESTING (73%); 

PERSON: GOULD, CAROLE; KORBEN, ERIC M; JACOBS, SHELDON; BRILL, JACK A; KINNEL, RUSSEL; EVENSKY, HAROLD R ERIC M KOBREN (68%); HAROLD R EVENSKY (55%); RUSSEL KINNEL (55%); 

LOAD-DATE: July 9, 2000



216 of 757 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: July 9, 2000

SECTION: Section 12; Page 1; Column 1; Automobiles 

LENGTH: 1155 words

HEADLINE: BEHIND THE WHEEL/2001 Mazda Tribute;
A Small S.U.V. Fills a Yawning Gap

BYLINE: By MICHELLE KREBS 

DATELINE: DETROIT

 BODY:
IMAGINE being a man of the 90's and not having a single pair of khaki Dockers in your closet. Mazda found itself similarly naked in recent years; without a sport utility vehicle, it was missing out on the hottest auto fashion trend of the decade.
Mazda had, in fact, offered a sport utility, the Navajo, but dropped it in 1994. At a time when buyers were clamoring for four doors, the Navajo came with only two. In fact, it was essentially a two-door Ford Explorer. 
 Next month, Mazda will offer another S.U.V. with some Ford chromosomes, and this one may have a brighter future. The 2001 Tribute is similar in many respects to the new Ford Escape, with which it shares best-in-class potential in a booming segment of the car market.
Sales of small sport utilities, or "cute utes," have more than doubled in the last four years, and further growth is expected both in the United States and overseas. The Honda CR-V currently leads the pack in sales, followed by the Toyota RAV4.
While both Ford and Mazda recognized that they needed a small sport utility, they initially went their separate ways. Ford looked at borrowing the underlying body structure of the Contour and Mystique sedans; Mazda considered the platform of the MPV minivan and the 626 sedan.
But in the end, the two brands -- Mazda is controlled by the Ford Motor Company -- came together to develop an entirely new platform. While Mazda staff members took the lead role in development, and the two vehicles were largely designed and engineered in Japan, they are built at a Ford plant near Kansas City, Mo. Annual capacity is a formidable 250,000 Tributes and Escapes, with Mazda taking about 40,000 for the American market; it will also build a right-hand-drive version in Japan. Ford will split the rest of the production between the United States and 167 overseas markets.
Aimed at young singles, couples and small families on budgets, the Tribute, along with the Escape, leads the pack, at least for now, in size, refinement and practicality. The four-door, five-passenger Tribute is smaller than the former Navajo and current Explorer but almost a half-foot longer than the current Jeep Cherokee.
The Tribute and Escape are the first of a new wave of cute utes that are slightly larger and more substantial. The next RAV4, due this fall, is larger than the vehicle it replaces; the next-generation CR-V will bulk up; and even the Cherokee will grow when it is redesigned as a 2002 model.
The Escape looks a little like a shrunken Explorer, and it has the same outdoorsy style. Mazda aims for a more elegant appearance; in fashion terms, the Tribute is gray flannel trousers while the Escape, with its rugged-looking front fascia and plastic lower-body trim, would be blue jeans. None of the exterior pieces are shared except for the roof, windshield and side door glass.
It's the same story inside; the two vehicles share few visible components. The Tribute's dashboard and radio are similar to those in the Mazda MPV minivan; the Escape has black-on-white gauges like some Explorers. In keeping with its refined image, the Tribute test vehicle, a top-line ES, came with leather seats, a six-way power driver's seat and an excellent optional sound system: a 190-watt, 7-speaker radio with cassette player and six-CD changer.
Despite their compact dimensions, the Tribute and Escape are roomy. Ford and Mazda say the pair have the most space in their class. My passengers certainly had plenty of headroom and sufficient legroom.
Though it's no Expedition, the Tribute can carry a respectable amount of cargo; there is 33 cubic feet behind the back seat, which folds for more space. The cargo bay is tall enough to carry bicycles upright. The large rear opening and low vehicle height make it easy to load bulky items, like the fully assembled computer desk I hauled in the Tribute. The temporary spare tire is hidden beneath the cargo floor.
The Tribute has a new one-piece unit body, a carlike design with several advantages over S.U.V.'s built with truck components. Getting in and out is easy, thanks to a low floor height, generous door openings and beefy grab handles. Since the Tribute weighs less than truck-style utilities, its handling and fuel economy are more like a car's. The base DX model has a 2-liter, 130-horsepower 4-cylinder that comes only with a five-speed stick shift. With front-wheel drive, it has a fuel-economy rating of up to 28 miles per gallon.
The ES and the medium-trim LX have a 3-liter, 200-horsepower V-6, which is paired only with a four-speed automatic transmission. This engine, one of the few V-6's offered in small S.U.V.'s, achieves 18 m.p.g. in the city and 24 on the highway, with or without four-wheel drive. With the optional towing package, the V-6 can haul up to 3,500 pounds.
I didn't tow anything, but the gold ES was plenty quick accelerating from stoplights and passing on the freeway. Equipped with a four-wheel independent suspension -- most S.U.V.'s still use relatively unsophisticated live axles -- the Tribute maneuvers like a car, and it rides smoothly. It hugged corners competently at higher speeds than I expected, yet kept passengers upright and comfortable without much body roll. But more sound-deadening material would have been nice; a trucklike abundance of road noise came through the floor.
Aside from its styling and interior appointments, the Tribute rides and handles slightly differently than the Escape. Mazda advertising has positioned the Tribute as a sport utility with a sports car soul. Commercials show a Tribute driving a slalom course around black Miata roadsters. The Tribute does have slightly tighter handling and steering than the Escape, but the differences are quite subtle.
All three trim levels can be equipped with a new on-demand four-wheel-drive system, giving the Tribute more grip on muddy, rutted roads or snowy pavement. In normal conditions, the vehicle operates in front-wheel drive. When the system detects a loss of traction, the system hydraulically and seamlessly transfers up to half of the power to the rear wheels. A dashboard switch allows the driver to lock the system in four-wheel drive on slippery roads. There is not a low gear range for extreme conditions.
The Tribute's safety features include standard dual front air bags and new child-seat latches that will be required by law next year. Side air bags and antilock brakes come as a $495 option package.
The Tribute starts at $17,520, about $600 less than the base Escape. The LX starts at $19,655, about $1,680 less than the comparable Escape. Fully equipped models run around $25,000. Mazda has kept its prices below Ford's in an attempt to lure potential buyers into showrooms that had been devoid of sport utilities. Now Mazda has the goods, they're stylish and fit nicely, and they're priced to sell.
 
INSIDE TRACK: A cute ute with substance as well as style.
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photos: Inside or out, the Tribute shares few visible parts with its close relative, Ford's Escape.
 
Chart: "Small Car-Based Utility Vehicles" lists features and specifications for selected Sport Utility Vehicles.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: FORDP (PAR) (94%); F (NYSE) (94%); 7261 (TSE) (92%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS336112 LIGHT TRUCK & UTILITY VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (94%); NAICS336111 AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING (94%); SIC3711 MOTOR VEHICLES & PASSENGER CAR BODIES (94%); SIC3714 MOTOR VEHICLE PARTS & ACCESSORIES (92%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%); JAPAN (87%); 

STATE: MICHIGAN, USA (79%); MISSOURI, USA (75%); 

CITY: DETROIT, MI, USA (79%); KANSAS CITY, MO, USA (75%); 

COMPANY: MAZDA MOTOR CORP FORD MOTOR CO (94%); MAZDA MOTOR CORP (92%); 

ORGANIZATION: MAZDA MOTOR CORP

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%); JAPAN (87%); MICHIGAN, USA (79%); MISSOURI, USA (75%); DETROIT, MI, USA (79%); KANSAS CITY, MO, USA (75%); 

SUBJECT: AUTOMOBILES; REVIEWS; UTILITY VEHICLES AND OTHER LIGHT TRUCKS MOTOR VEHICLES (93%); SEDANS (90%); SPORT UTILITY VEHICLES (90%); AUTOMOTIVE SECTOR PERFORMANCE (78%); AUTOMOTIVE MFG (77%); FASHION & APPAREL (77%); TRENDS (77%); MINIVANS (73%); 

PERSON: KREBS, MICHELLE

LOAD-DATE: July 9, 2000



217 of 757 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: July 9, 2000

SECTION: Section 3; Page 4; Column 2; Money and Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 708 words

HEADLINE: MARKET INSIGHT;
Mexico Has Voted. Its Economy Hasn't.

BYLINE: By KENNETH N. GILPIN 

 BODY:
WHEN a political party that has been in control for many decades is beaten at the polls, it's a good sign that voters are clamoring for sweeping change -- and an indication of how much things already have changed.
That is the case in Mexico, where last week Vicente Fox Quesada became president-elect, ending 71 years of rule by the Institutional Revolutionary Party, known as the PRI. Though Mexico is in far better shape than it was a decade ago, let alone two decades ago, it is still a developing country. 
 Investors charged in after the vote, pushing the Bolsa index up more than 6 percent for the week.
Pedro-Pablo Kuczynski, president of the Latin America Enterprise fund, a Miami-based private equity fund with about $450 million under management, took time last week to talk about the effect of the election on Mexico's market outlook. Following are excerpts from the conversation:
 
Q. Isn't the economy that Mr. Fox will inherit from the outgoing president, Ernesto Zedillo, in pretty good shape?
 
A. Zedillo is leaving him in a good position in terms of foreign trade. Exports are running between $160 billion and $170 billion annually, due mostly to increased trade due to the North American Free Trade Agreement and not to the recent rise in oil prices. As recently as 1995, following the peso crisis, Mexican exports were about $80 billion a year. External debt has evaporated as a macroeconomic issue; it is about $160 billion today, roughly what it was in 1995. And the budget deficit is totally under control. However, unemployment is a problem.
 
Q. Is the new president likely to take steps to push down the unemployment rate?
 
A. Due to a lack of flexibility in the budget, he doesn't have much room to maneuver. After paying for a number of fixed costs, like debt service and education expenditures, only 7 percent to 10 percent of the budget is left over for discretionary spending.
 
Q. What sorts of problems does Mr. Fox want, or need, to tackle?
 
A. So far he has talked about focusing on corruption and on drugs, which are important. He faces big problems in dealing with safety issues, especially in Mexico City. And the banking system is still decimated. In Mexico, credit is scarce for midsize companies and not there at all for little companies. He also faces challenges from the unions, which are controlled by the PRI.
 
Q. What are the prospects for privatization?
 
A. The biggest opportunity is in privatizing the electric utility industry, which is a $70 billion to $80 billion business, half in power generation and half in distribution. The major impediment to change there is the union. It is totally opposed to privatization.
 
Q. Because of his years at Coca-Cola and his positive attitude about foreign investment, doesn't Mr. Fox run the risk of criticism from Mexican nationalists?
 
A. What Fox has to do, and what he talked about in his campaign, is show he has a high priority for social welfare programs. That means better schools, security for people, rural investment and roads. If he does that, the private investment from the U.S. and elsewhere will be more digestible to the people. There has to be a social dimension to his program. But he won't have the money to pay for it unless he privatizes the electric utility industry.
 
Q. Your fund invests in privately held companies. How is the money divided?
 
A. About 10 percent is in manufacturing; between 40 percent and 50 percent is in various types of services, from funeral homes to telephones; and the balance is in an assortment of things, from financial companies to Internet companies. Roughly 25 percent of the money in the fund is invested in Mexico.
 
Q. Individual investors who have bet on Mexico and Latin America have not been well rewarded for some time. Is there reason to expect higher returns?
 
A. Currently, valuations in Latin America are reasonably low relative to prospective earnings growth, and that applies with some force in Mexico. With its finances in pretty good shape, if Mexico grows 5.5 percent in 2000, its market should do pretty well over the balance of the year. For example, Cemex and Telefonos de Mexico will respond to faster growth in Mexico.
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photo: Pedro-Pablo Kuczynski, chief executive of the Latin America Enterprise fund.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Interview

TICKER: KO (NYSE) (50%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS312111 SOFT DRINK MANUFACTURING (50%); SIC2086 BOTTLED & CANNED SOFT DRINKS & CARBONATED WATER (50%); 

COUNTRY: MEXICO (96%); LATIN AMERICA (92%); UNITED STATES (79%); NORTH AMERICA (79%); 

STATE: FLORIDA, USA (79%); 

CITY: MEXICO CITY, MEXICO (79%); MIAMI, FL, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: COCA-COLA CO (50%); NORTH AMERICAN FREE TRADE AGREEMENT (55%); NORTH AMERICAN FREE TRADE AGREEMENT (55%); 

ORGANIZATION: NORTH AMERICAN FREE TRADE AGREEMENT (55%); NORTH AMERICAN FREE TRADE AGREEMENT (55%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: MEXICO; MEXICO (96%); LATIN AMERICA (92%); UNITED STATES (79%); NORTH AMERICA (79%); FLORIDA, USA (79%); MEXICO CITY, MEXICO (79%); MIAMI, FL, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: STOCKS AND BONDS; ELECTIONS VOTERS & VOTING (90%); EXPORT TRADE (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (90%); BUDGETS (89%); PRIVATIZATION (89%); ELECTIONS (78%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (78%); POLITICS (78%); FREE TRADE TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (78%); INTERVIEWS (76%); EXPORT & IMPORT LAW (76%); FOREIGN INVESTMENT (75%); MUTUAL FUNDS (75%); CORPORATE DEBT (74%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (72%); ENERGY & UTILITY TRADE (71%); CORRUPTION (70%); PRIVATE EQUITY (70%); BANKING & FINANCE (70%); ENERGY & UTILITY SECTOR PERFORMANCE (70%); STOCK INDEXES (70%); BONDS (70%); TRADE TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (69%); BUDGET DEFICITS (69%); ELECTRIC POWER INDUSTRY (69%); PRICE INCREASES (66%); OIL & GAS PRICES (65%); EXTERNAL DEBT (64%); UTILITY PRIVATIZATION (63%); NATURAL GAS & ELECTRIC UTILITIES (63%); ELECTRIC POWER PLANTS (60%); TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (51%); 

PERSON: GILPIN, KENNETH N; KUCZYNSKI, PEDRO-PABLO; FOX QUESADA, VICENTE VICENTE FOX QUESADA (90%); 

LOAD-DATE: July 9, 2000



218 of 757 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: July 9, 2000

SECTION: Section 3; Page 4; Column 5; Money and Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 749 words

HEADLINE: ECONOMIC VIEW;
Credit Comes At a Price; The Criticism Is Free

BYLINE: By RICHARD W. STEVENSON 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON

 BODY:
THIS is a tale of three central banks. All face tough choices about whether to raise interest rates, and the strategies they pursue over the remainder of this year could have a big effect on the global economic outlook.
* After pushing its benchmark lending rate down to just a notch above zero in an effort to resuscitate the Japanese economy, the Bank of Japan is hinting that it will soon tighten monetary policy, even though many analysts think that deflation is still a greater risk than inflation, and that the financial system needs more money and credit, not less. 
 * With an economic upswing under way across Europe, the European Central Bank is likely to continue raising rates this year. But the 11 nations sharing a common monetary policy are running at different economic speeds and are not, at the moment, good candidates for a one-size-fits-all interest rate prescription.
* In the United States, six interest rate increases over the last year are beginning to have their intended effect, as illustrated by Friday's report from the Labor Department showing a slowdown in the rate of job creation. But there is considerable uncertainty and debate within the Federal Reserve about how much more tightening, if any, will be necessary to squelch inflation pressures without putting the long expansion at risk.
Of the three major central banks, the Bank of Japan faces the most dire situation and the most second-guessing.
Masaru Hayami, the central bank's governor, has signaled that he would like to bring to an end what he considers an emergency period of exceptionally low interest rates.
Mr. Hayami's rationale seems to be twofold: that higher rates would force Japanese industry to stop relying on cheap money for survival and get on with the painful business of restructuring itself, and that moving rates up now, when the economy is showing tentative signs of life, would give the Bank of Japan the ability to cut them again if the economy goes back into a swoon.
But his approach is viewed skeptically even in his own government's finance ministry. And many economists say Japan's problems are not linked so much to interest rates -- the cost of money -- but rather to a lack of available money and credit at any price.
According to Carl B. Weinberg, chief economist at High Frequency Economics, a consulting firm in Valhalla, N.Y., bank credit in Japan contracted 4.7 percent in the 12 months ended in May, reflecting the dead weight of bad loans held by lenders and the continued decline in the value of assets that borrowers can use as collateral.
Rather than raising rates, he and other critics say, the Bank of Japan would do better to grease the wheels of the financial system, perhaps by buying bad loans from banks, to spur new lending and get the economy humming again.
In Europe, the head of the new central bank, Wim Duisenberg, is facing the first big test of his institution's ability to weather the economic and political strains inherent in establishing a transnational institution to perform a function that has always been closely linked to national sovereignty.
In one group of European countries, including Ireland, Spain and Finland, inflation is creeping up, putting pressure on the central bank to raise rates. But in another group, including Germany and France, the economic and political heavyweights at the European Union's core, inflation is low and unemployment remains stubbornly high, a combination that argues for stable or even lower rates.
"This development raises the prospect that, over the next year, monetary policy will be trapped between the tightening needs of overheating countries and resistance to higher real rates from low-inflation ones," economists at Salomon Smith Barney said in a recent report.
THE question in the United States is whether the slowdown in growth is enough to keep inflation under wraps.
At the Fed's meeting in May, staff economists presented a forecast showing that growth would slow this year to around 3.5 percent, from a 5.5 percent rate in the first quarter. But the same forecast projected that core price inflation -- which excludes volatile food and energy prices -- would "rise noticeably" this year.
So both inflation hawks and doves at the Fed have plenty of ammunition as they debate whether to raise rates again. It may be some consolation to Alan Greenspan as he tries to sort it all out that his fellow central bankers around the world are not having it any easier.
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Graph tracks Benchmark short term interest rates.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: 8301 (JASDAQ) (57%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (57%); SIC6029 COMMERCIAL BANKS, NEC (57%); 

COUNTRY: JAPAN (98%); EUROPE (94%); UNITED STATES (93%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (92%); 

COMPANY: FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM EUROPEAN CENTRAL BANK (70%); BANK OF JAPAN (57%); FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM (59%); FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM (59%); EUROPEAN CENTRAL BANK (57%); EUROPEAN CENTRAL BANK (57%); 

ORGANIZATION: FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM (59%); FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM (59%); EUROPEAN CENTRAL BANK (57%); EUROPEAN CENTRAL BANK (57%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: JAPAN; EUROPE; JAPAN (98%); EUROPE (94%); UNITED STATES (93%); NEW YORK, USA (92%); 

SUBJECT: UNITED STATES ECONOMY; INTEREST RATES; CREDIT; ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS CENTRAL BANKS (93%); ECONOMIC NEWS (92%); INTEREST RATES (92%); ECONOMIC POLICY (91%); PUBLIC POLICY (90%); INFLATION (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); MONETARY POLICY (90%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (90%); ECONOMIC RECOVERY (78%); DEFLATION (78%); TRENDS (77%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (76%); BANKING & FINANCE AGENCIES (73%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (73%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (72%); LABOR DEPARTMENTS (72%); JOB CREATION (72%); CONSULTING SERVICES (62%); 

PERSON: STEVENSON, RICHARD W

LOAD-DATE: July 9, 2000



219 of 757 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: July 9, 2000

SECTION: Section 3; Page 5; Column 1; Money and Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 1035 words

HEADLINE: OFF THE SHELF;
Brewing Beer And Problems

BYLINE: By ALECIA SWASY; Alecia Swasy is assistant managing editor for business at The St. Petersburg Times. She is the author of "Changing Focus: Kodak and the Battle to Save a Great American Company."

 BODY:
IN scanning the bookstore shelves, I have long hoped to find a series of books called "Corporate Stupidity." This multivolume set would make the collected works of James Michener look like Cliff Notes, considering the number of business blunders that are committed daily.
My personal favorites are the sins of chief executives who ignore their managers or the workers on the factory floor. Or the debacles that follow when they tune out the most important audience -- their customers. There is no shortage of material from every industry, ranging from the Edsel to New Coke. 
 It's a familiar scene: company fouls up, chief executive rants when the headlines chronicle the foul-ups, six-figure consultants are hired to figure out who fouled up. If only these consultants would suggest that C.E.O.'s create a new office called the C.S.O. -- common sense officer. Its job description: the lone voice in a company who can tell the boss he might be wrong.
A recent example of a hefty dose of arrogance and the absence of anyone willing to apply some common sense comes from the Coors family, which started brewing beer in Golden, Colo., in 1876 and continued until the younger generations nearly ran the company into the ground by the early 1990's.
In "Citizen Coors: An American Dynasty" (William Morrow, $27), Dan Baum wisely singles the family out. Mr. Baum builds a strong narrative from the tale of how this big dysfunctional family made a lot of cold beer and money that ultimately financed conservative causes via the Republican Party and the Heritage Foundation. There is no lack of drama, starting with the patriarch Adolph Coors, who committed suicide by jumping out of a hotel window.
Succeeding generations had their problems, too, as Mr. Baum describes them. Pity the patriarch's grandchildren, who must have dreaded Sundays. Adolph Jr. kept notes on his children's weekly misdeeds, then spanked them each Sunday. One of the offspring also committed suicide, also by jumping out of a hotel window.
But this book also gives corporate America a primer, as valuable as any business school case study, on how not to run a company.
For starters, Mr. Baum documents thoroughly how Coors abused workers. Sure, paternalism is sweet when it's served up as free lagers during break time in the brewery. But no amount of alcohol takes the sting out of being subjected to lie-detector tests, used to screen out what the book describes as "thieves, radicals and homosexuals." Some workers were asked if they had sex the previous night. At times, employees were forced to see psychologists. Brewery workers regarded themselves, in the words of one, as "overworked animals."
Equal rights took a while to catch up with Coors. Women lacked a bathroom in the brewery. There was one in the office for secretaries, but women working in the brewery were docked for time off if they left the plant to use it. One Coors family member said that a woman's place was "in the beauty parlor."
Not that management was spared from the whims of the Coors clan. When Bill Coors, in the third generation, caught the transcendental meditation bug, all executives were ordered to take classes in the practice.
The Coors company, meanwhile, showed an amazing lack of knowledge about behemoth competitors like Anheuser-Busch. Members of the Busch family in St. Louis knew that their company was driven by the relentless marketing of Budweiser and other brands. But Coors didn't get it -- and balked at spending money on ads.
Indeed, marketing executives had short tenures at Coors. Some did manage a few hit ads, like one using "Elvira, Mistress of the Dark" to sell beer at Halloween. But Jeff Coors, a born-again Christian and member of the fourth generation, ordered an end to Elvira's selling of Coors because he considered her satanic.
Other ads were ludicrous. Senior family members once ordered the company's advertising agency to make a commercial featuring Eva Gabor, a family friend who was generous to the Republican Party. Men in the focus group, viewing the aging actress, yelled: "What's she doing selling beer?"
Even product introductions lagged behind the competition. Coors was so behind the curve that it introduced a light beer three years after Miller Lite hit the shelves. The company botched other product introductions because it failed to do market research.
"Citizen Coors" clinches the story by telling how the blunders caught up with the company. It went public in 1975 at $32 a share. By 1978, investors lost half their money. Earnings were once 30 cents for every dollar of beer sold, but slipped to just a penny by 1990. Boycotts by unions and even barley farmers hurt its image and sales. Market share wilted everywhere, even in its home state of Colorado.
What did the Coors brothers do about it? They continued to focus on pushing conservative political causes in Washington. And they bought themselves a Lear jet.
What did the board members do? They dozed off during presentations on the demographics of beer drinkers. One of the best lines of the book likens a Coors board meeting to an Idi Amin cabinet meeting: nobody objects.
Senior management did seem to pay attention to one event -- the pollution of its famous Rocky Mountain spring waters. Clear Creek was the primary reason that Adolph Coors built his brewery in Golden. Trouble was, his brewery was responsible for contamination of the once-pristine waters. The book spends far too few pages on this environmental mess. Coors knew for nine years during the 1980's that it was destroying the spring water, but covered it up, according to Mr. Baum.
To help ease the bad public relations, Peter Coors, also in the fourth generation, coughed up a $30 million check for a baseball stadium in Denver. For the money, the team would play at, you guessed it, Coors Field.
The book's final pages chronicle the Coors men stepping aside and hiring an outsider to run the company. More than a century after the brewery was founded, the arrogance and indifference had caught up with them. Mr. Baum says they would have made more money by closing the place in the early 1980's and putting their money in a passbook account.
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photo
 
Chart: "Business Best Sellers "
HARDCOVER
 
1: WHO MOVED MY CHEESE? by Spencer Johnson (Putnam, $19.95). Techniques for dealing with change in the workplace.
 
2: TEN THINGS I WISH I'D KNOWN -- BEFORE I WENT OUT INTO THE REAL WORLD by Maria Shriver (Warner, $19.95). Lessons about life -- private and corporate -- from the anchorwoman.
 
3: THE MILLIONAIRE MIND by Thomas J. Stanley (Andrews McMeel, $26.95). An analysis of the people who make up America's financial elite.
 
4: BOBOS IN PARADISE by David Brooks (Simon & Schuster, $25). An examination of the rise of the bourgeois bohemians who constitute the new upper class.
 
5: CHANGEWAVE INVESTING by Tobin Smith (Bard Press, $24.95). A guide to picking stocks.
 
6: THE TIPPING POINT by Malcolm Gladwell (Little, Brown, $24.95). How and why certain products and ideas become fads.
 
7: PLAY LIKE A MAN, WIN LIKE A WOMAN by Gail Evans (Broadway, $23.95). What men know about corporate success that women need to learn.
 
8: LIVING ON THE FAULT LINE by Geoffrey A. Moore (HarperBusiness, $27). How traditional companies can survive in the Internet-based economy.
 
9: E BOYS by Randall E. Stross (Crown Business, $25.95). The story of the venture capitalists behind several billion-dollar Internet start-ups.
 
10: FIRST, BREAK ALL THE RULES: What The World's Greatest Managers Do Differently by Marcus Buckingham and Curt Coffman (Simon & Schuster, $25). Two consultants for the Gallup organization offer conclusions about what makes for great managers; based on 80,000 interviews.
 
11: RICH DAD, POOR DAD by Robert T. Kiyosaki with Sharon L. Lechter (Warner, $15.95). What the wealthy teach their children about money that other parents do not.
 
2: TAKE TIME FOR YOUR LIFE by Cheryl Richardson (Broadway, $13). A seven-step program for enhancing one's social and financial well-being.
 
3: LIFE STRATEGIES by Phillip C. McGraw (Hyperion, $11.95). How to define and achieve goals in life and work.
 
4: RICH DAD'S GUIDE TO INVESTING by Robert T. Kiyosaki with Sharon L. Lechter (Warner, $19.95). How to invest in what the wealthy invest in.
 
5: THE CASHFLOW QUADRANT by Robert T. Kiyosaki with Sharon L. Lechter (Warner, $17.95). Risk-taking for those who have always valued job security above other considerations.
 
Rankings are based on June figures of almost 4,000 bookstores and of wholesalers serving 50,000 hardcover retailers and 60,000 paperback retailers (gift shops, department stores, newsstands, supermarkets). The numbers are statistically weighted to represent sales in all such outlets nationwide. *Indicates that a book's sales are barely distinguishable from those of the book above. +Some bookstores report receiving bulk orders on these titles.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TITLE: CITIZEN COORS: AN AMERICAN DYNASTY (BOOK)

TICKER: TAP (NYSE) (92%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS312120 BREWERIES (92%); SIC2082 MALT BEVERAGES (92%); NAICS424810 BEER & ALE MERCHANT WHOLESALERS (92%); SIC5181 BEER & ALE (92%); NAICS312111 SOFT DRINK MANUFACTURING (91%); SIC2086 BOTTLED & CANNED SOFT DRINKS & CARBONATED WATER (91%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: COLORADO, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: MOLSON COORS BREWING CO (92%); ACTRIS AG (91%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%); COLORADO, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: BOOKS AND LITERATURE; REVIEWS; BEER EXECUTIVES (90%); BREWERIES (90%); BEER & ALE (89%); BOOK REVIEWS (78%); BOOKSTORES (78%); LITERATURE (78%); ENTREPRENEURSHIP (77%); INTERVIEWS (77%); FACTORY WORKERS (76%); BUSINESS EDUCATION (72%); GRANDCHILDREN (71%); CIVIL RIGHTS (70%); CASE STUDIES (70%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (70%); CONSERVATISM (69%); GAYS & LESBIANS (67%); POLITICAL PARTIES (64%); SUICIDE (63%); PSYCHOLOGY (50%); 

PERSON: SWASY, ALECIA; BAUM, DAN JAMES ALBERT 'JAMES A' MICHENER (73%); 

LOAD-DATE: July 9, 2000



220 of 757 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: July 9, 2000

SECTION: Section 4; Page 1; Column 1; Week in Review Desk 

LENGTH: 1193 words

HEADLINE: The Nation: Respecting Elders;
A Drug Plan Sounds Great, but Who Gets to Set Prices?

BYLINE: By SHERYL GAY STOLBERG 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON

 BODY:
IN this election season, helping the elderly pay for their pills is a political no-brainer: everybody's for it. The fight is over how to do it. Republicans, not surprisingly, want private insurers to run any prescription drug benefits plan. Democrats, not surprisingly, want the government in control.
But that classic liberal-conservative clash masks the real issue: how much drugs will cost, and who will set their prices. 
 Perhaps no issue touches as many lives as the cost of medication, which is why it is consuming the political landscape this year. Last week, Vice President Al Gore attacked drug manufacturers, accusing them of price gouging. The week before, the House of Representatives approved a Republican-backed plan to give subsidies to insurance companies that offer prescription coverage, a concept favored by the drug makers.
The furor is justified, economists and policymakers say. "It's the part of the budget that is breaking the bank," said Dr. David A. Kessler, who ran the Food and Drug Administration before becoming dean of the Yale University School of Medicine. "Ask any hospital administrator, ask any H.M.O. Prescription drug prices is the one sector that is out of control."
Prescription drugs are now the fastest-growing part of the nation's health care bill. That is not so much because manufacturers are raising prices for existing drugs, but because patients are switching to newly approved medicines that cost more, and more prescriptions are being written than ever before.
In 1998, according to the Kaiser Family Foundation, Americans spent $91 billion on prescription drugs; the total is expected to reach $243 billion in 2008. The elderly bear a disproportionate burden: they account for 13 percent of the population but more than a third of drug expenditures.
Yet any effort to bring down costs is fraught with unanswered questions. To begin with, drug makers dance around the question of how they set prices. The official explanation is that the cost of medicine is justified by the high cost of research and development, which the industry puts at $500 million per drug, a figure some say is inflated.
What's more, there is no one set price for drugs. Consumer advocates often complain that Americans pay higher prices for their prescriptions than patients anywhere else in the world. And that is true -- if the patient pays the retail price, out of pocket. (That is the case for nearly one-third of the elderly, who have health insurance through Medicare but lack drug coverage.)
BUT the truth is, few people buy retail in this business. Most have insurance, and their health care providers typically negotiate discounts with the drug manufacturers. The size of these discounts, however, is a well-kept secret. The drug makers would like to keep it that way, which is one reason they are working hard to defeat any legislation that would put Medicare in charge of running a benefits plan.
"They are totally paranoid about price controls, but I think the thing that scares them more than anything is public disclosure of what people actually pay for prescriptions," said Bruce C. Vladeck, a former administrator of the Health Care Financing Administration, which runs Medicare. "They go to enormous lengths not just to keep that information confidential, but to actually obscure it."
A government-run drug benefit plan would change that. If private insurers offered drug benefits, the pharmaceutical industry could continue to negotiate behind closed doors. But Medicare would publish what it pays for drugs, and the private sector would undoubtedly demand similar discounts. And with every senior citizen in the nation enrolled in the same Medicare drug plan, the government's bargaining clout would increase exponentially.
"Medicare is the big gorilla," said Uwe Reinhardt, a health care economist at Princeton University. "But there is another fear: If you go to bed with a gorilla, and the gorilla shifts, you get squashed."
The shifting gorilla, of course, is Congress; the drug industry fears lawmakers will agree to pay for a Medicare prescription drugs benefit now, in times of surplus, and then cut back on reimbursements when money grows scarce.
That is precisely what has happened with the 35-year-old Medicare program itself. In its early years, said Drew Altman, president of the Kaiser Family Foundation, Medicare became "the largest single cash cow for doctors and hospitals around the country." But amid concerns over rising health care costs in the 1990's, Medicare lowered reimbursements, and now health providers are struggling.
Some experts, including Dr. Altman, argue that even with the cutbacks, doctors are better off with Medicare than without it. Dr. Reinhardt calculates the same would be true of the drug makers: a Medicare benefits plan might bring lower prices, he says, but the industry would make up the difference in volume.
But Alan F. Holmer, president of the Pharmaceutical Research and Manufacturers of America, disagrees. The drug industry consistently ranks as the most profitable on the list of Fortune 500 companies. Yet Mr. Holmer warns that lower prices would "put biomedical innovation at risk" by cutting into profits that the drug makers need to plow back into research.
"The industry could be profoundly different," said Mr. Holmer, whose two children have cystic fibrosis and have benefited from new treatments for that disease, he said. "One of the most frightening things is that if we were to proceed down that path, we would never really know which cure we were denied."
In one sense, Mr. Holmer's industry is a victim of its own success. "We have the best medical armamentarium in the world," said Dr. Kessler, the former F.D.A. commissioner. "But what good is it if people can't afford it?"
BECAUSE other countries have drug price controls, the pharmaceutical industry earns most of its profits, and conducts most of its basic research, in the United States. "We Americans fund the bulk of the research for the rest of the world," Dr. Reinhardt said, "so everyone else can mooch."
And because prices are higher here, Americans use their prescription drugs sparingly. Even so, drugs have become an essential part of American medical care. "I have some patients that are choosing between food and travel to see their children or grandchildren" or taking pills, said Dr. Diane E. Meier, a geriatrician at Mount Sinai Medical Center in New York City.
Many experts are doubtful that Congress will move on drug prices this year. While the House Republican bill calls for private insurers to offer drug benefits, the insurers themselves are against it; they say that even with government subsidies, the plans would be too costly to offer. At the same time, Republicans and Democrats may not be able to bridge their ideological gap. In the meantime, says Dr. Vladeck, the industry will continue to draw its line in the sand. "The United States is their safety valve in terms of profits," he said. "I think that adds intensity to their feelings about this. They are running out of places where they can charge whatever they want."
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photo: The cost of drugs is skyrocketing, and more prescriptions are being written than ever before. (Jeffery A. Salter/The New York Times)(pg. 1); (Tom Zeller/The New York Times)(pg. 5)
 
Chart: "Exploding Drug Costs . . ."
Beginning in the early 1990's, prescription drugs became the fastest-growing health care expenditure in the United States.Beginning in the early 1990's, prescription drugs became the fastest-growing health care expenditure in the United States.

Graph shows percentage change in health spending
Hospital care
1970: 11.7
1980: 13.9
1985: 10.4
1990: 8.9
1991: 10.1
1992: 8.1
1993: 5.8
1994: 3.9
1995: 3.4
1996: 3.6
1997: 3.0
1998: 3.4
 
Physician services
1970: 9.9
1980: 12.8
1985: 13.1
1990: 11.8
1991: 10.9
1992: 8.4
1993: 5.7
1994: 3.8
1995: 4.6
1996: 3.3
1997: 4.5
1998: 5.4
 
Prescription drugs
1970: 7.4
1980: 8.1
1985: 12.1
1990: 12.2
1991: 11.7
1992: 10.7
1993: 8.6
1994: 9.1
1995: 10.5
1996: 13.0
1997: 13.9
1998: 15.4
 Note: Percent calculated as average annual percent change over 10 years for 1970-80, over 5 years for 1980-90, and annually thereafter. (Source: The Henry J. Kaiser Family Foundation)(pg. 5)
 
Chart: ". . . and the Matrix of Causes"
Attributing the explosion to price gouging on the part of drug companies is too simplistic, however. Demographic shifts and changes in drug approval policy are also responsible.
 
More expensive drugs, more doctors and more approvals
 
It is true that the retail price of drugs has grown steadily over the years. But the increase in expenditures is also driven by an accelerated approval process for new drugs, as well as an increase in the number of doctors who can prescribe them.
 
Graphs show average retail prescription prices rising from 25 to 40 dollars between 1992-1998.; Average annual new drug approvals from 1980-1998; Physicians per 1,000 population averaging between 2 and 3 from 1993-1997. (pg. 5)
 
Chart: "Aging Population"
Finally, because senior citizens receive the vast majority of prescriptions, the aging population is also helping to drive up drug spending.
 
Graph shows average number of prescriptions by age and sex for the 1997 year. The second graph shows percent of the U.S. population age 45 and older from 1984-1998. (pg. 5)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (95%); 

STATE: DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: YALE UNIVERSITY PRESS (55%); FOOD & DRUG ADMINISTRATION (55%); YALE UNIVERSITY (55%); FOOD & DRUG ADMINISTRATION (55%); YALE UNIVERSITY (55%); 

ORGANIZATION: FOOD & DRUG ADMINISTRATION (55%); YALE UNIVERSITY (55%); FOOD & DRUG ADMINISTRATION (55%); YALE UNIVERSITY (55%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (95%); DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: PRESIDENTIAL ELECTION OF 2000; ELECTION ISSUES; DRUGS (PHARMACEUTICALS); PRICES (FARES, FEES AND RATES); MEDICARE; HEALTH INSURANCE; MEDICINE AND HEALTH; AGED PRESCRIPTION DRUGS (91%); PHARMACEUTICALS INDUSTRY (90%); PRESCRIPTION DRUG INSURANCE (90%); INSURANCE (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); DRUG PRICES (90%); SENIOR CITIZENS (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); PHARMACEUTICAL PREPARATION MFG (90%); MEDICARE (89%); HEALTH INSURANCE (89%); PRICE CHANGES (89%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (89%); HEALTH CARE (87%); CONSERVATISM (78%); ELECTIONS (78%); LIBERALISM (78%); PUBLIC POLICY (78%); PLATFORMS & ISSUES (78%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (78%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (78%); PHARMACY BENEFITS (77%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (77%); DRUG & MEDICAL DEVICES APPROVAL (77%); PRICE INCREASES (76%); LEGISLATION (74%); NEWS BRIEFS (74%); APPROVALS (74%); BUDGETS (73%); HEALTH CARE LAW (71%); UNIVERSITY ADMINISTRATION (70%); RESEARCH & DEVELOPMENT (69%); HOSPITALS (66%); FOUNDATIONS (64%); CONSUMER LAW (60%); HEALTH MAINTENANCE ORGANIZATIONS (52%); 

PERSON: STOLBERG, SHERYL GAY; GORE, AL (VICE PRES); BUSH, GEORGE W (GOV) AL GORE (73%); 

LOAD-DATE: July 9, 2000



221 of 757 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: July 9, 2000

SECTION: Section 4; Page 14; Column 1; Editorial Desk

LENGTH: 444 words

HEADLINE: Powering a Hot City

 BODY:
New York's summer nightmare begins on a steamy evening when a few million people suddenly switch on their air-conditioners, in effect blowing the fuse for a wired city. The dimming of lights on the Upper East Side last month was a reminder that it can happen, as it did last July when northern Manhattan suffered a 19-hour blackout. Consolidated Edison has said the city's newly fortified neighborhood power grids are ready for soaring temperatures and power use. Still, there are reasons to worry about how the nationwide experiment with utility deregulation will affect the reliability and cost of power in a city that thrives on electricity.
Deregulation, which promised more competition, more alternative power sources and lower costs to consumers, appears to be playing transitional tricks in a few areas around the country, including New York City. As part of its restructuring in the last few years, Con Edison has been shedding power plants and moving steadily into the business of distributing power. That means Con Ed must now turn around and buy power to distribute, a cost that it then passes along to its customers. 
 Energy prices this summer are rising for several reasons, including higher costs for the fuel used to generate power. The inevitable spike in temperatures will also bring a spike in demand for electricity. Then there is the city's booming economy, which encourages people to buy more gadgets and appliances -- which are simply plucked out of their boxes and plugged into the walls without advance notice to the utility. Under deregulation, competition from other power sources was supposed to provide price relief. But alternative power sources are not readily available for most city residents.
New York's City Council will begin hearings next week on concerns that Con Ed's 2.8 million city customers could see energy costs go up 30 percent this summer, an increase Mayor Rudolph Giuliani labeled "outrageous." The mayor has advised the company to cut into its sizable profits rather than raise rates. On a larger scale, the hearings should determine whether the new Con Ed has begun favoring its shareholders over its city customers.
Most experts suggest that the power squeeze in the city will continue for several summers, until new plants are built or alternative power sources become available. Gov. George Pataki, the Legislature and the state's Public Service Commission should recognize that deregulation is still in its early stages and needs more oversight if such a daring experiment is to succeed in providing reliable, environmentally sound and affordable wattage, especially in an overheated New York City. 
http://www.nytimes.com

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Editorial

TICKER: ED (NYSE) (92%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS221210 NATURAL GAS DISTRIBUTION (92%); NAICS221122 ELECTRIC POWER DISTRIBUTION (92%); SIC4924 NATURAL GAS DISTRIBUTION (92%); SIC4911 ELECTRIC SERVICES (92%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (94%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%); 

COMPANY: CONSOLIDATED EDISON INC (92%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%); NEW YORK, USA (94%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%); 

SUBJECT: Terms not available from NYTimes. ELECTRIC POWER PLANTS (90%); ELECTRICITY TRANSMISSION & DISTRIBUTION (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); DEREGULATION (90%); UTILITIES INDUSTRY (90%); ENERGY & UTILITY DEREGULATION (90%); CITY LIFE (89%); CITIES (89%); CITY GOVERNMENT (89%); MAYORS (86%); ENERGY DEMAND (78%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (77%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (77%); NATURAL GAS & ELECTRIC UTILITIES (76%); UTILITY RESTRUCTURING (76%); POWER PLANTS (76%); ENERGY & UTILITY SECTOR PERFORMANCE (76%); OIL & GAS PRICES (75%); PUBLIC UTILITIES COMMISSIONS (71%); ENERGY & UTILITY LAW (70%); WEATHER (70%); SHAREHOLDERS (50%); 

PERSON: RUDY GIULIANI (59%); 

LOAD-DATE: July 9, 2000



222 of 757 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: July 9, 2000

SECTION: Section 4; Page 5; Column 1; Week in Review Desk

LENGTH: 1037 words

HEADLINE: The Nation;
Banishing the Dickensian Factor

BYLINE: By STEVEN GREENHOUSE

 BODY:
IN this era when the consumer is king, many Americans are displaying noblesse oblige toward the millions of foreign workers who make the goods that flood store shelves. High school students have demonstrated at Disney's Mickey-filled emporiums over the company's use of low-wage factories in China and Haiti. Nuns concerned about child labor have distributed leaflets outside Gap stores. At Duke and Georgetown, students have staged sit-ins to protest conditions at factories producing apparel carrying their college logos. And everyone seems to beat up on Nike.
For years, these anti-sweatshop protests accomplished next to nothing. Many manufacturers responded by simply saying they did not control the overseas factories that they contracted with. Some embarrassed designers adopted codes of conduct, which were often ignored abroad. Before monitors visited, factory owners hid their under-aged workers and ordered employees to say they worked 40-hour weeks, not the more typical 75 hours. 
 But as the anti-sweatshop movement continues to grow -- and grow louder -- manufacturers have recently taken steps that just might improve working conditions around the world. Companies see that many consumers want to know that their clothing was not made under Dickensian conditions. So for the first time, industry giants have joined an ambitious effort, the Fair Labor Association, that has adopted a code and called for large-scale overseas monitoring that begins this fall.
Nike, Reebok, Liz Claiborne, Philips Van Heusen and other manufacturers have joined the association, a White House-backed program that promises to inspect hundreds of factories yearly. Currently only a factory or two is monitored each month. The association's leaders say this latest effort, well financed and international, should make a difference. Monitors, ranging from accounting firms to union-friendly Jesuit advocates, will visit factories to check that there is no child labor, that managers do not sexually harass workers and that no one works more than 60 hours a week.
The days of companies adopting a see-no-evil stance are over, said Sam Brown, executive director of the association, which includes several consumer and human rights groups. "This effort says for the first time, 'You must know, you have to know about conditions in every single factory, and you have to bear responsibility,' " Mr. Brown said.
The association's plans call for monitoring 30 percent of its members' 4,000 factories over the next three years, with 5 to 10 percent of each company's factories being monitored each subsequent year. Some critics say the percentage is too small to uncover every problem, but association members say monitoring, and requiring that complaints about conditions be investigated, will greatly help.
Many critics say the association and other monitoring efforts will do little to improve the lives of third-world workers. They fear that corporations may hide the monitors' findings from the public, and that the accounting firms doing the monitoring will not dig hard enough to find problems.
"I think the Fair Labor Association is just window-dressing," said Charles Kernaghan, director of the National Labor Committee, a labor rights group. "You don't have full disclosure of what's found, and it doesn't require that factories pay a living wage. And it allows companies to produce in China, a country that prohibits independent trade unions."
Other monitoring efforts have sprouted because some groups think the association is too lenient toward manufacturers while others believe it is too harsh. Social Accountability International, an offshoot of the nonprofit Council on Economic Priorities, has persuaded Toys "R" Us, Avon Products and Eddie Bauer to push their manufacturers to comply with minimum labor standards developed by a group of companies, unions and nongovernment organizations. Students from 56 universities including Brown and Cornell recently formed the Workers Rights Consortium to work with nongovernment organizations overseas to review conditions at factories making T-shirts and other apparel carrying college logos. And the industry's main trade group, the American Apparel Manufacturers Association, has also adopted a code of conduct. Stung by criticisms, Nike, the Gap and others have hired their own monitors, and many critics say these companies have improved labor practices.
"None of the programs have achieved critical mass yet," said Elliot Schrage, a Columbia University Business School professor who advises companies on how to improve factory conditions, "but the principle that the conditions under which products are made is a legitimate concern for consumers is now well established."
The word sweatshop has long been used to describe factories with low wages and deplorable conditions, but whether a particular factory is a sweatshop is often in the eye of the beholder. An American or European may quickly conclude that a Chinese or Vietnamese factory paying workers $2 a day is a sweatshop. But the young women working there often say they earn far more than at other local factories or in the farm villages they left behind.
"The question is to make sure these young people, mostly women a long way from home, are not abused," Mr. Brown said. "Even if the situation is better than where they were, that doesn't mean there shouldn't be minimal standards of decency on how you treat people."
THE nation's largest apparel union, the Union of Needletrades, Industrial and Textile Employees, argues that free trade has encouraged American companies to move factories to countries with the lowest wages and worst conditions. Hoping to slow this exodus and help foreign workers, the union wants the World Trade Organization to allow trade sanctions against countries that perpetuate sweatshops by not enforcing their laws on minimum wage and overtime. But the W.T.O. has rejected such proposals.
Monitoring, Mr. Brown said, is the best alternative for improving factory conditions. "It is the way to think about how you make free trade into fair trade," he said. "It's a way to ensure that the goods are produced under conditions that don't shock the conscience."
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photo: A worker sewing blue jeans for export in a factory outside of Phnom Penh, Cambodia. (Reuters)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: DIS (NYSE) (58%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS713110 AMUSEMENT & THEME PARKS (58%); NAICS515112 RADIO STATIONS (58%); NAICS512110 MOTION PICTURE & VIDEO PRODUCTION (58%); NAICS453220 GIFT, NOVELTY & SOUVENIR STORES (58%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); HAITI (92%); CHINA (88%); CAMBODIA (79%); 

CITY: PHNOM PENH, CAMBODIA (79%); 

COMPANY: WALT DISNEY CO (58%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%); HAITI (92%); CHINA (88%); CAMBODIA (79%); PHNOM PENH, CAMBODIA (79%); 

SUBJECT: Terms not available from NYTimes. STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (90%); SWEATSHOPS (90%); FOREIGN LABOR (90%); PROTESTS & DEMONSTRATIONS (90%); GARMENT WORKERS (90%); CHILD LABOR (89%); WORK WEEK (78%); RETAILERS (78%); HIGH SCHOOLS (77%); APPAREL MFG (77%); FASHION DESIGNERS (74%); ETHICS (74%); NEWS BRIEFS (74%); WAGES & SALARIES (73%); SEXUAL HARASSMENT (73%); MANUFACTURING FACILITIES (72%); CATHOLICS & CATHOLICISM (71%); EXECUTIVES (68%); HUMAN RIGHTS ORGANIZATIONS (62%); INVESTIGATIONS (62%); HUMAN RIGHTS (50%); 

PERSON: ELISABETH 'LIZ' CLAIBORNE (54%); 

LOAD-DATE: July 9, 2000



223 of 757 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: July 9, 2000

SECTION: Section 4; Page 16; Column 1; Week in Review Desk

LENGTH: 1298 words

HEADLINE: The World;
The Beirut I Knew Wasn't So Different

BYLINE: By JOHN KIFNER; John Kifner was the Beirut bureau chief for The New York Times from 1979 to 1982 and from 1984 to 1985.

DATELINE: BEIRUT, Lebanon

 BODY:
THE last time I had set foot in the Beirut airport, exactly 15 years before, a hijacked Trans World Airlines jet sat on the runway. A United States Navy diver had been murdered and thrown from the plane, and 39 Americans would be held hostage for 17 days before being freed in Damascus.
In the filthy shambles of the terminal, pistol-waving hijackers wearing hoods made from airline pillowcases held a news conference that turned into a near riot when television cameramen climbed on the table that the hijackers had carefully laid out with Lebanese dishes. The windows in the control tower were still shattered from the time a few years earlier when they were shot out by the man known as "Hamzi the Hijacker," who was working on his ninth plane. 
 The airport was convenient for hijackers in those days. When they were done, all they had to do was to cross the tarmac to go home, melting into into the surrounding Shiite Muslim shantytowns.
Now, when I returned in the early summer of 2000, the terminal was new and clean, partly lined with gleaming tile. An efficient line processed visas, where once a grimy customs inspector whispered to me, "Be careful, my friend, you are in the Orient now." Outside, instead of the chaos I used to know, was an orderly taxi line with a no-haggling fixed price. A smooth new highway, swooping through tunnels and overpasses, had replaced the old rutted road studded with militia checkpoints.
We drove past gleaming new high-rises and glittery restaurants to the Phoenecia, a huge and gaudy palace right on the Green Line, the no-man's land that once divided the city. The hotel district was one of the first and fiercest battlegrounds of the 25-year civil war that made a Lebanon a synonym for brutal anarchy in the 1970's and 80's, and next door the battered, shell-holed hulk of the Holiday Inn still loomed.
Just to travel across the city back then was to risk your life. Snipers were dug into the broken buildings on each side: as the war wound on they became skilled, hitting people in the head more often.
Christian right and Muslim left were the working cliches for the journalists, but the reality was much more complex. Christians killed each other to eliminate rivals, and alliances shifted bloodily on the Muslim side. Even a traffic accident could set off a gun battle that quickly spread through a wide area and lasted for hours. All the militias had their own jails. Piles of rotting garbage, occasionally set afire, lined the streets.
Ordinary Lebanese hunkered down through artillery barrages, power outages and water shortages, siege and invasion, somehow maintaining the extravagant style that is their endearing hallmark. There are no real statistics here, but it is generally estimated that 150,000 people died and 17,000 are still missing.
The morning after I arrived I walked around the streets I used to know. There were no gunmen and no garbage. A McDonald's stood at the corner where the Associated Press correspondent Terry Anderson was kidnapped in 1985; it had valet parking for the Range Rovers. It was eerie at first to walk on the streets where 15 years before you could not go, in the city center that had been the heart of the Green Line, where I once met a gunmen who been in position so long he had planted a garden.
The old buildings, Ottoman and French Colonial, have now been meticulously restored into one of the most gorgeous downtowns anywhere.
What happened, I wondered. Could these people have all suddenly come to their senses?
Unfortunately not.
"What you see, it's all a facade, a fake veneer," grumbled a veteran Lebanese journalist, launching into an hourlong tirade against government corruption and inefficiency, an economic crisis spinning out of control and Syrian domination -- after, of course, making sure that his name would not be used.
The new highway and the luxury hotels skirt and conceal the slums and squatters in much of the city. Even in the flashy stores on Rue Verdon -- Gucci, Versace, Valentino -- business is down. The rebuilding was almost entirely the single-minded effort of Rafik Hariri, prime minister from 1992 to 1998; his enemies are now in power and cutting off his permits.
Over and over, old friends and new acquaintances, using phrases like "rotten" and "crooked," told me that, fundamentally, nothing has changed in Lebanon; that politics and economics remain, as one put it, "parasitical, feudal and entirely rapacious."
But of course some things have changed in the decade since the war ended. By 1990, the paroxysm of violence that had torn Lebanon since the mid-1970's had turned on itself, so badly that many Lebanese were desperate to restore an ordinary sense of business and life. So they welcomed the calm that Syrian control brought them.
Today, most visibly, the presence of armed militias in which gunmen ruled has been ended, and that is no small thing. (They are officially disarmed except for Hezbollah in the South, although much of the weaponry is just hidden away.) The remaining Palestinians are disenfranchised, confined to their camps. The ability of the Maronite Catholic elite to either dominate the country or to establish an autonomous entity has been ended. Perhaps most important for the future is the rise of the Shiite Muslim movement Hezbollah, or Party of God, to power and respectability. Politically, Syria calls all the shots now.
But what has not changed is the strict division along religious lines that defines -- and essentially undermines -- Lebanon as a country.
WHEN Lebanon was formed in 1943 out of a French mandate granted after World War I, power was apportioned by religion, mainly to protect the Maronites; they were to hold the Presidency, with other offices apportioned to Sunni Moslems, Shites, Druse and 13 smaller sects.
And that has always been the paradox of Lebanon: What has enabled its people to survive and even prosper through unbelievably difficult times, like the civil war, are the tight bonds of family, village, clan and religion. But the same narrow loyalties prevent a national social contract.
The headquarters for the small band of foreign journalists throughout those war years was the shabby, beloved Commodore Hotel, presided over by its suave, impeccably-dressed manager, Fouad Saleh, who could accomplish anything. The parrot at the bar imitated incoming shellfire, Fat Tommy the cat slept wedged in the warmth between the Associated Press and Reuters news wires, and the telexes, magically, always worked. Guests checking in were asked, "Shelling side or sniper side?"
One night during the Israeli siege of Beirut in 1982, a desperately needed truckload of bottled water materialized, bribed through Israeli lines near the airport. "You see, we are really all Levantine together," smiled the man from the Democratic Front for the Liberation of Palestine next to me at the bar.
But in the final five years of the war, when erstwhile allies turned on each other in a frenzy -- Shiites against Palestinians, Hezbollah against its Shiite rival Amal, Christians against Christians, the Lebanese army against Christians -- the Commodore was destroyed in street fighting between the Druze and a Sunni militia, the Murabitoun. A Druse gunman carried off the parrot to an unknown fate.
Now the Commodore has been rebuilt as a fancy Meridien, with a Benihana Japanese steakhouse. Just off the lobby is a place called the "News Bar," with a carpet embroidered to imitate newspaper front pages. When I looked in the other day, it was empty.
Fouad Saleh died a few years back, I was told, and, because of his mixed marriage, neither the Muslim nor the Christian cemetery would accept his body. Fouad, the ultimate fixer, had been beaten at last by Lebanon.
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photos: Downtown Beirut, 2000. (Courney Kealy for The New York Times); Many buildings along the line that once divided Beirut still bear the scars of war. (Courtney Kealy for The New York Times); The scene in Beirut, 1981. (John Kifner/The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: TWAIE (AMEX) (58%); 

INDUSTRY: SIC4512 AIR TRANSPORTATION, SCHEDULED (58%); 

COUNTRY: LEBANON (97%); UNITED STATES (94%); SYRIA (92%); 

CITY: BEIRUT, LEBANON (97%); DAMASCUS, SYRIA (92%); 

COMPANY: TRANS WORLD AIRLINES INC (58%); HOLIDAY INN BAHRAIN (52%); HOLIDAY INN HARARE (52%); HOLIDAY INN MUSCAT (52%); HOLIDAY INN SOLOMONS (52%); US NAVY (84%); 

ORGANIZATION: US NAVY (84%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: LEBANON (97%); UNITED STATES (94%); SYRIA (92%); BEIRUT, LEBANON (97%); DAMASCUS, SYRIA (92%); 

SUBJECT: Terms not available from NYTimes. HIJACKING (91%); AIRLINES (90%); AIRPORT RUNWAYS (90%); AIRPORTS (90%); PARAMILITARY & MILITIA (89%); GUNSHOT WOUNDS (89%); MUSLIMS & ISLAM (88%); CHRISTIANS & CHRISTIANITY (87%); NAVIES (78%); SHOOTINGS (77%); NEWS BRIEFS (76%); CIVIL WAR (72%); HOSTAGE TAKING (72%); PRESS CONFERENCES (71%); PASSPORTS & VISAS (71%); RESTAURANTS (70%); WAR & CONFLICT (70%); HOTELS & MOTELS (68%); RELIGION (67%); EXCISE & CUSTOMS (66%); TRAFFIC ACCIDENTS (65%); WATER CRISES & SHORTAGES (50%); POWER FAILURES (50%); HIGHWAYS & STREETS (50%); 

LOAD-DATE: July 9, 2000



224 of 757 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: July 9, 2000

SECTION: Section 4; Page 1; Column 1; Week in Review Desk

LENGTH: 1380 words

HEADLINE: The Nation: Get a Grip;
All Pumped Up and Nowhere to Go

BYLINE: By DAVID E. SANGER

DATELINE: WASHINGTON

 BODY:
EVER since Israel and Egypt struck their peace deal 22 years ago, Camp David has symbolized American influence: A superpower brought a divided corner of the world to its own mountaintop and reshaped it.
It's no wonder that President Clinton chose to use the seclusion of the Catoctin Mountains again, camping out this week with the Palestinian leader, Yasir Arafat, and the Israeli prime minister, Ehud Barak, in a grand experiment to determine if lightning can strike twice in the same place. 
 It may work, it may fizzle. But whatever the outcome, this summit raises anew the overarching question dogging Bill Clinton, his would-be successors and the Congress. Toward what ends should America harness -- not for a few days in July, but day in and day out -- the astounding economic, military, political and cultural power it has accrued?
Put another way, why is the country having so much trouble establishing its international priorities? The truth is, hegemony's not all it's cracked up to be. It seemed easier in the early 1990's, after the Cold War had been won, but before the American economy had begun its flight into the stratosphere. Twenty million new jobs ago, making the world safe for American exports, for freer and fairer trade, was a rallying call that resounded far beyond the Chamber of Commerce.
Since then, as American economic might has soared the confusion about how to wield it has deepened. One day American power is about expanding democracy, the next it is about a (short-lived) "Clinton Doctrine" of humanitarian intervention, even in places where America's national interests are remote. In the last two years the emphasis has turned to new initiatives to combat old threats, from nuclear proliferation to narco-terrorism, and to bestowing national security threat status on new issues, such as cyber-crime, global economic meltdown and AIDS.
What unites this laundry list is that none of the items on it will ever achieve the bumper-sticker simplicity of fighting Communism, the great national purpose for nearly half a century after World War II.
"If the nostalgia is for a single word that is decisive in every issue that you face, like 'containment' was, well that world is gone," said Samuel R. Berger, the president's national security adviser. "Nobody said it would be easy to construct a foreign policy for a global era."
Thus far the two leading Presidential candidates, while eagerly asserting their intention to make America's international agenda more cohesive and effective, have shown little inclination to offer bold answers to the basic question of what American power should be for.
In truth, both men have calculated, probably correctly, that there is little political advantage to announcing grand new architectures for foreign policy. Such pronouncements invite only mockery now, and trouble later, when the trade-offs of policymaking collide with the neat slogans of campaigning.
But if the candidates want to sidestep the issue, history suggests this may not be possible. As the Romans discovered long ago, and the British not so long ago, the concentration of power in a single nation invariably creates a balance-of-power reaction. "It's a law of political physics," says Michael Beschloss, the presidential historian, noting the "intense American reaction against British economic and military power," which lasted from the Revolutionary War until World War II.
Americans, however, tend not to be equally mindful of how their own power is viewed around the world today. It is resented. So much so, says Mr. Beschloss, that "one of the most important questions Americans should be asking the presidential candidates is, 'How do you plan to respond if Russia and Japan and China and Europe find ways to frustrate American power?' "
What sort of foreign policy agenda makes sense at this moment, when American power is unquestioned, but its authority is anything but? The first step may be to recognize that the very fact of that power can make it more, not less, difficult for the nation to act unilaterally.
It's also true that, while resistance to America's power is growing, it is also inconsistent. Chinese students celebrate Michael Jordan as they denounce American imperialism; Europeans are not about to give up Microsoft Windows (or McDonald's), despite their recent obsession with American electronic surveillance systems; and Russian leaders happily take American-backed aid even as they rail that the International Monetary Fund is stuffing American-style capitalism down their throats.
Still, how they react is their business. As Richard N. Haass, a Brookings Institution scholar and former official in the Bush Administration, noted recently, any "effort to assert or expand U.S. hegemony will fail. Such an action would lack domestic support and stimulate international resistance, which in turn would make the costs of hegemony all the greater and its benefits all the smaller."
A second step is to recognize that even a superpower must focus its resources. If AIDS and global warming, say, are regarded as equivalent national security crises to reducing nuclear arms or stabilizing Russia, then American diplomacy will find its energies and its influence dissipated.
The third step lies in recognizing that the inseparability of economic and foreign policy is here to stay -- even if State Department traditionalists and C.I.A. covert operations types continue to look at trade and globalization as "low diplomacy" compared to the life-and-death struggles of the Cold War.
In fact, Mr. Clinton's lasting imprint on American diplomacy may well be his recognition that preserving the peace and creating a stable global economic system are two sides of the same coin.
"Had we not bailed out Mexico in 1995, I'm not sure we would have been celebrating the emergence of democracy there last week," Mr. Berger argues. He may be overstating the case, but even Mr. Clinton's harshest critics say that Nafta, the administration's first major international initiative, was primarily about assembling a political alliance under the guise of a trade accord.
ON the other hand, the battle over trade within the Democratic party got so intense that the White House dropped its drive to expand Nafta to much of the rest of Latin America. The administration allowed the need to placate labor unions to hinder the United States from exercising its influence.
"If the U.S. is going to use its power over time it's got to be committed and consistent," said Robert Zoellick, a former top official under President Bush and now a top adviser to his son. "The strategy the U.S. applied to Mexico needs to be expanded to the western hemisphere at large."
Commitment also means following through on the boring stuff even after it has fallen far off the front page. Mr. Clinton couldn't stop talking about the need for a "new economic architecture" during the Asian crisis. But as the worst effects faded, so did the talk of lasting solutions.
It was reminiscent of how Mr. Clinton focused like a laser on opening Japan's markets in his first term, threatening sanctions if American carmakers were not given access. Once the American economy took off, Mr. Clinton barely mentioned market opening. Yet American cars are not exactly tying up traffic in Tokyo.
A final requirement for a workable new approach to foreign policy is that it factor in the erosion of national sovereignty -- America's and everybody else's.
When the World Trade Organization rules that the United States cannot subsidize exporters, or block fish from countries that fail to protect sea turtles, someone screams, "Who elected these guys?" The answer is that the United States did, when it pressed harder than any nation to set global rules of behavior, in everything from trade to war crimes.
Paradoxically, as Washington chafes whenever it loses an international dispute, the rest of the world believes the system is rigged entirely to America's advantage.
If for that reason only, to maintain its influence, America must be seen to be sharing power, not hoarding it. And that will require Washington to work in a more subtle and circumspect manner than either Democrats or Republicans are going to like.
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photo (Tony Cenicola for The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (97%); ISRAEL (94%); EGYPT (92%); PALESTINIAN TERRITORY, OCCUPIED (92%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (97%); ISRAEL (94%); EGYPT (92%); PALESTINIAN TERRITORY, OCCUPIED (92%); 

SUBJECT: Terms not available from NYTimes. INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (89%); FOREIGN POLICY (89%); COLD WAR (78%); PEACE PROCESS (78%); US PRESIDENTS (77%); POLITICS (77%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (77%); PRIME MINISTERS (76%); TRADE DEVELOPMENT (75%); ARMS CONTROL & DISARMAMENT (75%); NEWS BRIEFS (74%); NATIONAL SECURITY (73%); EXPORT TRADE (72%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (72%); WORLD WAR II (68%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (68%); JOB CREATION (68%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (68%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (66%); CYBERCRIME (62%); TERRORISM (50%); NARCOTERRORISM (50%); 

PERSON: BILL CLINTON (90%); EHUD BARAK (58%); 

LOAD-DATE: July 9, 2000



225 of 757 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: July 9, 2000

SECTION: Section 4; Page 14; Column 1; Editorial Desk

LENGTH: 810 words

HEADLINE: CAMPAIGN 2000: TODAY -- THE SURPLUS;
Less Money Than Meets the Eye

 BODY:
A trillion-dollar gift from the productive American economy has presented both the presidential candidates and voters with the possibility of addressing a number of competing national problems or political demands. According to revised budget estimates released last month, the government can expect an extra $1.3 trillion in revenue over the next 10 years, bringing the official surplus estimate to an astounding $4.2 trillion.
After the deficit gloom of the 1980's, that number is so huge that it invites Vice President Al Gore and Gov. George W. Bush to engage in a war of promises. Up to a point, that is healthy. A surplus of more than $4 trillion ought to spark debate about options whose price tags have until now scared off all but the most intrepid of politicians. Yet the voters cannot become intoxicated by the numbers to the point of believing that it is possible to have tax relief plus hugely expensive new programs and significant debt reduction all at the same time. The important task remains choosing policy targets wisely. 
 Before allocating this anticipated bonanza, Congress will have to make some critical subtractions. About $2.3 trillion of the $4.2 trillion surplus comes from the Social Security program. Politicians are nearly unanimous that this money should be used to pay off the federal debt. Congress is also moving fast to use $400 billion in Medicare surpluses for the same purpose. Though that does not have any practical effect on the solvency of either program, debt repayment is supported by a bipartisan Congressional majority as a good step for the economy and hence the long-term stability of essential services. So subtract about $2.7 trillion, which leaves a surplus of around $1.5 trillion.
Then there is another factor squeezing down the size of the usable surplus that Mr. Gore and Mr. Bush have to argue over. Budget estimates assume that spending on most existing federal programs outside Social Security and Medicare -- covering everything from scientific research to law enforcement -- will remain unchanged. In fact, reasonable spending growth and Congress's reluctance to let several temporary tax credits expire will eat up $600 billion, according to the Center on Budget and Policy Priorities, a liberal research group. The upshot is that by this reckoning the next president and Congress will have slightly less than $1 trillion of the original $4.2 trillion to pay for new programs or tax cuts.
There will be time later in the campaign for voters and for this page to choose their priorities for the uncommitted surplus. Right now, it is an illuminating exercise to do some price shopping that will show how limited a list that $1 trillion covers. For example, a program to provide universal access to health insurance like that proposed by Bill Bradley during his presidential campaign would probably cost between $600 billion and $800 billion over 10 years. Adding a decent drug benefit to Medicare would cost more than $200 billion over 10 years. These proposals alone would consume nearly the entire surplus, as would closing long-term fiscal imbalances in Social Security and Medicare.
This information helps frame the discussion of tax and spending proposals being put forth by the presidential candidates and by many Congressional candidates, as well. On the Democratic side, Mr. Gore proposes to cut taxes by about $500 billion over 10 years, creating subsidies for college tuition, individual retirement accounts, child care, individual health coverage, nursing-home care, energy conservation, low-wage workers and married couples. He would spend about $250 billion on prescription drugs for Medicare enrollees and about $300 billion for transportation, energy projects, medical coverage for low-income families and education.
Mr. Bush would cut taxes by more than $1 trillion over 10 years. He also proposes to increase defense, health and other domestic spending by more than $200 billion. His plan to divert part of the payroll tax to create private Social Security accounts would eventually draw on general tax revenues by an unknown amount that could run into the hundreds of billions.
In other words, both candidates are advocating programs with differing ideological bases, but with the common feature of exceeding the available surplus. In the early 1990's, Congress conquered the deficit by carefully taming the growth of spending and raising taxes. The current task of managing a burgeoning, though temporary, surplus requires no less care. There are lots of worthwhile objectives. But the debate has to start with an acknowledgment that the expendable surplus is only about a quarter of the $4.2 trillion total. Then comes the task of making the candidates reveal how they would choose among health coverage, education improvements, Medicare reform and tax cuts. 
http://www.nytimes.com

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Editorial

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); 

COMPANY: MEDICARE (54%); 

ORGANIZATION: MEDICARE (54%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%); 

SUBJECT: Terms not available from NYTimes. POLITICAL CANDIDATES (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); BUDGETS (90%); POLITICS (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (90%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); MEDICARE (89%); BUDGET FORECASTS (89%); TAXES & TAXATION (89%); BUDGET PLANNING & MANAGEMENT (89%); TAX RELIEF (88%); TAX LAW (88%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (78%); PUBLIC DEBT (77%); NATIONAL DEBT (76%); HEALTH INSURANCE (74%); LIBERALISM (72%); SCIENCE NEWS (69%); SCIENCE & TECHNOLOGY (69%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (66%); EXPERIMENTATION & RESEARCH (61%); 

PERSON: AL GORE (58%); GEORGE W BUSH (58%); 

LOAD-DATE: July 9, 2000



226 of 757 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: July 9, 2000

SECTION: Section 4; Page 15; Column 6; Editorial Desk

LENGTH: 702 words

HEADLINE: Liberties;
Mutant Master Hits L.A.

BYLINE: By MAUREEN DOWD

DATELINE: WASHINGTON

 BODY:
The Democrats yearn to be manly.
First Al Gore had his alpha coaching. Then Richard Gephardt gave lawmakers warrior lessons, screening clips from the movie "Gladiator" at the Capitol before the recent Medicare clash with Republicans. 
 The House leader might want to show his gang the "X-Men" movie, about superhero mutants who cleverly change color and appearance.
The Democrats' very own Mutant Master is getting ready to show off his latest metamorphosis at the Los Angeles convention. Mr. Gore must reintroduce himself to an electorate already suspicious of his serial reintroductions. It's tricky, because the question is the answer. Who is Al Gore? Al Gore is the man who keeps remaking Al Gore.
The reinventor of government can't stop reinventing. But the national stage is not the place to figure out who you are. Consider Hillary with her 83 hairdos.
The vice president's story arc doesn't exactly track. First, he goes on a monthlong "We're Fat And Happy and Let's Keep the Prosperity Going Tour," trying to get credit for something he actually deserves some credit for. Then, on Friday, at the very end, he retools himself as champion of the little guy, bashing big business -- drug companies.
The Fiery Populist went after the pharmaceutical front group, Citizens for Better Medicare. Oops. Turns out Mr. Gore's message guru, Carter Eskew (who made a fortune on ads for Big Tobacco), pitched the group to handle its TV advertising before he joined the Gore campaign.
Democrats watch Mr. Gore flopping and yearn for consistency.
"I don't care if he says he's an Italian Communist," says one. "I just want him to get something he's comfortable with and believes in, that doesn't come from focus groups, and stop hand-wringing."
The truth about political commitment is that people only get excited about a cause or candidate that stays the same today and tomorrow and the day after.
"Gore struggles to get into the place he wants to be," says the California Democratic strategist Bill Carrick, "while Bush is this Southern-fried-Tom-Dewey-stay-out-of-traffic-don't-say-anything-controversial-run-for-an-hour-in-the-middle-of-the-day-and-I-have-to-get-to-the-ranch-by-the-weekend."
Democrats find themselves in a topsy-turvy world where their issues and their candidates at the Congressional level are stronger than their presidential candidate.
The governor and the vice president seem frozen in a high school tableau of the guy in the back of the room throwing spitballs (as W. used to do at baseball owners' meetings) and the guy up in front turning in the guy in back for throwing spitballs.
Given the choice between the pious smarty-pants and the amiable idler, Americans may prefer the latter -- unless the debates show that his idling has left him grossly unprepared.
Mr. Gore's biggest problem is that people don't like to like him, even when they like him. He comes across as a man who calculates every gesture. He even checked with Mr. Eskew to see if it would look bad if he baby-sat for his grandson instead of joining his wife and daughter at the Million Mom March.
People do like to like W., even when they don't like him. This allows the Texan to behave opportunistically, without seeming as smarmy as his rival. W. gets to toady to the right wing while proclaiming his moderation.
How amazing that Mr. Gore can't simply body surf the rising economic tide. Writing about the demand for luxury goods, The Washington Post reports that orders for yacht charters are up 400 percent. There's a huge back order on Patek Philippe women's bracelet watches, selling for $6,250, and men's gold calendar watches, selling for $26,500.
Yet even Bill Clinton can only muster this about his beloved protege: "It's still more likely than not that he will win."
Former President George Bush told The Times's Frank Bruni on Friday that he thinks his son will prevail, not necessarily because of his charms, but for the same reason the father lost to Mr. Clinton. "I think people kind of like change, like the idea of change from time to time," he said.
The clenched vice president should heed the classy ex-president: Americans enjoy change from time to time. Not moment to moment. 
http://www.nytimes.com

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Op-Ed

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (79%); 

STATE: CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); 

CITY: LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: MEDICARE (84%); 

ORGANIZATION: MEDICARE (84%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: Terms not available from NYTimes. MEDICARE (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (89%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (89%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (78%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (78%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (78%); GOVERNORS (77%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING (71%); FOCUS GROUPS (70%); PHARMACEUTICALS INDUSTRY (67%); TOBACCO INDUSTRY (64%); TELEVISION ADVERTISING (64%); BROADCAST ADVERTISING (64%); TELEVISION INDUSTRY (50%); 

PERSON: AL GORE (91%); 

LOAD-DATE: July 9, 2000



227 of 757 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: July 9, 2000

SECTION: Section 14NJ; Page 15; Column 1; New Jersey Weekly Desk

LENGTH: 186 words

HEADLINE: Newark's Booming Airport Needs to Quiet Down

 BODY:

To the Editor:
The cover article "A Day in the Life of Newark Airport" (July 2) neglects to report on the airport's onerous impact on New Jerseyans living under a cloud of noise pollution. Noise may be ameliorated in a number of ways. First, the Port Authority should support ocean routes, which would reduce or eliminate aircraft noise for over one million citizens. Additionally, two readily available funding sources for noise mitigation have been completely ignored by the Port Authority. These are the Federal Aviation Administration's Part 150 program and the $3 airport passenger facility charge, both of which finance an array of noise reduction strategies at airport facilities across the nation -- with the notable exception of Newark. 
 The airport's continued growth and economic success must be shared as a neighborhood benefit through the development of credible noise abatement programs directed at improving the quality of daily life of New Jersey's residents.
 
PAMELA BARSAM-BROWN
Scotch Plains
 
The writer is executive director of the New Jersey Coalition Against Aircraft Noise. 
http://www.nytimes.com

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Letter

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: NEW JERSEY, USA (94%); 

CITY: NEWARK, NJ, USA (93%); 

COMPANY: FEDERAL AVIATION ADMINISTRATION (55%); 

ORGANIZATION: FEDERAL AVIATION ADMINISTRATION (55%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%); NEW JERSEY, USA (94%); NEWARK, NJ, USA (93%); 

SUBJECT: Terms not available from NYTimes. NOISE POLLUTION (91%); LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); AIRPORTS (90%); AVIATION ADMINISTRATION (88%); CIVIL AVIATION (88%); PORT AUTHORITIES (88%); WRITERS (73%); EXECUTIVES (66%); 

LOAD-DATE: July 9, 2000



228 of 757 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: July 9, 2000

SECTION: Section 1; Page 3; Column 1; Foreign Desk 

LENGTH: 747 words

HEADLINE: Putin Describes an Ill Russia and Prescribes Strong Democracy

BYLINE: By MICHAEL WINES 

DATELINE: MOSCOW, July 8

 BODY:
President Vladimir V. Putin assembled both houses of Parliament and a national television audience today to present his assessment of the state of the nation. In a word, it was forbidding.
After 10 years of independence, he said, Russians have built only "the carcass of a civic society" and have yet to shoulder such basic obligations as obeying laws. A falling birthrate and aging population threaten to make Russia "a senile nation." The economy, which lately has perked up, actually is a house of cards supported by high oil prices. 
 "The growing gap between advanced nations and Russia," Mr. Putin warned, "is pushing us into the group of third world countries."
Naturally, perhaps, Mr. Putin said not much can be remedied until Parliament ratifies his plans to concentrate power in the Kremlin and destroy the barnacled system of regulations, hidden favors and political empire-building that is strangling the economy.
Mr. Putin's 50-minute state-of-Russia speech -- like the American state of the union, now an annual tradition for Kremlin leaders -- was perhaps his most pungent analysis of Russia's problems to date. It may have been most notable, however, for his emphatic and, at some points, seemingly emotional commitment to building a democracy. The Kremlin's heavy-handed treatment of some critics and its sweeping efforts to reassert its rule in the provinces have led some to charge that Mr. Putin is edging the nation into authoritarian rule.
Mr. Putin explicitly dismissed "speculations on the theme of dictatorship and authoritarianism."
"Our position is extremely clear," he said. "It is only a strong, an effective -- if somebody does not like the word 'strong' -- it is only an effective state and a democratic state that is capable of protecting civic, political and economic freedoms. It alone can create conditions for the comfortable life of people and the flourishing of our homeland."
He strongly endorsed the notion of creating permanent political parties "with mass support and solid prestige," like those in Western nations, as well as a system for nominating presidential candidates.
"Strong government has an interest in having strong opponents," he said. "It is only in conditions of political competition that serious dialogue on the development of our state is possible."
He also made special mention of the press, saying that "without a really free mass media, Russian democracy simply will not survive."
"That is why we must guarantee journalists real rather than phony freedom, and create legal and economic conditions in the country for a civilized information business," he said.
Mr. Putin has been repeatedly criticized over the Kremlin's treatment of the press. The government recently claimed the right to license newspapers, and it has exerted strong economic and legal pressure on the owner of Russia's only independent television network.
But the president suggested today that the real threat to the media comes from warring tycoons who control most outlets, saying press freedom "has become a juicy morsel for politicians and major financial groups and a handy tool in the struggle between clans."
Speaking in the vast chamber of the 450-member lower house of Parliament, or Duma, Mr. Putin pounded home the argument that democracy, a thriving economy and a strong state depend on one another.
Most of what he said was certain to please foreign investors, who have begun to trickle back into Russia two years after an economic crash made business for many almost untenable.
The Kremlin has proposed a sheaf of reforms, led by an overhaul of the bewildering tax system, to spur economic development. But today Mr. Putin said those moves will fail unless both Moscow and the provinces embrace democratic principles that give businesses freedom from government interference and guarantee equal application of law.
The address was spent almost wholly on domestic issues. But Mr. Putin reserved a few sentences for thinly veiled jabs at Western critics, even as he asserted that the cold war was over. Among "the grim consequences" of that period, he said, was the doctrine that nations could intervene in other nations' affairs for humanitarian reasons, as NATO forces did in their bombing of Yugoslavia. He also complained that the war in Chechnya had been depicted to outsiders "in a biased and one-sided manner," and said that setting the record straight was important to Russia's reputation and security. 
http://www.nytimes.com

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: RUSSIAN FEDERATION (97%); UNITED STATES (79%); 

CITY: MOSCOW, RUSSIAN FEDERATION (79%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: RUSSIA; RUSSIAN FEDERATION (97%); UNITED STATES (79%); MOSCOW, RUSSIAN FEDERATION (79%); 

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS; POLITICS AND GOVERNMENT; POLITICS AND GOVERNMENT; SOCIAL CONDITIONS AND TRENDS; OIL (PETROLEUM) AND GASOLINE POLITICS (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); TRENDS (89%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (79%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (78%); TELEVISION INDUSTRY (78%); POLITICAL PARTIES (78%); POLITICAL ORGANIZATIONS (77%); POPULATION & DEMOGRAPHICS (76%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (76%); PETROLEUM PRODUCTS (75%); CIVIC & SOCIAL ORGANIZATIONS (72%); AGING TRENDS (71%); BIRTHS & BIRTH RATES (71%); OIL & GAS PRICES (70%); WRITERS (60%); AGING (56%); 

PERSON: PUTIN, VLADIMIR V (PRIME MIN); WINES, MICHAEL VLADIMIR PUTIN (93%); 

LOAD-DATE: July 9, 2000



229 of 757 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: July 9, 2000

SECTION: Section 1; Page 23; Column 2; Metropolitan Desk; Second Front

LENGTH: 1772 words

HEADLINE: Housing Crisis Confounds a Prosperous City;
In New York, Scarcity and High Costs Spur Competing Ideas for a Solution

BYLINE: By BRUCE LAMBERT 

 BODY:
As it enters the new millennium with restored can-do bravado, New York City has cut crime, welfare and taxes and added jobs and surpluses. New office towers are rising. City leaders are dreaming again, planning for a new stock exchange site, a new Pennsylvania Station, baseball stadiums, a train to the plane, even a Second Avenue subway.
More than ever, it seems, this thriving city is a great place to live -- if only you could live here. 
 New Yorkers are suffering in the grip of the worst housing shortage in decades, with soaring prices to match. That verdict is virtually unanimous among business and real estate executives, experts in academia, community leaders, planners, politicians and housing advocates.
Anyone who has tried to move recently knows the problem firsthand. This is the reality of today's market:
*Across the city, one in four households spends more than half its income on rent, the Census Bureau says. Vacancy rates are negligible. Adjusted for inflation, median renter income has increased 3 percent since 1975, while median rent has increased 33 percent. Middle-class people say they feel priced out of the market.
*At the high end, the average cost of Manhattan co-ops and condominiums south of Harlem has broken the $700,000 barrier. Multimillion-dollar deals raise few eyebrows.
*Overcrowding abounds, with families doubled up and immigrants squirreled away in illegal dwellings carved out of attics, basements and garages. The stock of rentals for less than $500 a month has shrunk by 55 percent in eight years.
*At the lower rungs, the inflation-adjusted value of welfare's housing allowance has fallen more than half since 1975. The waiting list for public housing has 130,000 families; the list for rent vouchers has 215,000. On a typical night, shelters take in nearly 5,000 families and 7,000 single people.
*Though demand for housing is rising, driven by population growth, especially immigration, and by more jobs, supply is not keeping pace. From 1981 to 1999, the city grew by 350,000 people but added only 42,000 rental apartments. The era of major construction is over: there is no recent parallel to Lefrak City or MetLife's Parkchester and Stuyvesant Town. From the modern peak of 60,000 new dwellings in 1963, annual production has slowed to a trickle. "We celebrated when we passed the 10,000-unit mark last year, but in truth we should be building 30,000 or 40,000," said Steven Spinola, president of the Real Estate Board of New York.
Although nearly everyone agrees New York has a housing problem, there is no consensus on what to do. "The real question is, what is the remedy?" said Peter D. Salins, who has written and lectured extensively on housing. He has likened the apartment shortage to "a vast game of musical chairs."
Edward S. Hochman, chairman of the city's Rent Guidelines Board, said, "It's grim out there." At a recent meeting, the board heard the voices behind the statistics.
"It used to be that rent was one week's salary, but I'm now dipping into my third week," said Vincenza Furst, 63, a working mother in a $1,200-a-month Greenwich Village apartment. "I was born and bred here, I was married here and I raised my son here, but I may not be able to die here."
Today's shortage is a slow-motion crisis that has been long in the making and getting worse, two new reports conclude.
The Coalition for the Homeless has issued "Housing a Growing City: New York's Bust in Boom Times" by Patrick Markee. The other study, "Homeward Bound: A 21st Century Affordable Housing Agenda for New York," is being prepared for the Century Foundation and City University Graduate Center by Martha E. Stark of Baruch College and Doug Turetsky of United Neighborhood Houses.
"Unfortunately," the coalition says, "New York City enters the new century without a plan to house the next generation of New Yorkers."
For all the pessimism, ideas abound. Those who have them tend to fall into two camps: those who say government should step in, and those who say it is already meddling too much.
 
Government Is the Problem
Free-market proponents like Mr. Salins say New York's complicated rent laws are a root cause and should be abolished, a proposal that tenants' groups oppose.
Other experts focus on cutting building costs. Or they call for streamlining the maze of municipal codes and the cumbersome approval process. Some hope for philanthropic help.
New York's regulations are often called the nation's most complex. "You've got to make it easier to build stuff," said Howard A. Husock, a housing expert at Harvard's Kennedy School of Government. These critics call for simplifying rules on zoning, building, the environment, landmarks and access for the disabled and land review procedures that facilitate not-in-my-backyard resistance. They look approvingly to New Jersey, which has encouraged rehabilitation of old housing, exempting it from new-construction codes.
Construction costs here are also the highest. "My members will build if they can make a profit," said Mr. Spinola, the real estate board president. One academic study made 65 proposals to combat corruption, union rules and restrictive codes.
Many experts insist that the city simply needs to find new places and ways to build, developing industrial zones, for example, allowing higher-density construction and redeveloping brown fields -- land that is polluted, but not with toxic waste -- the long-ignored waterfront, neglected neighborhoods and urban areas outside the city.
"The entire middle class does not have to live in Manhattan south of 96th Street," said Michael H. Schill, director of New York University's real estate and urban policy center.
 
Government Is the Solution
But for all the talk of streamlining government and freeing up the market, many say the toughest hurdle to adequate housing is simply lack of money -- government money. They call for a broad thrust by government, through renewed construction, grants, vouchers, loans and tax breaks, like the deals made for corporate headquarters and the $255 million awarded to relocate the New York Stock Exchange.
Even some free-market advocates like Arthur Zabarkes, a senior fellow at the conservative Manhattan Institute, say government aid, like tax breaks, is vital. "Without public help, I don't think it can be done," he said. Joseph Strasburg, president of the landlords' Rent Stabilization Association, said, "Somebody has got to make up the difference between housing costs and what some people can afford."
Failing to relieve the shortage would be a strategic mistake, many experts say. "There's no question that the long-term success of the city and this region would be seriously hampered," said H. Claude Shostal, president of the nonprofit Regional Plan Association. After polling major companies, State Comptroller H. Carl McCall said last fall, "The scarcity of housing and the high price is driving employers away and keeping new employers from coming."
The president of the New York City Partnership and Chamber of Commerce, Robert R. Kiley, said, "Businesses eager to locate or expand here often go elsewhere and cite the lack of affordable housing." His group has become the city's largest builder of such dwellings.
The city is bumping up against its debt limit and has rival needs like the schools, but housing advocates have their eyes on surpluses at every level. New York would get $337 million if the Federal Housing Administration devoted its $5 billion surplus to new housing, the Association for Neighborhood and Housing Development says.
The Community Service Society wants to revive the pledge of Mayor Edward I. Koch and Gov. Mario M. Cuomo to use hundreds of millions of dollars in Battery Park City revenues for housing.
City and suburban officials have joined tenants to lobby Albany for more housing. The Manhattan borough president, C. Virginia Fields, and the City Council speaker, Peter F. Vallone, have called for a trust fund. Others urge pension fund investments and help from giant foundations like Ford and Rockefeller.
There is no question that government has cut back drastically. Spending by the Federal Department of Housing and Urban Development has been down for years. New York State sponsored 125,000 middle-income Mitchell-Lama apartments through the 1970's, including Co-op City in the Bronx, but none since. Nor has the City Housing Authority built major new projects.
It is a far cry from the 1980's, when legions of homeless people and the hulks of abandoned buildings intruded on the city's conscience, and housing took center stage. Mayor Koch and Governor Cuomo responded with a $5 billion program that provided tens of thousands of apartments.
Then social issues fell out of favor. The public often equated housing programs with "dynamited high-rise hellholes," although New York has well-run public housing that has never needed demolition, said Michael McKee, associate director of the New York State Tenants and Neighbors Coalition.
"The housing crisis is in a new phase," said Jenny Laurie, director of the nonprofit Metropolitan Council on Housing. "Wealthy people are gobbling up apartments, driving rents and prices sky-high. Middle- and low-income tenants are left to battle over the scarce crumbs."
Some say opinions seem to be shifting again. Working with Habitat for Humanity, the Rev. Dr. Thomas K. Tewell of Fifth Avenue Presbyterian Church said that the lack of housing "is something that I believe breaks the heart of God." Archdeacon Michael S. Kendall, the housing chairman of the Commission of Religious Leaders of New York City, said the mayor and the governor had been receptive.
And despite past retrenchment, many modest programs survive. "The city and state have really come around in the last two years," said Donald A. Capoccia, a builder and a founder of the nonprofit New York State Association for Affordable Housing. But he conceded that the efforts were making only dents in the huge need.
Recalling New York's responses to past housing challenges, Lewis Rudin, a developer for 53 years and chairman of the Association for a Better New York, said, "We just need some enlightened, forward-looking political leadership."
It is a point the governor's housing commissioner, Joseph B. Lynch, would not dispute. "Government," he said, "may never again have the opportunity to address the housing crisis as effectively as it can in this era of economic expansion, record surpluses and unprecedented prosperity -- all of which, ironically, have contributed to the overheated housing market."
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photos: New York State sponsored thousands of middle-income apartments like those in Co-op City in the Bronx, going up here in 1968, but such construction has slowed to a trickle. (Pat Burns/The New York Times)(pg. 23); The state's Mitchell-Lama program financed new housing, like Co-op City,through the 1970's, but has built little more since. (Librado Romero/The New York Times)(pg. 28)
 
Chart: "Unaffordable Housing"
New York City's housing supply is not keeping pace with demand.
 
The median rent price in the city continues to rise . . .
Graph shows citywide median rent plus utilities, adjusted for inflation from 1975 to 1999 ranging from $100 to $700
 
. . . and government money for housing is declining
Graph shows average spending on housing using city, federal, and state funds from '86-'89 (Koch admin.), '90-'93 (Dinkins admin.), and '94-00 (Gulliani admin.) ranging from $200 to $800 billion. (Source: Coalition for the Homeless)(pg. 28)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (97%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (97%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%); 

COMPANY: 2ND AVENUE DESIGN (57%); US CENSUS BUREAU (56%); US CENSUS BUREAU (56%); 

ORGANIZATION: US CENSUS BUREAU (56%); US CENSUS BUREAU (56%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK CITY; UNITED STATES (97%); NEW YORK, USA (97%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%); 

SUBJECT: HOUSING; PRICES (FARES, FEES AND RATES); SHORTAGES; PUBLIC HOUSING; RENTING AND LEASING; CONDOMINIUMS; COOPERATIVES REAL ESTATE (91%); COMMERCIAL RENTAL PROPERTY (90%); RESIDENTIAL CO-OWNERSHIP (90%); CITY LIFE (90%); CITIES (90%); CONDOMINIUMS (90%); CITY GOVERNMENT (90%); HOUSING MARKET (89%); REAL ESTATE AGENTS (89%); OFFICE PROPERTY (89%); HOUSING ASSISTANCE (89%); FAMILY (89%); RESIDENTIAL RENTAL PROPERTY (89%); MILLENNIUM (78%); PRICE INCREASES (77%); EXECUTIVES (77%); COMMERCIAL PROPERTY VACANCY RATES (77%); POPULATION GROWTH (77%); RESIDENTIAL COOPERATIVES (75%); RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (75%); RESIDENTIAL CONDOMINIUMS (75%); RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY VACANCY RATES (75%); PRICE CHANGES (75%); PUBLIC HOUSING (75%); MIDDLE INCOME PERSONS (73%); HOUSEHOLD NUMBERS (73%); STOCK EXCHANGES (72%); BASEBALL (72%); STADIUMS & ARENAS (72%); TEMPORARY SHELTERS (70%); CENSUS (69%); HOUSING STARTS (67%); IMMIGRATION (65%); 

PERSON: LAMBERT, BRUCE PETER D SALINS (55%); 

LOAD-DATE: July 9, 2000



230 of 757 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: July 9, 2000

SECTION: Section 1; Page 10; Column 6; National Desk 

LENGTH: 731 words

HEADLINE: Churches Say New Alliance Will Initiate Era of Sharing

BYLINE: By MICHAEL JANOFSKY 

DATELINE: DENVER, July 8

 BODY:
Leaders of the Episcopal Church and the nation's largest Lutheran denomination said that their historic alliance, which was concluded today at the Episcopalians' 73rd general convention, begins an era of ecumenical outreach that could lead them to engage other churches in similar efforts of sharing resources and personnel.
But the leaders also conceded that the alliance, "Called to Common Mission," could play a significant role in helping the churches stem steady declines in membership caused by aging congregations, the appeal of new large churches and the feeling by some that their church no longer serves their needs. 
 The falloff has been especially acute in the Episcopal Church, which in 1998, the last year for which statistics are available, had 2.3 million baptized members, about a third fewer than the 3.6 million in its peak year, 1965. Its partner in the alliance, the Evangelical Lutheran Church in America, has suffered a milder decline, to 5.1 million in 1998 from 5.2 million in 1987, the year that three Lutheran denominations merged to form the current church.
"I wouldn't say the motivation to be enthusiastic about full communion is because of some numerical measure," said Rustin Kimsey, a retired Episcopal bishop from The Dalles, Ore., referring to the accord. "But it will help. We're already strong because of the conversations we've had with the Lutherans. There is always strength in numbers."
The Rev. Lowell G. Almen of Chicago, secretary of the Lutheran denomination, also dismissed any suggestion that the alliance was spurred by falling membership. But he said the alliance could, at the least, help stabilize membership and perhaps, help the churches grow.
"The more primary question is greater effectiveness and witness to the Gospel," Mr. Almen said of the collaboration. "But it may well result in growth and care for God's people throughout our communities."
The alliance between the two churches followed approval by the Lutherans three years ago, the Episcopal House of Bishops on Friday and today's vote by the Episcopal House of Deputies, which was overwhelming, 190 to 23.
It was intended as a way to improve the economies of scale for both denominations. In addition to recognizing similar theologies and liturgies, the alliance provides a way for each church to offer the other its resources in areas of need and to work together on outreach programs.
Mr. Almen said that would be most apparent in communities, as well as on college campuses, where one church might have limited personnel or a lack of facilities.
For Episcopalians, the issue of membership is crucial. The Rev. David Perry of Manhattan, deputy for ecumenical relations, said one of the problems the Episcopal Church had encountered was how to retain young people as members.
"There is the issue of how we have been committed to young people," Mr. Perry said. "We have not always provided a continuous environment for them after Sunday school. When they reach their 20's and 30's, they don't come to church. They may wander back later, but we have not created the atmosphere for them to stay."
A small but growing number of parishes are beginning to address the problem by tailoring services to appeal to young adults. Some are even using rock music.
Another problem has been the growing appeal of large churches, which draw thousands of people to Sunday services. These churches, which tend to attract Christians of all denominations, have played at least some role in the declining memberships of the Episcopalians and Lutherans, although not enough yet, leaders of both churches said, to be of major concern.
Mr. Almen said: "The whole phenomenon of megachurches, from every church leader I've dealt with, in one sense rejoices. Yet they also wonder about the long-term impact of nurturing and grounding people in the faith of the church."
But he and his Episcopal colleagues agreed that the alliance would be a major step toward enhancing the religious experience of church members and by the new collaboration, attracting others in their communities to join them.
"We have a new energy and enthusiasm," Bishop Kimsey said of the alliance with the Lutherans. "The Episcopal Church has broken open to some new ways to look at other communions and ecumenical possibilities by this."
"And there is always," he added, "strength in numbers." 
http://www.nytimes.com

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (65%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (65%); 

COMPANY: EPISCOPAL CHURCH OF AMERICA EPISCOPAL HOUSE (57%); 

ORGANIZATION: EPISCOPAL CHURCH OF AMERICA EPISCOPAL HOUSE (57%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%); NEW YORK, USA (65%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (65%); 

SUBJECT: CHRISTIANS AND CHRISTIANITY; LUTHERAN CHURCHES CHRISTIANS & CHRISTIANITY (99%); RELIGION (99%); PROTESTANTS & PROTESTANTISM (92%); CLERGY & RELIGIOUS (78%); CONFERENCES & CONVENTIONS (72%); APPROVALS (66%); 

PERSON: JANOFSKY, MICHAEL LOWELL G ALMEN (81%); RUSTIN KIMSEY (55%); 

LOAD-DATE: July 9, 2000



231 of 757 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: July 9, 2000

SECTION: Section 4; Page 2; Column 3; Week in Review Desk

LENGTH: 127 words

HEADLINE: JULY 2-8;
Other People's Mail

BYLINE: By SUZANNE DALEY

 BODY:
Is America using a vast surveillance network, known as Echelon, which receives and analyzes satellite communications, to give its corporations a leg up in their business dealings? Washington says no, but a lot of Europeans aren't buying it.
The European Parliament has voted to form a committee to investigate the matter and a French prosecutor has begun a preliminary inquiry. What might become of either inquiry is unclear, but together they testify to Europe's growing wariness of American global power. 
 "Echelon is used by the National Security Agency for strategic and economic gains," Prosecutor Jean-Pierre Dintilhac said. "You cannot make me believe that the information is not passed on to American companies." SUZANNE DALEY
 
 
http://www.nytimes.com

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: EUROPE (92%); UNITED STATES (92%); 

COMPANY: SECURITY AGENCY FENIX AS (57%); EUROPEAN PARLIAMENT (58%); EUROPEAN PARLIAMENT (58%); NATIONAL SECURITY AGENCY (57%); NATIONAL SECURITY AGENCY (57%); 

ORGANIZATION: EUROPEAN PARLIAMENT (58%); EUROPEAN PARLIAMENT (58%); NATIONAL SECURITY AGENCY (57%); NATIONAL SECURITY AGENCY (57%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: EUROPE (92%); UNITED STATES (92%); 

SUBJECT: NO INDEX TERMS FROM NYTIMES NATIONAL SECURITY (86%); NEWS BRIEFS (86%); SPECIAL INVESTIGATIVE FORCES (86%); INVESTIGATIONS (86%); INTELLIGENCE SERVICES (86%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (85%); EUROPEAN UNION (85%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (85%); 

PERSON: SUZANNE DALEY (56%); JEAN-PIERRE DINTILHAC (56%); 

LOAD-DATE: July 9, 2000



232 of 757 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: July 9, 2000

SECTION: Section 7; Page 32; Column 3; Book Review Desk

LENGTH: 972 words

HEADLINE: PAPERBACK BEST SELLERS: July 9, 2000

 BODY:

	 	 	 	 	 		 	 		Weeks	 		 	 	This	On	 		 	 	Week	List	Fiction		 	 	 	 	 	 1	5	HANNIBAL, by Thomas Harris. (Dell, $7.99.) Seven years after his escape, the fiendish psychiatrist Hannibal Lecter is still at large.		 	 	 	 	 	 2J5	WHILE I WAS GONE, by Sue Miller. (Ballantine, $12.95.) A small-town veterinarian, the wife of a minister, begins a flirtation with an old friend.	 		 	 	 	 	 	 3	4	IRISH HEARTS, by Nora Roberts. (Silhouette, $7.50.) Two previously published novels, now in one volume, about Irishwomen's lives in America.		 	 	 	 	 	 4	2	TOM CLANCY'S OP-CENTER: Divide and Conquer, created by Tom Clancy and Steve Pieczenik; written by Jeff Rovin. (Berkley, $7.99.) Traitors try to oust the president.		 	 	 	 	 	 5	4	IRISH REBEL, by Nora Roberts. (Silhouette, $4.50.) The latest novel in a series about Irish families in America.		 	 	 	 	 	 6	16	THE POISONWOOD BIBLE, by Barbara Kingsolver. (HarperPerennial, $14.) Five female characters narrate a novel set in the Belgian Congo during that country's fight for independence.		 	 	 	 	 	 7	2	ACTS OF MALICE, by Perri O'Shaughnessy. (Island, $7.50.) Nina Reilly defends a man accused of murdering his brother.		 	 	 	 	 	 8	3	ECLIPSE BAY, by Jayne Ann Krentz. (Jove, $7.50.) A man and a woman, whose Oregon families are engaged in a longtime feud, fall in love.		 	 	 	 	 	 9	9	THE BLUEST EYE, by Toni Morrison. (Plume, $12.95.) The story of an 11-year-old black girl -- pregnant by her father -- who prays for blue eyes.		 	 	 	 	 	 10	42	HARRY POTTER AND THE SORCERER'S STONE, by J. K. Rowling. (Scholastic, $5.99.) A British boy attends a school for witchcraft.		 	 	 	 	 	 11	3	PEARL COVE, by Elizabeth Lowell. (Avon, $7.50.) Seeking help in solving the mystery of her husband's death, a woman finds romance.		 	 	 	 	 	 12	8	THE SAVING GRACES, by Patricia Gaffney. (HarperTorch, $6.99.) The close friendship that binds four women is put to the test.		 	 	 	 	 	 13	8	RIVER'S END, by Nora Roberts. (Jove, $7.99.) The daughter of a glamorous Hollywood couple must cope with her family's horrifying past.		 	 	 	 	 	 14	10	WE'LL MEET AGAIN, by Mary Higgins Clark. (Pocket, $7.99.) A woman tries to free herself of the suspicion that she murdered her husband.		 	 	 	 	 	 15	5	THE GIRLS' GUIDE TO HUNTING AND FISHING, by Melissa Bank. (Penguin, $12.95.) The love life of a young New York woman.		 	 	 	 	 		 	 		Weeks	 		 	 	This	On	 		 	 	Week	List	Nonfiction		 	 	 	 	 	 1	108	THE PERFECT STORM, by Sebastian Junger. (HarperPerennial, $14; HarperPaperbacks, $6.99.) The story of the northeaster of 1991.		 	 	 	 	 	 2	86	THE SEAT OF THE SOUL, by Gary Zukav. (Fireside/S&S, $12.) How daily activities can be enhanced by feelings of meaning and purpose. (+)		 	 	 	 	 	 3	50	GIRL, INTERRUPTED, by Susanna Kaysen. (Vintage, $12.) A young woman's mental illness.		 	 	 	 	 	 4	3	THE HUNGRY OCEAN, by Linda Greenlaw. (Hyperion, $14.) A sea captain's account of her 30-day swordfishing voyage off the Northeast coast.		 	 	 	 	 	 5	51	A WALK IN THE WOODS, by Bill Bryson. (Broadway, $13.) A journalist finds beauty and humor while hiking the Appalachian Trail.		 	 	 	 	 	 6	57	ANGELA'S ASHES, by Frank McCourt. (Touchstone/S&S, $14 and $7.99.) An Irish-American writer recalls his childhood in Limerick.		 	 	 	 	 	 7	112	 *A CHILD CALLED "IT," by Dave Pelzer. (Health Communications, $9.95.) The autobiography of a man who survived his mother's abuse. (+)		 	 	 	 	 	 8	17	THE ELEGANT UNIVERSE, by Brian Greene. (Vintage, $15.) A presentation of superstring theory.		 	 	 	 	 	 91	63	 *THE LOST BOY, by Dave Pelzer. (Health Communications, $10.95.) The author of "A Child Called 'It' "recalls his life in foster homes. (+)		 	 	 	 	 	 10	5	 *THE FIRST WORLD WAR, by John Keegan. (Vintage, $16.) A military historian recounts the 1914-18 conflict.		 	 	 	 	 	 11	7	 *EVERY MAN A TIGER, by Tom Clancy with Chuck Horner. (Berkley, $16.95.) The novelist and a retired Air Force general examine the gulf war.		 	 	 	 	 	 12	7	THE LEXUS AND THE OLIVE TREE, by Thomas L. Friedman. (Anchor, $15.) A journalist explains the instant electronic global economy.		 	 	 	 	 	 13	64	 *GUNS, GERMS, AND STEEl, by Jared Diamond. (Norton, $14.95.) A physiologist attributes Western dominance to geography. (+)		 	 	 	 	 	 14	2	 *I'M A STRANGER HERE MYSELF, by Bill Bryson. (Broadway, $14.) What it's like to return to the United States after living abroad.		 	 	 	 	 	 15	8	RAISING CAIN, by Dan Kindlon and Michael Thompson with Teresa Barker. (Living Planet/ Ballantine, $14.) The emotional life of boys.		 	 	 	 	 	 16	42	 *THE PROFESSOR AND THE MADMAN, by Simon Winchester. (HarperPerennial, $13.) How a murderer helped compile the O.E.D.		 	 	 	 	 		 	 		Weeks	 		 	 	This	On	 		 	 	Week	List	Advice, How-to and Miscellaneous		 	 	 	 	 	 1	10	CHICKEN SOUP FOR THE TEENAGE SOUL III, compiled by Jack Canfield, Mark Victor Hansen and Kimberly Kirberger. (Health Communications, $12.95.) Inspirational stories. (+)		 	 	 	 	 	 2	195	DR. ATKINS' NEW DIET REVOLUTION, by Robert C. Atkins. (Avon, $14 and $6.99.) Ways to lose weight and achieve a healthy body. (+)		 	 	 	 	 	 3	9	RICH DAD, POOR DAD, by Robert T. Kiyosaki with Sharon L. Lechter. (Warner, $15.95.) Teaching one's children how to get rich and stay rich.		 	 	 	 	 	 4	3	TAKE TIME FOR YOUR LIFE, by Cheryl Richardson. (Broadway, $13.) A seven-step program for enhancing one's social, financial and spiritual well-being. (+)	
 
Rankings reflect sales, for the week ending June 24, at almost 4,000 bookstores plus wholesalers serving 60,000 other retailers, statistically weighted to represent all such outlets. An asterisk (*) indicates that a book's sales are barely distinguishable from those of the book above. A dagger (+)indicates that some stores received bulk orders. Expanded rankings are available at The New York Times on the Web: www.nytimes.com/books. 
http://www.nytimes.com

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: List

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (91%); CONGO, THE DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC OF THE (79%); IRELAND (79%); BELGIUM (55%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (91%); CONGO, THE DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC OF THE (79%); IRELAND (79%); BELGIUM (55%); 

SUBJECT: NO INDEX TERMS BOOK REVIEWS (90%); NOVELS & SHORT STORIES (90%); BESTSELLERS (78%); MURDER (69%); SEPARATISM & SECESSION (51%); 

PERSON: J K ROWLING (58%); 

LOAD-DATE: July 9, 2000



233 of 757 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: July 9, 2000
Correction Appended

SECTION: Section 2;Page 1;Column 1;Arts and Leisure Desk

LENGTH: 2039 words

HEADLINE: Placing the Timeless Vermeer In the Chaos of His Time

BYLINE: By ALAN RIDING

DATELINE: AMSTERDAM

 BODY:
IF any old master exudes a singular detachment from the world, both this one and the next, surely it is Vermeer: not for him were great tableaus inspired by the Bible or Greek mythology, or portraits of monarchs or emperors, or even oils of the powerful Dutch burghers of his day. Rather, to judge by his 30 or so surviving paintings, Vermeer preferred to express his fascination with color and light in domestic scenes of extraordinary intimacy, with at most a letter, being read or written, suggesting a world beyond the window.
In other words, it would take a mighty dose of imagination to turn Johannes Vermeer into the stuff of dramatic opera. 
 Peter Greenaway, the experimental British movie director, and Louis Andriessen, the Minimalist Dutch composer, have taken up the challenge. Focusing on two weeks in May 1672 when Vermeer made a rare trip away from his home in Delft to The Hague, they surmise that he was kept abreast of family news by letters from his wife, mother-in-law and model. They also presume that, while in The Hague, he sensed the crisis gripping the Dutch Republic as it prepared to breach the country's dikes to hold off invasion by France. By confronting Vermeer's domestic tranquility with the turbulence of his times, then, Mr. Greenaway and Mr. Andriessen found something to work with.
The resulting 100-minute opera, "Writing to Vermeer," first presented by the Netherlands Opera in Amsterdam's Muziektheater in December, will have its American premiere at the New York State Theater on Tuesday when it opens Lincoln Center Festival 2000. The festival, now in its fifth year, will offer 108 performances of 29 musical, theatrical, dance and other events through July 30, including three additional performances of "Writing to Vermeer" on July 13, 14 and 15. A separate program, Peter Greenaway on Screen, is also showing a handful of his best-known movies, including "The Cook, the Thief, His Wife and Her Lover," through Wednesday at Makor on West 67th Street.
The new opera, which might be called a work for music, screen and water, is above all a feast for the eyes, no novelty perhaps for Mr. Greenaway, whose recent movies include such visual fantasies as "Prospero's Books," "The Pillow Book" and "8 1/2 Women." Indeed, in 1994, in his first operatic collaboration with Mr. Andriessen, "Rosa: A Horse Drama" (renamed "Rosa: The Death of a Composer" in a recent recording released by Nonesuch Records), Mr. Greenaway concocted an equally bizarre stage-and-screen spectacle around the story of a composer of music for Westerns who falls in love with his horse.
"Writing to Vermeer," which was generally well received by Dutch and other European critics, also began with a visual inspiration, specifically when Mr. Greenaway, known for his fascination with the 17th century, visited the Vermeer retrospective in The Hague in 1996. Once again intrigued by the beguiling and timeless mood of the paintings, he came up with the idea for a musical stage work built around 18 fictional letters -- six from each of the women in the artist's life -- sent to Vermeer during his brief absence from home, a work initially conceived as "an opera without drama," a chamber piece on the same scale as the paintings.
"I then suggested that it might be possible to make the piece more large-scale while still retaining a sense of intimacy," Mr. Andriessen, 61, explained in the production's program notes. "We could provide 'windows' that break into the domesticity and serenity of Vermeer's home life and thus allow the viewer to see what was really going on in the world at the time."
FOR the Dutch, at least, 1672 was a tumultuous year. A century of prosperity had enabled the United Provinces, as the Dutch republic was then known, to shake off Spanish rule and emerge as an international naval and trading power. But the republic's elder statesman, Johan de Witt, and his brother, Cornelius, had just been lynched by a mob in The Hague for trying to negotiate peace with the French invaders. And if the breaching of the dikes seemed like a military stroke of genius, it brought on economic disaster. For many historians, 1672 marked the end of the Dutch Golden Age.
To add still more drama, the opera uses large screens, placed behind and at times on the stage, to remind viewers of traumatic moments from earlier years, notably the crash of the speculative tulip market, the gunpowder explosion that destroyed a good part of Delft and religious riots in many Dutch cities. Just as the "windows" bring in a world far more disturbing than anything that the painter chose to record, the staging and music of "Writing to Vermeer" provide the drama absent in the libretto.
Mr. Greenaway's fascination with blood, apparent in "Rosa: A Horse Drama" and its grisly abattoir scenes, now leads him to cover performers with the blood of the De Witt brothers. Saskia Boddeke, who directed the production with Mr. Greenaway and did much of the actual staging, in turn displays a typical Dutch interest in water and dikes: she places the sloping stage above a pool of water, water runs down the stage and it also buckets down from above.
There are more domestic liquids, too: the ink of the letters to Vermeer (they frequently appear on screen as they are being written); the varnish accidentally drunk by one of Vermeer's 10 children; and the milk poured by a kitchen maid in a momentary tableau vivant of "The Milkmaid," one of Vermeer's most loved paintings (and naturally, many of the costumes designed by Emi Wada that also mirror Vermeer oils). Put differently, a lot of visual distraction is cooked up onstage.
As in Amsterdam, Catherina Bolnes, Vermeer's doting wife, will be sung in New York by Susan Narucki; Maria Thins, his mother-in-law, by Susan Bickley; and Saskia de Vries, his model, by Barbara Hannigan. The Asko and Schonberg Ensembles, two Dutch contemporary music groups, will be conducted by Reinbert de Leeuw, himself chief conductor of the Schonberg Ensemble.
The libretto, written in English and presented in New York with English supertitles, is divided into six scenes (without intermission) and comprises nothing more than the six letters sung by each of the three soprano leads, along with a few asides by two children onstage and a six-woman chorus in the orchestra pit. No male voices are heard and Vermeer himself replies to none of the letters.
The letters, chatty in tone, offer news, gossip and loving doses of nostalgia for the absent painter. The biggest development is perhaps word that Saskia (herself a character invented by Mr. Greenaway) has been summoned home by her father, who wants to see her married, so her letters are sent from Dordrecht. Writing from Delft, Catherina jokes saucily about Saskia's "kissable lips" ("And I know you have thought the same"), but also reports with alarm that "Cornelia has swallowed varnish." Maria, Vermeer's mother-in-law, flirts and flatters ("You see, no sooner you are away than we want you back").
With images of familiar Vermeer paintings appearing on screens, the letters also include such pointed references to Vermeer the artist as: "The way you narrow your eyes when you stare so hard into the light" (Catherina) and "You paint us all writing so often -- we get into the habit and cannot stop" (Maria) and "I sit here in the sunlight from the window" (Saskia).
"The letters have been conceived to infer the possibility of a supposed domestic idyll," Mr. Greenaway writes in the program. "In the later Vermeers, from the evidence of the paintings to be used in the opera, the women sit and talk, play music, weigh pearls, try on a pearly necklace, pour milk, crochet lace, write and read letters. They are treated with dignity. There is no adverse critical perspective, no attempt to sexually objectify the women, no attempt to titillate the women for the male gaze."
To the central trio of women, Ms. Boddeke has added a dozen more, both to people the stage and to respond as a choreographic ensemble to the disturbing news reaching the household. More puzzlingly, she has also created three versions of Catherina, Maria and Saskia, all dressed alike, although only one of each sings. But since all the singers wear hidden head-microphones, the result is that the audience cannot always identify which character is actually singing on a crowded stage.
"It wasn't my idea," Mr. Andriessen said, "and I don't really like it. But Saskia wanted to have the singers running around the stage, so you needed the head mikes. It also made it easier to integrate the pre-recorded music."
Mr. Andriessen has incorporated excerpts of electronic music composed and prerecorded by Michael van der Aa to symbolize moments when the real world disrupts the "domestic idyll." While Stravinskian undertones typical of Mr. Andriessen's work often surface, his own score for "Writing to Vermeer" is also full of conscious references to other composers: he said he borrowed some musical structures from John Cage's "Six Melodies" for violin and piano and his "Sixteen Dances" and he adopted some melodies from a work by the 17th-century Dutch composer Jan Pieterszoon Sweelinck.
There are also hidden influences. "Although I do not think it is audibly perceptible from the music," Mr. Andriessen said, "I did often think about Ravel when I was writing this opera. He is the best example if you are striving to dress simple ideas in a beautiful and refined way. But by far the most important motivation for writing the music in the way I did was my love for Vermeer's paintings. That is what it is all about, and -- if you do your very best -- then perhaps you can succeed in creating something, albeit an approximation, that is just as beautiful as the paintings."
Yet, no doubt frustratingly for Mr. Andriessen, critical reaction to "Writing to Vermeer" to date has tended to depend on whether the reviewer loves or hates Mr. Greenaway's work. Just as Mr. Greenaway's movies provoke sharply contradictory responses, the opera drew sharp criticism from some European critics, notably Andrew Clark of The Financial Times of London, who complained about "voices disembodied by amplification."
"On top of that," he wrote, "Greenaway can't resist illustrating every line of text with repetitive film footage and choreographic routines, all thrown together in a sprawling jumble. There's no sense of individual character, no development from one scene to the next. What 'Writing to Vermeer' amounts to is a very expensive and very tedious charade."
Still, Dutch newspaper critics did single out Mr. Andriessen's "tender and quite lyrical music," as Erik Voermans put it in Parool. In general, they also praised the production, with Kasper Jansen in NRC Handelsblad speaking of its "extraordinarily beautiful and occasional images of old Dutch life." Roland DeBeer, in Volkskrant, described the music as "masterful" but noted that "for spectators without a diploma in art history, it was hard to identify all the various characters as they danced, sat down, read and wrote, hunted around, blew out candles and played the harpsichord."
And for some British critics, everything seemed quite perfect. "Greenaway creates continuous magic on the operatic stage," Adrian Mourby wrote in The Independent of London. And in The Guardian, Andrew Clements, who loved "Rosa: A Horse Drama," considered the new opera "a far more substantial achievement." And he added: "What is most impressive is the perfect integration of all the elements in the work: how Greenaway has been able to carry over so much of his cinematic technique into his stage pictures; how Andriessen's music fleshes out the characterizations; and how everything is superbly realized in the theater."
The result is to throw light, albeit speculative light, on the mysterious figure of Vermeer. From his paintings, it is hard to get a sense of the man, yet here he is brought to life by the women who knew and loved him. There is no social or political reference in his work, yet this opera argues persuasively that he painted his "domestic idylls" as a response to agitated times. In fact, in the end, he does not have to appear onstage: he is ever present anyway.
 
http://www.nytimes.com

CORRECTION-DATE: July 16, 2000, Sunday

 CORRECTION:
An article on July 9 about Peter Greenaway's opera "Writing to Vermeer" at Lincoln Center Festival 2000 misidentified the singer in the role of Maria Thins, Vermeer's mother-in-law. It is Kathryn Harries, not Susan Bickley. A music listing misidentified the director of the production. It is directed by Saskia Boddeke and Mr. Greenaway, not Robert Wilson.

GRAPHIC: Photos: A scene from the Netherlands Opera production of "Writing to Vermeer," by Peter Greenaway and the Dutch Minimalist composer Louis Andriessen. The work will open Lincoln Center Festival 2000 on Tuesday. (Stephanie Berger for The New York Times)(pg. 1); From the left, the conductor of "Writing to Vermeer," Reinbert de Leeuw, Peter Greenaway and the composer Louis Andriessen. (Hans van den Bogaard/The Netherlands Opera)(pg. 22)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

LEGISLATION: 106 S. 10 HEALTH PROTECTION AND ASSISTANCE FOR OLDER AMERICANS ACT (55%); 

COUNTRY: NETHERLANDS (92%); UNITED STATES (68%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (68%); 

CITY: AMSTERDAM, NETHERLANDS (92%); THE HAGUE, NETHERLANDS (73%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: NETHERLANDS (92%); UNITED STATES (68%); NEW YORK, USA (68%); AMSTERDAM, NETHERLANDS (92%); THE HAGUE, NETHERLANDS (73%); 

SUBJECT: Terms not available from NYTimes. from NYTimes. MUSIC COMPOSITION (89%); OPERA (88%); MUSIC (88%); FESTIVALS (86%); PAINTING (77%); FILM GENRES (74%); MYTHOLOGY (72%); MOVIE INDUSTRY (69%); FILM DIRECTORS (69%); HORSES (67%); THEATER (54%); 

PERSON: JOHANNES VERMEER (96%); PETER GREENAWAY (90%); LOUIS ANDRIESSEN (66%); 

LOAD-DATE: July 9, 2000



234 of 757 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: July 9, 2000
Correction Appended

SECTION: Section 3; Page 1; Column 2; Money and Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 1960 words

HEADLINE: A Walk on the Wild Side Stirs the Shoe Industry

BYLINE: By LESLIE KAUFMAN 

 BODY:
FOR shoe seismologists, the fourth-floor women's shoe department at Saks Fifth Avenue in Manhattan is a prime place to detect early tremors.
To please its demanding, moneyed clientele, Saks specializes in delivering the newest, comeliest creations from Spain and Italy before other retailers do. But while the department is nearly always chock-full of well-pedicured women, they are arguably not its most ardent clientele. 
 The capacious salon is an important hunting ground for trend-spotters -- the stylists from mass-market shoe designers who need to know what will soon be the retail rage from Denver to Dubuque.
And last February, Saks sent off powerful shock waves. The store's shelves were stocked with purple paisley-print wooden wedges, tiger-striped thongs in neon jungle greens and gold-mesh pumps with laminated gold heels. Imagine the types of shoes that Jerry Garcia might have designed in the throes of a Grateful Dead concert and you get the idea.
Within months, shoes at other retailers and on feet everywhere were equally dazzling. The chunky black pump that had been the standby for everything from pants suits to summer minis was looking a little too chunky. Instead, cool mavens were wearing gingham print open-toed pumps in the office, multicolored embroidered and beaded slides or suede moccasin-sneaker hybrids in the park and on the street, and python-print sandals with dizzying come-hither heels as soon as the sun went down.
This sensory attack was not just the fashion indulgence of a few wayward designers; it was a coordinated industry assault from merchants like Bloomingdale's and design houses like Steve Madden and Via Spiga. Despite the overall boom in consumer spending, shoe sales have grown at a minuscule 1.8 percent a year for the last decade, according to Footwear Market Insights, an industry research organization based in Nashville. That is in keeping with historical growth going back to the 1940's, but disappointing in comparison with the 1980's, when, fueled by the athletic craze, shoe consumption jumped about 6 percent a year.
So the footwear industry had to tackle a problem that now and then plagues consumer industries from clothes to cars: When cash registers stop ringing, how do you entice consumers to go out and buy more?
The answer, in a word, was revolution, not evolution.
Inspired by current psychedelic clothing styles and able to exploit new technologies that easily allow fancy embellishments like beading, shoemakers are dreaming up fantasy styles that have never been seen before. And they hope that their exotic new confections will re-ignite consumer interest with a passion.
The changes affect women's fashion shoes at all price levels. Some children's shoes and even some men's footwear, usually very conservative, are getting an infusion of shade and attitude, too. (Even the staid Brooks Brothers is selling slide-on sneakers in nubuck for men with style acumen.)
"The industry has been in a rut," sighed Fawn Evenson, president of the Footwear Industries of America, a trade group. "All that you see out there is a desperate attempt to change that."
Going for a bit of brightness and whimsy sounds obvious enough -- even Apple Computer scored big when it thought to market its wares in shades brighter than beige -- but it also carries risk. Business history is replete with newfangled fashions and products that consumers refused to buy (remember the maxi-skirt?), and retailers and manufacturers alike must walk a fine line between attracting and alienating customers.
For the shoe industry, the move is a surprisingly bold experiment. Over most of the last decade, women seemed to want to buy only one thing: black. Or, more specifically, Ms. Evenson said, "black-leather, square-toed, fat-heeled."
About 362 million pairs of women's dress and casual shoes were sold at retail last year, according to Footwear Market Insights, and roughly 85 percent of them were black or brown, according to Mike Kormos, the organization's president.
Bill Boettge, president of the National Shoe Retailers Association, the trade group of the independent retailers, agreed. "We got into a black key that was just incredible," Mr. Boettge said. "The first five colors were black, black, black, black and black."
That preference struck fear into the hearts of manufacturers and retailers alike: The more that footwear became separated from the rest of fashion, the less likely that women would feel compelled to refill their shoe closets with any frequency. "You can't keep selling black dumb shoes, when women already have seven pairs in their closet," Ms. Evenson said.
So now the bet is whether season-shifting colors and the latest decorations can bring out the average shopper's inner Imelda Marcos.
 
The Fashion Connection
Changing fashions, of course, got shoe designers into the color bind in the first place. For a long time, many American women obeyed the fashion dictum to coordinate the color of their shoes with that of their clothing. A turquoise sundress required turquoise slingbacks, and a red suit called for power red pumps.
But sometime in the 1990's, the New York-centric affinity for black and neutral outfits became the uniform for women elsewhere. Some trace the trend to the rise of the designer Kenneth Cole, whose pared-back urbanite look has been a major influence for the last five years. Whatever the reason, black, once strictly for winter and evening wear, suddenly became ubiquitous. Even in the South, the signature, post-Memorial day white pumps went the way of hand-churned ice cream.
But what sartorial caprice can take away, it can return as well. And lately the neutral-shade monopoly has been overthrown. Janet Moran, vice president and divisional merchandise manager for shoes at Saks, thinks she can place her finger on the moment when things went wild. "It goes back to the Gucci runway collection for the spring, 1999," she said. "Tom Ford did the beaded jeans and Hawaiian prints. He did it at his level and then everyone followed."
By this year, ready-to-wear collections were ablaze in colors (magenta, mandarin, lime), patterns, embellishments (beads, feather, embroidery) and novelty materials (both real and faux python and crocodile).
With their pent-up creative juices suddenly freed, the most influential shoe designers ferociously began offering their own interpretations of the season's biggest trends. There was color -- as in suede moccasins by J. P. Todd in a power-pastel rainbow of lilac, burnt orange and lemon frappe. There was decoration, as in Dolce & Gabbana's romantic-as-a-spring-picnic-in-the-Tuscan-hills slides, in white satin, embroidered with strawberries on the vine. (The seeds and leaves on the strawberries are actually tiny black and green beads.) And there was novelty, most influentially represented by the understated round-toe 1940's-style dance pumps in ostrich by Prada.
"Designers wanted to do something pretty and this year it was quite fun," said Stuart Weitzman, whose privately owned label is a department store mainstay.
Department stores, which increasingly rely on shoes and accessories as a profit center, have followed the designers' leads and bet big on out-there offerings. Nordstrom, which specializes in carrying a particularly large shoe selection, estimates that it had three times more color on its sales floor this spring than a year ago.
 
Technological Triumph
Fashion is not the only influence on shoe offerings. Some of this year's most whimsical creations would not have been available in the mass market if not for new technologies.
New techniques let shoemakers enamel heels in the same durable paints that carmakers like Mercedes-Benz use to coat their vehicles. Titanium fillers allow heels to be sculpted into the most improbable shapes and heights, while sustaining strength. One of Mr. Weitzman's popular evening designs has the foot-coddling portion of the shoe perched on a rhinestone-studded, pyramid heel that narrows to a tiny pinpoint beneath the foot.
"It is like an optical illusion," he said. "We definitely could not have made that five years ago."
Until recently, decorations like multithread embroidery had to be done mostly by skilled artisans, meaning that the process was impractical for shoes priced below $100.
Now there are all sorts of automated machines that make these embellishments doable at $70 retail, not $250. And because the new machines, unlike artisans, will work in any country, they let manufacturers shift even more production to places like China, where the remainder of the labor can be done at much lower cost.
Because the savings in labor costs are mostly passed on to the consumer, profit margins are no greater on these shoes than on unadorned Mary Janes. Companies stand to make big money only on big volume.
Still, the advantage of the machines is not only that they can spangle and bead clothing and footwear, but that they are also doing a really good job of it. The factories, for example, work with the same nylon cord used by commercial fisherman to catch 60-pound tuna. That solves one age-old footwear problem: decorations can now be fastened to stay on past the first week of wear.
Finally, there is improved leather imprinting that makes crocodile and python skins real enough to fool a taxidermist.
Technology has also aided in making the mass market as swiftly fashion-responsive as the upper echelons of the shoe business have long been, but in a way that dismays high-end shoemakers: it also greatly speeds the copying of their designs.
Trend-spotters for an American design house shopping in Paris "can take a digitized picture of a shoe they like, and it can be beamed to a factory in China within an hour," said Mr. Boettge, of the shoe retailer association.
"The factory can then make a sample, send it by FedEx back to the company's office in Boston within 36 to 48 hours," he added. "They can then decide to put it into production for the U.S. market, with a total turnaround of less than two months."
This season, there are plenty of examples that prove his point. "We've had two shoes from Prada, one in silk linen, the other denim-colored, that we copied for the U.S. market," said Alan Abbott, director of sales and marketing at Majilite, a leading fabric provider for shoes and handbags, based in Lowell, Mass. "It takes no longer than two months. Leathers can be done in two weeks. We are extremely proficient."
 
The Marketplace Test
So with the shoe industry casting out new lines, the question is: Are women responding to the bait? Retailers say their gamble has been rewarded. "Our customers have strongly embraced" the new patterns, said Jack Minuk, Nordstrom's vice president for shoes.
Ms. Moran at Saks agreed, adding that sales in her shoe departments were "outpacing sales in the rest of the store."
NPD, a market research firm based in Port Washington, N.Y., that tracks shoe sales in department stores only, says that in the first quarter of this year, women's shoe sales rose 10 percent, even as the sales percentage of black shoes declined by a little under a point. Meanwhile, the number of pairs sold with animal print patterns increased sixfold and the number with platform heels rose 70 percent, NPD said.
But Mr. Boettge, who represents the independent shoe sellers, says he is disappointed. "It has helped, but it hasn't ignited the market," he said. "People are buying, but they are not throwing out their old wardrobe."
Which is why merchants expect that next season will be even wilder: thigh-high red python boots, open-backed slides for winter and platform heels towering above 6 inches. Dream on, shoe designers, dream on.
 
http://www.nytimes.com

CORRECTION-DATE: July 16, 2000, Sunday

 CORRECTION:
An article last Sunday about new designs in the women's shoe industry misspelled the brand name of suede moccasins that were listed as an example of the trends. It is J. P. Tod's, not Todd.
 

GRAPHIC: Photos: A window shopper eyes a pair of rhinestone cowgirl pumps at the Stuart Weitzman store on Madison Avenue. (Carol Halebian for The New York Times)(pg. 8); (Photographs by Nancy Siesel/The New York Times and Barbara Alper for The New York Times)(pg. 1)
 
Graph: "The Shoe Market Is Growing Slowly..."
Total footwear market size.
 
...And Taking Smaller Bites From Wallets
Footwear as a percentage of total personal consumption expenditures.
 
(Sources: Footwear Market Insights; Footwear Industries of America; Bureau of Economic Analysis)(pg. 8)
 
Chart: "From Classy to Sassy"
As distinct as today's shoes are, some iconic styles of the 20th century inspired their look.
 
Romantic
DESIGNER -- Pietro Yantorny
INTRODUCED -- 1920's
Romantic reinterpretation of an 18th-century shoe. Adorned with antique textiles.
 
Platform sling
DESIGNER -- American (unknown)
INTRODUCED -- 1940's
A raised sole and high heel. Very popular then with Hollywood stars and Britain's Queen Elizabeth, now the Queen Mother.
 
High-heeled pump
DESIGNER -- Salvatore Ferragamo
INTRODUCED -- 1955
One of the most classic designs of the 20th century.
 
Two-tone pump
DESIGNER -- Raymond Massaro for Chanel
INTRODUCED -- 1957
Flat or high heel. Coco Chanel's 1920's shoe was reintroduced in the 1950's, becoming a status symbol that has been popular ever since.
 
Pilgrim pump
DESIGNER -- Roger Vivier
INTRODUCED -- 1960's
Ornamented buckle with thick heel. Popularized by Yves Saint Laurent in the movie Belle de Jour. It was favored by Jackie Onassis.
 
Go-go boot
DESIGNER -- Andre Courreges
INTRODUCED -- 1964
Low-heeled, medium-high boots made of white plastic or leather with sleek futuristic look.
 
(Sources: The Costume Institute at the Metropolitan Museum of Art; Shoesby Linda O'Keeffe)(pg. 8)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: SHOO (NASDAQ) (90%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS448210 SHOE STORES (90%); NAICS316210 FOOTWEAR MANUFACTURING (90%); SIC5661 SHOE STORES (90%); SIC3144 WOMEN'S FOOTWEAR EX. ATHLETIC (90%); NAICS452111 DEPARTMENT STORES (EXCEPT DISCOUNT DEPARTMENT STORES) (58%); SIC5311 DEPARTMENT STORES (58%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); SPAIN (73%); UNITED KINGDOM (64%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (92%); TENNESSEE, USA (79%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%); 

COMPANY: STEVEN MADDEN LTD (90%); SAKS FIFTH AVENUE ENTERPRISES (58%); METROPOLITAN MUSEUM OF ART (59%); FOOTWEAR INDUSTRIES OF AMERICA (59%); FOOTWEAR INDUSTRIES OF AMERICA (59%); METROPOLITAN MUSEUM OF ART (59%); 

ORGANIZATION: METROPOLITAN MUSEUM OF ART (59%); FOOTWEAR INDUSTRIES OF AMERICA (59%); FOOTWEAR INDUSTRIES OF AMERICA (59%); METROPOLITAN MUSEUM OF ART (59%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%); SPAIN (73%); UNITED KINGDOM (64%); NEW YORK, USA (92%); TENNESSEE, USA (79%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%); 

SUBJECT: SHOES AND BOOTS; SALES; INDUSTRY PROFILES; WOMEN SHOE STORES (90%); FOOTWEAR (90%); RETAILERS (90%); FASHION & APPAREL (89%); GEOLOGY & GEOPHYSICS (78%); FASHION DESIGNERS (75%); FASHION ACCESSORIES (75%); FASHION DESIGN (75%); TRENDS (75%); BRITISH MONARCHS (74%); 

PERSON: ELIZABETH II, QUEEN OF THE UNITED KINGDOM (74%); 

LOAD-DATE: July 9, 2000



235 of 757 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: July 9, 2000
Correction Appended

SECTION: Section 11; Page 5; Column 2; Real Estate Desk 

LENGTH: 1380 words

HEADLINE: If You're Thinking of Living In/Bedford Park;
Stable, Convenient and Committed

BYLINE: By MAGGIE GARB 

 BODY:
TWENTY-FIVE years ago, the future of Bedford Park, a tiny neighborhood in the north Bronx, looked bleak. Farther south, whole neighborhoods were plagued by drugs, abandoned buildings and trash-strewn vacant lots. And it seemed to many observers that it was just a matter of time before Bedford Park would face a similar fate.
That did not happen. Instead, Bedford Park residents formed community organizations to fight for better city services, to pressure landlords to sell or renovate buildings, to improve neighborhood schools and, as many like to say, "to just get to know our neighbors." 
 "People said 25 years ago that the neighborhood wouldn't last," said Barbara Stronczer, the president of the Bedford Mosholu Community Organization, which will celebrate its 25th anniversary next month. "They thought there was this syndrome of the South Bronx moving north."
"We had lots of battles and lots of meetings," she added. "We are a more diverse and strong neighborhood today."
Some attribute the neighborhood's stability to its location. Tucked between the New York Botanical Garden and the Herbert H. Lehman College campus, the neighborhood is about a half hour's subway ride from Midtown Manhattan. The Metro-North train station near Webster Avenue along with a handful of major highways nearby provide residents with quick access to jobs and entertainment in Westchester, Queens and New Jersey. Both the botanical garden and the college offer various educational programs and entertainment for children and adults.
The tree-lined Mosholu Parkway snakes along Bedford Park's northern border, and the 1,122-acre Van Cortlandt Park lies just beyond its northwest corner. There is some debate about the neighborhood's southern border, but most people agree that it is 198th or 196th Street.
"We have beautiful parks, excellent transportation and affordable housing," Ms. Stronczer said. "With all that, there didn't seem to be any reason why this neighborhood should fall apart."
Despite the benefits of its location, most residents credit church groups and longtime residents for preserving the neighborhood. "Community groups formed all across the northwest Bronx at a critical time, and it had a snowballing effect," said John M. Reilly, who grew up in Bedford Park and returned from college in the 70's, when the neighborhood seemed bent on self-destruction. Determined to help turn the community around, Mr. Reilly joined a tenant organizing campaign.
A FEW years later, they formed the Fordham Bedford Housing Corporation, a nonprofit community development and property management organization that owns and manages more than 70 apartment buildings across the northwest Bronx.
Mr. Reilly is the organization's executive director. He and his wife, Lois Harr, an adjunct professor at Manhattan College, are raising their two daughters in the Queen Anne cottage where his father grew up.
"Bedford Park never had a serious problem with abandonment, but there was a lot of fear," Mr. Reilly said. "A lot of people worked very hard to keep their buildings up and ultimately restore confidence in the neighborhood."
That work paid off as property values stabilized in the 80's and began to climb in recent years. One-family houses went up 25 percent to 30 percent in the last 10 years.
Many of the old Art Deco buildings along the Grand Concourse and Mosholu Parkway were converted to co-ops in the late 80's. One- and two-bedroom co-ops with hardwood floors, nine-foot ceilings and crown molding are priced from $50,000 to $90,000, said Joel Fishman, a real-estate developer who is an owner of JTF Management in the Bronx.
"They are selling quickly," he said. "A two-bedroom will be on the market for about two days."
Rents are rising, but a two-bedroom apartment can still be found for $700 to $950 a month. One-bedrooms and studios run from $500 to $700, depending on the condition of the building and its location. Farther north in the neighborhood, housing prices are slightly higher, Mr. Fishman said.
The neighborhood's hilly side streets are lined with 80- to-100-year-old frame houses. Many have been subdivided into two or three apartments. One-family houses sell for $185,000 to $200,000, and two- and three-family houses for $190,000 to $220,000, said Joe Maymi, an owner of Coldwell Banker Realty Associates.
JOHN VARELA, the owner of Heritage Realty, said: "These are affordable houses for working families. Most don't have new kitchens or new bathrooms. Maybe they were upgraded 25 or 30 years ago. It's the handyman specials that fly off the market."
About 150 years ago, much of Bedford Park was part of the vast estate owned by Leonard Jerome, Winston Churchill's grandfather. He sold the Bedford Park tract in the late 1860's, but it took 20 years before a group of developers subdivided the property and began building houses. Designed as a suburban retreat, the community was named for the London suburb of Bedford, which was the inspiration for the Queen Anne architecture seen in many of the original houses.
One of the few remaining buildings from that era is the Bedford Park Congregational Church, built in 1891-92 and recently designated a landmark by the Landmarks Preservation Commission. The rustic-style church was designed by Edgar K. Bourne, the son of the church's first minister.
The opening of the Jerome Avenue subway line in 1917 and the Third Avenue El in 1920 attracted large numbers of middle-class families to the area. Among the neighborhood's earliest residents was William Fox, a founder of the film company that later became 20th Century Fox.
In spite of the Depression, a number of apartment houses were built in the 1930's, including many of the Art Deco buildings that line the major thoroughfares. After World War II, large numbers of Irish, Jewish and later Puerto Rican families moved to Bedford Park.
"It was a very Irish neighborhood," said Emilia Kazimiroff, who with her husband, Theodore, moved into an apartment in Bedford Park in 1940. They later bought a house and raised their two children there. "Our kids weren't Irish," she continued, "but they would come home from school and say, 'Can't we be a little Irish?' "
THERE were a number of artists living in the neighborhood in the 1950's and 1960's. "We used to have a summer art show each year," Mrs. Kazimiroff said. "It was a lot like Greenwich Village."
By the 1970's, recent immigrants were replacing the older population. Today, the community is home to a vibrant mix of ethnic groups: Puerto Ricans, Dominicans, Koreans, Albanians, Bangladeshis and Indians, as well as a few of the older Irish and Jewish families.
Though there are few restaurants and just a tiny shopping strip along 204th Street, as well as shops on Jerome Avenue, there are more than half a dozen churches and several Roman Catholic schools in the area. Students in kindergarten through the eighth grades can attend the St. Philip Neri School on the Grand Concourse. St. Philip Neri Church burned to the ground in 1997. Reconstruction is expected to be completed by next Easter. The Academy of Mount St. Ursula, the oldest Catholic high school for girls in New York State, established in 1855, sits on a rocky hill on Bedford Park Boulevard.
Bedford Park's public elementary schools include P.S. 8 and the Bronx New School, a magnet school established by local parents and opened in 1988. P.S. 8 ranked 480th in reading scores out of 660 city elementary schools in the spring, while the Bronx New School ranked 330th.
Middle-school students can attend any school in District 10. Parents also helped to establish the Jonas Bronck Academy, a public middle school on the Manhattan College campus in Riverdale.
Among the neighborhood's concerns are the quality of the public schools, and some residents complain about graffiti and noise on residential streets. Yet the fears of drugs and urban blight that prompted neighbors to hold regular community meetings 25 years ago seem to have disappeared.
"It's really a quiet, comfortable community," said Ms. Harr, who teaches in the campus ministry at Manhattan College. "It's nice. You can look around and say, 'I did something to make this,' and a lot of other people can say the same thing."
 
http://www.nytimes.com

CORRECTION-DATE: August 6, 2000, Sunday

 CORRECTION:
A picture in the Gazetteer chart on July 9, with an article about living in Bedford Park, in the Bronx, was published in error. The house that was on the market, and described in the caption, was 2969 Valentine Avenue, not No. 2869, which was shown.

GRAPHIC: Photos: The shopping strip on East 204th Street off Hull Avenue, above, and residents along Mosholu Parkway.; Frame houses, left, on East 202nd Street, and an Art Deco building on East 206th Street, one of many Art Deco buildings in the neighborhood. (Photographs by Eddie Hausner for The New York Times); 5-bedroom, 1 1/2-bath house at 2704 Creston Avenue, $185,000. 3-family brick house with 1-car garage at 2869 Valentine Avenue, $220,000. 2-family house with two 3-bedroom apartments at 3128 Hull Avenue, $265,000.
 
Chart: "GAZETTEER"
POPULATION: 38,100 (1997 estimate).
AREA: 0.37 square miles.
MEDIAN HOUSEHOLD INCOME: $30,635 (1997 estimate).
MEDIAN PRICE OF A ONE-FAMILY HOUSE: $195,000.
MEDIAN PRICE A YEAR AGO: $190,000.
MEDIAN PRICE FIVE YEARS AGO: $145,000.
MEDIAN PRICE OF A 2-BEDROOM CO-OP: $80,000.
MEDIAN PRICE A YEAR AGO: $70,000.
MEDIAN PRICE FIVE YEARS AGO: $40,000.
MIDRANGE RENT OF 2-BEDROOM APARTMENT: $700.
DISTANCE FROM MIDTOWN: 12 miles.
RUSH-HOUR COMMUTATION: 30 minutes by train (D, C or 4 subway lines or Metro-North).
GOVERNMENT: City Councilwoman June Eisland, Democrat.
CODES: Area, 718; ZIP, 10458.
GARDENS AND LIBRARIES: One of the world's largest botanical libraries is housed at the New York Botanical Garden. Named for its benefactor, LuEsther T. Mertz, the library contains more than 1.25 million items covering the 12th through the 20th centuries. Since it was established in 1899, the library has been collecting books, journals, botanical art and illustrations. The collection includes illustrations of plants made by 17th- and 18th-century botanists who accompanied early European explorers of the Americas. It also includes the notebooks and correspondence of some of the 19th and 20th century's leading botanists. Although none of the library's collection circulates, its books and archives are consulted by scholars from around the world and can be used by the public from noon to 6 p.m. Tuesday through Thursday and from noon to 5 p.m. Friday and Saturday.
 
Map of New York highlights Bedford Park.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

LEGISLATION: 106 S. 8 FAIR MINIMUM WAGE ACT OF 1999 (62%); 106 S. 8 INCOME SECURITY ENHANCEMENT ACT OF 1999 (62%); 

TICKER: 002235 (SZSE) (50%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS322121 PAPER (EXCEPT NEWSPRINT) MILLS (50%); SIC2621 PAPER MILLS (50%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (95%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (95%); NEW JERSEY, USA (79%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (95%); 

COMPANY: XIAMEN ANNE CORP LTD (50%); XIAMEN ANNE CORP LTD (50%); NEW YORK BOTANICAL GARDEN (82%); NEW YORK BOTANICAL GARDEN (82%); 

ORGANIZATION: NEW YORK BOTANICAL GARDEN (82%); NEW YORK BOTANICAL GARDEN (82%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK CITY; BEDFORD PARK (NYC); UNITED STATES (95%); NEW YORK, USA (95%); NEW JERSEY, USA (79%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (95%); 

SUBJECT: SOCIAL CONDITIONS AND TRENDS; GEOGRAPHIC PROFILES PROPERTY VACANCIES (90%); RENTAL PROPERTY (89%); COMMUNITY ACTIVISM (89%); REAL ESTATE (89%); BOTANICAL GARDENS (87%); URBAN DEVELOPMENT (77%); ECONOMIC NEWS (77%); NONPROFIT ORGANIZATIONS (76%); HOUSING ASSISTANCE (76%); CHILDREN (75%); EXECUTIVES (74%); ANNIVERSARIES (74%); BUILDING RENOVATION (72%); URBAN TRANSIT SYSTEMS (71%); BOTANY (71%); PROPERTY MANAGEMENT (71%); COLLEGES & UNIVERSITIES (71%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (71%); MULTIFAMILY REAL ESTATE (71%); RAIL STATIONS & TERMINALS (66%); TRENDS (61%); RELIGION (50%); 

PERSON: JOHN M REILLY (61%); 

LOAD-DATE: July 9, 2000



236 of 757 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: July 10, 2000

SECTION: Section C; Page 11; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk

LENGTH: 360 words

HEADLINE: Calendar of Debt Sales Planned for This Week

 BODY:
The Treasury's schedule of financings this week is confined to today's regular weekly auction of three- and six-month bills and a 10-year inflation index note on Wednesday.
By the close of the New York cash market on Friday, traders said, the rate on the outstanding three-month bill was 5.84 percent and a six-month bill was 5.91 percent. The yield on the current issue of the inflation index note was 4.00 percent. 
 The following taxable and tax-exempt fixed-income issues are scheduled for pricing this week:
 
TAXABLE
ONE DAY DURING THE WEEK
 
General Motors Acceptance Corp., plans to issue $2 billion of five-year global notes, A2/A/---. Bear, Stearns & Co.
 
Kingdom of Spain, $2 billion of five-year global notes. Deutsche Bank Alex. Brown.
 
Repsol International Finance, $700 million of five-year global notes. Bear, Stearns & Co.; Goldman, Sachs & Co. and Merrill Lynch & Co.
 
(Source: MCM CorporateWatch)
Ratings: Moody's Investors Service/Standard & Poor's Corp./Duff & Phelps Credit.
 
TAX EXEMPT
 
MONDAY
 
Cypress-Fairbanks Independent School District, $100 million of general obligation bonds. Competitive.
 
TUESDAY
 
Clark County, Nev., $200 million of general obligation bonds. Competitive.
Loudoun County, Va., $60 million of general obligation bonds. Competitive.
Prince George's, Md., $78.2 million of general obligation bonds. Competitive.
 
ONE DAY DURING THE WEEK
 
Aurora, Colo., $76.3 million of certificates of participation. Dain Rauscher Inc.
 
California Housing Finance Authority, $80 million of single family mortgage bonds. Lehman Brothers.
 
California Statewide Community Development Authority, $55 million of debt securities for L.A. Orthopedic Hospital Foundation. J. P. Morgan Securities.
 
Illinois Housing Development Authority, $57 million of single-family bonds. Bear, Stearns & Co.
 
New York State Thruway, $460 million of debt securities. Morgan Stanley Dean Witter.
 
Purdue University Board of Trustees, $51.2 million of debt securities. PaineWebber Inc.
 
Yale University, $100 million of taxable medium-term notes. Goldman, Sachs & Co. 
http://www.nytimes.com

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Schedule

TICKER: GS (NYSE) (93%); REP (MCE) (56%); DEUT (JSE) (56%); DBK (FRA) (56%); DBK (BIT) (56%); DBETN (JSE) (56%); DBA (ASX) (56%); DB (NYSE) (56%); JPM (NYSE) (54%); JPM (LSE) (54%); 8634 (TSE) (54%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (93%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (93%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (93%); SIC6289 SERVICES ALLIED WITH THE EXCHANGE OF SECURITIES OR COMMODITIES, NEC (93%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (93%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (93%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (84%); NAICS522291 CONSUMER LENDING (83%); SIC6141 PERSONAL CREDIT INSTITUTIONS (83%); NAICS561450 CREDIT BUREAUS (68%); SIC7323 CREDIT REPORTING SERVICES (68%); NAICS541611 ADMINISTRATIVE MANAGEMENT & GENERAL MANAGEMENT CONSULTING SERVICES (66%); NAICS447110 GASOLINE STATIONS WITH CONVENIENCE STORES (56%); NAICS221210 NATURAL GAS DISTRIBUTION (56%); NAICS211112 NATURAL GAS LIQUID EXTRACTION (56%); NAICS211111 CRUDE PETROLEUM & NATURAL GAS EXTRACTION (56%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (56%); SIC6081 BRANCHES & AGENCIES OF FOREIGN BANKS (56%); NAICS523999 MISCELLANEOUS FINANCIAL INVESTMENT ACTIVITIES (55%); NAICS522390 OTHER ACTIVITIES RELATED TO CREDIT INTERMEDIATION (55%); SIC8732 COMMERCIAL ECONOMIC, SOCIOLOGICAL, & EDUCATIONAL RESEARCH (55%); NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (54%); SIC6022 STATE COMMERCIAL BANKS (54%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%); SPAIN (70%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (93%); CALIFORNIA, USA (90%); COLORADO, USA (77%); 

COMPANY: GOLDMAN SACHS GROUP INC (93%); MERRILL LYNCH & CO INC (84%); ALLY FINANCIAL INC (83%); STANDARD & POOR'S FINANCIAL SERVICES LLC (68%); MOODY'S INVESTORS SERVICE LTD (68%); RBC WEALTH MANAGEMENT (66%); PAINEWEBBER INC (64%); REPSOL SA (56%); BEAR STEARNS & CO INC (56%); DEUTSCHE BANK AG (56%); FITCH RATINGS LTD (55%); JPMORGAN CHASE & CO (54%); LEHMAN BROTHERS HOLDINGS INC (53%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%); SPAIN (70%); NEW YORK, USA (93%); CALIFORNIA, USA (90%); COLORADO, USA (77%); 

SUBJECT: NO INDEX TERMS FROM NYTIMES BONDS (91%); MUNICIPAL BONDS (90%); DEBT NOTES (90%); PUBLIC DEBT (90%); TAX EXEMPTIONS (90%); TREASURY SECURITIES (90%); TAXES & TAXATION (90%); FINANCIAL RATINGS (90%); STOCK INDEXES (90%); SINGLE FAMILY MORTGAGES (89%); DEBT FINANCING (89%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (78%); INFLATION (77%); ECONOMIC NEWS (77%); TAX LAW (75%); EDUCATION SYSTEMS & INSTITUTIONS (74%); BANKING & FINANCE AGENCIES (73%); MORTGAGE INVESTMENTS (71%); HOUSING AUTHORITIES (70%); RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (69%); COLLEGES & UNIVERSITIES (68%); ORTHOPEDICS (63%); UNIVERSITY ADMINISTRATION (62%); SCHOOL DISTRICTS (51%); 

LOAD-DATE: July 10, 2000



237 of 757 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: July 10, 2000

SECTION: Section A; Page 10; Column 4; Foreign Desk 

LENGTH: 1100 words

HEADLINE: Egyptian's Arrest Seen as Penalty for Criticism

BYLINE: By SUSAN SACHS 

DATELINE: CAIRO, July 9

 BODY:
The recent arrest of a prominent sociologist on suspicion of "defaming" Egypt has alarmed human rights advocates around the region who say it reflects a policy among Arab leaders toward political criticism that can best be described as killing the messenger.
"The government has convinced the people that Egypt and the government are one and the same thing," said Gasser Abdel Razik, secretary general of a legal aid center in Cairo. "If someone criticizes the government, then it is an insult against Egypt. If any crisis erupts, they do not solve it but they punish the one who reported it." 
 The sociologist, Saad Eddin Ibrahim, who has been in an Egyptian prison since June 30, has taught at the American University in Cairo for 25 years. He founded the Ibn Khaldoun Center for Developmental Studies, a private group in Cairo that includes two government ministers on its board and conducts research on democracy, civil society and minority rights.
He recently wrote an article in a Saudi magazine, Al Majala, that satirized the efforts by some Arab leaders to groom their sons for succession. Among others, Dr. Ibrahim mentioned President Hosni Mubarak of Egypt. He also has written frequently on the status of the Christian minority in Egypt, where the subject of religious tensions is taboo.
Dr. Ibrahim has been held since security agents began interrogating him on June 30 about a documentary his center produced to instruct Egyptians about their voting rights and encourage them to take part in a parliamentary election scheduled for November.
Hafez Abu Saada, who is one of Dr. Ibrahim's lawyers, said investigators had accused him of defaming Egypt because the film refers to complaints about fraud filed after past elections.
Dr. Ibrahim has not been charged with a crime but is being held for 15 days for questioning. Under Egyptian law, detention without charge can be extended up to 45 days.
Officials of the United States Embassy in Cairo who visited Dr. Ibrahim said he had reassured them he was not being mistreated. The American ambassador, Daniel Kurzer, has expressed concern about the arrest to Egypt's prime minister, according to an embassy spokesman.
"We hope that his detention is not inspired by a desire to silence a voice advocating freedom of expression and democracy," the spokesman said.
Dr. Ibrahim, a former adviser to the Egyptian government who holds dual Egyptian and American citizenship, earned a Ph.D. from the University of Washington and has written or edited 30 books in English and Arabic. He has been a frequent guest at international conferences on Arab political life.
Dr. Ibrahim's arrest has worried human rights groups and advocates around the Arab Middle East, where nongovernmental organizations and journalists who criticize their governments are routinely harassed or imprisoned.
"Saad Eddin Ibrahim's arrest reminds us that one of the leading sources of instability and political-economic distortion in the Arab world is the unchecked use of state power, combined with the state's whimsical ability to use the rule of law for its own political ends," Rami G. Khouri, a political analyst, wrote in The Jordan Times last week.
Despite apparent progress in a handful of countries that declare themselves to be democracies, like Egypt and Jordan, independent organizations have found themselves fighting for their lives, he added.
Egypt, like its neighbors, tightly regulates nongovernmental organizations and the press. Labor unions can be formed and hold internal elections only with government approval. The government licenses political parties -- and has approved only one new party in the past 22 years. A handful of others operate, but most were allowed only after appealing to the judiciary.
Last year, Egypt enacted a law requiring all nongovernmental organizations to register, report any foreign financing and submit the names of their trustees to the government for approval. The law was seen as an attempt to control groups that might serve as fronts for Islamic militants, but it was widely criticized by human rights and legal aid groups. It was declared unconstitutional, on technical grounds, by the Constitutional Court last month.
Egypt has more than a dozen groups that investigate human rights abuses and many newspapers that publish reports on torture, illegal detention, prison conditions and other topics. They have fax machines, speak openly to foreign journalists and post reports on their Web sites.
But when the subject turns to a few particularly sensitive topics -- among them election fraud, official corruption and religious tension -- the government has cracked down, often using a provision in the penal code that makes it a crime to defame Egypt's reputation.
Five journalists at the daily newspaper Al Ahrar, for example, were recently sentenced to jail terms because they had published a Government Accounting Office report on mismanagement at the government airline, EgyptAir. Officials of the Egyptian Organization for Human Rights were jailed last year, accused of defaming the country and illegally accepting foreign funds, after publishing a report on the police handling of a clash between Christians and Muslims in Upper Egypt.
"The government wants to finish off all civil society organizations in Egypt," said Mr. Abu Saada, the secretary general of the group, who was himself jailed for several weeks after the report was published last year. "Either we agree with them all the time or we are the enemy."
In Jordan, it is still a crime to insult the dignity of the king and, as in Egypt or other Arab countries, courts can shut down a publication or jail people who are found to have harmed the "public interest" or criticized members of the government.
Government officials in Egypt said Dr. Ibrahim was the subject of a lengthy police investigation before he was arrested. Hisham Saraya, the chief prosecutor of the state security agency, said Dr. Ibrahim was suspected of illegally taking money from a foreign entity, using that money fraudulently and forging election ballots.
Dr. Ibrahim's lawyers said the election ballots were printed for use in the documentary. They said he received money from the European Commission, the executive body of the European Union, to make the film.
Mr. Saraya, the government prosecutor, said protests from diplomats and other human rights advocates would have no effect on the police inquiry against Dr. Ibrahim. "No other authority -- nothing but truth and justice -- can influence our prosecution," he said.
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photo: Saad Eddin Ibrahim has been detained over a film about voting. (Associated Press) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: EGYPT (99%); UNITED STATES (94%); SAUDI ARABIA (79%); MIDDLE EAST (79%); 

CITY: CAIRO, EGYPT (94%); 

COMPANY: AMERICAN UNIVERSITY IN CAIRO SCHOOL OF BUSINESS ECONOMICS (56%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: EGYPT; EGYPT (99%); UNITED STATES (94%); SAUDI ARABIA (79%); MIDDLE EAST (79%); CAIRO, EGYPT (94%); 

SUBJECT: FREEDOM AND HUMAN RIGHTS; FREEDOM OF SPEECH AND EXPRESSION; POLITICS AND GOVERNMENT; ELECTIONS; LEGISLATURES AND PARLIAMENTS SOCIOLOGY (91%); LIBEL & SLANDER (90%); HUMAN RIGHTS (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); ELECTIONS (89%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (89%); HUMAN RIGHTS ORGANIZATIONS (89%); POLITICS (89%); FREEDOM OF SPEECH (89%); FREEDOM OF EXPRESSION (89%); INVESTIGATIONS (89%); EMBASSIES & CONSULATES (85%); FREEDOM OF PRESS (84%); NONGOVERNMENTAL ORGANIZATIONS (78%); JAIL SENTENCING (78%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (77%); PRIME MINISTERS (77%); JOURNALISM (75%); RESEARCH INSTITUTES (74%); CRIMINAL OFFENSES (73%); LAWYERS (72%); CHRISTIANS & CHRISTIANITY (71%); LEGAL AID (71%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (69%); WRITERS (67%); RELIGION (66%); DOCUMENTARY FILMS (65%); 

PERSON: SACHS, SUSAN; IBRAHIM, SAAD EDDIN HOSNI MUBARAK (58%); 

LOAD-DATE: July 10, 2000



238 of 757 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: July 10, 2000

SECTION: Section A; Page 12; Column 5; National Desk 

LENGTH: 964 words

HEADLINE: They May Be Governors, But the Talk Is Presidential

BYLINE: By B. DRUMMOND AYRES Jr. 

DATELINE: STATE COLLEGE, Pa., July 9

 BODY:
Republican governors outnumber Democrats almost 2 to 1, and they were a confident, even cocky, bunch this weekend as they descended on this university town in central Pennsylvania for the 92nd annual meeting of the National Governors' Association.
At every opportunity, they boasted that one of their own, George W. Bush of Texas, was a shoo-in to win this year's presidential race. 
 And to boot, they predicted, Republicans would retain control of Congress and win most, maybe even all, of the 11 governorships up for grabs.
"We could hardly feel better about the way things are going," said Gov. Edward T. Schafer of North Dakota, chairman of the Republican Governors' Association.
Democrats, not to be outdone, insisted that Vice President Al Gore would turn things around once the nominating conventions are over later this summer and voters are able to focus on the fall election.
"We're extremely optimistic," said Gov. Paul E. Patton of Kentucky, chairman of the Democratic Governors' Association. "We're looking to majority Democratic leadership in this country."
So confident was the Bush campaign that it did not send an envoy to brief Republicans -- neither Mr. Bush nor his brother Jeb, the governor of Florida, made an appearance. Mr. Gore sent William M. Daley, his new campaign manager, to reassure and assuage Democrats.
Mr. Daley met privately with the Democratic governors. No sooner had he gone than both Republicans and Democrats scheduled news conferences, events that were so politically partisan that they submerged what was meant to be the main business of the meeting, a four-day, nonpartisan discussion about "strengthening the American states in the new global economy."
Instead, there was endless speculation about whether any of the 40 or so governors present might end up as vice presidential choices.
No fewer than eight had been mentioned as possible candidates and just as the dueling news conferences by Democratic and Republican governors overshadowed the convention, so, too, did the vice presidential stir, which also had its moments of one-upmanship.
Was the stir causing any tension among the governors? Mr. Schafer was asked.
"What tension?" replied Mr. Schafer, who is not the subject of any serious speculation about being a vice presidential choice. "I haven't noticed any tension. I don't see them in any competition."
Mr. Patton said Mr. Daley exuded confidence while briefing Democratic governors.
"He was very, very upbeat," Mr. Patton said. "He said that this race would turn around as soon as people began focusing on it, after the conventions. They're not doing that now."
Why would the post-convention focus improve Mr. Gore's standing, when 9 out of 10 national polls have had him trailing Mr. Bush by 5 to 10 points for several months?
Because, Mr. Patton replied, other polls have indicated that on most major social and economic issues, voters favor the Democrats.
"The voters are with us," he said, "and when people focus on what they want, Al Gore will win."
Did the Democratic governors, by predicting a post-convention collapse of the Bush campaign, see a parallel with the 1988 campaign of Gov. Michael S. Dukakis of Massachusetts? Mr. Dukakis, a Democrat, led Governor Bush's father by a substantial margin for months but faltered after the conventions.
"I wouldn't necessarily say that," replied Gov. James B. Hunt Jr. of North Carolina, a Democrat. "What I do say is that when people finally focus on what counts and what they want, Al Gore will be president."
Gov. Parris N. Glendening of Maryland, a Democrat, argued that Mr. Gore would win not only because of his stands on the issues but also because he was a "proven leader," experienced in handling both domestic and foreign issues.
"Contrast that to the less-than-stellar performance and experience of George W. Bush," Mr. Glendening said.
If there was any anti-Bush argument that hit home with Republicans, the assertion that Mr. Bush was not up to handling the White House job was it. They devoted most of an hourlong news conference to arguing otherwise.
Gov. Tom Ridge of Pennsylvania, prominently mentioned as a possible running mate for Mr. Bush, said the Texas governor was an experienced leader because he had served as chief executive of one of the nation's largest states and understood how to "practice the politics of what works."
Mr. Gore does not understand that governing principle, Mr. Ridge added, because he has never been in an executive position.
On the issue of supplying pharmaceuticals to the elderly and poor, Mr. Ridge said, Mr. Gore sees it as "you're either for the drug companies or for senior citizens."
"You should try to get people together," Mr. Ridge said. "The politicization of that issue is not how to get things done."
Today, the governors managed to break free of partisan politicking for an hour or so to hear Gen. Colin L. Powell discuss programs they might put in place to help the nation's young people, a cause he has been promoting since retiring from the United States Army.
But in the end, the talk came around to politics.
First, the general was asked again whether he would accept an offer to be Mr. Bush's running mate or possibly run for president himself at some point, given his popularity with Republicans and Democrats alike.
No, General Powell replied, as he has been replying for months. But some day, he said, he might accept an appointive job in government.
Then, just as the general was preparing to leave the convention hall, Gov. Thomas R. Carper of Delaware had a word with him.
"I used to think you'd make a good president," Mr. Carper said. "Now I know you would."
Mr. Carper is a Democrat.
President Clinton will address the governors on Monday.
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photos: Govs. John Engler of Michigan, Tommy G. Thompson of Wisconsin, Gary E. Johnson of New Mexico and Marc Racicot of Montana, all Republicans, at the National Governors' Conference yesterday. Presidential politics has dominated the meeting in State College, Pa.; Gen. Colin L. Powell, center, with Gov. Parris N. Glendening of Maryland, left, and Gov. Tom Ridge of Pennsylvania. (Photographs by Associated Press)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: PENNSYLVANIA, USA (94%); MARYLAND, USA (79%); FLORIDA, USA (79%); NORTH DAKOTA, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: NATIONAL GOVERNORS ASSN NATIONAL GOVERNORS' ASSOCIATION (60%); NATIONAL GOVERNORS' ASSOCIATION (84%); NATIONAL GOVERNORS' ASSOCIATION (84%); 

ORGANIZATION: NATIONAL GOVERNORS ASSN NATIONAL GOVERNORS' ASSOCIATION (84%); NATIONAL GOVERNORS' ASSOCIATION (84%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%); PENNSYLVANIA, USA (94%); MARYLAND, USA (79%); FLORIDA, USA (79%); NORTH DAKOTA, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: GOVERNORS (US); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTION OF 2000; BIOGRAPHICAL INFORMATION GOVERNORS (94%); ELECTIONS (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (90%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); TALKS & MEETINGS (89%); CONFERENCES & CONVENTIONS (89%); POLITICAL PARTY CONVENTIONS (79%); VOTERS & VOTING (76%); POLLS & SURVEYS (69%); 

PERSON: AYRES, B DRUMMOND JR; BUSH, GEORGE W (GOV) ED SCHAFER (79%); AL GORE (79%); GEORGE W BUSH (79%); TOMMY THOMPSON (59%); 

LOAD-DATE: July 10, 2000



239 of 757 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: July 10, 2000

SECTION: Section A; Page 1; Column 1; National Desk 

LENGTH: 1607 words

HEADLINE: Democrats Drawn to Tax Cuts, But Parties Still Split Over Size

BYLINE: By RICHARD W. STEVENSON 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, July 9

 BODY:
With projections of the federal budget surplus rising and both parties in full election-year mode, the debate over tax cuts is shifting from whether to what kinds.
Republicans continue to press for bigger reductions than most Democrats will support, and there is unlikely to be any legislative breakthrough this year. 
 But in Washington and on the campaign trail, Democrats from President Clinton on down are joining Republicans in backing tax cuts -- enthusiastically in some cases, grudgingly and with conditions in others -- to a far greater degree than they were a year or even six months ago.
In one of the clearest signs of shifting sentiment, nearly a third of the Democrats in the House broke ranks with the party last month and voted to repeal the federal estate tax.
Vice President Al Gore doubled his proposed tax-cutting package a few weeks ago, to $500 billion over 10 years, moving him closer to the $1.3 trillion plan offered by his Republican rival for the presidency, Gov. George W. Bush of Texas.
And Mr. Clinton announced recently that he would agree to a $250 billion, 10-year tax cut for married couples on Republican terms if Congress would pass his plan to add prescription drug coverage to the Medicare system of health insurance for the elderly and disabled.
The new political dynamics will be on display in Congress this week when the Senate takes up the two big tax-cutting bills of the year: the repeal of the federal estate tax and the reduction of taxes on nearly all married couples in the name of eliminating the marriage penalty, the quirk in the tax code that leaves some two-income couples paying a bigger tax bill than they would if they had remained single.
On the estate tax repeal, the Senate majority leader, Trent Lott of Mississippi, said he was hopeful that he might be able to attract enough support from Democrats to overcome procedural hurdles and force a final vote on the bill this week.
If they can get past those hurdles, Republicans are all but assured of passing the bill. Repealing the estate tax has long been one of the Republicans' priorities.
The Senate legislation, identical to the version passed by the House, would gradually reduce and eventually eliminate the tax, which applies only to estates valued at $675,000 or more, a threshold that is already scheduled to rise to $1 million by 2006.
The White House has made clear that Mr. Clinton will veto the bill. But Republicans say that just passing the legislation with bipartisan support would be a powerful political symbol of opposition to the tax, and they have not ruled out bringing the bill up again as part of an end-of-the-year budget package.
For years it was Democratic orthodoxy to label repeal of the estate tax a giveaway to the very richest people in the country. But to try to reduce defections from their ranks and display their own tax-cutting credentials, Democrats in the Senate are planning to offer a less expensive alternative proposal on the estate tax, as their counterparts in the House did last month.
The Democratic proposal is expected to call for the effective elimination of the tax for two politically powerful constituencies that say they are hard hit by it -- owners of small businesses and family farms -- but to continue to impose the tax at reduced rates on the very largest estates.
Mr. Lott also plans to bring up the marriage penalty bill by the end of the week under a procedure that would keep Democrats from stalling the bill or loading it with amendments.
The bill, which would cut taxes on married couples by $248 billion over 10 years, is larger than a version passed this year by the House. As with the estate tax, Democrats plan to offer a less expensive alternative. They would seek to eliminate the marriage penalty without giving a tax cut to couples who already receive a marriage bonus -- that is, a lower tax bill than they would pay if they had remained single.
Since Republicans have shown no signs of accepting his proposal to swap a tax cut for the prescription drug coverage plan, Mr. Clinton is likely to veto the marriage penalty bill if it passes. But Republicans said they could nonetheless go to their party convention at the end of the month able to tell voters that they had done their part to enact big tax cuts and that it was a Democrat in the White House who had blocked them.
Some analysts say the two parties will remain stalemated on fiscal policy as long as control of Congress and the White House remains divided. Others are more optimistic about a compromise on tax cuts, perhaps even this year, because there is enough money for both parties to get what they want.
"It's just a question of horse trading at this point," said Bruce Bartlett, a fellow at the National Center for Policy Analysis, a conservative research group.
But the supercharged politics of the campaign season will make it difficult for any tax cuts to be enacted before a new president and Congress take office next year.
The muddled outlook reflects in part the uncertainty in both parties about how much demand there is among voters for tax cuts. And the evolving politics of tax cuts are just one illustration of how the quickly increasing surplus projections are forcing both parties to rethink their ideology and tactics on fiscal issues.
Last month, the White House increased its estimate of the total budget surplus for the next 10 years by nearly $1.3 trillion, to $4.2 trillion. Long-term budget forecasts are notoriously unreliable, and the fiscal outlook could change substantially based on how the economy performs.
The two parties have agreed not to use the portion of the surplus generated by Social Security -- $2.3 trillion over the next decade -- for tax cuts or general spending. But that still leaves a projected windfall of $1.9 trillion on the table, and just as Democrats are becoming more open to tax cuts, Republicans are proving more willing to go along with expanding government programs.
"There is a changing climate on tax cuts," said Senator William V. Roth Jr. of Delaware, a Republican who is chairman of the Finance Committee. Mr. Roth said the larger surplus projections, the possibility that the long economic expansion might be starting to run out of steam and Mr. Clinton's willingness to negotiate a deal had combined to give tax reductions new political viability.
Democrats also said the rosier fiscal outlook had made tax cutting more appealing -- or at least made it more politically difficult to reject all tax cuts out of hand.
They also said tax cuts were getting more bipartisan consideration because Republicans in Congress had dropped their insistence on putting forward all-encompassing tax reduction bills that would use all or most of the projected surpluses and instead were addressing specific types of tax cuts one by one.
Democrats generally remain solidly opposed to broad-based tax-cutting packages of the type proposed by Mr. Bush in his presidential campaign.
"Democrats have always been willing to consider, if not support, tax cuts that are fair, while reflecting our priorities and the need for sound fiscal management of the surplus," said Gene Sperling, the director of the White House's National Economic Council.
"What has changed is that instead of the Republicans in Congress offering a single, excessive tax-cut package that could be rejected immediately as breaking the bank," Mr. Sperling said, "they are now trying to slice their tax agenda into smaller pieces, which can be individually considered on the basis of fairness, fiscal prudence and priorities."
In the coming week, Democrats plan to hit the Republicans hard on those points, asserting that the Republican versions of the estate tax and marriage penalty bills are much too expensive and too tilted to the wealthy.
And they intend to make a case that tax cuts are justifiable only after the two parties agree on more pressing issues, in particular adding prescription drug coverage to Medicare and allocating more of the surplus to reducing the national debt.
"Democrats believe you can eliminate the marriage penalty and reduce the estate tax, and at the same time provide Americans with a prescription drug benefit," said Ranit Schmelzer, communications director for Senator Tom Daschle of South Dakota, the Democratic leader.
"Republicans just want to do the tax cut," Ms. Schmelzer said.
Senator Roth says Republicans, too, think there is enough money for a sizable tax cut, a prescription drug benefit and a steady reduction of the national debt. He said that as he traveled through his home state, he found considerable support among voters for acting now to repeal the estate tax and to cut taxes on couples.
Republicans are banking on getting support from Democrats who are up for re-election this year and do not want to have to explain their opposition to tax cuts.
They point to Democrats like Senator Charles S. Robb of Virginia, who is in a tough race this year in an anti-tax state and who supports repeal of the estate tax.
But some Republicans acknowledge that their party also needs to be willing to compromise if it wants Mr. Clinton to sign any tax cuts into law, and that if they play politics with the issue they will be exposed to assertions by Democrats that Republicans have run a do-nothing Congress.
"I'm a strong believer that what people back home want to see at election time is what you've accomplished," said Mr. Roth, who is also in a tight re-election race. "There are some on both sides who want an issue, not legislation, but I think that's shortsighted." 
http://www.nytimes.com

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA, USA (94%); 

COMPANY: MEDICARE (82%); 

ORGANIZATION: MEDICARE (82%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES; UNITED STATES (94%); DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA, USA (94%); 

SUBJECT: TAXATION; ELECTION ISSUES; MEDICINE AND HEALTH; MEDICARE; DRUGS (PHARMACEUTICALS); ELECTION ISSUES; LAW AND LEGISLATION; PRESIDENTIAL ELECTION OF 2000; WILLS AND ESTATES; MARRIAGES TAXES & TAXATION (94%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (92%); TAX LAW (91%); MEDICARE (90%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); TAX RELIEF (90%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (90%); BUDGETS (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (90%); PLATFORMS & ISSUES (90%); ESTATE TAX (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); MARRIAGE (89%); LEGISLATION (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); ELECTIONS (78%); BUDGET FORECASTS (78%); ESTATE GIFT & TRUST LAW (78%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (78%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (78%); VETO (78%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (73%); PRESCRIPTION DRUG INSURANCE (71%); HEALTH INSURANCE (71%); WILLS (68%); AGING (66%); PRESCRIPTION DRUGS (66%); SENIOR CITIZENS (65%); 

PERSON: GORE, AL (VICE PRES); CLINTON, BILL (PRES); STEVENSON, RICHARD W BILL CLINTON (92%); AL GORE (73%); GEORGE W BUSH (73%); TRENT LOTT (57%); 

LOAD-DATE: July 10, 2000



240 of 757 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: July 10, 2000

SECTION: Section B; Page 4; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk 

LENGTH: 496 words

HEADLINE: Mrs. Clinton Focuses On Gas Prices While Upstate

BYLINE: By JONATHAN P. HICKS 

DATELINE: UTICA, N.Y., July 9

 BODY:
Hillary Rodham Clinton continued her emphasis on economic issues today, renewing her call for the Federal Trade Commission to broaden its investigation of sharply increased gasoline prices and urging Congress to pass legislation to create an oil reserve for states in the Northeast.
In the fourth day of her Senate campaign tour through upstate New York, Mrs. Clinton rejected as "a serious error" any move to eliminate the gasoline tax, a proposal advocated by her Republican rival, Representative Rick A. Lazio. 
 "I reject my opponent's proposal of eliminating the gas tax," Mrs. Clinton said at a news conference earlier today in Rochester. "One of the few sources of revenue that we actually get more of than we send to Washington is gas tax money for our transportation needs. It would be hard to imagine how upstate can finish all the work we need to do without the federal help that comes from transportation dollars."
On the investigation into gasoline prices, Mrs. Clinton said that it was imperative for the commission to "go beyond where it has already begun to try to figure out why, while fuel costs have gone up over 50 cents in New York, profits for major oil companies have gone up more than 500 percent."
In the tour, which is covering a dozen communities across the state's western, Southern Tier and Finger Lake regions, Mrs. Clinton has sought to discuss policies that would affect the troubled upstate economy.
While her campaign has called this trip the "Upstate Economic Tour," it has been more of a cookout and picnic tour. Mrs. Clinton has appeared at several picnics and rallies sponsored by the Democratic Party in a number of upstate counties. This afternoon, in Van Buren, N.Y., she spoke at a cookout organized by party officials of Cayuga, Oswego and Onondaga Counties. At a similar event here this evening, she spoke to more than 500 Democrats and union members from four counties. Mrs. Clinton spoke about the need to lower utility costs, to stimulate job growth and to rehabilitate this region's roads and highways.
In speaking with voters at the picnics and other events, as in previous visits to this region, Mrs. Clinton has been asked most frequently about her ideas and proposals to revive the economy in upstate New York.
Mrs. Clinton began the day at the Mount Olivet Baptist Church in Rochester. It had not been announced in advance to members of the church that Mrs. Clinton would be worshiping there this morning, and her presence seem to take nearly everyone by surprise. Seated beside William A. Johnson Jr., Rochester's mayor, she swayed and clapped to the music by the choir.
"I stand here today before you today to thank those of you who prayed for me and my husband," Mrs. Clinton said, standing in the sanctuary of the church and addressing an enthusiastic congregation. "I believe that we were both sustained and uplifted because of prayer. And so I thank you and ask you not to quit yet." 
http://www.nytimes.com

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

INDUSTRY: NAICS 213112 OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (75%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (94%); NORTHEAST USA (93%); 

CITY: UTICA, NY, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: FEDERAL TRADE COMMISSION FEDERAL TRADE COMMISSION (91%); FEDERAL TRADE COMMISSION (91%); 

ORGANIZATION: FEDERAL TRADE COMMISSION FEDERAL TRADE COMMISSION (91%); FEDERAL TRADE COMMISSION (91%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: NORTHEASTERN STATES (US); UNITED STATES (94%); NEW YORK, USA (94%); NORTHEAST USA (93%); UTICA, NY, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: OIL (PETROLEUM) AND GASOLINE; ELECTION ISSUES; PRICES (FARES, FEES AND RATES); TAXATION OIL & GAS PRICES (93%); GASOLINE PRICES (92%); GASOLINE MARKETS (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (90%); FUEL TAX (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (90%); COMMERCE DEPARTMENTS (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); TAXES & TAXATION (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (89%); POLITICAL PARTIES (89%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (89%); GASOLINE (78%); LEGISLATION (78%); PLATFORMS & ISSUES (78%); PETROLEUM PRODUCTS (78%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (77%); OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (75%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (73%); PRESS CONFERENCES (70%); RELIGION (64%); 

PERSON: HICKS, JONATHAN P; CLINTON, HILLARY RODHAM; LAZIO, RICK A (REPR) HILLARY RODHAM CLINTON (93%); 

LOAD-DATE: July 10, 2000



241 of 757 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: July 10, 2000

SECTION: Section B; Page 1; Column 2; Metropolitan Desk 

LENGTH: 1707 words

HEADLINE: Religious Group Sees Moral Choice in the Monthly Light Bill

BYLINE: By KIRK JOHNSON 

DATELINE: CHATHAM, N.J., July 3

 BODY:
Electricity used to be so simple. A bill came from some faceless monopoly and the consumer wrote a check. Then came deregulation and the dizzying choice about who would provide one's allotment of kilowatts.
The next wave of change may bring the most wrenching consequence of all: guilt. The Rev. Franklin Vilas, the recently retired rector of St. Paul's Episcopal Church in this northern New Jersey community, argues that in the new world of consumer choice, electricity has become a moral issue. "If you buy the cheapest energy, you're killing your kids," he says. 
 Mr. Vilas, 65, a soft-spoken clergyman known to all as Skip, is the leading intellectual force in a coalition of religious leaders who are trying to forge what they say would be a holy alliance of good works and faith, environmentalism and economics: all the churches in New Jersey, combining their power needs to buy so-called green, nonpolluting, renewable energy as a political and moral statement.
Experts on the electricity industry and theologians say that though the steps have been early and small -- less than 1,000 green-energy customers, mostly households, out of more than 3.5 million energy users statewide -- the implications of the church effort are huge. Last November, New Jersey was the first state in the metropolitan region, and one of the first in the nation, to let all customers choose their power suppliers. By being drawn into the debate from the beginning, religion has given commercial green energy its first toehold in the nation's densest urban corridor.
"They were a big part of the reason we came into New Jersey," said John Holtz, who is the regional public affairs manager for Greenmountain.com, a company based in Vermont that entered the New Jersey market four months ago, selling electricity generated mostly by wind power, water power and landfill gas. Mr. Holtz declined to provide actual numbers of customers, but said that most signed up after hearing about the company through their congregations or synagogues.
Greenmountain is planning at least three nonpolluting energy plants in the state, two solar and one hydroelectric, he said; these would have been built elsewhere without church involvement.
Another company, Conectiv Energy, began offering green electricity in the southern third of New Jersey last fall.
Religion's connection to the environment, some historians say, goes back to St. Francis of Assisi tending to the beasts of the forest. But the members of Mr. Vilas's group, called Partners for Environmental Quality, say that utility environmentalism is a very different business.
Electricity, they say, is a disembodied idea, rather like faith, that exists only by its expression. Because the delivery and generation process is far away or out of sight, it can seem harmless and clean, when in fact the power industry, especially coal-fired generation, is one of the biggest contributors of greenhouse gases that are blamed for global warming and East Coast smog.
The group's members say that people also have to be taught how the electrical system works so that they can be convinced that buying green makes a difference, and again it comes down to a leap of faith because green energy does not flow directly into the home. Every light and computer and television in New Jersey draws its energy from the same power grid of mixed energy sources that also supplies residents across Pennsylvania and Maryland. Green-energy users have to know in their hearts that their energy purchase has affected, in a small way, the vast, amorphous power grid itself by injecting more renewable energy into it.
"People have to be educated to the fact that this is not the same kind of choice as choosing your long-distance provider; this one carries consequences," said Pamela Frank, the executive director of Partners for Environmental Quality.
Organizing churches around the support of green power and energy consciousness is not a new idea. A group called Episcopal Power and Light has been active in Massachusetts and California for several years, and its leaders have coordinated their efforts with Mr. Vilas.
New Jersey's churches moved faster, pastors and electricity experts say, simply because deregulation here moved faster. New York State, by contrast, is introducing consumer choice gradually on a region-by-region basis through next year, but for most residents there, green energy is not yet an option. Connecticut opened its market only this month.
Some of the biggest commercial power-buying pools have also been formed in New Jersey over the last year, creating a niche industry of experts that the churches are drawing on to build their own pool.
It can sometimes create a cozy world. Partners for Environmental Quality, for example, is working with a two-year-old Newark firm, Gibbons Consulting, that specializes in power pools. Gibbons, in turn, worked earlier this year with the Food Council of New Jersey, a statewide association of food retailers, wholesalers and distributors, helping the group create one of the largest power-buying pools in the nation. The effort was aimed primarily at cutting costs for the group's nearly 2,000 members.
By coincidence, the food group's president, Jim Morford, and its leading lawyer, Jim McGuire, are active Episcopalians, and through their church work, they bumped into Mr. Vilas. The Food Council ultimately signed a contract in March with KeySpan Energy, a company based in Brooklyn that generates electricity primarily by using cleaner-burning natural gas.
Mr. Morford said the main reason for choosing KeySpan was financial. The Food Council expects to save about $20 million over the 14-month contract, compared with its old utility. A secondary consideration was the belief among council members that signing with a cheaper company that relied on Midwestern coal would be bad public relations. Mr. Morford stressed that his church work and his professional duties to the Food Council were kept strictly separate during the KeySpan negotiations. But he said he is now enthusiastically using what he learned to help Mr. Vilas.
Partners for Environmental Quality, which is led by a multifaith board of trustees, has reached out to Roman Catholics, Protestants and Jews to talk about the practical and ethical aspects of participating in the power pool.
Other church efforts have moved forward on their own tracks.
The New Jersey region chapter of the United Synagogues of Conservative Judaism has formed its own energy-buying consortium separate from Partners for Environmental Quality and will present two choices to its 60 members this fall: one with a cheaper traditional energy mix, and one with a higher proportion of cleaner-burning fuels like natural gas and renewable sources.
A spokesman for the chapter said that synagogues would be under no pressure to choose one way or the other, but that he believed most would consider more than price. "Before, we had no input into how energy was generated or how dirty it was, and now we do," said Jeff Schwartz, the secretary of the New Jersey region chapter. "This is an opportunity that shouldn't be squandered."
But the message for cleaner energy is also raising some ethical dilemmas and implications of its own inside religious communities.
Mr. Vilas, who grew up in the utility industry -- his father, Franklin Vilas Sr., was the chief spokesman for Consolidated Edison in New York for many years -- has argued to pastors, priests and parishioners that the cheapest available energy comes from coal-burning plants in the Midwest that are blamed for contributing to air pollution on the Atlantic seaboard.
The structure of deregulation mandates a choice that determines where consumers stand on that pollution issue. Mr. Vilas tells people that by simply staying with the energy company they have, they are tacitly endorsing a power grid that derives nearly 50 percent of its output from coal-fired generation. Getting the point across -- that making no decision on energy constitutes a moral statement -- requires what officials of the group call agitation.
"When I say 'energy deregulation and global warming,' I see people's eyes glaze over," said Ms. Frank, executive director of Partners for Environmental Quality. "But when Skip says, 'Buy cheap energy and kill your kids,' it gets people's attention -- it may be over the top, but it gets people's attention."
Renewable energy also costs about 20 percent more than the rate paid by most customers in New Jersey, and that difference threatens to separate rich churches from poor ones. For an affluent church like St. Paul's, the additional cost of about $600 to $1,000 a year was not considered a problem.
In poorer parts of the state, however, churches are struggling simply to make ends meet. With electricity bills expected to increase this summer in many parts of the country, partly because of a recent surge in natural gas prices, many churches, individuals and businesses could be pushed by circumstances to go precisely the other way: toward cheaper and perhaps dirtier energy.
Traditional electricity companies and some energy industry analysts say that the regional power grid is improving even without green energy, as natural gas becomes a bigger source and older, less efficient coal-fired plans are decommissioned.
But there are also many small and very human implications that have emerged from the church-energy nexus, and they have less predictable results. Robert Frey, a retired mechanical engineer who attends St. Paul's, signed up with Greenmountain after company officials came to the church for Easter service, and he is now the resident green convert in his condominium complex in nearby Morris Township.
Mr. Frey has persuaded the condominium board to allow him to present a plan this fall for converting the common areas of the complex to green energy. He is preparing his presentation now, and his faith is driving him.
"If you're a family that wants to save 10 percent and buy the dirty energy, that's your choice," Mr. Frey said. "But is it beneficial to your children and grandchildren? I think not. How can you get that message across to people without religion?"
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photo: The Rev. Franklin Vilas of Chatham, N.J., is the intellectual leader of an effort to get churches and synagogues to use cleaner energy sources. (Richard Perry/The New York Times)(pg. B4)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: NEW JERSEY, USA (94%); VERMONT, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: PARTNERS FOR ENVIRONMENTAL QUALITY (59%); 

ORGANIZATION: PARTNERS FOR ENVIRONMENTAL QUALITY (59%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW JERSEY; UNITED STATES (94%); NEW JERSEY, USA (94%); VERMONT, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: ELECTRIC LIGHT AND POWER RELIGION (93%); DEREGULATION (90%); UTILITIES INDUSTRY (90%); ELECTRIC POWER INDUSTRY (90%); ENVIRONMENT & NATURAL RESOURCES (89%); NATURAL GAS & ELECTRIC UTILITIES (89%); ENERGY & ENVIRONMENT (89%); FOSSIL FUEL POWER PLANTS (89%); POWER PLANTS (89%); RENEWABLE ENERGY (89%); ELECTRICITY TRANSMISSION & DISTRIBUTION (89%); ENVIRONMENTALISM (89%); WIND POWER PLANTS (88%); ELECTRICITY MARKETS (79%); HYDROELECTRIC POWER (79%); ELECTRIC POWER PLANTS (79%); SOLAR ENERGY (79%); WIND ENERGY (79%); ENERGY & UTILITY TRADE (74%); CHRISTIANS & CHRISTIANITY (72%); CLERGY & RELIGIOUS (71%); COAL FIRED PLANTS (68%); LANDFILLS (62%); HISTORY (50%); 

PERSON: JOHNSON, KIRK RICK PERRY (51%); 

LOAD-DATE: July 10, 2000



242 of 757 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: July 10, 2000

SECTION: Section A; Page 17; Column 1; National Desk 

LENGTH: 429 words

HEADLINE: N.A.A.C.P. Leader Urges Blacks to Vote to Save Civil Rights

BYLINE: AP 

DATELINE: BALTIMORE, July 9

 BODY:
Saying one more conservative vote on the Supreme Court could bring a setback for civil rights advocacy, the chairman of the N.A.A.C.P. urged delegates to the group's convention tonight to use their voting franchise in November.
The chairman, Julian Bond, who leads the group's national board, also said in a speech that the National Association for the Advancement of Colored People would continue its boycott against South Carolina even though the Confederate battle flag had been lowered from the Statehouse there. 
 "Where else on the face of the earth do the losers get to fly their flag as if they had won?" Mr. Bond asked.
Mr. Bond's speech served as the official start of the N.A.A.C.P.'s 91st annual convention, which is expected to be attended by 10,000 members.
Presidential politics will take center stage at the convention when Gov. George W. Bush of Texas addresses the group on Monday and Vice President Al Gore speaks on Wednesday.
Though the group does not endorse candidates, Mr. Bond said that voting was an important responsibility and that not voting could have dire consequences for civil rights.
He noted that 5-to-4 decisions had prevailed in several crucial Supreme Court rulings and said that "in 65 percent of these cases the right-wing position carried the day."
"Your one vote could translate into two, three or even four votes on the Supreme Court," he said, "determining whether the court will be a refuge for civil rights or a dumping ground."
On the flag issue, Mr. Bond said the N.A.A.C.P. would keep in place its economic boycott in South Carolina.
The Confederate flag was removed from the Capitol dome on July 1 but was placed on a flagpole on state grounds. The N.A.A.C.P. said the flag should be removed entirely and housed in a museum-like setting.
"There will be no compromise on this issue," Mr. Bond said. "The N.A.A.C.P. boycott will continue until the flag is removed from a place of honor and put in its rightful place as an artifact of history."
The national N.A.A.C.P. last year called for nationwide boycott of tourism, athletic contests, cultural events and film-making in South Carolina to pressure lawmakers to remove the flag from at the statehouse dome.
Earlier today, about a dozen protesters waved the Confederate battle flag outside the convention. The protesters said the N.A.A.C.P.'s campaign to have the banner removed from all public properties was an attack on Southern heritage.
"Leave our flag alone," said Richard Gebo, a Virginian now living in Pennsylvania. "That's all we have left."
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photo: Julian Bond, N.A.A.C.P. chairman, said last night that in many crucial Supreme Court decisions "the right-wing position carried the day." (Associated Press) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: SOUTH CAROLINA, USA (94%); PENNSYLVANIA, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: SUPREME COURT (US); NATIONAL ASSN FOR THE ADVANCEMENT OF COLORED PEOPLE NATIONAL ASSOCIATION FOR FEMALE EXECUTIVES (57%); NATIONAL ASSOCIATION FOR THE ADVANCEMENT OF COLORED PEOPLE (94%); 

ORGANIZATION: SUPREME COURT (US); NATIONAL ASSN FOR THE ADVANCEMENT OF COLORED PEOPLE NATIONAL ASSOCIATION FOR THE ADVANCEMENT OF COLORED PEOPLE (94%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: SOUTH CAROLINA; UNITED STATES (94%); SOUTH CAROLINA, USA (94%); PENNSYLVANIA, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: BLACKS; FLAGS, EMBLEMS AND INSIGNIA; BOYCOTTS; ELECTIONS SUPREME COURTS (91%); CONSERVATISM (90%); CONFERENCES & CONVENTIONS (90%); CIVIL RIGHTS (90%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (89%); BOYCOTTS (89%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (89%); ELECTIONS (78%); DECISIONS & RULINGS (78%); POLITICS (78%); POLITICAL PARTY CONVENTIONS (78%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (78%); MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (66%); 

PERSON: BOND, JULIAN AL GORE (58%); GEORGE W BUSH (58%); 

LOAD-DATE: July 10, 2000



243 of 757 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: July 10, 2000

SECTION: Section D; Page 6; Column 6; Sports Desk 

LENGTH: 631 words

HEADLINE: BASEBALL;
Series Wasn't Total Loss For Mets

BYLINE: By MURRAY CHASS 

 BODY:
The Major League Baseball people who created interleague play obviously had the Mets and the Yankees in mind. A few other matchups of geographical rivals as well, perhaps, but Mets-Yankees was the prototype series. The six games in New York this season indeed have been lucrative economically for the teams, and the fans especially found the four weekend games intense and definitely worth watching.
The Mets, however, want to know who wrote the script that left them losing three of the four games. They salvaged the fourth and final game last night, edging the Yankees, 2-0, at Shea Stadium as Mike Hampton, working on three days' rest instead of his customary four, pitched a strong seven innings and Armando Benitez completed the shutout. 
 The Mets came into the series confident that they were on their way up in the National League East standing. They were only a game and a half behind the obstinate Atlanta Braves, and the Braves figured to have as good a chance of losing as winning in their three-game series in Boston. But the Braves won two of the games and doubled their lead over the Mets to three games.
If it is any consolation to the Mets, the three games at Shea drew 162,583 fans, the largest attendance for a three-game series in Mets history. Last night's attendance, 54,286, was the largest single-game crowd in 30 years.
The six games, four of which the Yankees won, attracted 330,065 paying customers, and neither the Mets nor the Yankees could ask for anything better than that. Nor could the fans ask for games better than the weekend produced, although Mets fans would be entitled to ask why the Mets did not win more of them.
Unlike many of the games in this season of inflated offense, all four games were low-scoring affairs. The Yankees won the first three, by scores of 2-1, 4-2 and 4-2. They hardly make that kind anymore.
But well after the scores of the individual games are forgotten, this season's interborough rivalry will be remembered for the split-stadium doubleheader Saturday and the Roger Clemens pitch that hit Mike Piazza in the head, effectively knocking him out of the last two games and the All-Star Game tomorrow night in Atlanta, where he was to have appeared as the National League's leading vote-getter in the fan ballotting.
Playing in Piazza's place last night, Todd Pratt contributed two key plays to the victory. In each instance he threw out a runner trying to steal second base, completing a double play that began with a strikeout. In the first inning, Pratt caught Chuck Knoblauch as Derek Jeter struck out and in the eighth he nailed Jose Vizcaino as Knoblauch struck out. Pratt also scored the second run after leading off the seventh inning with a walk.
The Clemens-Piazza incident continued to produce repercussions, though not on the field. Both teams had wondered if the umpires, intent on keeping peace, would issue a warning to them before the game when the lineups were exchanged at home plate. They did not, but neither Hampton nor Benitez hit a Yankees batter. The Mets, for the moment, were content with winning a game. That need took precedence over retaliation.
If the Mets had taken a bigger lead, perhaps a pitch might have strayed close to a Yankees batter, but Andy Pettitte and a succession of relief pitchers held the Mets close.
If the level of heat between the teams subsides, it will do so only because the teams do not play each other again this season. But if Piazza should encounter problems hitting as a result of the beaning, the ill will will last well into the off-season and even carry over to the interleague games next season.
Of course, the Mets and the Yankees could meet again sooner than next season. Now that would be the ultimate subway series, the World Series. 
http://www.nytimes.com

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (90%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (90%); GEORGIA, USA (70%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (55%); 

CITY: ATLANTA, GA, USA (70%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (58%); BOSTON, MA, USA (55%); 

COMPANY: NEW YORK METS; NEW YORK YANKEES NEW YORK YANKEES (94%); NEW YORK METS (94%); NEW YORK YANKEES (94%); MAJOR LEAGUE BASEBALL (91%); ATLANTA BRAVES (91%); MAJOR LEAGUE BASEBALL (91%); ATLANTA BRAVES (91%); 

ORGANIZATION: NEW YORK METS; NEW YORK YANKEES NEW YORK YANKEES (94%); NEW YORK METS (94%); NEW YORK YANKEES (94%); MAJOR LEAGUE BASEBALL (91%); ATLANTA BRAVES (91%); MAJOR LEAGUE BASEBALL (91%); ATLANTA BRAVES (91%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (90%); NEW YORK, USA (90%); GEORGIA, USA (70%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (55%); ATLANTA, GA, USA (70%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (58%); BOSTON, MA, USA (55%); 

SUBJECT: BASEBALL BASEBALL (92%); SPORTS FANS (89%); STADIUMS & ARENAS (89%); SPORTS & RECREATION EVENTS (78%); 

PERSON: CHASS, MURRAY DEREK JETER (58%); 

LOAD-DATE: July 10, 2000



244 of 757 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: July 10, 2000

SECTION: Section B; Page 1; Column 2; Metropolitan Desk 

LENGTH: 1407 words

HEADLINE: Where to Feed the Love of Con and Candy

BYLINE: By DAN BARRY 

DATELINE: SEASIDE HEIGHTS, N.J.

 BODY:
The man who prefers to be called Frankie, not Frank, is sunbathing on the Boardwalk, as human action figures and the women who love them strut past. He has his shirt rolled up to expose a belly as white as anything coming out of that frozen-custard machine a few yards away.
He is taking a break from his concession stall, which includes a pop-the-balloon game, a shoot-the-basketball game and his baby -- the franchise -- a "Shoot the Geek" game he created. "It took a lot of intelligence," he says. 
 Carnival aficionados will wonder whether Frankie Rainey has resurrected from infamy the geek show, which involved biting the heads off live chickens and -- well, never mind. His attraction sheds no blood, but it is every bit as primal, every bit as brainless: a kid earning $6 an hour and dressed in a secondhand hockey goalie's outfit prances about while people shoot him with 30 paint balls out of a semiautomatic gun.
Cost: $5. Time spent: 45 seconds, maybe.
It is a beautiful thing, Mr. Rainey says with a roll of his shoulders. "I had the idea of 'Shoot the Geek,' and they took to it."
We, of course, are "they": who accounted for 309 million visits to amusement parks last year, who spent a combined $9.1 billion to have our insides rearranged on some loop-the-loop ride, to vent our road rage on a doe-eyed kid in the next bumper car, to shoot the geek. We are the suckers, the rubes, the marks seeking safe thrills and some trophy attesting to our prowess with a mallet or water pistol. A stuffed animal is the goal, but a plastic ring will do.
Many of us gravitate toward what the amusement industry calls F.E.C.'s -- family entertainment centers -- where the air smacks of manufactured confection. But those establishments owe a debt to their older, mischievous cousins, places where beach sand salts the funnel cake, the guys operating the rides are scarier than the rides themselves, and the soda-soaked boardwalk grips like a no-pest strip.
A place like Seaside Heights.
For decades the mile-long Boardwalk has beckoned with its come-hither lights, twinkling like a multicolored mirage on the shores of the Atlantic. It is the defiant reprobate of the Jersey Shore, outliving the disapproval of neighboring religious retreats, rebuilding itself after a vicious northeaster caused it to be consumed in rain and fire in 1955.
John Camera, the administrator of the Seaside Heights borough, says the community has made strides in polishing its somewhat seamy image. A million-dollar investment in the main road, known as the Boulevard, has attracted new businesses, and the Boardwalk itself has undergone improvements: new bathrooms, attractive garbage cans, and the periodic replacement of the Southern yellow-pine slats that bear the weight of thousands of summer visitors a day.
But Mr. Camera says the borough's elders have tried not to tamper with their home's gaudy essence. "We realize there are a lot of aspects of Seaside Heights that are honky-tonk, a throwback to the 1950's," he said. "Much of the Boardwalk looks very similar to the way it did in the 50's. And we appreciate that."
That includes the necessary assault on the senses, from the barkers shouting check-it-out come-ons above a Wurlitzer organ's grind to that perfect melange of aromas: sausage, onions, frying dough, beer, cigarette smoke, sweat. It includes the prides of teenage boys and girls sporting tattoos that will blur blue with time. And it includes the denizens, the Frankie Raineys, who bring world-weariness to amusement.
In the winter he deals blackjack in Atlantic City, but in the summer he manages his "Shoot the Geek" stall, which requires constant attention. First, there is the help, he says, pointing to an employee who appears to be approaching a Zenlike state. Then there is the scheduling: "Usually I have four geeks on hand, working three- and four-hour shifts."
Perhaps because of prolonged exposure to the sun, Mr. Rainey begins to explain the open secrets of the Boardwalk. Hold on to your straw boaters: it's all a scam.
For example, there are two approaches to the old score-a-basket, win-a-prize game. There is the one-shot-for-$2 game, just up the Boardwalk, which uses overinflated balls and small, bent hoops set at a considerable distance. Or there is the friendlier, dollar-a-ball game, offered by Mr. Rainey, with deflated balls and wide hoops positioned much closer to the shooter.
"The way we zing 'em is the prize," he explains. The prize is worth maybe 40 cents, so even if the customer wins, he loses. But he gets to show off for his girlfriend or his kid; that means he will want to come back again and be the Big Man, eagerly throwing his money away. "It's all psychology," says the man behind "Shoot the Geek." "It's all how you lay it down."
A few doors up from Mr. Rainey's psychological experiment is Lucky Leo's, where patrons play video poker and Skee-Ball to win points that can be redeemed for prizes reverently displayed in glass cases. The establishment's economy would be beyond the ken of Keynes: a plastic ring is worth 5 points; a rabbit's foot, 500 points; a ceramic "Holy Cross" or a pair of "Magic Glasses," 800 points; a 12-inch oscillating fan, 15,000 points; a gold-plated flatware set, 90,000 points; and an autographed jersey signed by the quarterback Steve Young, 300,000 points.
That is a lot of Skee-Ball.
Out on the Boardwalk, a man struggles to find a scientific method for launching a rubber frog, by mallet, into a plastic flower; a sign -- "Frog body must be in flower to win" -- heightens the pressure. Nearby, people throw their quarters away, in the vain hope that one will land on a glass plate. Above the clinking, the pot-bellied barker shouts out the odd question: "How about it?"
In the bowels of the Boardwalk, in a maze of rooms beneath the carousel, there is a glass-encased booth where crumpled cigarette stubs clutter an ashtray and faded photographs of old Little League teams hang on the wall. This is the domain of Bill Erwin, the bleary-eyed general manager of Casino Pier, a section of the Boardwalk that includes 34 rides and dozens of arcades.
"First aid?" he says into a walkie-talkie, as the smoke of yet another cigarette curls into his eyes. "Can you head down to the miniature golf course? Bring a bandage and some peroxide. Little girl cut her foot."
He is 60 years old, a former high school teacher, a local. He has spent the last 45 summers at the Boardwalk, and has done it all: operating games of chance, owning a few rides, running a stand dedicated to Taylor pork roll. He has the right to say what few others can: "Believe me, I've sliced thousands and thousands of pounds of Taylor pork roll."
He has seen some attractions fall out of favor -- Taylor pork roll, for one -- and others emerge to fill the void. He has seen lean times and flush times, all of which have taught him one thing: the weather rules. A few years ago it was a string of rainy weekends, not the economy, that sucker-punched the Boardwalk.
Mr. Erwin lumbers up the stairs, past the fun mirrors and onto the Boardwalk. He glides through the crowds to chat with some of the foreign-exchange students -- from Belarus, Kenya, Latvia, Poland -- working the booths, and to check on the rides he owns: the Poltergeist, the Gravitron and the Tornado. Yes, he says, there is a bit of a con going on, and yes, the sounds and smells can be a bit overwhelming. But think of Seaside Heights as though it were a show on Broadway, he says. "Remember: it's all a stage."
Mr. Erwin looks up, crinkles his face in concern and says, "I smell dampness."
He is right. Soon an evening storm will cleanse the Boardwalk of spilled beer, melted ice cream -- and people. But before it comes, Wilbert Jackson, a water company employee from Teaneck, pitches a plastic ring into a sea of bottles. It bounces about before coming to rest, miraculously, around the top of one bottle: a winner.
"A big lucky vinner today!" barks the Polish exchange student operating the booth, as Mr. Jackson screams for joy and hugs his wife and two young children.
"I won a bicycle!" he shouts. "First time I won anything in my life!"
The family chooses a yellow Huffy that hangs from the ceiling, and then Mr. Jackson treats everyone to funnel cake. As the rain begins, he walks the bicycle off the Boardwalk, gripping its handlebars as though he half expects it to disappear.
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photos: Vacationers come to towns like Seaside Heights, N.J., hoping for safe thrills or a cheap trophy. They hear again that old song, the harangue of the Boardwalk barker. (Keith Meyers/The New York Times)(pg. B1); WHERE MEMORY MEETS DESIRE -- Seaside Heights, N.J., is a place where you can test your taste for thrills on a high ride, your taste for all the cotton candy you shouldn't eat, your eye for handling a toy handgun, and whether you're tall enough yet to measure up. A local official acknowledges that the place is "a throwback to the 1950's" but "we appreciate that." (Photographs by KEITH MEYERS/The New York Times)(pg. B5)
 
Map of New Jersey showing location of Seaside Heights: Seaside Heights has survived vicious weather and neighbors' disapproval. (pg. B5)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (79%); 

STATE: NEW JERSEY, USA (79%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: SEASIDE HEIGHTS (NJ); UNITED STATES (79%); NEW JERSEY, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: AMUSEMENT PARKS TOYS & GAMES (90%); TRAVEL HOSPITALITY & TOURISM (89%); AMUSEMENT & THEME PARKS (88%); ATHLETES (76%); SPORTS & RECREATION EVENTS (76%); AMUSEMENTS & GAMING (74%); BASKETBALL (71%); POULTRY (69%); BEACHES (68%); SHOOTINGS (56%); 

PERSON: BARRY, DAN FRANKIE RAINEY (75%); FRANKIE RAINEYS (56%); 

LOAD-DATE: July 10, 2000



245 of 757 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: July 10, 2000
Correction Appended

SECTION: Section C; Page 1; Column 4; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 1218 words

HEADLINE: MEDIA;
Brash, Hard-Driving Executive Steers CNBC to Top of Cable News

BYLINE: By JIM RUTENBERG 

 BODY:
Three years ago, Bill Bolster, still new to the president's job at CNBC, announced an ambitious dream: his financial news network would beat CNN, then the dominant news provider on cable, in the cable TV ratings war.
Though it seemed at the time a distant, almost improbable goal, two weeks ago Mr. Bolster achieved it. New Nielsen Media Research data showed that for the first time in its 11-year history, CNBC had averaged a higher daily audience than CNN for a three-month period. 
 In short, CNBC had become the highest-rated news and information network on cable television, ending CNN's long reign and cementing its reputation as a leading media organization of the new economy.
For Mr. Bolster, 56, the ratings represent a crowning victory in a 35-year career in broadcasting. Although he is widely described as a tyrannical bully who often offends colleagues, he is admired as a TV genius gifted not only at packaging and promoting programming but also at selling it to advertisers at top dollar.
But despite his status as king of TV financial news, Mr. Bolster is more a product of Main Street than of Wall Street -- a media mogul who is far from media-ready.
Mr. Bolster, who is 6-foot 4-inches tall and hulking, has spent most of his career in local markets out of the glare of the national spotlight, making him an unlikely leader for a network noted for having made financial news interesting to everyday people around the country. CNBC is now a regular fixture not only in brokerage houses and newsrooms, but also in gyms and bars.
"As the market has gone up, and in some ways become, at its worst, the national lottery, CNBC has grown right along with it," said Tom Wolzien, a media analyst at Sanford C. Bernstein. "They're part of the democratization of the stock market."
Mr. Bolster is credited both inside and outside his organization with making CNBC a highly profitable entity with mass appeal by incorporating some of the flashy graphics and hype associated with local television news while applying some of the bare-knuckled sales tactics emblematic of local markets.
Under his tenure, CNBC's ad rates have risen more than threefold, and profits have more than doubled, executives said. CNBC, which does not break out its financial results separately from its parent, General Electric, estimates that it will end the year with $280 million in profit.
Mr. Bolster first learned about sales, he said, from his father William, who owned Sweeney's, a women's ready-to-wear business in Waterloo, Iowa, and who also had an investment in Black Hawk Broadcasting , which started out as a small radio group. As a teenager, he would help his father with the books.
"That's where I learned the fundamentals of business," Mr. Bolster said during an interview at CNBC headquarters in Fort Lee, N.J. But he said he did not become hooked on broadcasting until after college, when he became an announcer and ad salesman at KDTH radio in Dubuque, Iowa. He later moved to Waterloo's KWWL-TV, which was owned by Black Hawk, working up to general manager before moving in 1983 to KSDK-TV, the NBC affiliate in St. Louis, as general manager.
Mr. Bolster produced major victories during his time in local television. KSDK was the No. 3 station in St. Louis when Mr. Bolster arrived. He brought it to first place in two years with heavy promotions; an early-morning local news program, which was the first in St. Louis; and an afternoon talk show, "The Sally Jesse Raphael Show."
As head of the news committee of the NBC network's affiliates board, he helped persuade the network in 1991 to delay the beginning of "The Tonight Show" by five minutes, so stations would have more ad time to sell during their late newscasts. Mr. Bolster arrived in New York as a virtual unknown in late 1991, as the general manager of the local NBC station, WNBC-TV, and scored early ratings victories by heavily using promotions, starting the city's first early-morning local news program and introducing flourishes like a news helicopter and high-technology weather radar.
"All of his competitors were saying, 'Who is this guy from St. Louis?' " said Tony Guida, now an anchor with CNNfn who was at WNBC when Mr. Bolster arrived. "He just cleaned their clocks. He knew how to market and sell TV better than anyone I've ever worked with."
Mr. Guida added, "And I say that grudgingly because there is no love lost between us."
Mr. Guida is one many on-air people and broadcasting executives who say they have clashed with Mr. Bolster, and who use the phrase "bull in a china shop" to describe him.
He is said to have a propensity for making off-color remarks and riding people extremely hard. "He is coarse, impolitic, boorish -- a bully," said Peter W. Barnes, a former CNBC reporter now working for a new financial news Web site, JAGfn.com. Mr. Barnes said he had clashed with Mr. Bolster when he tried to break his contract a few months early and was refused.
Mr. Bolster describes himself as one to speak his mind but says that he never intends to purposely offend. "If I've done something, uncharacteristically, that offends on a very personal basis -- not professionally, because professionally, that's my job -- I've got to go back and say I'm sorry, I'm wrong," he said.
Certainly his business manner is full-speed ahead. Upon his arrival at CNBC in 1996 Mr. Bolster quickly began making changes.
Within two weeks, he had changed the CNBC logo, incorporating the NBC peacock. He introduced new wrinkles like real-time stock quotes and market meters that perpetually run on the screen.
He raised ad rates by arguing to Madison Avenue that he was delivering a higher-income viewer whom Nielsen could not measure. To prove it, he gave a real estate firm free time slots advertising a $3.5 million house in Fort Lauderdale, Fla. There were 400 respondents.
On programming, he and his team approached the stock market as a big event, a daily Super Bowl.
"So you say, geez, let's do a pregame show, and it's going to be 'Squawk Box,' " Mr. Bolster said, referring to CNBC's opening-bell show. "Then you've got a game. And then the post-game show."
Unfortunately for CNBC, once the game is over -- once the main stock exchanges close for the day -- viewers tend to wander off. Despite CNBC's daytime gains, its prime-time ratings were down by about 24 percent this spring compared with last, pulling significantly smaller audiences than CNN and the Fox News Channel in the time period.
Today, executives plan to announce that one nonfinancial show, "Upfront Tonight," Geraldo Rivera's half-hour news program weeknights at 7:30, will be replaced by an additional half-hour of "Business Center."
There is some debate over how much of CNBC's success belongs to Mr. Bolster, given the public's ravenous appetite for stock market news. And the network's big name stars like Maria Bartiromo were there when he arrived.
But media industry executives say that even if Mr. Bolster was dealt a great hand, he has played it masterfully. "When he first started, I remember he was saying how he was going to take on CNN and win, and I thought he was being overly optimistic," said Tim Spengler, senior vice president at Initiative Media, a media buying firm. "But he was right. He saw what he had."
 
http://www.nytimes.com

CORRECTION-DATE: July 18, 2000, Tuesday

 CORRECTION:
An article in Business Day on July 10 about Bill Bolster, the president of CNBC, misstated his role in the expansion of local morning news programming in New York City. What he started in 1992 was the first weekend morning program, not the first morning program.


GRAPHIC: Photo: Bill Bolster, president of CNBC, made many changes after taking over in 1996. Two weeks ago, he reached his goal of having the largest daily audience for cable news. (Susan B. Markisz for The New York Times)
 
Chart: "Edging Ahead"
In the second quarter CNBC's audience surpassed CNN's for the first time.
 
TOTAL VIEWERS -- Quarterly average, total households, 24 hours, Mon.-Sun.
 
Chart shows total viewers for CNN and CNBC from 1999
 
(Source: Nielsen Media Research)(pg. C14) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: GNE (PAR) (51%); GEC (LSE) (51%); GE (SWX) (51%); GE (NYSE) (51%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS541910 MARKETING RESEARCH & PUBLIC OPINION POLLING (84%); NAICS336412 AIRCRAFT ENGINE & ENGINE PARTS MANUFACTURING (51%); NAICS335222 HOUSEHOLD REFRIGERATOR & HOME FREEZER MANUFACTURING (51%); NAICS335210 SMALL ELECTRICAL APPLIANCE MANUFACTURING (51%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (76%); 

STATE: IOWA, USA (76%); 

COMPANY: CABLE NEWS NETWORK; CNBC (CABLE NETWORK) NIELSEN MEDIA RESEARCH (84%); GENERAL ELECTRIC CO (51%); 

ORGANIZATION: CABLE NEWS NETWORK; CNBC (CABLE NETWORK)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (76%); IOWA, USA (76%); 

SUBJECT: TELEVISION; RATINGS AND RATING SYSTEMS; BIOGRAPHICAL INFORMATION; ADVERTISING CABLE TELEVISION (90%); TELEVISION RATINGS & SHARES (90%); TELEVISION INDUSTRY (90%); TELEVISION PROGRAMMING (89%); CABLE INDUSTRY (78%); COMPANY PROFITS (78%); TELEVISION NEWS SHOWS (78%); LOCAL TELEVISION STATIONS (77%); SALES PLAN (77%); NEW ECONOMY (70%); FINANCIAL RESULTS (67%); LOTTERIES (63%); WOMEN'S CLOTHING (50%); 

PERSON: BOLSTER, BILL; RUTENBERG, JIM TONY GUIDA (55%); 

LOAD-DATE: July 10, 2000



246 of 757 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: July 11, 2000

SECTION: Section E; Page 6; Column 4; The Arts/Cultural Desk 

LENGTH: 983 words

HEADLINE: BOOKS OF THE TIMES;
An Insider Battles the Inner-City Trap

BYLINE: By RICHARD BERNSTEIN 

 BODY:

TUFF
By Paul Beatty
259 pages. Alfred A. Knopf. $23.
The eponymous Tuff of Paul Beatty's new novel is a smart small-time hoodlum from the streets of East Harlem who sees things as they are and whose dreams that they might be different smash up against the jagged edges of reality. He is 19, married and the father of a small boy, and he is surrounded by a cast of characters who, like Tuff himself, are outside the usual categories.
His best friend is a disabled anti-Semitic black Muslim who is always coming up with get-rich schemes, legal and otherwise. His father is a cant-spouting former Black Panther who begins poetry readings by firing shotgun shells into the auditorium ceiling. His self-appointed mentor is a black rabbi named Spencer Throckmorton, who converted to Judaism to marry his college sweetheart and became a rabbi even though she later left him. Tuff, whose real name is Winston Foshay, decides about midway through Mr. Beatty's satirical ghetto romp to run for city council, raising money by working in a three-card monte scam in midtown Manhattan. 
 "Tuff," in other words, is an extravagant, satirical cri de coeur from the inner city, centering on that most common of all sociological concepts, the young black urban male, which is Mr. Beatty's principal literary subject. This gifted writer's first novel, "The White Boy Shuffle," was about one Gunnar Kaufman, who in moving from middle-class Santa Monica to meaner, grittier Hillside, Calif., has to learn to handle himself in the urban arena. Mr. Beatty's new book shifts the scene from Los Angeles to New York, and from a neophyte home boy to a native son, but it stays within the genre of comic parody, with its poison darts aimed both at the black urban male himself and the sociologists who have conceptualized him.
"Tuff" is a funny book, and Mr. Beatty's blunt, impious, streetwise eloquence has a kind of transfixing power. The serious point, though never put in serious political-science language by Mr. Beatty, would seem to be the subtle power of the inner city trap, with Winston and his friends hemmed in by stiff-necked victim-culture ideologues in one corner, self-defeating in-group machismo in another and an indifferent economic system in the third.
The main ingredient of "Tuff" is portraiture, word-rich, profanity- and caricature-drenched tableaus of Winston and the off-kilter world in which he dwells. Skillfully drawn as those tableaus are, one yearns for Mr. Beatty to advance beyond his absurdist color photos of Winston's world, to do something more than slash our conventional notions into scraps.
Advance to what exactly is difficult to say. Maybe something deeper and more affecting than Winston's insouciant, self-defeating confrontation with the limitations of his world. Mr. Beatty's genre-busting technique, his mingling of parody with naturalism, seems aimed at avoiding stock situations, ghetto stereotypes. His book is a kind of anti-"Shaft" in this sense, and that is most welcome. But his unwillingness to shed the transgressive comic mode also subjects his narrative to a talky, meandering quality and a tendency to end up not in ghetto stereotypes but in ghetto slapstick.
We first meet Winston waking up from a faint in a Brooklyn tenement that has just been the scene of some drug-gang murders. That Winston fainted, and that his childhood memories are of being teased because of his bulk, lead the reader into mistaking him for a hapless figure, too flabby for the mean streets. In fact Winston is fat but far from hapless. He casually steps around the corpses, joins up with his best friend, whose name is Fariq, and heads toward East Harlem, where he is a man who knows his way around.
"If all the world's a stage, the stoop at 258 East 109th Street was his proscenium of Ghetto Tragedy," Mr. Beatty's narrator says. Soon Winston has laid out an auxiliary policeman with a punch to the chin and shot his dog. Then he tells one of his friends, an unregenerate leftist revolutionary named Inez Yomura, what it's like to stab somebody.
Winston, talking the talk of the street, refers to himself and to almost everybody with the most insulting racial epithet in the language, appropriated by the hip-hop culture as a kind of insider's insignia. Mr. Beatty's attempt in his portrayal of Winston parallels Winston's own almost pornographic use of the word, and of the sexual and racial meanness of his nonstop patter. You feel the impulse to dislike Winston, to judge him, but you can't, partly because he has charm, partly because he sees so clearly and partly because he does want a way out.
The satirical heart of "Tuff" comes when Winston, given the absence of legal ways out, decides to turn his life around by running for city council. His elderly friend Inez gives him $15,000 of the reparation money she got for being held in a Japanese internment camp during World War II, but his campaign is half-hearted and despairing from the beginning, and Mr. Beatty mines it mostly for its satirical potential. One of Winston's opponents, for example, a book writer and ex-astronaut named German Jordan, complains at a debate that despite all he's done for the neighborhood, he still doesn't feel safe parking his Mercedes there. Then he calls on his constituents "to start imagining ourselves beyond race."
"If I'd been to outer space, written books, had dollars, drove a Mercedes-Benz, I'd imagine myself beyond race too," Winston says, in one of the few statements from him that would be quotable in this newspaper. But German Jordan is so much a straw man that the answer Mr. Beatty puts into Winston's mouth doesn't have much grip, serious or satirical. Mr. Beatty sustains his book's verbal vitality to the end, but you wonder whether, having created this raucous group of rugged individuals, he himself knew exactly what to do with them.
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photo: Paul Beatty (Emily Mott/Alfred A. Knopf)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Review

TITLE: TUFF (BOOK)

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (92%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%); LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: SANTA MONICA PLACE (54%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%); NEW YORK, USA (92%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%); LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: BOOKS AND LITERATURE; REVIEWS BOOK REVIEWS (94%); LITERATURE (90%); CITY LIFE (90%); NOVELS & SHORT STORIES (90%); SOCIOLOGY (87%); HUMOROUS LITERATURE (78%); WRITERS (78%); LITERATURE GENRES (78%); CLERGY & RELIGIOUS (76%); JEWS & JUDAISM (75%); HUMANITIES & SOCIAL SCIENCE (73%); MUSLIMS & ISLAM (70%); RELIGION (70%); POETRY (69%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (67%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (67%); CITY GOVERNMENT (67%); POLITICAL SCIENCE (50%); 

PERSON: BEATTY, PAUL; BERNSTEIN, RICHARD CHRISTIAN PAUL (74%); 

LOAD-DATE: July 11, 2000



247 of 757 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: July 11, 2000

SECTION: Section A; Page 4; Column 3; Foreign Desk 

LENGTH: 1350 words

HEADLINE: San Salvador Journal;
Pilgrims Take Inspiration From Martyrs of the 80's

BYLINE: By DAVID GONZALEZ 

DATELINE: SAN SALVADOR

 BODY:
Like a testament to life's stubborn triumph, a rose garden filled with thick, fragrant blossoms rises at the site where soldiers killed six Jesuit priests at the Jose Simeon Canas Central American University in 1989. Nearby, a votive candle flickers in the room where the soldiers then killed a housekeeper and her daughter, hoping to eliminate any witnesses.
It did not work. One woman saw the crime and helped build a case against the gunmen. More important, more than a decade since the killings, tens of thousands of people from around the world have sought out the Jesuit residence's tiny garden to bear their own witness to the faith of eight people they consider martyrs who defended the poor during this country's civil war. 
 Invariably, these pilgrims also trek across town to the chapel at the Divine Providence Hospital where Archbishop Oscar Arnulfo Romero, a vocal opponent of the elite and the violent, was shot dead while celebrating Mass.
They walk through his modest three-room house, where his bloodied vestments hang in the closet and his bedroom calendar is forever turned to the month he was killed -- March 1980. Others go to the countryside to visit the spot where four American churchwomen were also killed by soldiers in December of that year.
Centuries ago, Spanish conquistadors came here for glory, gold and God. Now many visitors come to this nation whose name means the Savior searching for a more elusive treasure along modern-day Stations of the Cross. They come to conquer their own spiritual doubts, looking for lessons from priests, nuns and lay people whose embrace of liberation theology's blend of religion and social activism exacted such a brutal price.
One recent afternoon, the shuffling steps of a dozen Americans from the University of Scranton blended in with the everyday sounds of barking dogs, tinny music and food sizzling in the kitchen of the Jesuit residence.
Slowly, the visitors encircled the garden, where the Rev. Brendan Lally, the Roman Catholic priest leading the group, quietly knelt in prayer. Afterward he plucked a tiny sprig of clover and tucked it into his pocket, like a relic.
"This is a sacred place where people gave their lives for Christ and the Gospel," Father Lally said, "and their deaths make this a holy place and an eternal symbol of the work for justice. This is a faith journey. But it is also an attempt to help us as Catholics understand more deeply our mission by coming to listen deeply to the experiences of our brothers in El Salvador and the stories of the people of El Salvador."
It is a heartening sight to the Rev. Dean Brackley, a American theologian who came to El Salvador to replace his fallen Jesuit brothers at the Central American University. He sees it as a resurrection of sorts, one that is reflected in the experiences of the dozens of delegations he ushers through here each year.
"This place, we export more hope than coffee," he said. "With all the violence, we still export hope. That is why people still come."
Yet as strong as the attraction is for visiting delegations, the religious movement that attracts them has lost ground here. The popular church, formed of communities that grounded their political and social activism for the poor in Scripture, was once virtually the only nonviolent voice speaking out against the government during the war. Now it competes to be heard.
The killings of the Jesuits and the two women drew international scorn for the government and helped to propel the peace effort that ended the war. But the popularity and influence of the grass-roots church has since waned.
Former guerrilla leaders now speak freely and have entered elective politics, evangelical Protestants have recruited thousands of Salvadorans wary of an activist Catholic clergy and skeptical of political engagement, and a conservative Catholic hierarchy looks at adherents of liberation theology as sick brethren in need of more orthodox spiritual healing.
"The hierarchy represents a line of thinking that does not look for repercussions or any social or political change," said the Rev. Rafael de Sivatte, chairman of Central American University's theology department. "It represents a religion that only deals with personal change and repentance of sins. It is an internal religion that looks at the individual with a spirituality that is very much in the air without reference to reality."
The church's challenge in peace, he said, is to find the unity that was forged and tested to the breaking point during the civil war from 1979 to 1992. Although the conflict has ended, he said, many Salvadorans still lack jobs, housing and medical care.
"We have to be even firmer than before," he said. "People have lost their aspirations and are happy with small economic advances. We have to tell people not to be content with any little thing. People say if they are working and have a little money, why should they struggle for others to work? That was a great value we had in the war. But it is being lost."
Enough of the popular movement remains in parishes like San Bartolo in the town of Ilopango, where teachers from the Central American University offer theology classes to the congregation. The students, mostly working adults, take part in discussions of social justice, grounded in the Bible.
"You have to read the newspaper, too, if you read Scripture," said Felipe Miando, a truck driver who recently enrolled in the class. "We went through a war. In the Bible, the Israelites were subjected to the Roman Empire. We were subjected to the empire of the United States and the rich of El Salvador."
The movement for a more socially relevant religion has also been buoyed in recent months by the huge crowds that came to San Salvador to mark the 20th anniversary of Archbishop Romero's assassination, as well as to commemorate the killings at the university. Their visits are familiar to Sister Rosa Avalos, who tends to the chapel where Bishop Romero was killed.
"Sometimes they come here right from the airport," she said. "They want to know where a prophet, saint and martyr lived. Sometimes they come to thank God after asking Bishop Romero's intercession in everything from health, work or some difficulty they have. Their only recourse is to ask God through him."
Outside the archbishop's former home, beside a mural of him smiling by the shore of a lake, dozens of stones are embedded in a wall, each one thanking the archbishop for answered prayers. But there are more everyday miracles to be found among the pilgrims who come here.
For them, the survival of the popular church has been imbued with a deep meaning that can be personal, political or both. They go to parishes in poor communities where people share their many stories and little food with them. They stand in silence at the relics of the Jesuit martyrs, including a book whose bloodstained cover reads "The Crucified God."
"What I want to bring back to Pennsylvania with me is this spirit of community," said Sean Farry, a college administrator who was making his second trip to El Salvador. "Here titles are dropped and you get to know the Salvadoran people. What I find about them is their spirituality. It strikes me as being part of their everyday lives and how they rely on their faith. When there is nothing else to depend on, they can't depend on the government to help them. They have to turn to God."
Mary Rowland stood inside the university's museum, which is dedicated to the slain clergy and lay people, shaking her head as she looked at the threadbare clothes, now darkened with blood, that the Jesuits were wearing when they were shot.
"My goodness," she whispered. "They took the time to get dressed. Good for them."
She said she had to come here. "Hopefully, this will make me more sensitive to other people," she said. "I want to trust people in a straightforward way. I know I fail miserably in that."
She looked at a case where tiny jars were filled with soil from where the priests died.
"This should never happen again," she said. "But it will."
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photo: The Rev. Brendan Lally of the University of Scranton kneeling where soldiers killed six Jesuit priests in 1989. (David Gonzalez/The New York Times)
 
Map of San Salvador: San Salvador commemorates Archbishop Romero and others.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: CENTRAL AMERICA (93%); UNITED STATES (93%); EL SALVADOR (93%); 

CITY: SAN SALVADOR, EL SALVADOR (90%); 

COMPANY: ROMAN CATHOLIC CHURCH CENTRAL AMERICAN UNIVERSITY (56%); 

ORGANIZATION: ROMAN CATHOLIC CHURCH CENTRAL AMERICAN UNIVERSITY (56%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: EL SALVADOR; CENTRAL AMERICA (93%); UNITED STATES (93%); EL SALVADOR (93%); SAN SALVADOR, EL SALVADOR (90%); 

SUBJECT: CIVIL WAR AND GUERRILLA WARFARE; ASSASSINATIONS AND ATTEMPTED ASSASSINATIONS; JESUITS; NUNS; POLITICS AND GOVERNMENT RELIGION (94%); CHRISTIANS & CHRISTIANITY (91%); CLERGY & RELIGIOUS (91%); CATHOLICS & CATHOLICISM (91%); WAR & CONFLICT (90%); RELIGIOUS PILGRIMAGES (88%); CIVIL WAR (78%); ASSASSINATION (76%); GUNSHOT WOUNDS (76%); 

PERSON: ROMERO, OSCAR ARNULFO (ABP); GONZALEZ, DAVID

LOAD-DATE: July 11, 2000



248 of 757 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: July 11, 2000

SECTION: Section A; Page 6; Column 1; Foreign Desk 

LENGTH: 465 words

HEADLINE: Alcohol Ban And a Curfew On U.S. Bases In Okinawa

BYLINE: By STEPHANIE STROM 

DATELINE: TOKYO, July 10

 BODY:
In a concession to local concerns about the behavior of American soldiers stationed in Okinawa, the United States military has indefinitely banned the drinking of alcoholic beverages between midnight and 5 a.m. and prohibited its personnel from leaving their bases during those hours.
The curfew was imposed after a hit-and-run accident involving a staff sergeant stationed at the United States Air Force's Kadena Air Base early Sunday morning. A pedestrian was injured in the accident and the sergeant was later caught. The authorities investigating the accident said it appeared that alcohol was involved.
 
 This latest incident follows an apology from the highest-ranking United States military official in Okinawa after a marine was arrested last week for allegedly entering a house and molesting a 14-year-old girl while she was sleeping.
"The goal of this policy is to enhance discipline among service members and prevent the recurrence of liberty incidents," the military said in a statement today.
Japanese officials have asked the military to take steps to address the problem of crimes committed by its servicemen, an issue that has long bedeviled relations between local residents and the government of the prefecture and between the prefecture and the central government. "The fact that another incident of this sort has occurred at a time when we were already seeking tighter official discipline is regrettable," said the chief cabinet secretary, Hidenao Nakagawa, during a regularly scheduled news conference.
The two most recent alleged crimes occurred at a particularly sensitive time for the Japanese government, which is doing its utmost to ensure that the Group of 8 summit meeting of world leaders scheduled for July 21 through July 23 in Okinawa will come off without a hitch.
Police forces around the country have been staging drills in preparation for any trouble that might occur, and the national government has been working feverishly to end a dispute with the United States trade representative over charges imposed by the dominant telephone carrier.
The incidents have also embarrassed the United States. President Clinton's participation in the summit meeting will be the first visit by an American president since the United States returned Okinawa to Japan in 1972, and last week Japan was treated to the sight of Lt. Gen. Earl B. Hailston of the United States Marine Corps, the highest-ranking American officer here, bowing deeply to the prefecture's governor in a striking display of contrition.
About 26,000 of the 48,000 American military personnel in Japan are stationed in Okinawa, and residents of the island have long complained that they are unfairly burdened with the social and economic costs of that situation.
 
http://www.nytimes.com

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (99%); JAPAN (94%); 

STATE: KYUSHU, JAPAN (94%); 

CITY: TOKYO, JAPAN (79%); 

COMPANY: US AIR FORCE (57%); 

ORGANIZATION: US AIR FORCE (57%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: JAPAN; OKINAWA AND OTHER RYUKYU ISLANDS; UNITED STATES (99%); JAPAN (94%); KYUSHU, JAPAN (94%); TOKYO, JAPAN (79%); 

SUBJECT: UNITED STATES ARMAMENT AND DEFENSE; ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGES; ACCIDENTS AND SAFETY; ROADS AND TRAFFIC; CURFEWS; UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; JAPAN-INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS-US CURFEW (90%); ARMED FORCES (90%); LIQUOR LAWS & LICENSING (90%); TALKS & MEETINGS (88%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (86%); MILITARY WEAPONS (78%); US PRESIDENTS (78%); AIR FORCES (78%); MILITARY BASES (78%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (78%); HIT & RUN (77%); TRAFFIC ACCIDENTS (77%); ACCIDENT INVESTIGATIONS (77%); CHILD ABUSE (76%); INVESTIGATIONS (76%); WOUNDS & INJURIES (71%); ARRESTS (69%); TRADE DEVELOPMENT (69%); PRESS CONFERENCES (67%); POLICE FORCES (56%); 

PERSON: STROM, STEPHANIE BILL CLINTON (52%); 

LOAD-DATE: July 11, 2000



249 of 757 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: July 11, 2000

SECTION: Section C; Page 12; Column 3; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 610 words

HEADLINE: THE MARKETS: STOCKS;
Share Prices End Mixed As Earnings Season Begins Dow Manages a Rise as Nasdaq Retrenches

BYLINE: By Reuters 

 BODY:
Stocks ended mixed after a subdued session yesterday, with blue chips pulling ahead and technology issues slipping, as the onset of the earnings reporting season inspired some caution among investors.
Retailers, raw materials producers and manufacturers led the blue-chip sector higher on hopes the Federal Reserve would not raise interest rates again this year. Alcoa rose after posting strong earnings. 
 But technology stocks, including leading computer, semiconductor and software companies, suffered as money was switched into "old economy" sectors.
The blue-chip Dow Jones industrial average finished up 10.60 points, or 0.1 percent, at 10,646.58. The technology-dominated Nasdaq composite index dropped 42.91 points, or 1.1 percent, to 3,980.29, while the Standard & Poor's 500-stock index fell 3.28 points, or 0.22 percent, to 1,475.62.
The June employment report released Friday, which suggested the economy was slowing, heightened expectations that the inflation-fighting Fed would hold its fire at its next policy meeting on Aug. 22. Still, weaker economic growth is a double-edged sword as it is also likely to crimp corporate profits.
"The jobs data raised hopes the Federal Reserve might not need to raise interest rates again this year," said Alan Ackerman, senior vice president and market strategist at Fahnestock & Company. "Market strategists are trying to gauge the effect of a slowing economy on corporate earnings."
The quarterly earnings reporting season started yesterday with Alcoa gaining 2 1/16, to 291 1/16, after its second-quarter profits rose a better-than-expected 57 percent, because of cost-cutting and continued strong demand for aluminum products.
Among the traditional manufacturers, General Motors rose 2 1/4, to 62 3/8, and the home improvements giant Home Depot was up 2 3/8 at 57 3/4. Sears, Roebuck rose 1 1/16, to 36 1/4.
"The retail sector had been pretty hard hit because everybody thought the Federal Reserve was going to bring the economy to a screeching stop," said Michelle Clayman, of New Amsterdam Partners, in New York. "We certainly have seen signs of a slowdown, but the consumer confidence numbers are fairly solid."
 

 	 	 		--------------------	 	
 
Glut Hurts Treasury Prices
By Bloomberg News
Treasury bond prices fell as traders made room for at least $13 billion in corporate debt likely to be sold this week.
"Corporate debt is going to be a better performer as the economy slows to a more sustainable pace," said Kenneth Taubes, co-director of the $1.5 billion in fixed income at Pioneer Investment Management in Boston. He has been buying corporate bonds, like those of Deutsche Telekom, for the higher yields over Treasuries and because he expects that yield difference to narrow over time.
The 10-year Treasury note fell 8/32, to a price of 103 11/32. The note's yield, which moves in the opposite direction from the price, rose to 6.04 percent from 6 percent on Friday.
The price of the 30-year Treasury bond fell 7/32, to 105 5/32. The bond's yield rose to 5.88 percent from 5.87 percent on Friday.
Results of yesterday's Treasury auctions of 3-month and 6-month bills:
 
(000 omitted in dollar figures)

	3-Mo. Bills	6-Mo. Bills	Price	98.509	96.994	High Rate	5.90%	5.94%	Investment Rate	6.07%	6.21%	Low Rate	5.85%	5.90%	Median Rate	5.88%	5.93%	Total applied for	$24,271,751	$19,360,760	Accepted	$7,213,112	$3,580,760	Noncompetitive	$1,248,406	$1,350,266	

Both issues are dated July 10, 2000. The three-month bills mature on Oct. 12, 2000, and the six-month bills mature on Jan. 11, 2001.
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Graph tracks the Dow Jones industrial average over the past year. (Sources: Associated Press; Bloomberg Financial Markets)
 
Tables: "Hot & Cold" provides a look at stocks with large percentage gains and losses; "The Favorites" lists stocks held by largest number of accounts at Merrill Lynch. (Compiled from staff reports, The Associated Press, Bloomberg News, Bridge News, Dow Jones, Reuters) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

LEGISLATION: 106 S. 500 No Official Title Given (87%); 

TICKER: AAI (ASX) (57%); AA (NYSE) (57%); DTE (FRA) (55%); DTE (BIT) (55%); GM (NYSE) (53%); 

INDUSTRY: SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (67%); NAICS331313 ALUMINA REFINING & PRIMARY ALUMINUM PRODUCTION (57%); SIC3334 PRIMARY PRODUCTION OF ALUMINUM (57%); NAICS519130 INTERNET PUBLISHING & BROADCASTING & WEB SEARCH PORTALS (57%); NAICS519110 NEWS SYNDICATES (57%); NAICS511120 PERIODICAL PUBLISHERS (57%); NAICS517210 WIRELESS TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (EXCEPT SATELLITE) (55%); NAICS517110 WIRED TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (55%); SIC4813 TELEPHONE COMMUNICATIONS, EXCEPT RADIOTELEPHONE (55%); SIC5311 DEPARTMENT STORES (53%); NAICS336112 LIGHT TRUCK & UTILITY VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (53%); NAICS336111 AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING (53%); SIC6722 MANAGEMENT INVESTMENT OFFICES, OPEN-END (50%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (79%); 

STATE: MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); 

CITY: BOSTON, MA, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: FAHNESTOCK & CO INC (67%); ALCOA INC (57%); BLOOMBERG LP (57%); DEUTSCHE TELEKOM AG (55%); SEARS ROEBUCK & CO (53%); GENERAL MOTORS CO (53%); PIONEER INVESTMENT MANAGEMENT U S (50%); PIONEER INVESTMENT MANAGEMENT SGR SPA (50%); PIONEER INVESTMENT MANAGEMENT LTD (50%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); BOSTON, MA, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: STOCKS AND BONDS; DOW JONES STOCK AVERAGE; STANDARD & POOR'S 500-STOCK INDEX; NASDAQ COMPOSITE INDEX STOCK INDEXES (96%); COMPANY EARNINGS (92%); ECONOMIC POLICY (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); MARKET OPEN CLOSE (90%); FINANCIAL RESULTS (90%); INTERIM FINANCIAL RESULTS (89%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (89%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (89%); RETAILERS (89%); TREASURY SECURITIES (89%); STOCK EXCHANGES (89%); CORPORATE DEBT (89%); COMPANY PROFITS (89%); CONSUMER CONFIDENCE (89%); CORPORATE BONDS (89%); BONDS (89%); BOND MARKETS (86%); NEW ECONOMY (79%); INVESTMENT MANAGEMENT (79%); RETAIL SECTOR PERFORMANCE (78%); GOVERNMENT BONDS (78%); LABOR SECTOR PERFORMANCE (77%); PRICE CHANGES (77%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (76%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (75%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (73%); INTEREST RATES (72%); SOFTWARE MAKERS (72%); COMPUTER SOFTWARE (71%); EXECUTIVES (71%); 

PERSON: ANN LIVERMORE (55%); 

LOAD-DATE: July 11, 2000



250 of 757 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: July 11, 2000

SECTION: Section C; Page 25; Column 3; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 181 words

HEADLINE: Fed Reports Fast Rise in Consumer Credit

BYLINE: Bloomberg News 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, July 10

 BODY:
Borrowing by consumers rose in May at the fastest pace since the beginning of the year, Federal Reserve statistics showed today.
Consumer credit increased by a larger-than-expected $11.8 billion after rising $8.8 billion in April and $10.7 billion in March. The May figures mean borrowing rose at a 9.8 percent annual rate in May. 
 "Borrowing is being supported by consumer optimism and still-buoyant demand," Joseph Abate, an economist at Lehman Brothers in New York, said in a report. Confidence in June was close to May's record high, the latest figures from the Conference Board showed.
Revolving loans, which include credit cards, increased by $4.6 billion in May after rising $6.5 billion a month earlier. Auto and other loans rose $7.1 billion after increasing $2.3 billion.
Analysts had expected May borrowing to rise by $7.5 billion. Economists watch the Fed's report to help them gauge credit card use and consumer demand. The statistics do not track loans secured by real estate, omitting home equity loans, which have grown in popularity over the last decade. 
http://www.nytimes.com

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: LEH (NYSE) (57%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (57%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (57%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (79%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (55%); 

COMPANY: FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM LEHMAN BROTHERS HOLDINGS INC (57%); FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM (59%); FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM (59%); 

ORGANIZATION: FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM (59%); FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM (59%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%); NEW YORK, USA (55%); 

SUBJECT: CREDIT; CONSUMER CREDIT CONSUMER LENDING (91%); CONSUMER SPENDING & CREDIT (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); CONSUMER CREDIT (90%); REAL ESTATE (87%); CREDIT CARDS (79%); STATISTICS (78%); HOME EQUITY LENDING (74%); CENTRAL BANKS (73%); 

LOAD-DATE: July 11, 2000



251 of 757 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: July 11, 2000

SECTION: Section B; Page 1; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk 

LENGTH: 766 words

HEADLINE: The Big City;
A New Look At Realities Of Divorce

BYLINE: By JOHN TIERNEY 

 BODY:
WHICH sex is mostly to blame for divorce? The answer seems obvious every time a mogul like Donald Trump or Ronald Perelman or Rupert Murdoch dumps his wife.
Conservative preachers and liberal feminists are united in their disdain for philandering men who abandon their children. Journalists (including this one) and politicians of all persuasions have righteously condemned "deadbeat dads." Even Hollywood professes to be appalled at the cads depicted in "The First Wives Club." 
 But there's a problem with the conventional wisdom. Across America, at least two-thirds of divorce suits are filed by women. Researchers who have interviewed divorcing couples have repeatedly found that, in cases where the divorce is not mutally desired, women are more than twice as likely to be the ones who want out. After the split, women are typically happier than their exes.
This trend has inspired what is probably the first paper in the American Journal of Law and Economics ever to be named after a Nancy Sinatra song. In "These Boots Are Made for Walking: Why Most Divorce Filers Are Women," Margaret F. Brinig and Douglas Allen, both economists, analyze all 46,000 divorces filed in one year, 1995, in four different states: Connecticut, Virginia, Montana and Oregon.
They looked for different reasons that would prompt a woman to file for divorce. One would be to escape an abusive husband -- like a man who is adulterous or violent. But in the state with the best records of grievances, Virginia, only 6 percent of divorces were granted on grounds of violence, and husbands were cited for adultery only slightly more often than wives.
"Some women file for divorce because they're exploited in really bad marriages," said Dr. Brinig, a professor of law at the University of Iowa. "But it seems to be a relatively small number, probably less than 20 percent of the cases."
Another impetus to divorce is the belief that your partner is no longer good enough for you. The classic example is the guy who takes a trophy wife after dumping the high-school sweetheart who sacrificed her own potential to put him through medical school, but a woman can be similarly tempted to leave a husband who is less successful than she is.
The researchers found that the better-educated partner, male or female, was indeed more likely to file for divorce. But again these types of divorces seemed to represent less than 20 percent of the cases.
The solution to the mystery, the factor that determined most cases, turned out to be the question of child custody. Women are much more willing to split up because -- unlike men -- they typically do not fear losing custody of the children. Instead, a divorce often enables them to gain control over the children.
"The question of custody absolutely swamps all the other variables," Dr. Brinig said. "Children are the most important asset in a marriage, and the partner who expects to get sole custody is by far the most likely to file for divorce."
THE correlation with custody is so strong, Dr. Brinig said, that she has changed her view about the best way to preserve marriages and protect children. She previously advocated an end to quick no-fault divorces, but now believes that the key is to rewrite custody laws.
In most states, including New York, New Jersey and Connecticut, mothers can fight for and usually win sole custody. But some states have recently begun making joint custody the presumptive norm.
That change in the law seems to be keeping more couples together, according to this study and other work by Dr. Brinig. She and colleagues have noted a decline in divorce in states with joint-custody laws. And when couples do divorce, fathers who share custody are less likely to renege on their child-support payments.
Dr. Brinig favors a law like the one recently enacted in West Virginia, which typically awards each parent a share of custody according to how much time that parent spent with the child during the marriage. Besides eliminating some of the vicious court fights that now take place over custody, she said, such a law could lead to fewer divorces.
"Custody is now a way -- in some marriages the only way -- for women to achieve a real show of force over men," Dr. Brinig said. "If you remove that distortion, it's apt to change the way men and women relate to each other and to their kids. Fathers are likely to spend more time with kids if they can expect to still see them if the marriage doesn't work out. Women will be more likely to see men as parenting partners, and less likely to use divorce as a power play." 
http://www.nytimes.com

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); 

STATE: MONTANA, USA (79%); IOWA, USA (79%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%); MONTANA, USA (79%); IOWA, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: DIVORCE, SEPARATIONS AND ANNULMENTS; WOMEN; MEN; CHILD CUSTODY AND SUPPORT; STATES (US); RESEARCH DIVORCE & DISSOLUTION (90%); CHILD CUSTODY & SUPPORT (89%); CHILDREN (89%); MARRIAGE (78%); LIBERALISM (78%); DOMESTIC VIOLENCE (78%); FAMILY LAW (78%); WOMEN (78%); FEMINISM & WOMEN'S RIGHTS (77%); TRENDS (73%); LAW SCHOOLS (72%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (62%); GRADUATE & PROFESSIONAL SCHOOLS (62%); 

PERSON: TIERNEY, JOHN DONALD TRUMP (73%); RONALD PERELMAN (73%); KEITH RUPERT MURDOCH (72%); 

LOAD-DATE: July 11, 2000



252 of 757 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: July 11, 2000

SECTION: Section A; Page 25; Column 2; Editorial Desk 

LENGTH: 749 words

HEADLINE: Foreign Affairs;
Lebanon and the Goblet of Fire

BYLINE: By THOMAS L. FRIEDMAN 

DATELINE: BEIRUT, Lebanon

 BODY:
If you can't be at Camp David, Beirut is about as good a vantage point as any for watching the Palestinian-Israeli summit talks, because Lebanon has many lessons, some obvious, some subtle, to offer the negotiators.
Lebanon, first off, is a reminder of what happened when Israelis and Palestinians tried to resolve their differences not with diplomacy but with brute force during that long hot summer of 1982. At that time Israel still entertained the fantasy of solving the Palestinian problem by wiping out the P.L.O., and the P.L.O. entertained the fantasy that armed struggle could win back at least all of the West Bank and East Jerusalem. But the Israeli-Palestinian war in Lebanon was a war with no winner. All sides lost. 
 A short time later, Lebanon taught the Israelis another lesson -- that simply because Israel has more power doesn't mean it is in its interest to cram a deal down the other side's throat. On May 17, 1983, with the help of a very foolish Reagan administration, Israel's Likud government imposed a peace settlement on Lebanon, which gave Israel a permanent security presence in South Lebanon. The Lebanese prime minister at the time literally cried after signing the treaty. The May 17 agreement, though, was never implemented. Because it had no legitimacy in Lebanese society it had no roots, and therefore no staying power. The only thing the May 17 agreement gave birth to was a war against Israel by the Hezbollah Shiite guerrillas -- which eventually forced a unilateral Israeli withdrawal -- and a virulent anti-American campaign that culminated in the blowing up of a U.S. Marine barracks, killing 241 servicemen.
But what is most intriguing is the latest lesson from Lebanon -- the one being taught by Hezbollah. Who said the following on TV here the other day? "The political class in Lebanon got so self-absorbed in its rules and games that it is not aware of globalization and competition and the requirements to succeed today. . . . You cannot work anymore on the assumption that we should not change our ways to meet the challenges of peace and in order to become a productive economy."
No, it wasn't the minister of finance. It was Haj Hussein al Haj-Hassan, a Hezbollah Parliament member from Baalbek. In the wake of driving the Israelis out of South Lebanon, Hezbollah has turned its focus inward to satisfy what it knows its constituency now wants most -- jobs, better schools, development, an end to corruption and integration with global trends, not more war.
"You cannot imagine how tired people are of this conflict and all the old political sloganeering," remarked Jamil Mroue, editor of The Beirut Daily Star, "and the party here that understands that best is precisely the party that has been most removed from traditional Lebanese politics -- Hezbollah."
Hezbollah first leapfrogged over the old politics here by not being afraid of the Israelis, but now, having evicted them from South Lebanon, Hezbollah is turning its attention to the economic and social aspirations of its rank and file.
So what's the lesson? Prime Minister Ehud Barak of Israel may be coming to Camp David without the support of all the traditional, small-minded ethnic parties in Israel. But I guarantee you, 60 to 70 percent of the Israeli people are with Mr. Barak. That is, they are ready for a real and fair deal, including hard compromises, provided the bottom line reads "The End" -- the end of this conflict so Israelis can really get on with life.
The divisions in the Israeli Parliament, like those in the Lebanese Parliament, represent the old politics of ethnic and religious division. But remember, Mr. Barak himself was directly elected by the Israeli people -- precisely to bring about a final peace. He still comes to Washington with a strong mandate for that.
Speaking of elections, Bashar al-Assad was "elected" president of Syria last night to succeed his father. On the eve of Bashar's election, what did he do? Give a speech attacking Israel? No, he ended government controls on auto imports, enabling any Syrian to import a car.
Bottom line: I don't know whether Yasir Arafat and Mr. Barak will be able to achieve what they both will consider a fair deal. But I do know this: If they do, they will each find solid silent majorities at home to embrace it, because growing underneath the old politics out here is a new politics. It may not make as much noise as the old politics, but it has a lot more support than you think. 
http://www.nytimes.com

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Op-Ed

COUNTRY: ISRAEL (99%); PALESTINIAN TERRITORY, OCCUPIED (96%); LEBANON (94%); UNITED STATES (93%); 

CITY: BEIRUT, LEBANON (94%); JERUSALEM, ISRAEL (79%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ISRAEL; LEBANON; ISRAEL (99%); PALESTINIAN TERRITORY, OCCUPIED (96%); LEBANON (94%); UNITED STATES (93%); BEIRUT, LEBANON (94%); JERUSALEM, ISRAEL (79%); 

SUBJECT: PALESTINIANS; UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (90%); FOREIGN RELATIONS (90%); TALKS & MEETINGS (90%); INTERGOVERNMENTAL TALKS (90%); PEACE PROCESS (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); HEZBOLLAH (89%); GLOBALIZATION (85%); ISRAELI-PALESTINIAN CONFLICTS (78%); REBELLIONS & INSURGENCIES (75%); WAR & CONFLICT (75%); BANKING & FINANCE AGENCIES (74%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (74%); MUSLIMS & ISLAM (73%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (71%); TRENDS (67%); PRIME MINISTERS (66%); TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (65%); CORRUPTION (50%); 

PERSON: FRIEDMAN, THOMAS L; BARAK, EHUD (PRIME MIN); ARAFAT, YASIR; CLINTON, BILL (PRES) EHUD BARAK (58%); THOMAS L FRIEDMAN (58%); 

LOAD-DATE: July 11, 2000



253 of 757 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: July 11, 2000

SECTION: Section A; Page 25; Column 2; Editorial Desk 

LENGTH: 768 words

HEADLINE: One Education Does Not Fit All

BYLINE: By Robert B. Reich; Robert B. Reich served as labor secretary from 1993 to 1997. He is writing a book about the future of work.

DATELINE: CAMBRIDGE, Mass.

 BODY:
Thomas Lepuschitz, one of 46 Austrians recruited by New York City to help ease the shortage of math and science teachers, told a New York Times reporter recently that he thought it strange that the state required even the slowest students to take math and science in order to graduate.
It's different in Austria. "Our school system divides people who can do certain things and people who can't," he explained. "The people who can't are not lost; it's just a slower track." 
 Mr. Lepuschitz has touched a raw nerve. Standardized tests -- increasingly linked to grade promotion, graduation, even teachers' salaries and the tenure of principals -- are the single biggest thing to have hit American education since Sputnik. Responding to the understandable demands for more "accountability," almost every school in the land is morphing into a test-taking factory. Both Al Gore and George W. Bush have touted proposals linking federal dollars to scores on standardized tests.
There are obvious benefits. Uniform tests present clear goals and give students, parents and schools ways to measure progress toward meeting them. But standardized tests are monstrously unfair to many kids. We're creating a one-size-fits-all system that needlessly brands many young people as failures, when they might thrive if offered a different education whose progress was measured differently.
Paradoxically, we're embracing standardized tests just when the new economy is eliminating standardized jobs. There's one certainty about what today's high school students will be doing a decade from now: They won't all be doing the same things, and they won't be drawing on the same body of knowledge.
Jobs in the old mass-production economy came in a few standard varieties (research, production, sales, clerical, managerial, professional), but this system has fragmented. Computers, the Internet and digital commerce have exploded the old job categories into a vast array of new niches, creating a kaleidoscope of ways to make a living.
Musicians, artists, writers and performing artists are discovering multimedia outlets for their talents. Tens of thousands of people are starting their own Web-based businesses and auction houses. People who had been clerks and secretaries are turning into spreadsheet operators, desktop publishers and Web-based inventory control managers. Salespeople are becoming specialty technicians, finding or creating products to meet particular customer needs.
We're also seeing an increasing demand for people who provide personal attention and comfort. There's an upsurge in advisers, counselors, coaches and trainers. Physical and occupational therapists are needed. Home health-care workers, elder-care assistants and child-care workers are all in short supply. And we have a chronic need for teachers at all levels.
 Success in these jobs doesn't depend on mastery of one uniform body of knowledge as measured by standardized tests. Instead, many of them require an ability to learn on the job -- to discover what needs to be known and to find and use it quickly.
Some depend on creativity -- on out-of-the-box thinking, originality and flair. Others depend on the ability to listen and understand what other people are feeling and needing. Most require "soft skills" like punctuality and courtesy, although some geeks succeed wildly without even these rudiments.
Yes, people need to be able to read, write and speak clearly. And they have to know how to add, subtract, multiply and divide. But given the widening array of possibilities, there's no reason that every child must master the sciences, algebra, geometry, biology or any of the rest of the standard high school curriculum that has barely changed in half a century. Nor is it necessary that every child graduate from high school ready to qualify for a four-year liberal arts college.
This doesn't mean that "slower students" should be relegated to trade schools, as they are in much of Europe. In the new economy, specialized vocational skills soon become obsolete. Besides, the whole notion of faster or slower learning is irrelevant when there are so many new options for how and what to learn.
In our headlong rush toward "accountability," we seem to be veering toward two extremes -- either expecting every child to pass the same test or assuming that certain children are uneducable, relegating them to a vocational track.
Our challenge is to find different measures of the various skills relevant to the jobs of the new economy. It's our job not to discourage our children, but to help them find their way.
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Drawing (Stephen Savage)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Op-Ed

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); AUSTRIA (90%); CENTRAL EUROPE (73%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (92%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%); 

COMPANY: HOME HEALTH OUTREACH (50%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%); AUSTRIA (90%); CENTRAL EUROPE (73%); NEW YORK, USA (92%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%); 

SUBJECT: EDUCATION AND SCHOOLS; TESTS AND TESTING STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (90%); ACADEMIC TESTING (90%); STANDARDIZED ACADEMIC TESTING (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); MATH & SCIENCE EDUCATION (90%); PRIMARY & SECONDARY SCHOOL TEACHERS (90%); EDUCATIONAL INSTITUTION EMPLOYEES (90%); TEACHING & TEACHERS (89%); ARTISTS & PERFORMERS (85%); SALES FORCE (78%); SCIENCE & TECHNOLOGY (78%); HIGH SCHOOLS (78%); EDUCATION SYSTEMS & INSTITUTIONS (78%); TEACHER COMPENSATION (73%); WRITERS (73%); WAGES & SALARIES (69%); NEW ECONOMY (69%); AUCTIONS (68%); DESKTOP PUBLISHING (62%); SINGERS & MUSICIANS (60%); VISUAL & PERFORMING ARTS (60%); AGING (50%); OCCUPATIONAL THERAPY (50%); CHILD CARE (50%); 

PERSON: REICH, ROBERT B (SEC) AL GORE (52%); GEORGE W BUSH (52%); 

LOAD-DATE: July 11, 2000



254 of 757 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: July 11, 2000

SECTION: Section C; Page 1; Column 2; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 1053 words

HEADLINE: THE MARKETS: Market Place;
Profits May Not Be Enough to Offset Fed's Drag

BYLINE: By JONATHAN FUERBRINGER 

 BODY:
As the second-quarter earnings season gets into full swing this week -- with reports expected from General Electric, International Paper, Motorola, Yahoo and J. P. Morgan -- the outlook is the best it has been in years.
But a look back at 1994 shows that even great earnings news may not lift stock prices much when the Federal Reserve is intent on raising interest rates to slow an overheating economy. 
 Earnings picked up steam through most of 1994, and the companies in the Standard & Poor's 500-stock index finished the year with a 16.4 percent gain in operating earnings, well above the average for the 90's. The stock market, meanwhile, disappointed. The Dow Jones industrial average eked out a 2.1 percent gain, while the S.& P. 500 fell 1.5 percent and the Nasdaq composite dropped 3.2 percent.
So far this year, the outlook for earnings is even better than it was then. In the first quarter, profits surged 23.6 percent from the year-earlier quarter, the strongest performance since the last three months of 1993, according to First Call/Thomson Financial, which collects Wall Street forecasts for the 500 companies in the S.& P. index. For the second quarter, earnings are expected to increase 19.2 percent, First Call says. And for the full year, analysts are forecasting 19.2 percent earnings growth, which would make this year's gain the strongest since 1993.
Still, the three major stock indexes are down or flat for 2000, after hitting new highs earlier this year.
The Fed's interest rate increases have taken the rally out of the market, as they did in 1994. Rising rates threaten to slow economic growth and, therefore, cut into corporate earnings. They also can raise borrowing costs for companies. And higher interest rates, when plugged into many Wall Street valuation formulas, immediately make stocks look more expensive when compared with their projected earnings.
"The market hasn't made much headway because investors had an eye on the Fed," said Thomas M. Galvin, chief investment officer of Donaldson, Lufkin & Jenrette. Although Mr. Galvin says that this year's stock market performance would have been worse if profits had not been as strong, he now expects the market to be in a holding pattern until investors sense that the Fed has taken its foot off the brake.
"There is still a fair amount of skepticism that the cool-down in the economy is not enough for the Fed," he said.
The power of the Fed to stymie the market is remarkable given that the projected earnings growth for this year is stronger than the actual growth proved to be in each year of the 1995-to-1999 run, when the Nasdaq and the S.& P. 500 rose 20 percent or more each year and the Dow climbed 20 percent or more in four of the five.
Joseph Liro, chief economist at Stone & McCarthy Research Associates in Princeton, N.J., warns that although earnings growth will be strong this year, the pace will slow at the end of the year and will decelerate further early next year. "I have been fairly optimistic about earnings and remain so," he said. "But it may not be good enough for investors to get excited about."
Another factor that could continue to undermine the stock market is inflation, which some analysts expect to rise even as the economy slows. During the stock market rallies since 1995, the rate of core consumer inflation, which excludes the cost of energy and food, was in decline. It fell to an annual increase of 1.9 percent last year from 3 percent in 1995. But for the three months through May, core inflation rose at a 3.2 percent annual rate.
"Over the long haul, what is the most important thing for stock prices in any given quarter or any given year is the trend in inflation and the bond yield," said Douglas R. Cliggott, United States equity strategist at J. P. Morgan Securities.
"Earnings were great in the first quarter and will be darn good in the second quarter," he said. "But the reason the market indexes are slightly down is the inflation trend."
Thomas McManus, equity strategist at Banc of America Securities, sees another dark cloud in the outlook. Wall Street analysts are overestimating the strength in earnings for the rest of the year, he says, because they do not realize how far the Federal Reserve will go to slow the economy and curb inflation.
He is forecasting that the earnings growth rate will decline sharply this year, falling to 9 percent by the final quarter and to zero in the first quarter of 2001. That would bring earnings growth well below the 11 percent average in the 1990's.
"The only thing that is going to bring inflationary pressures down is to break through that trend line," Mr. McManus said. "And that is not currently baked into analysts' forecasts."
But while strong earnings may not be able to drive the stock market much higher in the face of expected Federal Reserve rate increases, they are still a good guide to those picking stocks. Mr. McManus says investors should stick to what he calls the predictable earnings sectors, including utilities, health care, consumer products and, to a lesser extent, financials.
Mr. Galvin urges investors to consider health care and technology stocks because they performed the best after the Fed took its foot off the brakes in 1994.
Earnings performance is far more important for stock pickers this year than it was last year, Mr. Galvin says. In 1999, companies in the Nasdaq composite index that reported operating losses had an average stock gain of 115 percent for the year. Among the companies that reported profits, the average stock gained 51 percent. So far this year, companies with losses have stock declines of 11 percent on average while companies with profits have stock gains of 10 percent on average.
There is some good news in this look back at 1994, and that is what happened in 1995: the Dow average surged 33.5 percent.
Once it is clear that the Federal Reserve has finished raising interest rates -- as long as the economy has not been slowed to the brink or even into a recession -- nice earnings ought to help the stock market forge ahead again.
The problem is, while some analysts think the pace of economic growth is slowing enough for the Fed to take its foot off the brakes, Federal Reserve officials have not given an all-clear signal yet. 
http://www.nytimes.com

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TITLE: MARKET PLACE (TIMES COLUMN)

TICKER: GNE (PAR) (58%); GEC (LSE) (58%); GE (SWX) (58%); GE (NYSE) (58%); MSI (NYSE) (58%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS336412 AIRCRAFT ENGINE & ENGINE PARTS MANUFACTURING (58%); NAICS335222 HOUSEHOLD REFRIGERATOR & HOME FREEZER MANUFACTURING (58%); NAICS335210 SMALL ELECTRICAL APPLIANCE MANUFACTURING (58%); NAICS334220 RADIO & TELEVISION BROADCASTING & WIRELESS COMMUNICATIONS EQUIPMENT MANUFACTURING (58%); SIC3663 RADIO & TELEVISION BROADCASTING & COMMUNICATIONS EQUIPMENT (58%); SIC6081 BRANCHES & AGENCIES OF FOREIGN BANKS (52%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (79%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (92%); 

COMPANY: FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM THOMSON FINANCIAL (68%); GENERAL ELECTRIC CO (58%); MOTOROLA SOLUTIONS INC (58%); CREDIT SUISSE SECURITIES USA LLC (52%); FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM (59%); FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM (59%); 

ORGANIZATION: FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM (59%); FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM (59%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%); NEW YORK, USA (92%); 

SUBJECT: UNITED STATES ECONOMY; STOCKS AND BONDS; CREDIT; STANDARD & POOR'S 500-STOCK INDEX; NASDAQ COMPOSITE INDEX; DOW JONES STOCK AVERAGE; INTEREST RATES STOCK INDEXES (99%); COMPANY EARNINGS (93%); INTERIM FINANCIAL RESULTS (90%); INTEREST RATES (89%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); COMPANY PROFITS (78%); FINANCIAL RESULTS (78%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (78%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (77%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (76%); CENTRAL BANKS (76%); BONDS (76%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (68%); EXECUTIVES (62%); 

PERSON: FUERBRINGER, JONATHAN

LOAD-DATE: July 11, 2000



255 of 757 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: July 11, 2000

SECTION: Section C; Page 1; Column 2; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 956 words

HEADLINE: Web Hardware Maker Buys Digital 'Plumber' for $41 Billion

BYLINE: By SETH SCHIESEL 

 BODY:
Mention "new economy" and just what comes to mind? For many people, dot-com companies, fancy Web sites, piles of cash.
Those are all fine images, but these days, the big money in the new economy is being made not by dot-coms but by the digital plumbers. 
Most people probably never heard of the company that makes the valves inside the pumps at their local water treatment plant. And they probably never heard of SDL Inc., either. But that can hardly bother SDL's investors, because the company announced yesterday that it had agreed to be acquired by the JDS Uniphase Corporation for $41 billion in stock.
That is more than the market values of Amazon.com, the At Home Corporation, eBay and Priceline.com combined.
Modern cities are not possible without plumbing, and the wildfire spread of data communications and the Internet is not possible without the sort of arcane components for fiber optic networks (think lasers and amplifiers) made by companies like JDS Uniphase and SDL.
That is not an original thought; over the last year, investors have bid up the price of JDS Uniphase fivefold. But beside the stock levitation, the financial muscle of the new economy's plumbers has been felt in explosive initial public offerings and in rich acquisitions of private companies.
But SDL, based in San Jose, Calif., is publicly traded, on Nasdaq. And now the plumbers have announced what may just be the biggest technology takeover yet.
Under the deal, each share of SDL would be exchanged for 3.8 shares of JDS Uniphase. JDS Uniphase's shares closed on Friday at $116.1875, making the transaction worth $441.5125 for each share of SDL. SDL's shares, meanwhile, closed Friday at $295.3125, giving the company's investors a takeover premium of almost 50 percent.
By the time trading was over yesterday, the value of the deal had declined substantially. With such a wide spread between the implied value of the deal, as announced, and where SDL's shares had been trading, the arbitrage opportunity was obvious. Shares of JDS Uniphase fell $15.0625, to $101.125, while SDL jumped $25.375, to $320.6875.
But even with those moves, shares of SDL did not end up close to JDL Uniphase's bid. With the slide yesterday in shares of JDS Uniphase, the deal is now worth $384.275 for each share of SDL, which means that SDL could still be described as undervalued by more than 19 percent.
What that probably represents is uncertainty among arbitragers and institutional investors that the deal will be completed. After all, it must be reviewed by the Justice Department, which imposed some conditions on JDS Uniphase's last big acquisition, of E-Tek Dynamics Inc., for about $20 billion earlier this year.
But what is almost certain is that optical networking technology will in some ways remain the technical foundation of the communications revolution. That is because optical networks are generally the most cost-effective way to transmit gargantuan amounts of two-way information from one point to another, especially in the industrialized world.
Copper wires like those used to connect most homes to the telephone network also used to be employed for regional and transcontinental networks. But optical networks, which transmit information using pulses of light modulated by lasers, can be much more efficient than copper networks that use pulses of electricity.
Big communications carriers like the AT&T Corporation and WorldCom Inc. buy optical communications systems from big equipment vendors like Lucent Technologies Inc. and the Nortel Networks Corporation of Canada. This is like a city turning to a water treatment company for a water treatment plant. In turn, companies like Lucent and Nortel assemble their systems from components and modules often bought from companies like JDS Uniphase. This is like the water treatment company turning to another concern for advanced pumps.
Companies like JDS Uniphase then buy more specialized parts from companies like SDL. This is like the pump company contracting with another company for specialized valves.
But imagine that only a few companies could make the valves needed. And imagine that the overall capacity of the water treatment plant was closely linked to the performance of those valves. Then it becomes clear that the valve company is quite valuable.
"Let me put it to you in a simple way," Anthony R. Muller, JDS Uniphase's chief financial officer, said in a telephone interview yesterday. "Think of Amazon and eBay and any number of other companies that are of this genre. They all require bandwidth to deliver their products and services. And we and our competitors make the fundamental underlying technology that provides the amount of bandwidth that is required for the Internet."
In a statement, Don Scifres, SDL's chairman, said, "This combination brings together world-class technical and manufacturing teams that promise to deliver best-in-class products at increased volumes for today's systems while developing solutions for tomorrow."
Jozef Straus, the co-chairman and chief executive of JDS Uniphase, said in a statement, "JDS Uniphase and SDL share a common vision to provide customers with the most innovative and technologically advanced products that enhance their ability to deliver next-generation optical systems."
SDL specializes in a laser known as a pump laser and in components that are used to make laser systems. JDS Uniphase is hoping that by acquiring the company, it will be able to direct SDL's research in ways that are more complementary to its own technical plans.
As that happens, the dot-com companies will continue to be the most visible element of this new economy. And that will not trouble the plumbers one bit.
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photo: Jozef Straus, the co-chairman and chief executive of JDS Uniphase, which agreed to acquire SDL Inc., a company that makes equipment used in data transmission over fiber optic networks, for $41 billion. (Associated Press)(pg. C6)
 
Chart: "Creating a Light Heavyweight"
JDS Uniphase, a maker of optical components, announced yesterday that it was buying SDL, a maker of lasers, for $41 billion, strengthening its position as a provider of components for optical communication networks.
 
Chart shows JDS and SDL's stocks since January 1999.
 
THE COMPANIES AT A GLANCE
 
JDS UNIPHASE
Based in San Jose, Calif., the company makes a range of optical components, including lasers and routers, for fiber-optic communication networks. It has about 17,000 employees.
 
SDL
Also based in San Jose, Calif., the company focuses on lasers and optical amplifiers for communication networks as well as for data storage, printing, materials processing and medical uses. It has about 1,700 employees. Revenue in the first quarter was $72 million.
(Sources: Bloomberg Financial Markets; Hoover's; company reports)(pg. C6) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: JDU (TSX) (94%); JDSU (NASDAQ) (94%); AMZN (NASDAQ) (56%); PCLN (NASDAQ) (56%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS334220 RADIO & TELEVISION BROADCASTING & WIRELESS COMMUNICATIONS EQUIPMENT MANUFACTURING (94%); NAICS334210 TELEPHONE APPARATUS MANUFACTURING (94%); NAICS334413 SEMICONDUCTOR & RELATED DEVICE MANUFACTURING (84%); SIC3674 SEMICONDUCTORS & RELATED DEVICES (84%); SIC7374 COMPUTER PROCESSING & DATA PREPARATION & PROCESSING SERVICES (70%); NAICS454111 ELECTRONIC SHOPPING (56%); SIC5961 CATALOG & MAIL-ORDER HOUSES (56%); NAICS561510 TRAVEL AGENCIES (56%); NAICS454112 ELECTRONIC AUCTIONS (56%); SIC7375 INFORMATION RETRIEVAL SERVICES (56%); SIC4724 TRAVEL AGENCIES (56%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%); 

STATE: CALIFORNIA, USA (93%); 

CITY: SAN JOSE, CA, USA (93%); 

COMPANY: JDS UNIPHASE CORP; SDL INC JDS UNIPHASE CORP (94%); SDL INC (84%); AT HOME CORP (70%); AMAZON.COM INC (56%); PRICELINE.COM INC (56%); 

ORGANIZATION: JDS UNIPHASE CORP; SDL INC

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%); CALIFORNIA, USA (93%); SAN JOSE, CA, USA (93%); 

SUBJECT: TELEPHONES AND TELECOMMUNICATIONS; MERGERS, ACQUISITIONS AND DIVESTITURES NEW ECONOMY (90%); ACQUISITIONS (90%); AUDIO & VIDEO EQUIPMENT MFG (90%); INTERNET & WWW (90%); COMMUNICATIONS EQUIPMENT MFG (90%); TAKEOVERS (89%); INTERNET AUCTIONS (78%); PRIVATELY HELD COMPANIES (78%); STOCK EXCHANGES (74%); SECURITIES TRADING (74%); NETWORKING EQUIPMENT (73%); FIBER OPTICS (73%); COMPUTER NETWORKS (73%); WATER SUPPLY UTILITIES (71%); INITIAL PUBLIC OFFERINGS (70%); WATER QUALITY (56%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (50%); 

PERSON: SCHIESEL, SETH

LOAD-DATE: July 11, 2000



256 of 757 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: July 11, 2000

SECTION: Section A; Page 24; Column 4; Editorial Desk 

LENGTH: 173 words

HEADLINE: Energy-Smart Lifestyle

 BODY:

To the Editor:
Re "The Danger Point," by Bob Herbert (column, July 6):
Despite much natural evidence for global climate change, there is likely to be substantial opposition to any drastic measures that affect the economy or people's way of life. 
 The only effective means for controlling greenhouse gas emissions, within the constraints of not affecting lifestyle, is to do what makes sense from both economic and environmental viewpoints.
We can increase the amount of electricity from nuclear plants (which do not emit greenhouse gases) and from wind. We can also improve the efficiency of vehicles, electric motors, lighting and industrial processes.
Dealing with global warming does not have to become a sacrifice for people. What we do have to recognize, however, is that it will require economic investments and a new way of looking at how we generate electricity and use it.
 
DALE KLEIN
Austin, Tex., July 7, 2000
 
The writer is vice chancellor for special engineering programs, University of Texas system. 
http://www.nytimes.com

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Letter

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); 

STATE: TEXAS, USA (92%); 

CITY: AUSTIN, TX, USA (50%); 

COMPANY: UNIVERSITY OF TEXAS (55%); UNIVERSITY OF TEXAS (55%); 

ORGANIZATION: UNIVERSITY OF TEXAS (55%); UNIVERSITY OF TEXAS (55%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%); TEXAS, USA (92%); AUSTIN, TX, USA (50%); 

SUBJECT: WEATHER; GREENHOUSE EFFECT; ELECTRIC LIGHT AND POWER CLIMATE CHANGE (91%); LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); GREENHOUSE GASES (90%); EARTH & ATMOSPHERIC SCIENCE (88%); GLOBAL WARMING (88%); EMISSIONS (87%); ENGINEERING (87%); ELECTRIC POWER PLANTS (86%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (74%); WRITERS (73%); POWER PLANTS (70%); NUCLEAR ENERGY (69%); NUCLEAR POWER PLANTS (69%); 

PERSON: KLEIN, DALE; HERBERT, BOB BOB HERBERT (60%); 

LOAD-DATE: July 11, 2000



257 of 757 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: July 11, 2000

SECTION: Section A; Page 22; Column 1; National Desk 

LENGTH: 542 words

HEADLINE: THE 2000 CAMPAIGN;
In His Own Words

 BODY:

GEORGE W. BUSH
Speaking yesterday to delegates at the N.A.A.C.P. annual convention in Baltimore:
" For our nation there is no denying the truth that slavery is a blight on our history and that racism, despite all the progress, still exists today. For my party there is no escaping the reality that the party of Lincoln has not always carried the mantle of Lincoln. Recognizing and confronting our history is important. Transcending our history is essential. We're not limited by what we have done or what we have left undone. We are limited only by what we're willing to do. 
 Our nation must make new a commitment to equality and upward mobility to all the citizens. This is a great moment of national prosperity. But many still live in prosperity's shadow. The same economy that is a miracle for millions is a mystery to millions as well. From the beginning of this campaign I have said that prosperity must have a purpose. The purpose of prosperity is to ensure the American dream touches every willing heart. And we cannot afford to have an American segregated by class, by race or by aspiration. America must close the gap of hope between communities of prosperity and communities of poverty. . . .
There is a higher and older tradition in my party. Lincoln argued that every poor man should have a chance. He defended a clear path for all. He financed colleges and welcomed immigrants, promoted railroads and economic development. Through the Homestead Act he gave countless Americans a piece of land, a start in life.
I propose a new prosperity initiative that reflects the spirit of Lincoln's reforms. A plan to remove obstacles on the road to the middle class. You see, instead of helping people cope with their need, we will help them move beyond it.
And here are some of the ideas of the new prosperity initiative, just some of the thoughts:
We must provide a family health credit that covers 90 percent of the cost of basic health policy for low-income families in America.
We must make it possible for more people to become homeowners in this great land, to own a part of the American dream. So we allow low-income families to use up to a year's worth of Section Eight rental payments to make a down payment on their own home. Then use five years of those payments to help with the mortgage.
We will start an American dream down payment fund, matching individual savings to the down payment for a home.
Behind these last two proposals is a simple belief. I believe in private property. I believe in private property so strongly, I want everybody to have some. . . .
These are some of my goals for America. To help make opportunity not only a hope and a promise but a living reality. The N.A.A.C.P. and the G.O.P have not always been allies. I know that. But recognizing our past and confronting the future with a common vision, by doing that I believe we can find common ground. It won't be easy work. But a philosopher once advised, 'When given a choice prefer the hard.' We will prefer the hard because only the hard will achieve the good. That's my commitment. And that is our opportunity."
 
A full transcript of Mr. Bush's remarks is available from The New York Times on the Web: www.nytimes.com/politics
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photo: George W. Bush departing yesterday after his speech at the N.A.A.C.P. convention; Frank Humphrey, the presiding officer, was at the lectern. (Paul Hosefros/The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Text

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (96%); 

COMPANY: NATIONAL ASSN FOR THE ADVANCEMENT OF COLORED PEOPLE ACP (BELGIUM) (73%); NATIONAL ASSOCIATION FOR THE ADVANCEMENT OF COLORED PEOPLE (91%); 

ORGANIZATION: NATIONAL ASSN FOR THE ADVANCEMENT OF COLORED PEOPLE NATIONAL ASSOCIATION FOR THE ADVANCEMENT OF COLORED PEOPLE (91%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (96%); 

SUBJECT: BLACKS; ELECTION ISSUES; DISCRIMINATION; PRESIDENTIAL ELECTION OF 2000 CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); RACE & RACISM (90%); FAMILY (88%); POOR POPULATION (88%); LOW INCOME PERSONS (87%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (79%); CONFERENCES & CONVENTIONS (78%); PLATFORMS & ISSUES (78%); HOMEOWNERS (78%); HUMAN RIGHTS ORGANIZATIONS (77%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (77%); ELECTIONS (74%); POVERTY & HOMELESSNESS (70%); ECONOMIC NEWS (68%); MIDDLE INCOME PERSONS (68%); 

PERSON: BUSH, GEORGE W (GOV) GEORGE W BUSH (91%); 

LOAD-DATE: July 11, 2000



258 of 757 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: July 11, 2000

SECTION: Section A; Page 24; Column 1; Editorial Desk

LENGTH: 350 words

HEADLINE: The Edgy City Series

 BODY:
Setting aside the frightening fact that one of Roger Clemens's 90-mile-an-hour fastballs beaned and concussed Mike Piazza, the New York Mets' All-Star catcher, the rousing four-game series between the Yankees and Mets was everything that organized baseball had hoped for when it introduced midseason interleague play in 1997. New York, of course, is unusual. There is only one other major league city, Chicago, with two teams in different leagues, and one would expect more interest in a crosstown rivalry than, say, an intrastate rivalry like St. Louis and Kansas City. Even so, the excitement reached World Series levels from the very first pitch, and when the last out had been recorded at Shea Stadium on Sunday night, New Yorkers had been treated to some sterling baseball and a few memorable moments.
Wearing a Yankee uniform, Dwight Gooden made an emotional return to Shea, where, as a Met, he enjoyed his greatest triumphs during the 1980's before his personal life spiraled out of control. Gooden was unemployed in late May when George Steinbrenner, with the benevolence he often shows to former employees, reached out and gave him a minor league contract. Gooden responded by pitching five strong innings in the front end of an unusual home-and-home doubleheader, with the first game at the Mets' ballpark in Queens, the nightcap at Yankee Stadium in the Bronx. 
 The Yankees won three of the four games and local bragging rights, at least for now. It is conceivable that the two teams will meet again in October, since both have the talent to win their respective league championships. Perhaps by then both teams will have forgotten the ugly beaning incident. Clemens insists that he did not throw deliberately at Piazza. The Mets suspect the worst, however, because historically Piazza has treated Clemens's pitching roughly, and also because Clemens had good control of his pitches when facing all the other Mets. Players have long memories, and at least for the remainder of this season, the Mets-Yankees rivalry is likely to be characterized by good baseball and bad blood. 
http://www.nytimes.com

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Editorial

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (90%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (90%); MISSOURI, USA (56%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (73%); 

COMPANY: SHEA STADIUM (61%); NEW YORK METS (93%); NEW YORK YANKEES (84%); NEW YORK YANKEES (84%); 

ORGANIZATION: NEW YORK METS (93%); NEW YORK YANKEES (84%); NEW YORK YANKEES (84%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (90%); NEW YORK, USA (90%); MISSOURI, USA (56%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (73%); 

SUBJECT: Terms not available from NYTimes. BASEBALL (92%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); STADIUMS & ARENAS (90%); SPORTS & RECREATION EVENTS (89%); SPORTS & RECREATION FACILITIES & VENUES (77%); BASEBALL TOURNAMENTS (77%); 

PERSON: WILLIAM ROGER 'ROGER' CLEMENS (74%); DWIGHT EUGENE GOODEN (70%); GEORGE STEINBRENNER (55%); 

LOAD-DATE: July 11, 2000



259 of 757 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: July 11, 2000

SECTION: Section C; Page 1; Column 2; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 1834 words

HEADLINE: New China Flights Put Old Foes at Odds;
New York, Chicago and 3 Airlines Lobby Hard for Lucrative Market

BYLINE: By DAVID LEONHARDT 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, July 8

 BODY:
For more than a century, New York and Chicago have alternated outdoing each other by building the tallest skyscraper in the United States. Their art museums have long competed for some of the world's great paintings. And their sports teams -- be it the Giants and Bears in the early days of professional football or the Knicks and Bulls in basketball more recently -- have repeatedly battled for championships.
Now comes the latest skirmish in a long civic rivalry: the behind-the-scenes struggle over which city might become the take-off point for a lucrative set of new flights to China scheduled to begin next April. The decision -- due this summer from the Transportation Department amid a flurry of subtle lobbying from members of Congress and former top Clinton administration officials -- has added importance because of the increase in travel that is expected to follow China's entrance to the World Trade Organization. 
 In New York's corner is Delta Air Lines, which wants to fly to Beijing from John F. Kennedy International Airport. With support from Mayor Rudolph W. Giuliani and much of the state's Congressional delegation, Delta executives are arguing that New York's size and economic importance so outweigh Chicago's as to make the decision an easy one.
"New York is the most important aviation market on the planet," Leo F. Mullin, Delta's chief executive, said.
American Airlines, which would fly from O'Hare International Airport in Chicago to Shanghai, responds that geography trumps demographics. The Midwest's unofficial capital is an excellent gathering point for passengers and offers a shorter trip to China, via the North Pole, American and its supporters say. New York, important as it is, is isolated from the rest of the country, they say -- a complaint New Yorkers have heard before.
But even as the Big Apple and the Second City highlight each other's flaws, the bickering between Delta and American may help open the door to another well-connected contender: United Parcel Service. The bilateral aviation agreement with China, unlike any other in memory, forces Transportation Department officials to choose between passenger and cargo carriers, rather than allocating routes to each separately.
"We're sort of in new territory, in terms of the department trying to make an analysis," said Will Ris, American's senior vice president for government affairs.
U.P.S. wants the same right to fly to China that its chief competitor, Federal Express, already enjoys. With the help of the Teamsters, its largest union, U.P.S. -- one of the biggest campaign contributors in the country -- has lined up a list of supporters that includes more than 300 members of Congress. "This is our No. 1 international priority," said Tom Weidemeyer, the president of U.P.S. Airlines.
The company's allies have inundated the Transportation Department with letters saying that the cargo business needs a new entrant much more than the passenger business does. Currently, Federal Express is the only American cargo company to fly directly to China, although U.P.S. flies to Hong Kong and its partners distribute packages from there. Northwest Airlines and United Airlines both now carry passengers to Beijing and Shanghai.
"There has not been a more important carrier-selection case before D.O.T. since deregulation," more than two decades ago, American wrote in its official filing. It "transcends aviation."
The passenger airlines argue that opening up their market to greater competition will promote travel between the two countries and accelerate the kind of political change the United States wants to see in China. U.P.S. says it can lower the price of shipping goods between the world's biggest economy and its most populous nation, thus increasing global trade.
The carriers' deadline for making their official case has recently passed. A decision is due soon, but it already has taken longer than other cases because of the complexity of the filings, analysts say.
"Frankly, nobody really knows quite what's going on right now," said Dale Bumpers, the former senator from Arkansas whom American has hired to help its case.
President Clinton and Zhu Rongji, China's premier, negotiated the new aviation treaty at their April 1999 summit meeting here, when Mr. Zhu was willing to make concessions in an effort to persuade the Clinton administration to support China's entry into the World Trade Organization. The pact did not go as far as American officials and airline executives would have liked, but it allowed for the doubling of flights, to about eight each day -- split equally between American and Chinese airlines. And it gave each country the right to designate one more airline to fly between the countries.
Even the airlines that already serve the market have become involved in the political maneuvering. Currently, Northwest flies to Beijing and Shanghai from Detroit. United flies from San Francisco to Beijing and, via Tokyo, to Shanghai. But in a move that most analysts consider an effort to ward off American's bid for the new flights, United has announced that it will switch the Shanghai flights to Chicago next April and no longer make a stop in Tokyo.
The incumbents, including Federal Express, a unit of the FDX Corporation, have also applied for some of the 10 new weekly round trips that the Transportation Department will hand out. Still, lobbyists expect the new entrant to get most of them so it can establish itself. In addition, Polar Air, a small cargo carrier, has filed to become the new entrant, but it has little support in Washington.
All along, federal law has barred the companies from directly lobbying A. Bradley Mims, the Transportation Department official who oversees the process. At a recent meeting of an international airline industry group in Sydney, Australia, for instance, Mr. Mullin of Delta said he had a long discussion with Mr. Mims, all about rules on how much noise airplanes can make. "I didn't mention China once," Mr. Mullin said. (Through a spokesman, Mr. Mims declined to comment.)
Instead, the airlines have hired some of Washington's best-connected lobbyists. Mickey Kantor, the former commerce secretary and top trade representative in the Clinton administration, has sent written testimony on behalf of U.P.S. And Mr. Bumpers helped American, a unit of the AMR Corporation, write its application.
The companies have also asked their outside supporters to write letters to the Transportation Department, though executives are barred from asking the politicians to lobby Clinton administration officials more directly. Hundreds of mayors, governors and members of Congress have weighed in, breaking down along predictable geographic lines. Richard M. Daley, the mayor of Chicago and the brother of Vice President Al Gore's campaign chairman, backs American. Senator Charles E. Schumer, Democrat of New York, supports Delta. For either city, a victory would mean new jobs, more trade with China and a bigger tax base.
One of the New Yorkers' biggest advantages is the imbalance that currently exists between the Midwest and East Coast. Detroit is already the take-off point for all of Northwest's flights to China. Once United makes its change, Chicago will have direct flights, too.
"That makes American's bid redundant," said Jon F. Ask, the managing director of Global Aviation Associates, a Washington consulting firm not working for any of the applicants. Meanwhile, no airline flies between the East Coast and China.
American's executives and their Midwestern supporters respond that Delta's flight would not actually help many eastern cities other than New York. Delta flies from only 29 domestic cities to Kennedy Airport, some 60 fewer than American and its regional partner, American Eagle, do at O'Hare. As a result, many passengers would have to make two flights just to get to Kennedy, the Chicagoans say.
For example, a resident of Syracuse who wanted to travel to China only on Delta would have to fly first to Atlanta and then north to New York. In its filing, U.P.S. argued that many people would instead choose to fly Northwest through Detroit because it would be a shorter trip. The congestion in the skies above New York could hurt Delta's case, too.
The more fundamental decision facing Mr. Mims and his colleagues at the Transportation Department, however, is whether they should award the new route to a passenger airline or a cargo carrier. Analysts say that decision is a close call.
U.P.S.'s strongest argument is that it would become only the second American shipper to fly to China, while two passenger airlines based in the United States already do so. The company is supported by Northwest and United, which say they currently lose money on their flights to China. "The market is terribly overserved," Gary Wilson, Northwest's chairman, said. "I know everybody views China as a great new market, but it's been viewed as a great new market for 500 years."
U.P.S. does already fly to Hong Kong, however, and Chinese partner companies pick up and drop off packages there. According to an Arthur Andersen study commissioned by American, that service allows U.P.S. and DHL, which also lacks direct service, to get packages to the United States about as fast as Federal Express. U.P.S.'s shipments to China were somewhat slower, though DHL's were not.
Still, Mr. Weidemeyer, the head of U.P.S.'s airline division, said the carrier's broad support, from politicians in every region in the country, indicates that it has the best application. Even some members of the New York House delegation whom Delta calls supporters -- Representative Louise M. Slaughter, a Democrat, for example, -- actually back U.P.S., according to letters they have written. They say Delta should receive the new rights only if the administration decides to select a passenger airline.
The Teamsters have also written letters on behalf of U.P.S. and with Mr. Gore looking to shore up the support of labor leaders angered by his position on other trade issues, the union could be an important voice. Even American and Delta acknowledge that U.P.S. has built the strongest base.
"They do have, probably, a political advantage because of the number of people they employ and because of the members of Congress they've signed up," Mr. Bumpers said. "They operate not only in every state, but in every village of every state."
With all three airlines presenting strong cases, a host of considerations beyond the purely technical are bound to influence the decision. American and Delta officials hope that their backers in Chicago and New York will cancel out some of U.P.S.'s support and that the administration will decide new passenger service is simply more important. But only one can win.
"There's nothing wrong with U.P.S.'s proposal or Delta's," said Mr. Ris, the lobbyist for American. "The real problem is that we have been able to negotiate only one new carrier with China."
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photos: American Airlines, Delta Air Lines and United Parcel Service are scrambling to obtain new passenger and cargo flights to China beginning next April. The Shanghai Pudong International Airport, above and below, is a major hub. (R.S. Photos for The New York Times)(pg. C1); The Northwest Airlines check-in counter at Shanghai Pudong International Airport. Delta Air Lines and American Airlines are trying to open up the U.S.-China passenger market to more carriers. (R.S. Photos for The New York Times)(pg. C25)
 
Chart: "Fast Plane To China"
As Beijing has relaxed its grip and Western restrictions on trade with China have eased, the total number of passengers flying directly between the United States and China has soared.
 
Chart shows number of passengers since 1990.
(Source: BACK Aviation Solutions) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

LEGISLATION: 106 H.R. 272 AIRLINE COMPETITION AND LOWER FARES ACT (90%); 

TICKER: DAL (NYSE) (92%); UPS (NYSE) (52%); 

INDUSTRY: SIC4512 AIR TRANSPORTATION, SCHEDULED (92%); NAICS541614 PROCESS, PHYSICAL DISTRIBUTION & LOGISTICS CONSULTING SERVICES (52%); NAICS488510 FREIGHT TRANSPORTATION ARRANGEMENT (52%); NAICS484121 GENERAL FREIGHT TRUCKING, LONG-DISTANCE, TRUCKLOAD (52%); 

COUNTRY: CHINA (99%); UNITED STATES (97%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (97%); ILLINOIS, USA (96%); EAST CHINA (90%); NORTH CENTRAL CHINA (88%); MIDWEST USA (79%); 

CITY: CHICAGO, IL, USA (96%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (95%); SHANGHAI, CHINA (92%); BEIJING, CHINA (91%); 

COMPANY: TRANSPORTATION DEPARTMENT (US); DELTA AIR LINES INC; AMERICAN AIRLINES; UNITED PARCEL SERVICE OF AMERICA INC DELTA AIR LINES INC (92%); AMERICAN AIRLINES INC (58%); UNITED PARCEL SERVICE INC (52%); NEW YORK GIANTS (58%); CHICAGO BEARS (58%); NEW YORK GIANTS (58%); CHICAGO BULLS (57%); NEW YORK NICKERBOCKERS (57%); NEW YORK NICKERBOCKERS (57%); WORLD TRADE ORGANIZATION (56%); WORLD TRADE ORGANIZATION (56%); 

ORGANIZATION: TRANSPORTATION DEPARTMENT (US); DELTA AIR LINES INC; AMERICAN AIRLINES; UNITED PARCEL SERVICE OF AMERICA INC NEW YORK GIANTS (58%); CHICAGO BEARS (58%); NEW YORK GIANTS (58%); CHICAGO BULLS (57%); NEW YORK NICKERBOCKERS (57%); NEW YORK NICKERBOCKERS (57%); WORLD TRADE ORGANIZATION (56%); WORLD TRADE ORGANIZATION (56%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: CHINA; NEW YORK CITY; CHICAGO (ILL); BEIJING (CHINA); SHANGHAI (CHINA); CHINA (99%); UNITED STATES (97%); NEW YORK, USA (97%); ILLINOIS, USA (96%); EAST CHINA (90%); NORTH CENTRAL CHINA (88%); MIDWEST USA (79%); CHICAGO, IL, USA (96%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (95%); SHANGHAI, CHINA (92%); BEIJING, CHINA (91%); 

SUBJECT: AIRLINES AND AIRPLANES; AIRPORTS; LOBBYING AND LOBBYISTS; KENNEDY INTERNATIONAL AIRPORT (NYC); O'HARE INTERNATIONAL AIRPORT (CHICAGO) AIRPORTS (93%); AIRLINES (90%); LOBBYING (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); EXECUTIVES (87%); US PRESIDENTS (78%); PAINTING (78%); MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (78%); SPORTS & RECREATION EVENTS (77%); BASKETBALL (77%); AIR SERVICE (75%); CIVIL AVIATION (75%); CITY GOVERNMENT (75%); AVIATION ADMINISTRATION (74%); AIR FREIGHT (72%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (69%); CAMPAIGN FINANCE (68%); AVIATION TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (66%); COURIERS & PACKAGE SERVICES (65%); SPORTS & RECREATION (57%); SPORTS (57%); 

PERSON: LEONHARDT, DAVID RUDY GIULIANI (58%); 

LOAD-DATE: July 11, 2000



260 of 757 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: July 11, 2000

SECTION: Section A; Page 14; Column 3; National Desk 

LENGTH: 865 words

HEADLINE: In a Turn of the Tide, Bloodshed Rises in Los Angeles

BYLINE: By DON TERRY 

DATELINE: LOS ANGELES, July 10

 BODY:
In the middle of a sound sleep a few weeks ago, John W. Mack, the president of the Los Angeles Urban League, was awakened by a sound he had hoped had vanished from the night here: the unmistakable rattle of gunfire echoing through the streets. The next morning, he awoke to learn that a man had been fatally shot 50 feet from his home. Several blocks away, a woman who had witnessed the shooting was "blown away, too," Mr. Mack said.
"For a while, it looked like we had turned a corner on this kind of thing," Mr. Mack said today before the start of another neighborhood anti-crime meeting here. "But this violence issue is really, really out of control." 
 A seeming resurgence in violent crime has struck Los Angeles in recent months, at a time when, with only a few exceptions, violent crime is down nationwide. Compared with this time last year, the city has had a 7.5 percent increase in violent crime, including 58 more homicides, 97 more rapes, 106 more robberies and 1,437 more aggravated assaults, Los Angeles Police Deputy Chief Maurice Moore said.
One of the most publicized cases was the killing of the 20-year-old granddaughter of the city's chief of police. She was shot as she sat in a car with a childhood friend. The friend, the intended target, was a gang member. He escaped.
But the violence has been more widespread than was generally known. Out of the city's 18 police areas, 15 report increases in violent crime, with several stations experiencing what officials consider an alarming increase in homicides. The hardest hit, the Newton station, which includes parts of South-Central Los Angeles, has had 24 more homicides than a year ago, followed by the 77th police area, with 14 more killings. The Wilshire police area, where Mr. Mack lives, was actually one of only three areas that reported a slight decrease in violent crime.
"That just goes to show that there is no sanctuary, no safe haven from violence," Mr. Mack said. "Everybody needs to wake up and help."
The police blame much of the increased violence on the city's 65,000 "identified gang members."
"What we're seeing is multiple gang frictions throughout the city," Deputy Chief Moore said, adding that there appeared to be no one reason for the increased violence. "A lot of it has to do with turf and of course drugs."
But neighborhood advocates, like Najee Ali of Project Islamic HOPE and Earl Ofari Hutchinson of the National Alliance for Positive Action, say it is too easy to just blame the gangs. And police statistics seem to back them up. So far this year, according to the police, 42 percent of the city's homicides were gang-related, meaning the majority were not. Their causes included arguments, robberies, domestic disputes or the myriad reasons people kill.
"There's a deep sense of hopelessness out there," Mr. Hutchinson said. "We spend more money on prisons than on schools. And the leadership, particularly the African American leadership, has abandoned the inner city. All these factors are coming together, and I don't think this increase in the violence is just an up-tick. I think it's a long term trend."
Violence has certainly been part of the city's past. In the 1980's and early 1990's, street gang violence was almost as much a part of Los Angeles' image as sunshine and palm trees. There have been countless meetings of politicians, ministers, neighborhood advocates, gang members and grieving parents searching for ways "to stop the violence and increase the peace." Those efforts led eight years ago to a well publicized truce among gangs. That and the improvement of the economy contributed to a lowering of the crime rate here and across the country.
Now, though, some experts say, the coming of age of younger gang members is at least partly responsible for a resurgence of violence.
Whatever the cause, the drive-by shootings, the meetings and the funerals are happening more often again. Dozens of people turned out today for an antiviolence meeting at the First A.M.E. Church, which became a shelter for hundreds of people during the civil unrest of 1992. The meeting was one of two held today to search for new and old ways to stop the killing. It was convened by Los Angeles County Supervisor Yvonne Brathwaite Burke and the speaker emeritus of the California State Assembly, Antonio R. Villaraigosa, a candidate for mayor in next year's election. The Los Angeles city attorney, James K. Hahn, another mayoral candidate, also attended.
"We were patting ourselves on the back six months ago about crime going down," Mr. Hahn said. "We have to recognize the work is not over."
The violence is not confined to Los Angeles. Mary Simmons, a 43-year-old home care worker, lives in Long Beach and she said she was "scared everyday."
"I try to get into my home before 9 every night," she said. "I've lost two nephews. We can't go to school because we got to work all the time to survive on almost no money. My son is 23. He's tired of struggling. He can't put shoes on his feet. I can't help him. I don't have any money." A tear fell down her cheek. "We can't take care of our kids," she said. "That's why we're losing our children to these gangs."
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photos: At left, Carol Hernandez held her daughter Maya in Los Angeles after the May killing of her uncle, Albert Patton, a co-founder of the Harlem Globetrotters. Above, former gang members Hector Marroquin, left, and Richard Acosta at a meeting yesterday about gang violence. (Al Seib/The Los Angeles Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (95%); 

STATE: CALIFORNIA, USA (95%); 

CITY: LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (95%); 

COMPANY: LOS ANGELES URBAN LEAGUE (90%); 

ORGANIZATION: LOS ANGELES URBAN LEAGUE (90%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: LOS ANGELES (CALIF); UNITED STATES (95%); CALIFORNIA, USA (95%); LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (95%); 

SUBJECT: CRIME AND CRIMINALS; GANGS; CHILDREN AND YOUTH SHOOTINGS (90%); VIOLENT CRIME (90%); CRIMINAL OFFENSES (90%); CRIME RATES (90%); VIOLENT CRIME STATISTICS (89%); HOMICIDE (89%); POLICE FORCES (89%); GANGS (89%); CHILDREN (76%); CRIME STATISTICS (74%); CRIMINAL ASSAULT & BATTERY (74%); ASSAULT & BATTERY (74%); EYEWITNESSES (71%); GRANDCHILDREN (65%); RELIGION (50%); 

PERSON: TERRY, DON JOHN W MACK (81%); 

LOAD-DATE: July 11, 2000



261 of 757 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 11, 2000

SECTION: Section B; Page 1; Column 2; Metropolitan Desk 

LENGTH: 1568 words

HEADLINE: Renovations, With Reservations;
Vendors at Essex Street Market Debate Going Upscale

BYLINE: By JOSEPH P. FRIED 

 BODY:
The waves of immigrants who swept into the Lower East Side in the first years of the 1900's found almost everything they needed sold right under their tenement windows. Pushcart peddlers crowding the streets hawked fish and fruit, bread and boots, pots and pickles. And with minimum start-up costs, new entrepreneurs could scrape out a living provided they were willing to bear the long hours and exposure to the elements.
But the pushcart-packed streets made it hard for the Police and Fire Departments to get through, drew the trash of trade and aroused increasing ire from storekeepers resentful of the competition. So in 1939, Mayor Fiorello H. La Guardia offered the peddlers an alternative: the Essex Street Market, four cavernous brick sheds that stretched from Broome to Stanton Streets. It soon filled with vendors whose roof was no longer the sky. 
 For years, the string of single-story structures was a vibrant venue for scores of fishmongers, butchers, greengrocers and purveyors of low-priced garb. The mostly poor bargain hunters squeezed the fruit, smiled or scowled over their fingers' findings and parted with their pennies and dollars.
But by the 1970's, as shoppers increasingly preferred supermarkets and street-front stores to indoor stalls, the market began shrinking. Today, only two dozen merchants remain in just one of the four city-owned buildings.
Yet as old markets across the country have been revived in recent years and new ones, like the three-year-old Chelsea Market in Manhattan, have opened, the city has sought to sustain the surviving slice of the Essex Street Market; even, most recently, to introduce a stylish touch.
It has refurbished the interior of the blocklong, skylighted building between Delancey and Rivington Streets, reconstructed some of the stalls and improved the heating and cooling systems. And it has leased one end of the hall for a restaurant that will be the market's first upscale operation when it opens this fall.
The restaurant's owner, Felice Banker, says she hopes to draw the hip young residents who have been moving into the area, as well as veteran Lower East Siders, with what she describes as a "new American menu with a bent toward traditional cuisines of the Lower East Side: Eastern European Jewish, and Latino." The Essex Restaurant's recessed floor lighting on newly built mezzanines will share a building with $5 skirts and $10 dresses hanging over stalls.
But one neighborhood business leader said that the city still needed to work on the building's exterior. "It's like a fortress," Howard R. Slonim, president of the Lower East Side Business Improvement District, said of the long brick expanses. He suggested stretches of glass to make the interior "visible to passers-by."
Of the three other buildings that were part of the original market, one, at Stanton Street, has already been transformed into a satellite outpatient center run by NYU Downtown Hospital, which signed a 10-year lease for the building in 1995, after it had stood empty for many years.
The two remaining market sites, one vacated more than a decade ago while the other is nearly empty, are also the focus of recycling efforts. But the attempt to revive one of them shows that redevelopment in the city is rarely a cakewalk.
One of these buildings, at Rivington Street, was leased to Henry Rainge-Megill for 20 years. Mr. Rainge-Megill, who has owned and operated food shops and bars, was given the lease by the city two years ago to transform the building, then vacant, into food kiosks, a banquet hall, a cocktail lounge and a bakery and cafe. Now, however, the city is seeking to evict him, citing rent arrears.
Mr. Rainge-Megill said he had already put more than $1 million into the building, "including my life savings." He said he had overcome the financial problems that led to the arrears (including unanticipated major structural expenses and a partner who ran out of money) and could finance the remaining $500,000 worth of work.
But the city, he said, has refused to accept the late rent payments and has moved to evict him. And, he said, a city official had told him she believed he did "not have the financial wherewithal to do this project."
But Mr. Rainge-Megill is determined to keep his lease. "I'll go to the Supreme Court!" he said. Guiding a visitor through the building, he pointed to improvements like the newly reinforced foundation and new utility lines, windows and brickwork. "All my money is in here," Mr. Rainge-Megill, 63, said. "My ex-wife's annuity money is in here."
Bruce Brodoff, a spokesman for the city's Economic Development Corporation, which administers the market sites, declined to respond because the "matter is in litigation." He would say only that the rent arrears were the reason for the eviction and that if the agency won Mr. Rainge-Megill's ouster, it would seek new proposals for redeveloping the site.
The fourth building that was once part of the market stretches the full block from Broome to Delancey Streets and stands vacant except for a street-front liquor store and small diner. It has been included in a group of five sites in the area for which the city has invited developers to submit urban renewal proposals.
Although some of the remaining merchants in the Essex Street Market favor having upscale fellow vendors, others fear that this would cause their rents to soar. But Mr. Brodoff said, "Any upscale shops that might take space at the market will have no impact on the rents paid by the other tenants."
He said annual rents for the market's stalls now range from $22 to $25 a square foot. Faith Hope Consolo, vice chairman of the retail leasing firm of Garrick-Aug Associates, said that these compared with a going rate of $60 a square foot for stores on the broad thoroughfares of Essex and Delancey Streets, but were on par with store rents on Rivington, a side street.
Even at the cheaper rents, most of the Essex Street Market vendors have disappeared. But the memory has outlasted their booths. "The pickle section, pickles in a barrel," and their crunchy taste still remain sharp for Jeanne Oberhofer, 60, who as a child frequently accompanied her mother to the market. She now munches on her market memories in Kent, Wash., a Seattle suburb.
In the market's early years, "the shopkeepers were all Jewish and Italian and the customers were mostly Jewish and Italian," recalled Allen Ruhalter, a butcher whose business, begun by his father, is the market's only survivor from its opening day. Most of the market's patrons today are Hispanic and Asian.
Mr. Ruhalter, 68, who began working at the family's meat counter while in junior high school in the mid-1940's, recalled that his schoolboy start as a market meat merchant required a contribution from the dairy stalls. "I was so small, I had to stand on a milk crate to look over the counter," he said.
He also recalled that the carcasses of the chickens sold in the market then "were still warm when they were brought in" by the supplier, and still had their heads, feet and feathers. Plucker was a job category in the market then.
Mr. Ruhalter's son, Jeffrey, 44, who also works in the operation, looked to the market's future. While his father said that their business "goes up and down, but over all it's profitable," Jeffrey Ruhalter said that business was less than in the past, and he put himself with those market merchants and other local business people who favor an upscale turn.
"I'd like it upscale to attract the people moving into the neighborhood," he said of the affluent young arrivals who in the last few years have moved into expensive apartments in renovated tenements. Their presence is signaled by the clubs, restaurants and boutiques that have sprung up on nearby Orchard and Ludlow Streets.
It is also reflected in the $1 million renovation that is transforming Ratner's, the nearly century-old landmark on Delancey Street, from a kosher dairy restaurant to a place where the dinner menu will be bereft of blintzes and barley soup. Instead, diners will feast on steaks and chops in a sophisticated setting when it reopens in two to three months.
Andrew Flamm, executive director of the Lower East Side Business Improvement District, said that the Essex Street Market already offered "fine meats, produce and fish" and that his group wanted to see "more quality food and food-related products," but only to fill vacancies and not at the expense of the current merchants.
But some of those merchants are still worried that an upgraded market could lead to higher rents that would drive them out the stalls.
Low-priced shirts and jeans hang over the entrance to the cramped nook of Juan Vargas and his wife, Carmen Salvador. "If they raise the rent, we have to raise the prices," Mr. Vargas said. "The people who shop here are medium and low income and don't want to pay too much, so there will be no business."
Jose Rivera, who has sold milk, eggs and other dairy items in the market for 15 years, said that "everyone's concerned" about rent rises.
"If it goes up, I leave," he said.
But Mr. Brodoff, the spokesman for the Economic Development Corporation, emphasized that the agency was trying to keep the current merchants viable, even as it was "continually working on improving the market."
"It's not a Tiffany's," he said. "But it's not a street cart."
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photos: Jeffrey Ruhalter, center, and his father, Allen, operate a butcher shop that is the only business remaining from the market's opening day. Jeffrey is among the merchants who favor bringing in more upscale vendors. (Don Hogan Charles/The New York Times)(pg. B6); Left, Orchard Street in an undated picture. Sanitation and traffic problems led Mayor Fiorello H. La Guardia to force peddlers to move indoors. Above, just two dozen vendors remain in the Essex Street Market. (Ewing Galloway); (Don Hogan Charles/The New York Times)(pg. B1)
 
Map of New York City highlighting Essex Street: The Essex Street Market has been in operation since 1939. (pg. B6)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (95%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (95%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (95%); 

COMPANY: ESSEX STREET MARKET (69%); 

ORGANIZATION: ESSEX STREET MARKET (69%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK CITY; UNITED STATES (95%); NEW YORK, USA (95%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (95%); 

SUBJECT: FOOD; ESSEX STREET MARKET (NYC); RESTAURANTS TEMPORARY STAND RETAILING (90%); RETAILERS (90%); RESTAURANT REVIEWS (89%); RESTAURANTS (87%); BUILDING RENOVATION (86%); ENTREPRENEURSHIP (77%); FRUIT & VEGETABLE STORES (77%); CITY GOVERNMENT (75%); GROCERY STORES & SUPERMARKETS (74%); FIRE DEPARTMENTS (70%); HVAC SYSTEMS (65%); FISH & SEAFOOD STORES (57%); 

PERSON: FRIED, JOSEPH P

LOAD-DATE: July 11, 2000



262 of 757 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: July 11, 2000

SECTION: Section C; Page 1; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk

LENGTH: 638 words

HEADLINE: BUSINESS DIGEST

 BODY:

Religious Organizations Seeking Radio Licenses
For months, Republicans in Congress have sought to block a Federal Communications Commission program to license hundreds of new low-power radio stations. About half of the first batch of applications are from religious organizations, mostly the sorts of fundamentalist churches active in conservative, Republican politics.
Hundreds of evangelical churches are asking for space on the airwaves to spread the Gospel. Some simply want to read Scripture verbatim; others want to preach against abortion. They will not get the chance, however, if the Republican Congressional leadership gets its way. Page A1. 

The Demise of a Celebrity Charity
After seven years, the writer Tom Clancy is scuttling a foundation that he set up to help children who had cancer and other grave illnesses use the Internet to talk with one another and learn about their diseases. Despite spending more than $5 million on travel, salaries, fund-raising and furniture, the foundation did not even have a Web site to show for its efforts. The legal fight that has broken out over the collapse of the foundation offers a rare glimpse at the inner workings of a celebrity charity. A1.
 
Alcoa Profit Beats Forecasts
Alcoa said that its second-quarter profit rose 57 percent, beating Wall Street forecasts by two cents, as aluminum prices rose and productivity improved. Revenue rose 38 percent, to $5.62 billion. Shares of Alcoa increased 7 percent, or $2.0625, to $29.6875. They had dropped 33 percent this year. C25.
 
Dow Rises as Other Gauges Decline
Stocks ended mixed in subdued trading, with blue chips pulling ahead and technology issues slipping. The Dow Jones industrial average rose 10.60 points, or 0.10 percent, to 10,646.58. The Nasdaq composite index dropped 42.91 points, or 1.1 percent, to 3,980.29, while the Standard & Poor's 500-stock index fell 3.28 points, or 0.2 percent, to 1,475.62. C12.
 
President to Establish Fuel Reserve
Reacting to widespread concern over climbing heating oil prices and low inventories, President Clinton announced a plan to establish a fuel reserve for the Northeast, where most of the country's heating oil is consumed. C2.
 
ICO-Teledesic Receives $300 Million
ICO-Teledesic Global Limited, the satellite telecommunications venture controlled by Craig O. McCaw, said it had received commitments for nearly $300 million from influential investors, including William H. Gates, chairman of Microsoft, and the private investment firm Clayton, Dubilier & Rice. C14.
 
Honeywell Issues Earnings Warning
Honeywell International warned that its second-quarter profit would be 75 cents a share, about 3 cents less than it had predicted earlier this year. Honeywell also lowered its earnings estimates for the full year and for 2001. C8.
 
U.S. Sues Toysmart.com Over Data
The Federal Trade Commission sued to prevent toysmart.com, a bankrupt Internet toy retailer, from selling its database of customer information, asserting the company had assured hundreds of thousands of online visitors their personal data would never be shared with a third party. C2.
 
Chilly Reception to EADS Offering
The European Aeronautic Defense and Space Company, or EADS as the new conglomerate that controls Airbus Industrie is known, received a chilly response from investors in its long-awaited initial stock offering as shares dropped more than 9 percent. Philippe Camus, a co-chief executive, responded by saying: "You must be humble with the market. The market indicated to us the price it was ready to pay. End of story." C4.
 
Deutsche Telekom Seeks a Partner
Deutsche Telekom of Germany, which is seeking an American partner, has made overtures to VoiceStream Wireless, a person close to the companies said. C4.
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photo
 
Chart: "YESTERDAY"
Dow industrials -- 10,646.58 up 10.60
Nasdaq composite -- 3,980.29 down 42.91
30-yr. Treasury yield -- 5.88% up 0.01
The euro -- $0.9549 up 0.0079
The dollar -- 107.10 yen down 0.74
 
Graph tracks the daily closing price of Alcoa shares since last Monday.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Summary

TICKER: AAI (ASX) (55%); AA (NYSE) (55%); HON (NYSE) (51%); HON (LSE) (51%); MSFT (NASDAQ) (51%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS331313 ALUMINA REFINING & PRIMARY ALUMINUM PRODUCTION (55%); SIC3334 PRIMARY PRODUCTION OF ALUMINUM (55%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (51%); NAICS336412 AIRCRAFT ENGINE & ENGINE PARTS MANUFACTURING (51%); NAICS336211 MOTOR VEHICLE BODY MANUFACTURING (51%); NAICS334512 AUTOMATIC ENVIRONMENTAL CONTROL MANUFACTURING FOR RESIDENTIAL, COMMERCIAL & APPLIANCE USE (51%); NAICS325180 OTHER BASIC INORGANIC CHEMICAL MANUFACTURING (51%); NAICS511210 SOFTWARE PUBLISHERS (51%); SIC7372 PREPACKAGED SOFTWARE (51%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (92%); 

COMPANY: ALCOA INC (55%); CLAYTON DUBILIER & RICE INC (51%); HONEYWELL INTERNATIONAL INC (51%); MICROSOFT CORP (51%); FEDERAL COMMUNICATIONS COMMISSION (84%); FEDERAL COMMUNICATIONS COMMISSION (84%); 

ORGANIZATION: FEDERAL COMMUNICATIONS COMMISSION (84%); FEDERAL COMMUNICATIONS COMMISSION (84%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%); NEW YORK, USA (92%); 

SUBJECT: NO INDEX TERMS FROM NYTIMES RELIGION (93%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); NEWS BRIEFS (90%); COMMUNICATIONS REGULATION & POLICY (90%); STOCK INDEXES (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (90%); BROADCASTING REGULATION (90%); RADIO BROADCAST INDUSTRY (90%); BROADCASTING INDUSTRY (90%); LICENSES & PERMITS (90%); INTERIM FINANCIAL RESULTS (89%); ENERGY & UTILITY LAW (89%); CHRISTIANS & CHRISTIANITY (89%); COMPANY PROFITS (89%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (89%); COMPANY EARNINGS (89%); MEASURING & CONTROL DEVICES MFG (86%); CONSERVATISM (79%); FUNDAMENTALISM (79%); FUNDRAISING (79%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS (78%); INTERNET & WWW (74%); CANCER (74%); PRICE INCREASES (73%); PRICE CHANGES (73%); COMMERCE DEPARTMENTS (73%); TOYS & GAMES (73%); EARNINGS PREANNOUNCEMENTS (71%); FINANCIAL RESULTS (71%); OIL & GAS PRICES (70%); STOCK EXCHANGES (70%); HEATING OIL PRICES (70%); HEATING OIL (69%); INTERNET RETAILING (69%); HEATING OIL MARKETS (69%); WAGES & SALARIES (68%); US PRESIDENTS (66%); PROFIT WARNINGS (66%); ALUMINUM MARKETS (65%); ECONOMIC NEWS (63%); RETAILERS (60%); ABORTION (56%); ALUMINUM INDUSTRY (51%); HOBBY TOY & GAME STORES (50%); 

PERSON: BILL CLINTON (58%); BILL GATES (54%); 

LOAD-DATE: July 11, 2000



263 of 757 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: July 11, 2000

SECTION: Section A; Page 18; Column 1; National Desk 

LENGTH: 474 words

HEADLINE: Speaking to Governors, Clinton Sounds Conciliatory Note

BYLINE: By MARC LACEY 

DATELINE: PHILADELPHIA, July 10

 BODY:
President Clinton toned down his partisan, "Al Gore for President" pronouncements today at the National Governors' Association summer conference, knowing that more than half the governors in the room had a very different take on the coming election.
Instead, in what he described as a "make-a-deal speech," Mr. Clinton argued before the bipartisan audience that the two parties could still make progress on a variety of issues -- like Medicare prescription drug coverage and an increase in the minimum wage -- if they toned down all the pre-election sparring. 
 But Mr. Clinton still made the case, without explicitly naming names, that large tax cuts like those proposed by Gov. George W. Bush of Texas would endanger the longest economic expansion in the nation's history.
"I think we've got to keep the economy going by hewing to the same principles of fiscal discipline that got us where we are," Mr. Clinton told the governors in State College, Pa. "And that means I think whatever combination of spending and tax cuts any candidate for any office proposes, there ought to be enough left over to get us out of debt over the next dozen years."
Among those in the audience were Gov. Tom Ridge of Pennsylvania, a Republican who has been mentioned as a top vice presidential prospect for Mr. Bush.
In an interview, Mr. Ridge said he appreciated the president's "very conciliatory tone," but disagreed vigorously with Mr. Clinton on which economic plan of those proposed by Mr. Bush and Mr. Gore was more sound.
"As he was speaking I was thinking of George Bush's 'Prosperity With a Purpose' plan," Mr. Ridge said.
Mr. Clinton turned up his partisan tone later at a fund-raising speech in Philadelphia for Representative Ron Klink, who is running for Senate against Senator Rick Santorum.
The president condemned Republican lawmakers for failing to endorse some blacks and Hispanics that he has nominated for federal judgeships, and he accused Republicans of ignoring the poor and elderly.
But as he spoke to the governors association, the group that helped catapult him into White House, Mr. Clinton was clearly pulling his punches.
"I know all the press coverage is always on the fights that we have, but let me tell you, we actually agree on things every now and then in Washington," Mr. Clinton said. "And there are a lot of things we could do in the next six months."
Mr. Clinton added: "I ask you to help ensure an election season that is positive, open and vigorous about the real and honest differences, but devoid of the poison that has too often clouded the judgment of everybody involved in the public process."
Even as he offered his views, Mr. Clinton acknowledged that his thoughts mattered far less in these waning days of his presidency. He said his opinions plus a quarter "will get you half a soda pop."
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photo: Gov. Tom Ridge of Pennsylvania, left, and Gov. Parris Glendening of Maryland applauded President Clinton yesterday in State College, Pa. (Reuters)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: PENNSYLVANIA, USA (94%); MARYLAND, USA (79%); 

CITY: PHILADELPHIA, PA, USA (69%); 

COMPANY: NATIONAL GOVERNORS ASSN NATIONAL GOVERNORS' ASSOCIATION (55%); NATIONAL GOVERNORS' ASSOCIATION (84%); NATIONAL GOVERNORS' ASSOCIATION (84%); 

ORGANIZATION: NATIONAL GOVERNORS ASSN NATIONAL GOVERNORS' ASSOCIATION (84%); NATIONAL GOVERNORS' ASSOCIATION (84%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%); PENNSYLVANIA, USA (94%); MARYLAND, USA (79%); PHILADELPHIA, PA, USA (69%); 

SUBJECT: GOVERNORS (US); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTION OF 2000; LAW AND LEGISLATION GOVERNORS (92%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (89%); ELECTIONS (79%); INTERVIEWS (79%); CONFERENCES & CONVENTIONS (78%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (78%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (78%); POLITICAL PARTIES (77%); LEGISLATION (76%); MEDICARE (76%); TAXES & TAXATION (75%); TAX LAW (74%); PUBLIC FINANCE (74%); JUDGES (72%); HEALTH INSURANCE (71%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (70%); FUNDRAISING (67%); PRESCRIPTION DRUG INSURANCE (56%); PRESCRIPTION DRUGS (56%); MINIMUM WAGE (55%); HISTORY (54%); 

PERSON: CLINTON, BILL (PRES); LACEY, MARC BILL CLINTON (93%); GEORGE W BUSH (89%); AL GORE (79%); RICK SANTORUM (50%); 

LOAD-DATE: July 11, 2000



264 of 757 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: July 11, 2000

SECTION: Section B; Page 5; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk 

LENGTH: 506 words

HEADLINE: Mrs. Clinton Seeks New Formula for State Medicaid Financing

BYLINE: By JONATHAN P. HICKS 

DATELINE: COLONIE, N.Y., July 10

 BODY:
Hillary Rodham Clinton continued her focus on economic issues today as she called for a new formula to calculate the amount of money New York receives from the federal government for Medicaid expenditures. Her formula, she said, could cut residents' taxes by an average of $400 a year.
Mrs. Clinton, who made the recommendations in a speech to about 100 people at an American Legion hall in this Albany suburb, said that the current formula reimbursed New York at the lowest rate of federal subsidy for Medicaid. Since New York's counties share the cost of Medicaid with the state, the change she proposes would provide the state with about $3 billion a year, she said. 
 Her proposal is similar to recommendations made by Senator Daniel Patrick Moynihan, the man she hopes to succeed. The difference, Mrs. Clinton said, is that an expected increase in the federal budget surplus would make her plan more palatable politically, with the increased subsidy coming from those funds.
"Now, because of the surplus, we can present this choice," Mrs. Clinton said. "And I think we have a better chance than we've ever had to create a coalition that would enable us to pass this."
The proposal came at the end of a five-day campaign tour that has taken Mrs. Clinton to a dozen communities from western New York to the Albany area. As she has done frequently during the tour, Mrs. Clinton told the audience that her most pressing priority, if she is elected senator, will be to work to stimulate the economy of upstate New York.
The plan being pushed by Mrs. Clinton would use a formula that largely takes into account the percentage of the population classified as living in poverty. Under the current system, Medicaid reimbursement is determined by the state's per capita income.
The current method, Mrs. Clinton said, means that the federal government covers about 50 percent of New York's Medicaid expenses, while other states receive more than 60 percent.
Mrs. Clinton said that her proposal was likely to be viewed skeptically by Republicans in Congress. "Obviously I'm in an election, so people on the other side of the aisle will probably come out against it within 10 or 15 minutes, if not sooner, because they don't want me to present an idea that sounds like a good idea," she said.
"But I think it could provide a way out of the dilemma we've been in," she added. "We couldn't have presented it too much earlier because we didn't have the projected surpluses that would have provided the funding for it."
In addressing other economic issues, Mrs. Clinton again discussed her interest in bringing better airline service and lower fares, as well as lower utility rates, to upstate cities. She has also talked often about promoting tourism in upstate New York.
While she has offered few specifics on many of the items in her plan, she has nonetheless made economic issues the centerpiece of this campaign trip. At every stop, her staff has distributed brochures with the headline, "Hillary's Upstate Economic Agenda." 
http://www.nytimes.com

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (97%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (97%); 

CITY: ALBANY, NY, USA (92%); 

COMPANY: SENATE (US) AMERICAN LEGION (57%); AMERICAN LEGION (57%); 

ORGANIZATION: SENATE (US) AMERICAN LEGION (57%); AMERICAN LEGION (57%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK STATE; UNITED STATES (97%); NEW YORK, USA (97%); ALBANY, NY, USA (92%); 

SUBJECT: ELECTIONS; ELECTION ISSUES; MEDICINE AND HEALTH; FINANCES; BUDGETS AND BUDGETING; MEDICAID; ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS; FEDERAL AID (US) MEDICAID (92%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); BUDGETS (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (89%); PLATFORMS & ISSUES (78%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (78%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (78%); POOR POPULATION (78%); ELECTIONS (77%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (77%); POVERTY & HOMELESSNESS (72%); UTILITY RATES (70%); GOVERNMENT GRANTS & SUBSIDIES (70%); TRENDS (70%); ECONOMIC NEWS (69%); AIRLINES (60%); TOURISM (50%); UTILITIES INDUSTRY (50%); 

PERSON: CLINTON, HILLARY RODHAM; HICKS, JONATHAN P HILLARY RODHAM CLINTON (93%); 

LOAD-DATE: July 11, 2000



265 of 757 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: July 11, 2000

SECTION: Section A; Page 12; Column 6; Foreign Desk 

LENGTH: 741 words

HEADLINE: U.S. Is Trying To Be Upbeat On the Talks In Maryland

BYLINE: By JANE PERLEZ 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, July 10

 BODY:
Stunned by the political drama in Israel, the Clinton administration tried today to put the best face on prospects for the Camp David summit meeting despite Prime Minister Ehud Barak's weakened position. The administration said Mr. Barak still had sufficient popular support to reach an agreement with the Palestinian leader, Yasir Arafat, and sell it back home.
President Clinton, who called the summit meeting after a series of requests by Mr. Barak, praised Mr. Arafat and Mr. Barak as leaders who had the "vision, the knowledge, the experience and the ability and the sheer guts to do what it takes." 
 Even so, the administration had not expected that Mr. Barak would arrive for the summit meeting's start on Tuesday depending for his political survival on the parliamentary votes of Communist and Arab parties. There was also surprise among officials here that Foreign Minister David Levy, apparently piqued at not being included in the prime minister's inner circle, refused to make the trip.
The slide in Mr. Barak's fortunes occurred as administration officials packed their bags to go to Camp David and the surrounding Maryland hills. Some officials added last-minute touches to talking points as the no-confidence vote unfolded in the Israeli Parliament. Much of the State Department's press operations moved to a school near Camp David.
There were preparations, too, to welcome Mr. Barak and Mr. Arafat and their teams of negotiators, limited to about 12 on each side. Mr. Barak was accompanied by, among others, Shlomo Ben-Ami, a popular Labor Party politician.
Mr. Arafat headed for Washington with a team that represents a wide spectrum of the Palestinian Authority's political thinking. His chief negotiator is Abu Ala, head of the Palestinian assembly in Ramallah and a veteran of the secret Oslo negotiations in 1993.
But almost all the focus today was on Mr. Barak, who was widely referred to as a top-flight soldier but a less than top-flight politician. Describing the reaction to Mr. Barak's tumultuous day in Jerusalem, one official said, "This was like lightning on a clear day."
Turning a seeming negative into a positive, a senior administration official argued that Mr. Barak's predicament "underscored that the prime minister is willing to take the political heat for moving forward." That would in turn let Mr. Clinton convince Mr. Arafat that the prime minister was the "best" Israeli leader with whom to deal, because few other politicians would be as willing to risk their position and offer compromises, the official said.
In pushing aside the perception of the prime minister's weakness as he arrived -- an expected 12 hours later than planned because of the no-confidence vote -- the official said the White House was firm in its view that Mr. Barak had the resolve to complete an agreement.
Secretary of State Madeleine K. Albright said this morning that Mr. Barak enjoyed the support of more than 55 percent of Israelis and would hence be able to go to the people with an agreement.
But Israeli opinion surveys are quite fickle, an administration official said, adding that it was a thin reed to hang the future of a yet-to-be-negotiated agreement on polling.
Diplomats in the region and Middle East experts appeared to be in consensus that the chances had diminished for an overall end-of-conflict accord that the White House would like. One experienced diplomat in the region said Mr. Barak would have to fight for the toughest terms he could, because any agreement would be portrayed as a sellout by the right wing in Israel. At the same time, the diplomat said, Mr. Arafat would see that the Israeli was "desperate" for an accord and would toughen his conditions.
The administration has left itself various possibilities for claiming success. In announcing the meeting last week, Mr. Clinton said he wanted an agreement on the "core issues" that have fueled the Israeli-Palestinian conflict for more than 50 years. But he also set a slightly lesser goal, saying the meeting would be where the two leaders would "start drawing the contours of the long-awaited peace," a phrase that seemed to indicate that a deal on some general principles might also be enough.
Mr. Clinton is scheduled to leave for Okinawa, Japan, on July 19 for a summit meeting in of leading industrial economies. He said today he did not want to set an "artificial deadline" for the talks.
 
http://www.nytimes.com

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: ISRAEL (95%); PALESTINIAN TERRITORY, OCCUPIED (94%); UNITED STATES (93%); 

STATE: MARYLAND, USA (93%); 

CITY: JERUSALEM, ISRAEL (79%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ISRAEL; ISRAEL (95%); PALESTINIAN TERRITORY, OCCUPIED (94%); UNITED STATES (93%); MARYLAND, USA (93%); JERUSALEM, ISRAEL (79%); 

SUBJECT: UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; PALESTINIANS; POLITICS AND GOVERNMENT; LEGISLATURES AND PARLIAMENTS TALKS & MEETINGS (92%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (90%); STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (90%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); FOREIGN POLICY (90%); PRIME MINISTERS (90%); POLITICS (89%); FOREIGN RELATIONS (73%); POLITICAL PARTIES (73%); 

PERSON: CLINTON, BILL (PRES); BARAK, EHUD (PRIME MIN); ARAFAT, YASIR; PERLEZ, JANE EHUD BARAK (93%); BILL CLINTON (90%); 

LOAD-DATE: July 11, 2000



266 of 757 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: July 11, 2000

SECTION: Section B; Page 4; Column 4; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 1031 words

HEADLINE: METRO BRIEFING

BYLINE: Compiled by Anthony Ramirez

 BODY:

 
NEW YORK
 
MANHATTAN: PARK ROBBERY SUSPECT -- A suspect in five robberies at gunpoint in Central Park was arrested Sunday evening after a chess player in the park recognized him from a wanted poster, the police said yesterday. The suspect, Reinaldo Joseph, 38, of Brooklyn, was charged with robbery and criminal possession of a weapon in connection with three robberies in the park since April. Investigators said Mr. Joseph was the leading suspect in two other robberies as well. In all the robberies, women in their 20's were approached by a man with a gun as they walked in the park. Kevin Flynn (NYT) 

YONKERS: HOSPITAL CONTRACTS -- New York's largest health care union canceled picketing scheduled for yesterday at two hospitals in Yonkers, St. John's Riverside and Yonkers General, after negotiating its first contract with them. The contract covers nearly 1,000 workers and raises the salaries and benefits of registered nurses and others to the levels of their New York City counterparts. The contract, negotiated by 1199, New York's Health and Human Service Union, raises wages for the lowest-paid workers to $12.86 an hour from $7.75 over four years. Steven Greenhouse (NYT)
 
MANHATTAN: BOND RATING RAISED -- Standard & Poor's, the Wall Street rating agency, raised its credit rating for the New York State Thruway Authority's bonds to AA- from A yesterday, noting that the state is dedicating more revenues to the trust fund that backs the bonds. The authority is selling $458 million in bonds, and under the state's new transportation capital program, it plans to spend more than $17 billion over the next five years on highway and bridge construction, railroad and aviation projects, and maintenance. Leslie Eaton (NYT)
 
BETHLEHEM: MUDSLIDE AID -- The state will provide grants to help businesses hurt by a mudslide in Albany County in May, Gov. George E. Pataki announced yesterday. The Bethlehem Landslide Disaster Recovery Program will provide up to $5,000 to businesses suffering economic losses from a mudslide along the Normanskill Creek. Businesses claiming complete loss of property will be eligible for up to $100,000 in state aid. The money will come from the $55 million Community Development Block Grant program. (AP)
 
MANHATTAN: "IRAN 10" PROTEST -- Elie Wiesel, the Nobel Peace Prize laureate, left, and Richard C. Holbrooke, the United States ambassador to the United Nations, joined a group of New York politicians at a rally near the United Nations yesterday calling for the immediate release of the so-called Iran 10, the 10 Jewish men sentenced to prison on espionage charges in Iran after a long, closed trial. "We must allow our anger to speak," Mr. Wiesel said. (AP)
 
SYRACUSE: FRATERNITY LAWSUIT -- A federal judge has ruled that Hamilton College did not violate antitrust laws by requiring students to live on campus and not in fraternity houses. Judge Norman Mordue of United States District Court found that "there is no genuine issue as to any material fact" in the 1995 antitrust case, and ordered that it be dismissed in a decision rendered on June 29. The fraternities sued the college in Clinton under the Sherman Antitrust Act, arguing that the college was a monopolist in providing services to students. (AP)
 
EXTRADITION HEARING AWAITED -- Kathryn Gannon, a former star of X-rated films who is wanted in the United States on insider trading charges, will wait two more weeks to learn the date of her extradition hearing. Ms. Gannon, 31, appeared briefly in a court in Vancouver, British Columbia, yesterday as her lawyer asked for a delay in the hearing on whether she will be sent to New York to stand trial. Justice Patrick Dohm scheduled a July 25 court appearance. Ms. Gannon, known as Marylin Star in X-rated movies and publications, was arrested in May. She was charged in December along with James McDermott Jr., the former chief executive of Keefe, Bruyette & Woods. (AP)
 
NEW JERSEY
 
GALLOWAY TOWNSHIP: IDENTIFICATION SOUGHT -- The police say they are asking for help in identifying a woman who has been comatose since she attempted suicide on June 29 at a Days Inn in Galloway Township, outside Atlantic City. The woman is black, 5 feet 5 inches tall, about 250 pounds and thought to be in her 40's or 50's. The police said she has a one-inch lesion above her left eyebrow and a scar under her chin. A Bible, bifocal glasses and clothing with the label "Teddi" were found in her room. She carried a bus schedule for a route from New York City to Cape May. Laura Mansnerus (NYT)
 
PLAINFIELD: 3 INJURED IN FIRE -- A firefighter and two other people sustained minor injuries yesterday morning in a fire at a Plainfield rooming house. The injured were being treated for smoke inhalation and respiratory problems, the authorities said. Deputy Fire Chief Paul Newborn said the blaze, reported about 2:05 a.m., began in the basement of the home at 219 East Fifth Street. Authorities would not comment on whether the fire was considered suspicious. (AP)
 
CONNECTICUT
 
BRISTOL: NEW PARK RULES AFTER DROWNING -- Lake Compounce, the amusement park in Bristol, has tightened safety regulations for a popular water slide after the drowning of a 6-year-old boy who met the ride's height requirement but could not swim. On July 1, the boy, Devon M. Alexander of Hartford, slipped off the inner tube that he had ridden down the 375-foot-long slide and spent 25 minutes underwater before lifeguards found him. He died on Friday. Under the tighter rules, life jackets will be required for children between 46 inches and 56 inches tall. David M. Herszenhorn (NYT)
 
HARTFORD: BLOOD SUPPLY CRISIS -- Connecticut has a blood emergency, Red Cross officials said. While no elective surgery has been canceled because of the shortage, patient transfusions may be jeopardized if the blood supply continues to fall, said Dr. Richard Cable, acting executive director of the Connecticut Region of the American Red Cross. Red Cross officials said Sunday that 1,746 donors were needed for three-day supply of blood. Theresa Crapanzano (NYT)
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photos

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: NYT (AMEX) (96%); 

INDUSTRY: SIC2711 NEWSPAPER PUBLISHERS; 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (96%); IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (93%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (96%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (95%); SYRACUSE, NY, USA (59%); 

COMPANY: NEW YORK TIMES CO (96%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (96%); IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (93%); NEW YORK, USA (96%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (95%); SYRACUSE, NY, USA (59%); 

SUBJECT: NO INDEX TERMS FROM NYTIMES ROBBERY (91%); WAGES & SALARIES (90%); FINANCIAL RATINGS (90%); BONDS (90%); PARKS & PLAYGROUNDS (90%); LITIGATION (89%); AWARDS & PRIZES (89%); STOCK INDEXES (87%); GRANTS & GIFTS (86%); PROTESTS & DEMONSTRATIONS (78%); ARRESTS (78%); ILLEGAL WEAPONS (78%); SENTENCING (77%); MEN (75%); HOSPITALS (74%); STRIKES (74%); JAIL SENTENCING (73%); INVESTIGATIONS (72%); CREDIT BUREAUS (70%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (69%); NURSES & NURSING (69%); CAPITAL EXPENDITURES (68%); BUSINESS CONTINUITY (68%); UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (68%); NATURAL DISASTERS (67%); NOBEL PRIZES (65%); TRUST ARRANGEMENTS (64%); MIDDLE EAST PROTESTS & UPRISINGS (64%); SUITS & CLAIMS (62%); SETTLEMENTS & DECISIONS (60%); EMBASSIES & CONSULATES (60%); JUDGES (60%); ESPIONAGE (60%); JEWS & JUDAISM (50%); BRIDGES & TUNNELS (50%); BRIDGE CONSTRUCTION (50%); 

PERSON: RICHARD HOLBROOKE (50%); 

LOAD-DATE: July 11, 2000



267 of 757 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: July 11, 2000
Correction Appended

SECTION: Section A; Page 12; Column 1; Foreign Desk 

LENGTH: 1829 words

HEADLINE: Moment of Truth on Tough Issues

BYLINE: By JANE PERLEZ 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, July 10

 BODY:
When President Clinton announced the Camp David summit meeting, he said he hoped that it would resolve the deepest matters dividing the Israelis and Palestinians, questions of "beliefs, political identity, collective fate" that raise dark fears and emotions. He also sounded a note of weary familiarity, saying that the issues were so well-known that the solutions should be within sight.
As the Israeli prime minister, Ehud Barak, and the Palestinian leader, Yasir Arafat, begin their final peace talks with Mr. Clinton, they are expected to test how far apart they are on the future status of Jerusalem, the fate of more than three million Palestinian refugees and the borders of a Palestinian state. 
 What is intertwined with these overarching issues is the question of how many Israeli settlers on the West Bank would remain in Israeli territory and how many would come under Palestinian rule and then, most likely, be resettled in Israel. The future of the Jordan Valley will also be on the table.
International financial assistance is likely to be discussed, including an American component, to compensate refugees but also to help form a new Palestinian state. Separately, the Israelis are seeking an upgraded security relationship with the United States, though one that falls short of a mutual defense pact.
The American team, led by Mr. Clinton, has not said whether it will work on all the issues at once or single out those where the most progress can be made. Nor has it signaled whether it will present precise American ideas -- known in negotiating parlance as "bridging proposals" -- for all the issues or just for some.
Since the former Israeli prime minister, Yitzhak Rabin, and Mr. Arafat agreed in principle seven years ago on a peace settlement in which Israel and the Palestine Liberation Organization recognized each other, these crucial issues have been kicked down the road for a final round of talks designed to formally end the more than five-decade conflict.
The 1993 agreement, which was negotiated in Oslo and signed on the White House lawn, called for the two sides to make a final settlement by May 4, 1999.
That deadline was extended last September -- in an agreement at Sharm el Sheik, Egypt -- to Sept. 13, 2000, the date Mr. Arafat has set for unilaterally declaring a Palestinian state if there is no final peace accord.
Since Oslo, the Israelis have withdrawn from the Gaza Strip and about 40 percent of the West Bank. These moves were carried out after wrenching negotiations for interim accords, including one in 1998 at Wye, Md., where Mr. Clinton mediated between Mr. Arafat and the conservative Israeli prime minister, Benjamin Netanyahu.
Now that the two sides have been called to the endgame on the hitherto too-tough-to-deal-with issues, the differences appear acute on every front. A senior American official said that in on-and-off talks over the last seven months, including back-channel negotiations in Stockholm, the two sides had "demythologized" the issues. But he said that gaps had been narrowed only in some areas. And that small progress, he said, was beginning to be eroded by bitterness in the last month.

Jerusalem
 The question on which the least progress has been made, according to all participants in the negotiations, is Jerusalem. In Stockholm, there was a little bit of "brainstorming" on Jerusalem, but "brainstorming is cheap," said an official familiar with the talks. A senior Israeli official said here last week that it was possible that agreement would be reached on several major points but that an agreement on Jerusalem was much more unlikely.
The heart and soul of the Israeli position is still that Jerusalem is the undivided and eternal capital of Israel, the official said.
In contrast, Mr. Arafat said last month that he remained insistent that East Jerusalem become the capital of a Palestinian state. Those who disagreed, he scoffed, could "go and drink from the Dead Sea." Mr. Arafat, his aides say, will not give up on Jerusalem.
Israeli officials have suggested that Mr. Barak is considering granting increased autonomy to Palestinians in East Jerusalem -- specifically, more control of public services.
A 1995 document by Yossi Beilin, now Israeli justice minister, and Abu Mazen, secretary of the Palestine Liberation Organization, had compromises on a range of issues, but, showing how tough the issue is, not on whose capital the city would be.
Published versions of the document, known as the Beilin-Mazen agreement, outline compromises on all the major issues in the Palestinian-Israeli conflict and components of it are being revived as the talks open. One version of the document says the boundaries of greater Jerusalem would be expanded to encompass Palestinian districts, including the towns of Abu Dis, Al Ayzariyan and Salwan. The Palestinian Authority would create a capital in these new districts and call it Al Quds and not Jerusalem.
For the estimated 200,000 Arabs who live in Jerusalem, a municipal council would be formed to manage local affairs under the supervision of the Israeli council that is now responsible for the whole city. And the Palestinian flag would be flown from the Islamic holy sites.
In essence, because the plan does not recognize Palestinian sovereignty over East Jerusalem, it has been dismissed by Arab diplomats as the "Jewish solution." It seemed impossible, they said, that Mr. Arafat would be able to live with what would amount to only linguistic niceties, such as Palestinian "autonomy" in East Jerusalem.
Administration officials, as well as Israelis and Palestinians, have said that if the Camp David sessions get as far as tackling Jerusalem, the compromises necessary on both sides will be so substantial that the talks could break down at that point. In the days before the meeting, there have been increasing suggestions that the White House might have to settle for an agreement that would leave decisions on Jerusalem for another day.
But some officials have said that in an overall package there could be the possibility of both sides moving to fall-back positions on Jerusalem in return for a final agreement that ended all claims by either side.

Territory
 On the question of territory -- how much and where the Israelis will give up land on the West Bank -- there appears to have been some behind-the-scenes movement. Indeed, both Israelis and Palestinians say this has been where there has been the most progress.
Mr. Arafat and his aides have repeatedly declared that Israel must withdraw from the West Bank and Gaza to the borders that existed before the 1967 war, in accordance with the United Nations Resolution 242. Part of Mr. Arafat's insistence is based on what he calls the precedent laid down by Israel in its peace deals with Egypt in 1979, when 100 percent of Sinai was yielded, and in Jordan in 1994, when Israel exchanged some land with Jordan to compensate for land taken by Israel decades before along their joint border.
But in private, the Palestinian leader has acknowledged to American officials that large Israeli settlements on the West Bank are certain to be annexed by Israel in a final deal. In return for such a concession, Mr. Arafat contends that Israel must "swap" some Israeli land to be included in the new Palestinian state. Mr. Barak's advisers are reported to be divided on this issue.
Israeli officials said that Mr. Barak opposes swapping land because it would encroach on the notion of Israeli sovereignty.
So far, the Israelis have not been precise on the amount of territory they are prepared to give up on the West Bank. The Israeli press has reported that between 90 and 92 percent would be ceded -- much more than the 60 or 75 percent that had been generally thought. The Barak government has not officially acknowledged that it is considering these higher figures, though.
A senior Israeli official said that land with about 70 percent of the 175,000 settlers would be annexed to Israel. The future of the remaining settlers -- those in outlying areas or scattered settlements -- would have to be negotiated.
These settlers, according to preliminary discussions, would have a choice of taking Palestinian citizenship -- a highly unlikely choice -- or of being moved back to Israel. The Israelis are insisting on no "arbitrary" dismantling of settlements.

Refugees
 In many respects, the negotiators believe that the future of more than three million Palestinian refugees, most of whom either left Israel after the 1948 Arab-Israeli war or are their descendants, may be the easiest problem to solve. About a million are in camps run by international agencies in Lebanon, Syria, Jordan, Gaza and the West Bank.
The mantra of the Palestinian Authority has been that these refugees must have the right to return to Israel and that Israel must accept responsibility for the fact they fled or were expelled. Israel says it refuses to accept responsibility and will not acknowledge the right of return but will show "empathy" for the refugees, said a special adviser to Mr. Barak, Yossi Alpher.
The Barak government is prepared, Mr. Alpher says, as a "humanitarian gesture," to allow some family reunification.
Palestinian officials faced with budgetary and space limitations on how many refugees they want to take into their new state could be willing to go along with a concept that grants the right of return in principle but stops short of actually carrying it out, officials said.
About 2.7 million Palestinians live on the West Bank and Gaza, and United Nations officials estimate the Palestinian Authority would accept the return of up to 500,000 refugees phased over a number of years.
A sizable international aid package spread over 20 years has been suggested for compensating the refugees and the governments that have been hosts to them. Japan, the European Union and the United States would be the major contributors.

Other Issues
 On the future of the Jordan Valley, the Israelis officially assert that the area will remain Israel's security border but that the security presence may be phased out over a period of time. While the eventual loss of the Jordan Valley is not popular in Israel, it is not nearly as sensitive an issue as Jerusalem.
For Mr. Barak, particularly in his precarious political situation, the size of the American aid package and the upgrading of the security relationship are of utmost importance. Part of his ability to sell a peace deal in general elections would depend on how much he was able to bring home from Washington in terms of new weaponry and radar capable of detecting missiles.
Similarly, Mr. Arafat is expecting financial aid from the United States, as well as Japan and the European Union. Mr. Arafat's chief economic adviser, Mohammed Rachid, said the Palestinians would ask the Americans for $40 billion, much of it for refugee assistance.
 
http://www.nytimes.com

CORRECTION-DATE: July 14, 2000, Friday

 CORRECTION:
A chart on Tuesday listing issues to be discussed in the Middle East peace talks at Camp David referred incorrectly to Resolution 242 of the United Nations Security Council, which was approved after the Middle East war of 1967. It calls for the withdrawal of Israeli armed forces "from territories occupied in the recent conflict"; it is the Palestinians who associate that language with the West Bank and the Gaza Strip.

GRAPHIC: Chart: "On the Table at Camp David"
The summit meeting that begins today is intended to resolve the most difficult issues in the Palestinian-Israeli peace effort that began with secret talks in Oslo in 1993. In the Declaration of Principles signed in Washington later that year, Israel and the Palestine Liberation Organization agreed to recognize each other and set in motion a series of moves toward, but stopping short of, the establishment of a Palestinian state. These have included Israeli withdrawal from parts of the West Bank and Gaza and limited Palestinian autonomy.
 
The 1993 accord called for final settlement of the most contentious issues by May 1999. That deadline has been extended to Sept. 13, 2000, and the Palestinian leader, Yasir Arafat, has said he would unilaterally declare a Palestinian state on that date if negotiations fail.
 
The Major Issues
EAST JERUSALEM: Israel, which annexed East Jerusalem in 1967, claims all of Jerusalem as its capital. The Palestinians are demanding that East Jerusalem become the capital of their future state.
 
TERRITORY: The Palestinians want a settlement based on United Nations Resolution 242, which calls for an end to Israeli occupation of the entire West Bank and Gaza, seized in the 1967 war. Israel rejects a return to the prewar borders, and seeks a permanent security presence along the Jordan River border between the West Bank and Jordan.
 
JEWISH SETTLEMENTS: The Palestinians say Jewish settlements in the West Bank and Gaza must be dismantled or transferred to Palestinian control. Israel wants to annex major settlements near its present borders, but has indicated willingness to evacuate isolated settlements or negotiate a new status for them under Palestinian rule.
 
PALESTINIAN REFUGEES: The Palestinians demand a right of return to present-day Israel for Arabs who fled when the Jewish state was established in 1948. Israel objects to these refugees returning to Israel but has considered compensation for those who lost property.
 
Map of Israel shows: Areas transferred to Palestinians; Areas under partial control; areas under Israeli control.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: ISRAEL (99%); PALESTINIAN TERRITORY, OCCUPIED (99%); UNITED STATES (95%); JORDAN (93%); EGYPT (79%); 

CITY: JERUSALEM, ISRAEL (94%); 

COMPANY: INTERNATIONAL FINANCIAL SYSTEMS LTD (55%); INTERNATIONAL FINANCIAL ADVISERS KSC (55%); UNITED NATIONS (59%); PALESTINE LIBERATION ORGANIZATION (59%); UNITED NATIONS (59%); PALESTINE LIBERATION ORGANIZATION (59%); 

ORGANIZATION: UNITED NATIONS (59%); PALESTINE LIBERATION ORGANIZATION (59%); UNITED NATIONS (59%); PALESTINE LIBERATION ORGANIZATION (59%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ISRAEL; ; ISRAEL (99%); PALESTINIAN TERRITORY, OCCUPIED (99%); UNITED STATES (95%); JORDAN (93%); EGYPT (79%); JERUSALEM, ISRAEL (94%); 

SUBJECT: UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; PALESTINIANS INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (90%); TALKS & MEETINGS (90%); PEACE PROCESS (90%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (89%); PRIME MINISTERS (89%); PALESTINE LIBERATION ORGANIZATION (78%); TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (75%); REFUGEES (75%); 

PERSON: PERLEZ, JANE; ARAFAT, YASIR; BARAK, EHUD (PRIME MIN) BILL CLINTON (90%); EHUD BARAK (73%); BENJAMIN NETANYAHU (58%); 

LOAD-DATE: July 11, 2000



268 of 757 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: July 11, 2000
Correction Appended

SECTION: Section F; Page 2; Column 2; Science Desk 

LENGTH: 1247 words

HEADLINE: Research Predicts Summer Doom for Northern Icecap

BYLINE: By WALTER GIBBS 

DATELINE: OSLO, July 10

 BODY:
The mythic ice scape that stretches south in all directions from the North Pole is melting so fast that Norwegian scientists say it could disappear entirely each summer beginning in just 50 years, radically altering the Earth's environment, the global economy and the human imagination.
Climatologists have warned for a decade that the northern icecap is retreating. But researchers at the University of Bergen's Nansen Environmental and Remote Sensing Center are apparently the first to predict the disorienting specter of a watery North Pole open to cruise ships and the Polar Bear Swim Club within the lives of today's young people. 
 "The changes we've seen have been much faster and more dramatic than most people imagine," said Tore Furevik, 31, a polar researcher and co-author of the article "Toward an Ice-Free Arctic?" in the latest issue of the Norwegian science journal Cicerone.
Not all ice specialists agree with Mr. Furevik, but his 50-year projection is supported by the director of the Bergen research center, Prof. Ola M. Johannessen, whose own study will appear in the fall issue of Science Progress, a British journal.
Professor Johannessen, 61, said the receding and thinning of Arctic sea ice have outstripped the theoretical effect of global warming from greenhouse gases by a factor of three. "The greenhouse is here, no doubt about it, but there is more to it," he said, speculating that a conjunction of long-term oscillations in North Atlantic air pressure have hastened the melting. If so, he said, the cycles will eventually decouple and the ice, or what is left of it, could regain stability.
Since 1978, the coverage of Arctic sea ice in winter has decreased by 6 percent, equivalent to an area the size of Texas, according to satellite pictures. As for average ice thickness in late summer, submarine sonar measurements since the 1950's have shown a decline to 5.9 feet from 10.2 feet, or 42 percent. The Norwegian researchers' prediction of zero ice in a half-century is based partly on extrapolation of the submarine data and partly on Professor Johannessen's discovery last year that hard-core, year-round ice is shrinking twice as fast as the overall winter perimeter.
While an ice-free Arctic Ocean would most likely disrupt the global environment, researchers said, it could have positive economic aspects. It could shorten shipping routes, for example, and expand the range of offshore oil drillers. Rich new fishing areas would probably appear, though established fisheries to the south could decline.
Dr. Drew Rothrock, a University of Washington oceanographer, said he agreed that Arctic sea ice was on a trajectory to disappear in 50 years. But, he added, that did not mean it would. The ice is being expelled from the Arctic by abnormally strong winds before it could achieve its accustomed thickness, he said, and that could be a temporary phenomenon.
"I think it is quite possible that in the next 10 years we will see the winds revert to a more historical pattern, so that the ice begins to reside longer in the Arctic and thicken up again," he said. "I would be cautious about predicting doom."
Unlike the ice in a pond, Arctic sea ice consists of independent floes of varying age that join together, pull apart or pile up on one another in reaction to wind and currents. In winter, it extends as far south as Hudson Bay in Canada. By late summer it pulls back to the roughly circular Arctic basin.
The seeming permanence and impregnability of the northern icescape have given it almost continental status in the human imagination. As a mythic anchor point, the North Pole, home of Santa Claus, has few geographic rivals.
"The North Pole is the strongest symbol of mankind's struggle against, and with, nature," said the Norwegian adventurer Boerge Ousland, the first man to ski there alone without aerial reprovisioning, in 1994. "If the ice disappears, well, I just can't imagine it."
The sea ice is thickest above North America, where Canadian islands and the fingers of northern Greenland act as a sieve in the current. As the floes stack up there, they create pressure ridges up to 40 feet high. By contrast, a branch of the warm-water Gulf Stream keeps Norway's north coast ice-free. That warm flow continues under the ice along most of the northern Siberian coast.
If the trend continues, it is there, the Eurasian Arctic, that the first significant opening of ice-clogged water is expected. Russia, Scandinavia and Japan are laying plans. Government ministers and shipping executives met in Oslo last fall and declared that "considerable profit potential" existed for a proposed shipping lane linking Western Europe and Asia across the mellowing Arctic. The Northern Sea Route is a centuries-old dream comparable to that of the Northwest Passage of Canada, which is even more solidly frozen.
Ships using the Arctic to move cargo from Hamburg, Germany, to Yokohama, Japan, would save about 4,800 miles compared with the usual route through the Suez Canal. Current traffic is limited to the Russian Navy and a handful of heavily subsidized nickel ore carriers escorted by nuclear-powered icebreakers. But receding ice could open the way for a parade of cargo vessels and oil tankers, shipping industry experts said.
A proponent of the shortcut is Ivan Ivanov, leader of an Arctic shipping demonstration project carried out by Finland's Fortum energy company with financing from the European Commission. Citing what he called official Russian estimates, he said the Russian Arctic shelf contained three times the oil of Saudi Arabia.
The vision of an industrialized Arctic Ocean alarms environmentalists, who see the dwindling of ice as a disaster. They said the loss of white surface area would cause the Arctic to reflect less of the sun's energy, accelerating the warming. On the other hand, open water makes a better "sink" for absorbing atmospheric greenhouse gases.
Thus, according to one model, an ice-free Arctic Ocean could do as much to slow global warming as the melting did to stimulate it. Yet even a modest change in Arctic dynamics could have wrenching effects elsewhere. If the changes divert the Gulf Stream, Professor Johannessen said, much of Western Europe could be plunged into an ice age.
One sure thing is that melting sea ice cannot be implicated in the coastal flooding that many global warming models have projected. Just as melting ice cubes do not cause a glass of water to overflow, melting sea ice does not increase oceanic volume. Any future rise in sea level would result from glaciers melting on land, of which there has been little evidence to date.
Another sure thing is that the polar bear and other creatures face a bleak future if their habitat keeps liquefying. So do Eskimo populations that hunt game like seal and walrus. Alan Springer, a wildlife specialist at the University of Alaska in Fairbanks, said Alaska's 250,000 walruses seem to have suffered weight loss and stress from retraction of the pack ice they need for resting and raising pups.
"The sea ice in summer has been receding so far north that it carries the walruses into very deep water, far from their optimal feeding ground," Dr. Springer said.
Mr. Furevik, the Norwegian researcher, said he could foresee ice-dwelling mammals making "a desperate last stand" north of Greenland, where he believes the final patch of Arctic sea ice will linger before vanishing into the waves in about 2050.
 
http://www.nytimes.com

CORRECTION-DATE: July 28, 2000, Friday

 CORRECTION:
A chart in Science Times on July 11 about melting Arctic ice misstated the average area covered by longstanding ice. It shrank from 1,734,898 square miles in 1978-79 to 1,503,313 in 1997-98 (not 2,792,192 to 2,419,473).

GRAPHIC: Chart: "Dwindling Sea Ice in the Arctic"
Multiyear ice, which lingers beyond a single year, has receded in the Arctic so quickly that some scientists suggest that in 50 years, it could disappear in the summer.
 
MULTIYEAR ICE COVERAGE
The ice coverages shown are based on images taken by satellites. While the images show general shrinkage, in some years, the perimeter actually expands.
 
The fringes of each ice cap include ice and ocean.
 
ICE COVERAGE TRENDS
Satellite information can also be used to quantify the area covered by multiyear ice.
 
Circles represent the months -- November, December, January, Febuary and March -- when multiyear ice can be accurately measured.
 
Graph shows the overall trend from 1979 to 1998.
 
(Sources: Dr. Claire L. Parkinson, NASA/Goddard Space Flight Center; Dr. Ola M. Johannessen, University of Bergen/Nansen Environmental and Remote Sensing Center)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

INDUSTRY: NAICS 213112 OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (60%); 

COUNTRY: ARCTIC (95%); NORWAY (94%); UNITED STATES (79%); 

STATE: ARCTIC OCEAN (94%); EARTH (92%); TEXAS, USA (79%); MARYLAND, USA (79%); ATLANTIC OCEAN (79%); 

CITY: OSLO, NORWAY (73%); 

COMPANY: GODDARD SPACE FLIGHT CENTER (59%); GODDARD SPACE FLIGHT CENTER (59%); 

ORGANIZATION: GODDARD SPACE FLIGHT CENTER (59%); GODDARD SPACE FLIGHT CENTER (59%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ARCTIC REGIONS; ; ARCTIC (95%); NORWAY (94%); UNITED STATES (79%); ARCTIC OCEAN (94%); EARTH (92%); TEXAS, USA (79%); MARYLAND, USA (79%); ATLANTIC OCEAN (79%); OSLO, NORWAY (73%); 

SUBJECT: WEATHER; GREENHOUSE EFFECT; SHIPS AND SHIPPING; OIL (PETROLEUM) AND GASOLINE; FISH AND OTHER MARINE LIFE; ICE CLIMATOLOGY (90%); GLACIERS & ICEBERGS (90%); CLIMATE CHANGE (90%); EARTH & ATMOSPHERIC SCIENCE (89%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (89%); MARINE SHIPPING (89%); SCIENCE NEWS (78%); SCIENCE & TECHNOLOGY (78%); SONAR SYSTEMS (78%); RESEARCH INSTITUTES (78%); OCEANOGRAPHY (78%); WEATHER (77%); GLOBALIZATION (77%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (77%); COLLEGES & UNIVERSITIES (76%); BULK SHIPPING (75%); MARINE VESSELS (75%); GLOBAL WARMING (73%); FISHERIES (71%); GREENHOUSE GASES (70%); PETROLEUM PRODUCTS (65%); OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (60%); OIL EXTRACTION (50%); 

PERSON: GIBBS, WALTER OLA M JOHANNESSEN (66%); 

LOAD-DATE: July 11, 2000



269 of 757 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: July 12, 2000

SECTION: Section C; Page 6; Column 3; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 940 words

HEADLINE: THE MEDIA BUSINESS: ADVERTISING;
The direct marketing industry hopes to get Internet retailers to see things in an old light.

BYLINE: By Bernard Stamler 

 BODY:
Ask anyone in the direct response industry to describe e-commerce, and you're bound to get the same response: Internet retailing is simply another kind of direct marketing, not fundamentally different from the catalog and club businesses that have long made their money selling directly to consumers.
But, at least until recently, many online sellers did not agree. When making advertising decisions, they viewed theirs as a business apart, a totally new endeavor with new rules or, more accurately, no rules. And with little direct marketing experience of their own, few paid attention to the lessons of an industry that long ago learned to choose its media carefully and to control the costs of acquiring customers. 
 "Call it naivete or Silicon Valley arrogance," said Jim Nail, an analyst with Forrester Research in Cambridge, Mass., who specializes in online marketing and advertising. Either way, the result was the same: online retailers spent lavishly on general advertising, often paying full price for print and broadcast ads while eschewing cheaper and often more effective direct response advertising. Their focus was on "branding," and on the hope that getting themselves known would be enough to garner customers and win the good will of Wall Street.
But branding is not sufficient by itself to generate sales, Mr. Nail said: "All it does is implant an idea in the consumer's head." To get actual customers, he said, "you have to target your advertising to high-quality prospects, measure the value of your customers and constantly use your data to fine-tune your strategy." In short, "you need direct marketing."
Of course, it is hardly surprising that this is the view of H. Robert Wientzen, president of the Direct Marketing Association. He is not surprised that branding alone has yielded e-tailers too few customers at too high a cost. Indeed, he and other direct marketing industry members used to scratch their heads, he said, and wonder just how long such a mistaken strategy could last.
Not very long, as it happens. The Internet bubble has burst. Wall Street is less interested in branding than in bottom-line profitability, the kind that few online retailers can demonstrate. Many Internet sellers are watching their colleagues and competitors go belly-up, and are realizing that they, too, may soon be in trouble. And they are turning to direct marketers -- and direct response agencies -- for help, said Robert Johnston, president of the New York eCommerce Association, an industry trade group whose members include software companies, Internet service providers and a number of Internet retailers.
"For e-tailers," he said, "the trend of the future is direct marketing."
"Basically, I think that what the Internet has done is that it has validated direct marketing," said Wendy Riches, president of D'Arcy Marketing Communications Group, a division of B Com3 Group. Her agency is among those that have recently seen a number of new e-tailer clients. So has MediaCom Digital, a division of Grey Global Group, according to its president, Harvey Goldhersz. And the trend is not limited to large shops; smaller boutique agencies like Iris Shokoff Associates, a direct media buyer, are also benefiting.
What do they offer their new clients? "Accountability," Mr. Goldhersz said. Ms. Shokoff agreed. "Dot-coms need to find out just who is buying from them so they can target those people again," she said. "And they need to figure a way to get to new people, cheaply and efficiently, by using media wisely and by negotiating rates."
In the past, many Internet retailers did none of this. Indeed, if they measured at all, they limited their observations to what they could see online, generally doing little more than counting impressions -- that is, the number of people who saw their banners -- and clicks on a given site.
Hardly a coherent strategy, Ms. Riches scoffed. "Clicks alone mean nothing," she said. "It's not enough to bring a client to a Web site, you've got to get them to buy."
How badly were the e-retailers doing? Well, Ms. Shokoff said that she heard tales of Internet retailers spending as much as $5 to $50 to acquire each sale, even though direct marketers generally consider $10 or less a customer to be appropriate under most circumstances, according to Mr. Wientzen of the Direct Marketing Association. He said that he had heard of worse numbers, too, of Internet companies paying customer acquisition costs anywhere from $80 to $400 a customer. They would even brag of customer bases of perhaps 100,000, he added, a figure traditional direct marketers -- many of whom count their customers in the millions -- would generally consider to be unprofitably low.
Ms. Shokoff, Ms. Riches and Mr. Goldhersz all said that they could do better. They have techniques of measurement, or metrics, media buying resources and research capabilities that the Internet sellers do not, they said, not to mention years of experience in the field. But none would name specific Internet clients or give specific examples of how they were helping them, for fear of offending those that might be embarrassed by their prior missteps.
Nevertheless, Mr. Goldhersz did allow that his clients included companies like the Vitamin Shoppe and GoAmerica, a wireless Internet service provider. And he said that one of his clients -- not necessarily one of the two -- had suffered rather acutely from its ignorance of direct marketing before turning to his agency.
"They spent $14 or $15 million in the last quarter of last year, all of it on branding," he said.
"And nothing happened." 
http://www.nytimes.com

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TITLE: ADVERTISING (TIMES COLUMN)

TICKER: FORR (NASDAQ) (56%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS541910 MARKETING RESEARCH & PUBLIC OPINION POLLING (56%); SIC8732 COMMERCIAL ECONOMIC, SOCIOLOGICAL, & EDUCATIONAL RESEARCH (56%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (79%); 

STATE: CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (71%); 

CITY: SILICON VALLEY, CA, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: FORRESTER RESEARCH INC (56%); DIRECT MARKETING ASSOCIATION INC (53%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (71%); SILICON VALLEY, CA, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: RETAIL STORES AND TRADE; ADVERTISING; COMPUTERS AND THE INTERNET INTERNET RETAILING (93%); DIRECT MARKETING (92%); RETAILERS (91%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING (90%); INTERNET & WWW (89%); ELECTRONIC COMMERCE (89%); BUSINESS & PROFESSIONAL ASSOCIATIONS (89%); ONLINE MARKETING & ADVERTISING (78%); ONLINE ADVERTISING (78%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING SERVICES (77%); SALES & SELLING (77%); AGENCY RULEMAKING (76%); COMPUTER NETWORKS (73%); BROADCAST ADVERTISING (73%); COMPUTER SOFTWARE (73%); ECONOMIC BUBBLE (72%); INTERNET SERVICE PROVIDERS (69%); SOFTWARE MAKERS (69%); 

PERSON: STAMLER, BERNARD MICHAEL F JOHNSTON (50%); 

LOAD-DATE: July 12, 2000



270 of 757 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: July 12, 2000

SECTION: Section C; Page 1; Column 2; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 1578 words

HEADLINE: MANAGEMENT: Taking at the Office Reaches New Heights;
Employee Larceny Is Bigger and Bolder

BYLINE: By GREG WINTER 

 BODY:
Clifton Richards was more than just a mailroom clerk. He tackled the phones, mastered new software and bought supplies at the Social Science Research Council, a nonprofit foundation where he worked in Manhattan. Always friendly, invariably dependable, he seemed to be a true asset, his co-workers say. He even dressed better than many of the staff, they say.
Then, $650,000 in checks turned up missing over three months, the foundation says, and the United States Postal Police were called in to investigate. In March, Mr. Richards was charged with bank fraud, accused of stealing 22 grant payments from the company's mail and pawning them off to an intermediary for pennies on the dollar. (Efforts to reach him or his lawyer for comment were unsuccessful.) 
 Now, the shaken managers of the foundation are setting up security protocols they never knew they needed. "It's analogous to what one would do when someone burglarizes your home," said Craig Calhoun, the president. "You change the locks; you put in a burglary system. But that doesn't mean you're invulnerable or can stop this from happening again."
Indeed, in enterprises of all sizes and shapes, from shoestring nonprofits to giant corporations, the scale of employee theft has soared. Spurred by the gold-rush mentality of the late 1990's, emboldened by technology and quick to prey on the loose financial controls at start-ups and small companies, workers at every rung of the corporate ladder are stealing more money than ever before, fraud examiners say.
Though it is unclear how much the number of incidents has grown, a 1998 survey of 5,000 businesses, government agencies and nonprofits calculated an average loss of $624,000 from check fraud by employees, including forgeries and mailroom theft, nearly twice the figure in a 1994 poll. The survey, by consultants for KPMG, the accounting firm, also found that the looting of company bank accounts by employees using A.T.M. cards had more than doubled, to an average of $300,000.
Theft and misuse of company credit cards by employees tripled, to an average loss of more than $1.1 million, from 1994 to 1998, the KPMG survey showed. And the average loss from employee expense account abuse grew to $141,000, nearly seven times what it was four years earlier.
Fraud investigators say these statistics only scratch the surface of a surge in workplace larceny. Anonymous surveys are one thing. But, fearful of bad publicity, companies are loath to report theft cases to law enforcement, masking a problem that has grown alongside the soaring economy.
"In the early 1980's, when I first started in this business, I was not a very busy person," said Toby Bishop, a partner in the fraud division at Arthur Andersen, the consulting firm. "Today, I can't handle all of what comes in the door."
When the Association of Certified Fraud Examiners, which is based in Austin, Tex., conducted one of the nation's first comprehensive studies on employee fraud in 1996, it reported that companies typically lost 6 percent of their annual revenues to such theft, roughly twice most earlier estimates.
Two years later, in a survey of 587 fraud examiners, nearly 70 percent said that fraud levels had increased since the initial report and that they expected the trend to continue.
Fraud examiners attribute much of the recent wave of office criminality to the stock market boom that has created hordes of overnight millionaires and stirred impatience with the occasional pay raise.
"You see the guy down the street who cashed in his stock options and is now worth a million dollars, and you're still making $30,000," said John Warren, general counsel of the fraud examiners' group. "It makes it easier to rationalize fraudulent behavior."
Then there is the widening gap between executive and worker compensation. Edward Wolff, an economics professor at New York University, says corporate chief executives made an average 400 times what their average employees did in 1998, up from a ratio of just 40 a decade earlier. The disparity in pay has fueled discontent and eroded loyalty to such a degree that stealing on the job is often seen as acceptable behavior, fraud investigators say.
"It used to be extremely rare that anyone would acknowledge theft taking place," said Jim Baker, founder and president of Baker Technologies Inc. in Rowlett, Tex., who has been investigating fraud for 30 years. "Now it's rare that we don't hear of someone knowing about it. People have a cavalier attitude. There's no shame attached to theft."
One consequence of the growth in such theft has been a large gain in the number of fraud investigators. Membership in the Association of Certified Fraud Examiners, the principal professional group, has increased to about 25,000 from about 8,200 in 1992.
"They see it as a growth industry," Mr. Warren, the general counsel, said.
Stealing often starts in the mailroom, a favorite haunt of unscrupulous employees, investigators say. "When you get a new employee, where do you stick them? The mailroom," said Patrick Casey, a federal postal inspector and spokesman for the postal police. "That's often the lowest-paying job in the corporation, yet a lot of the company's money goes through there. Criminals sometimes seek out those jobs because they realize they will have access to the ingoing and the outbound checks."
But workplace theft is costliest when committed by high-ranking employees, who tend to have the most access to funds. According to the fraud examiners' association, the median loss from crimes by managers is $250,000, four times that of crimes by employees. And the median loss from owners and executives is $1 million, 16 times that of their employees.
In some ways, workplace thieves have become easier to catch. Technology has expanded the arsenal of video cameras, decoys and other tools used by fraud investigators. But computers, modems and the Internet also offer employees new ways of tampering with financial records, transferring funds and covering their tracks.
"It's a double-edged sword," said Bill Olsen, the mid-Atlantic director for business fraud and investigation at Arthur Andersen. "With the same technology we're using to detect and deter fraud, there are people out there who are using it to commit crimes."
Many investigators also worry that a growing inattention to the issue is making it easier for employees to steal. As labor shortages threaten rapid growth, companies are becoming more likely to forgo thorough background checks so as to speed up hiring.
And with the pressure to post record earnings quarter after quarter, many businesses have cut back on departments like accounting and security that help detect theft but do not generate revenue. Start-ups, racing to post profits, are particularly short on checks and balances.
"Internal controls are still very much viewed as cost centers," said Richard H. Girgenti, director of investigations at KPMG. "What doesn't dawn on management is the connection between money spent on fraud protection and the bottom line."
Still, even the most elaborate safeguards can fail. The Social Science Research Council says, for example, that Mr. Richards came from an employee agency that professed to do background checks. The foundation itself has five accountants in a staff of just 50, an unusually high ratio, even in the private sector.
Mr. Richards has yet to stand trial on the federal charges. The complaint says that he admitted taking the checks and that a teller at Chase Manhattan Bank approved cashing them. Investigators say they suspect that the teller deposited the stolen checks in false accounts. The bank said it was looking into the matter and would reimburse the foundation if any wrongdoing was uncovered.
The foundation said it did not know anything was amiss until students who had been awarded research grants started calling from schools around the world, asking when the money would arrive. Then it took weeks to track down the source of the thefts.
"The scariest thing is that we kept watching it happen and it kept coming," said Kristine Dahlberg, the foundation's chief financial officer.
Inadequate staffing and an atmosphere of trust often make nonprofits susceptible to theft, but investigators say that most fraud still occurs at corporations, large and small, where money and opportunities for fraud abound.
Many regard the ever-increasing trend toward corporate mergers as a prime opportunity for white-collar criminals. "When merging with companies that have different profiles, management's eyes are off the ball," said David Sherwin, a partner with Ernst & Young who oversees the company's fraud surveys. "There is no real status quo anymore. The old benchmarks are no longer valid, so it becomes easy for fraud to go undetected."
Steve Albrecht, associate dean at the Marriott School of Management at Brigham Young University, says that in his consultations with national banks, he noticed fraud levels rising 33 percent a year from 1996 to 1998. As huge mergers become common and layoffs ensue, Mr. Albrecht said, employees cease to identify with the companies they work for, developing a sense of detachment that makes theft simpler to justify.
"Employees are not viewed as long-term investments; they're viewed as short-term assets that can be bought and sold," Mr. Albrecht said. "As a result, there's not the allegiance to the organization that there used to be."
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photos: Martin R. Frankel, who prosecutors say bought small insurance companies and drained them of more than $200 million in assets.; Charles Hughes was sentenced to prison in June for stealing $2 million from a school cafeteria workers' and crossing guards' union.; Jack Randall Foster, sentenced to prison last month for thefts at SSM Healthcare, where he was a unit's chief financial officer. (Naum Kazhdan)(pg. C1); Jim Baker, who has been investigating fraud for 30 years, conducted a training session last month in Meriden, Conn. (Thomas McDonald for The New York Times)(pg. C8)
 
Chart: "The cost of employee theft is growing . . ."
Average loss per company for each type of theft, based on KPMG's surveys of 5,000 businesses
 
False expenses
'94: $21,000
'98: 141,000
 
Cash advances
'94: 132,000
'98: 300,000
 
Fraudulent checks
'94: 360,000
'98: 624,000
 
Bad credit card charges
'94: 367,000
'98: 1,126,000
 
Medical/insurance
'94: 622,000
*Estimate
 
. . . creating a big demand for more investigators
Graphs shows number of certified fraud examiners from 1992-2000. (Sources: KPMG; The Association of Certified Fraud Examiners)(pg. C1) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

INDUSTRY: NAICS541211 OFFICES OF CERTIFIED PUBLIC ACCOUNTANTS (82%); SIC8721 ACCOUNTING, AUDITING, & BOOKKEEPING SERVICES (82%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (92%); CONNECTICUT, USA (79%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%); 

COMPANY: KPMG LLC; BAKER TECHNOLOGIES INC; ASSOCIATION OF CERTIFIED FRAUD EXAMINERS KPMG (82%); SOCIAL SCIENCE RESEARCH COUNCIL (84%); ASSOCIATION OF CERTIFIED FRAUD EXAMINERS (84%); SOCIAL SCIENCE RESEARCH COUNCIL (84%); 

ORGANIZATION: KPMG LLC; BAKER TECHNOLOGIES INC; ASSOCIATION OF CERTIFIED FRAUD EXAMINERS SOCIAL SCIENCE RESEARCH COUNCIL (84%); ASSOCIATION OF CERTIFIED FRAUD EXAMINERS (84%); SOCIAL SCIENCE RESEARCH COUNCIL (84%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%); NEW YORK, USA (92%); CONNECTICUT, USA (79%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%); 

SUBJECT: EXECUTIVES AND MANAGEMENT; FRAUDS AND SWINDLING; ROBBERIES AND THEFTS; LABOR; CHECKS AND CHECKING ACCOUNTS; AUTOMATED TELLER MACHINES; LABOR FOUNDATIONS (90%); NONPROFIT ORGANIZATIONS (90%); FRAUD & FINANCIAL CRIME (90%); LARCENY & THEFT (90%); INVESTIGATIONS (90%); POLLS & SURVEYS (89%); AUTOMATED TELLER MACHINES (89%); CONSULTING SERVICES (86%); HUMANITIES & SOCIAL SCIENCE (78%); CHECKING & SAVINGS ACCOUNTS (76%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (76%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (76%); BANKING & FINANCE (75%); BURGLARY (75%); CRIMINAL INVESTIGATIONS (75%); LAWYERS (70%); COUNTERFEITING (70%); 

PERSON: WINTER, GREG; BAKER, JIM (CO EXEC); FRANKEL, MARTIN R; HUGHES, CHARLES; FOSTER, JACK RANDALL CHARLES H FOSTER JR (59%); 

LOAD-DATE: July 12, 2000



271 of 757 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: July 12, 2000

SECTION: Section A; Page 3; Column 1; Foreign Desk 

LENGTH: 590 words

HEADLINE: As Problems Mount, Colombia's President Shuffles His Cabinet

BYLINE: By LARRY ROHTER 

DATELINE: RIO DE JANEIRO, July 11

 BODY:
In an effort to revive the Colombian government's sharply declining political and economic fortunes, President Andres Pastrana replaced more than a third of his cabinet today, bringing in several figures associated with opposition parties in hopes of dampening their campaign to cripple his government.
The long-anticipated cabinet shuffle comes as the Clinton administration is poised to begin delivering an emergency $1.3 billion aid package, composed mostly of military assistance, to Colombia and neighboring countries. The money is intended to slow a huge increase in cocaine and heroin production and thereby weaken the finances of Marxist-Leninist guerrilla groups that have been fighting the Colombian government since the mid-1960's. 
 "This is a cabinet of national unity, of great openness," said Minister of the Interior Humberto de la Calle, himself a member of the opposition Liberal Party who took office barely three months ago. Of the 22 posts in the cabinet, slightly more than half are now held by members of Mr. Pastrana's Conservative Party, with the rest in the hands of Liberals and independents.
Nine changes were announced as a result of the the shakeup, which began Friday night with the resignation of Minister of Finance Juan Camilo Restrepo. Planning Director Mauricio Cardenas and Minister of Economic Development Jaime Cabal Sanclemente stepped down today, meaning that all three of the government's top economic leaders will be new.
The shuffle did not, though, affect the two officials who have the most contact with the United States and are most closely identified with the American aid package, part of a larger $7.5 billion counter-narcotics and social support program that Mr. Pastrana calls "Plan Colombia." Luis Fernando Ramirez Acuna remains as minister of defense, while Guillermo Fernandez de Soto continues in the foreign affairs portfolio.
But the composition of the restructured cabinet pitches the Pastrana government somewhat further to the left. The new minister of labor, Angelino Garzon, for instance, is a former president of the country's largest trade union federation and was also a vice president of the Patriotic Union, a leftist political coalition with links to leftist guerrillas that was all but wiped out by paramilitary death squads in the late 1980's and early 1990's.
"We consider Angelino Garzon to be a friend of the labor movement and wish him success in his new post," Julio Roberto Gomez, president of the General Confederation of Democratic Workers, a labor group that has often quarreled with Mr. Pastrana, told a local radio station. "We regard his appointment as a piece of good news."
Mr. Pastrana took office two years ago next month with the highest vote total ever recorded by a candidate for president of Colombia. But he has been weakened, among other things, by an apparent lack of progress in peace negotiations with the two main guerrilla groups and by what economic analysts describe as the worst recession in a century, with unemployment at 20 percent and the peso at an all-time low against the dollar.
Hoping to arrest that decline, this spring he proposed a referendum to replace Congress, which is dominated by the Liberals and is widely seen as corrupt and ineffective, with a new and more-streamlined body. But the plan backfired, and Mr. Pastrana was left with a poisoned relationship with Congress and a diminished ability to govern, after legislators suggested that the president's job be put to a vote as well.
 
http://www.nytimes.com

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: COLOMBIA (98%); UNITED STATES (92%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: COLOMBIA; COLOMBIA (98%); UNITED STATES (92%); 

SUBJECT: POLITICS AND GOVERNMENT; ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS POLITICS (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (90%); REBELLIONS & INSURGENCIES (89%); LIBERALISM (89%); LABOR UNIONS (85%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (78%); US PRESIDENTS (78%); TRENDS (78%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (78%); DEFENSE DEPARTMENTS (76%); INTERNATIONAL ASSISTANCE (76%); LABOR DEPARTMENTS (74%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (73%); RESIGNATIONS (73%); PARAMILITARY & MILITIA (70%); HEROIN (70%); BANKING & FINANCE AGENCIES (69%); PEACE PROCESS (67%); ECONOMIC NEWS (65%); COCAINE (55%); 

PERSON: PASTRANA, ANDRES (PRES); ROHTER, LARRY HILLARY RODHAM CLINTON (58%); HILLARY RODHAM CLINTON (58%); 

LOAD-DATE: July 12, 2000



272 of 757 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: July 12, 2000

SECTION: Section C; Page 4; Column 3; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 994 words

HEADLINE: INTERNATIONAL BUSINESS;
A Real Aircraft Man Running Brazil's Top Airline

BYLINE: By JENNIFER L. RICH 

DATELINE: SAO PAULO, BRAZIL, July 11

 BODY:
Ozires Silva, the new president of Brazil's largest airline, Varig, says he has earned the right to speak his mind about airplanes. He assembled models as a child, flew military jets in the air force and built passenger jetliners into the country's leading export business.
So Mr. Silva, 69, a former top executive of the Embraer aircraft maker, is blunt about the problems that he says confront Varig -- high costs, big debts, excessively stringent government rules and a bad reputation among the flying public. 
 "The hostility that our society has toward air transportation companies is palpable," Mr. Silva said. To remake Varig, he said, "we have to remove these obstacles; you have to have soil that is relatively fertile in order to grow."
Mr. Silva, who had been a member of the Varig board, was appointed in May to replace Fernando Pinto as president after the airline reported a $53 million loss last year and its debt grew to almost $1 billion.
Mr. Pinto was not directly blamed for Varig's problems -- the Brazilian economy was a large reason. The recession last year caused passenger numbers to drop precipitously, while the devaluation of the real, Brazil's currency, virtually doubled the industry's already large stock of dollar-denominated debt.
Of Varig's three major Brazilian competitors, one, Vasp, is battling to keep creditors from repossessing its planes, while the others, TAM and Transbrasil, have entered into what amounts to a merger that enabled them to cut flights and costs.
Mr. Pinto, nonetheless, did make some strategic decisions that hurt Varig. One of the most notable was a cutback in routes to save money. United States carriers quickly filled the gap and have been taking away a larger percentage of Varig's international passengers.
As it became more obvious that the company needed a strong hand Varig's board decided Mr. Silva was that hand.
Mr. Silva has made a career of his love for airplanes. At age 13, he was already building them: models imported from the United States to his small town in the interior of the state of Sao Paulo. Even as a child, he remembered in an interview, he would open the kits and wonder why, with so many natural resources, Brazil even had to import wood for the base of the plane.
"I asked myself why Brazil had fallen behind in this race," Mr. Silva said. "Why couldn't Brazil manufacture its own planes?"
The question stuck with Mr. Silva for 25 years, as his fascination with aviation grew. At 17, he joined the air force. He had his start as a pilot by carrying mail and supplies to distant outposts in the middle of the Amazon, landing his hydroplane on the region's snaking uncharted rivers.
By his late 20's, Mr. Silva, who was already a seasoned pilot, had become a flight instructor at the Galeao air base in Rio de Janeiro. It was there, he said, during a particularly illuminating 3 a.m. flight check over the crescent shaped Atlantic beaches, that he decided to return to his passion of building airplanes.
After earning a degree in aeronautical engineering at the Aeronautical Technology Institute in Sao Paulo state, Mr. Silva came up with the design for the Bandeirante, the first-ever regional commercial jet.
"At the time, we never imagined that we would be able to export the plane, so we didn't give much thought to the name and used something very Brazilian," Mr. Silva said. "It turned out to be a huge complication. Imagine an American trying to say Bandeirante. It eventually became the Bandit."
Appealing to nationalist sentiments that Brazil should build its own planes, Mr. Silva finally persuaded the government and the military to support him. Embraer, known formally as Empresa Brasileira de Aeronautica, was born.
"On Dec. 22, 1969, the minister of the air force called me to his office and said that Embraer had to begin operations on Jan. 2, 1970, and that I was to be the president," Mr. Silva said. "I was shocked. When I tried to convince him that I was not the person for the job, he told me: 'You have already created enough problems for me. Don't create another,' and threw me out of his office."
The decision was fortuitous. Mr. Silva ran Embraer off and on for 21 years until its privatization in 1995. Despite some bumps in the road, many consider Embraer the country's greatest corporate success. Indeed, the company is currently Brazil's largest exporter.
With Varig, Mr. Silva has a similar challenge -- to build a competitive airline. As a start, he plans to renegotiate the company's debts with banks and leasing companies. He also wants to take over some of the routes that his competitors have been forced to give up in recent months.
Mr. Silva said he also would concentrate on using his influence in military and aviation circles to persuade lawmakers in Brasilia to relax the stringent controls that govern the air transport industry in Brazil.
His first priority, he said, will be to press for the removal of price controls, which now limit how much the airlines can charge on domestic and international routes. Until the restrictions are removed and the airlines are allowed to adjust prices to fill seats, he said, Varig and other Brazilian carriers would have trouble making money.
"When I go to Congress, I am not going to ask them to get rid of price controls," Mr. Silva said. "I am going to ask them to explain to me why they exist in the first place. They won't have an answer because there isn't one."
The government says changes will be made. A bill before Congress would create a National Civil Aviation Agency, which would be responsible for reorganizing the entire industry to increase competitiveness. How and when the changes will be made remains unclear, but Mr. Silva says he plans to be in the middle of those decisions.
"In the end, I would like to contribute to creating conditions so that the next 500 years of Brazil are different than the last 500 years," Mr. Silva said.
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photo: The Brazilian airline Varig hopes Ozires Silva will provide the leadership it needs. Mr. Silva was formerly the top executive at the aircraft maker Embraer, widely considered Brizil's most successful company. (John Maier Jr./Image Works for The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: GOLL3 (BOVESPA) (92%); GOL (NYSE) (92%); ERJ (NYSE) (91%); EMBR3 (BOVESPA) (91%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS481111 SCHEDULED PASSENGER AIR TRANSPORTATION (92%); SIC4512 AIR TRANSPORTATION, SCHEDULED (92%); NAICS336413 OTHER AIRCRAFT PARTS & AUXILIARY EQUIPMENT MANUFACTURING (91%); NAICS336411 AIRCRAFT MANUFACTURING (91%); SIC3728 AIRCRAFT PARTS & AUXILIARY EQUIPMENT, NEC (91%); SIC3721 AIRCRAFT (91%); 

COUNTRY: BRAZIL (99%); UNITED STATES (92%); 

CITY: SAO PAULO, BRAZIL (73%); 

COMPANY: VARIG BRAZILIAN AIRLINES; EMBRAER GOL LINHAS AEREAS INTELIGENTES SA (92%); EMBRAER SA (91%); NEW YORK JETS (84%); 

ORGANIZATION: VARIG BRAZILIAN AIRLINES; EMBRAER NEW YORK JETS (84%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: BRAZIL; BRAZIL (99%); UNITED STATES (92%); SAO PAULO, BRAZIL (73%); 

SUBJECT: AIRLINES AND AIRPLANES; COMPANY AND ORGANIZATION PROFILES; BIOGRAPHICAL INFORMATION AIRLINES (91%); MILITARY AIRCRAFT (90%); AIR FORCES (90%); ARMED FORCES (89%); IMPORT TRADE (89%); INTERVIEWS (78%); REPOSSESSION (78%); AIRCRAFT MFG (78%); APPOINTMENTS (78%); AEROSPACE SECTOR PERFORMANCE (78%); AIRCRAFT PILOTS (78%); AIRLINES PASSENGER TRAFFIC (78%); EXPORT TRADE (77%); TRANSPORTATION SECTOR PERFORMANCE (75%); RECESSION (74%); ECONOMIC NEWS (74%); BOARD CHANGES (73%); EXECUTIVES (73%); CURRENCIES (71%); MERGERS (70%); DEVALUATION (66%); INTERNATIONAL TOURISM (62%); PASSENGER & CARGO AIRCRAFT (58%); 

PERSON: SILVA, OZIRES; RICH, JENNIFER L FERNANDO PINTO (59%); 

LOAD-DATE: July 12, 2000



273 of 757 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: July 12, 2000

SECTION: Section C; Page 2; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 348 words

HEADLINE: Technology Is Heightening Job Worries, Greenspan Says

BYLINE: Bloomberg News 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, July 11

 BODY:
Rapid technological change is making jobs less secure in the United States, Alan Greenspan, the Federal Reserve chairman, said today, suggesting those anxieties would keep a cap on wage demands and inflation even as unemployment holds close to a 30-year low.
This "heightened level of potential job dismissal," Mr. Greenspan told the National Governors' Association conference in State College, Pa., is a "less welcome byproduct" of the expansion of real-time information and use of the Internet, which are transforming the labor market. 
 "In the past," said Ian Shepherdson, chief United States economist at High Frequency Economics in Valhalla, N.Y., "Greenspan has used the worker insecurity story to help explain the relatively low rates of wage increases in the current expansion."
The comments by Mr. Greenspan suggest worker demands for higher wages are being moderated by the fear of being laid off amid "job skill obsolescence." That would mean there is less inflationary pressure that the central bank would choose to address by raising interest rates even as the unemployment rate, at 4 percent, is close to its 30-year low of 3.9 percent reached in April.
Stocks were mixed after the speech.
Mr. Greenspan's speech echoes some of the themes he has been addressing for more than a year: technological change is generating worker productivity gains that have helped take the economy to new levels. In addition, he has identified labor force flexibility -- the ability of American companies to fire workers without fear of significant legal or cultural disapproval.
"Because our costs of dismissing workers are lower, the potential costs of hiring and the risks associated with expanding employment are less" than in Europe and Japan, Mr. Greenspan said.
Mr. Greenspan said he saw no sign that productivity gains were ending. It will take a recession, however, to prove how much recent gains reflect "endeavors on the part of our business community to stretch existing capital and labor resources in ways that are not sustainable over the longer run," he said.
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photo: Alan Greenspan, the Federal Reserve chairman, said concerns about job security would keep a cap on wage demands and inflation in a speech at the National Governors Conference in State College, Pa. (Associated Press)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (95%); EUROPE (79%); JAPAN (79%); 

STATE: PENNSYLVANIA, USA (93%); 

COMPANY: FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM; NATIONAL GOVERNORS ASSN NATIONAL GOVERNORS' ASSOCIATION (61%); FEDERAL RESERVE BANK OF NEW YORK (61%); FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM (59%); FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM (59%); NATIONAL GOVERNORS' ASSOCIATION (57%); NATIONAL GOVERNORS' ASSOCIATION (57%); 

ORGANIZATION: FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM; NATIONAL GOVERNORS ASSN FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM (59%); FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM (59%); NATIONAL GOVERNORS' ASSOCIATION (57%); NATIONAL GOVERNORS' ASSOCIATION (57%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (95%); EUROPE (79%); JAPAN (79%); PENNSYLVANIA, USA (93%); 

SUBJECT: LABOR; LAYOFFS AND JOB REDUCTIONS; WAGES AND SALARIES; UNEMPLOYMENT; COMPUTERS AND THE INTERNET; PRICES (FARES, FEES AND RATES); UNITED STATES ECONOMY WAGES & SALARIES (91%); LAYOFFS (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); EMPLOYMENT (90%); INFLATION (90%); LABOR SECTOR PERFORMANCE (90%); CENTRAL BANKS (90%); PRODUCTIVITY (89%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (78%); DISMISSALS (78%); LABOR FORCE (78%); RECESSION (77%); INTERNET & WWW (75%); CONFERENCES & CONVENTIONS (71%); INTEREST RATES (69%); GOVERNORS (58%); 

PERSON: GREENSPAN, ALAN (CHMN) ALAN GREENSPAN (94%); 

LOAD-DATE: July 12, 2000



274 of 757 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: July 12, 2000

SECTION: Section B; Page 4; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk 

LENGTH: 830 words

HEADLINE: City Needs More Power Plants, Lawmakers Are Told

BYLINE: By KIRK JOHNSON 

 BODY:
The chairman of Consolidated Edison and New York State's top utility regulator, in their first joint appearance since a power shutoff in Manhattan last month, both said yesterday that New York City residents would have to accept a new generation of electricity plants to avoid a future of brownouts and soaring prices.
The officials had been asked to appear before the City Council's Consumer Affairs Committee, which is looking into power failures and rising electricity costs, but instead of offering apologies, the regulator and the regulated both went on the offensive. They said it was city lawmakers' job to convince residents who have raised environmental concerns about the construction of new plants, especially in matters of air quality, that the plants were a necessity. 
 Con Ed's chairman, Eugene R. McGrath, said the balance of supply and demand had grown more and more uneven in the 25 years since the last power plant was built in New York City. He said the sharp increase in electricity rates expected later this summer, and the increasing difficulty of holding sufficient reserves during peak demand, suggested a bleak future if plants were not constructed. On June 26, which was the third-highest day of energy use in the city's history, Con Ed cut power to a two-block area of the Upper East Side.
The utility regulator, Maureen O. Helmer, chairwoman of the State Public Service Commission, was equally blunt.
"I would ask you to work with your constituents to deliver the message that New York City, like other areas of the Northeast, the Midwest and California, is indeed in a very serious situation," Ms. Helmer said. "The most important step we can all take is to expedite the process for power plant siting."
Members of the City Council, which has no authority to regulate Con Ed or the prices it charges, mostly just seethed in frustration.
"I have to ask you this: we can't hold you accountable for the negligence of the federal government or state oversight regulatory bodies?" said Stephen J. Fiala, a Council member from Staten Island, in questioning Mr. McGrath. "What is within your control?"
The Council speaker, Peter F. Vallone, said the real message of the hearing was that deregulation of the power industry, which began in the mid-1990's, had failed.
"It's a real mess," Mr. Vallone said. "It doesn't protect our prices, what we're paying for it, and it doesn't protect our quality of air."
Mr. Vallone called the statements by Ms. Helmer, who has great clout in power plant decisions as chairwoman of the State Board on Electric Generation Siting and the Environment, particularly troubling.
"Right now, the people who are in charge of our destiny, the Public Service Commission, apparently feel it's not their jurisdiction to concern themselves about our environment," he said. "That's a startling admission."
A heightened conflict between the city's energy needs, which have grown sharply in recent years, and concerns about its air quality is only one of the points of tension that electricity experts say is looming for New York. Some Council members expressed concerns, for example, that ever-rising energy prices could short-circuit the city's economic boom, especially among high-tech companies with large demands for energy.
Moreover, regulators and industry experts said at the hearing, in an unregulated market, power plant builders would build only where they could make a profit, which means that even if lawmakers wanted to go back to the monopoly days of price controls on electricity, the city would suffer because power plant builders and suppliers would simply sell their electricity elsewhere.
"You can't put the genie back in the bottle," said Edward A. Smeloff, executive director of the Pace Law School Energy Project.
Con Ed, which has sold most of its power plants in New York to retool itself solely as an energy provider, has said the price of electricity it is buying is going to rise this summer, and consumer utility bills could rise by up to 30 percent in July and August compared with last summer's bills. Mr. McGrath said Con Ed could not do much about the increase because "the market, not Con Edison, sets the prices."
But Mr. Smeloff said that while the market might have become a powerful force in the newly deregulated industry, supply and demand did not explain everything. In every other state, he said, regulators have imposed rate freezes to protect consumers during the transition to a competitive market, or at least required electricity companies to delay passing on cost increases to their customers.
Only New York, he said, allows a utility to pass on price increases to consumers immediately.
Several Council members appeared to seize on that statement, which suggested the possibility of assigning blame for the city's energy troubles on human behavior rather than anonymous market forces.
"It seems that someone's been asleep at the switch," Mr. Vallone said. 
http://www.nytimes.com

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: ED (NYSE) (92%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS221210 NATURAL GAS DISTRIBUTION (92%); NAICS221122 ELECTRIC POWER DISTRIBUTION (92%); SIC4924 NATURAL GAS DISTRIBUTION (92%); SIC4911 ELECTRIC SERVICES (92%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (95%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (95%); MIDWEST USA (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (95%); 

COMPANY: CONSOLIDATED EDISON CO OF NEW YORK INC; PUBLIC SERVICE COMMISSION (NYS) CONSOLIDATED EDISON INC (92%); CITY COUNCIL (84%); 

ORGANIZATION: CONSOLIDATED EDISON CO OF NEW YORK INC; PUBLIC SERVICE COMMISSION (NYS) CITY COUNCIL (84%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK CITY; UNITED STATES (95%); NEW YORK, USA (95%); MIDWEST USA (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (95%); 

SUBJECT: ELECTRIC LIGHT AND POWER; BLACKOUTS (ELECTRICAL); SHORTAGES; PRICES (FARES, FEES AND RATES); REGULATION AND DEREGULATION OF INDUSTRY UTILITIES INDUSTRY (93%); ELECTRIC POWER PLANTS (91%); POWER PLANTS (91%); NATURAL GAS & ELECTRIC UTILITIES (90%); PUBLIC UTILITIES COMMISSIONS (90%); ENERGY REGULATION (90%); ENERGY & UTILITY LAW (90%); CITY LIFE (90%); CITIES (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); POWER FAILURES (90%); ENERGY SITING (89%); CITY GOVERNMENT (89%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (89%); DEREGULATION (89%); ENERGY & UTILITY DEREGULATION (89%); UTILITY RESTRUCTURING (78%); ENERGY DEMAND (78%); UTILITY RATES (78%); ENERGY CONSUMPTION (78%); ENERGY & UTILITY POLICY (78%); ELECTRICITY TRANSMISSION & DISTRIBUTION (78%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (78%); ELECTRIC POWER INDUSTRY (78%); PRICE INCREASES (77%); PRICE CHANGES (77%); CONSUMER PROTECTION (76%); ENVIRONMENT & NATURAL RESOURCES (74%); CONSTRUCTION (74%); PLANT CONSTRUCTION (57%); HISTORY (51%); 

PERSON: MCGRATH, EUGENE R; HELMER, MAUREEN O; VALLONE, PETER F (SPEAKER); JOHNSON, KIRK EUGENE R MCGRATH (70%); 

LOAD-DATE: July 12, 2000



275 of 757 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: July 12, 2000

SECTION: Section A; Page 2; Column 3; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 1091 words

HEADLINE: NEWS SUMMARY

 BODY:

INTERNATIONAL A3-14
 
Mideast Summit Meeting Opens at Camp David
Israeli and Palestinian leaders began their peace summit at Camp David. President Clinton ushered the leaders into the presidential retreat where he hopes for a "principled compromise." A1
 
Nigerians Killed by Blast
More than 100 people were killed after a damaged gasoline pipeline exploded in southern Nigeria. A12
 
Bosnia Victims Remembered
More than 3,500 Bosnian Muslims, diplomats, and United Nations officials attended a prayer service to honor thousands of Srebrenica men who were taken away by Serbian forces and killed in probably the worst massacre of European civilians since World War II. A10
 
Corsicans Offered Autonomy
Prime Minister Lionel Jospin of France has offered the island of Corsica a level of autonomy that no other French region enjoys, in a move to end 25 years of bombings and political assassinations by Corsican separatists. A4
 
Russian Offices Searched
Prosecutors searched the offices of Media-Most, the nation's largest private media conglomerate, for the second time in two months, stepping up a criminal inquiry that skeptics call an effort to silence one of the Kremlin's few prominent critics. A10
 
Rethinking AIDS Therapy
Researchers at the 13th international AIDS conference said that as hopes of a cure for AIDS have vanished, scientists are urgently seeking new strategies to make better use of current therapies. A12
 
Colombian Cabinet Shuffled
In an effort to revive the Colombian government's sharply declining political and economic fortunes, President Andres Pastrana replaced more than a third of his cabinet, bringing in several figures associated with opposition parties in hopes of dampening their campaign to cripple his government. A3
 
World Briefing A8
 
NATIONAL A16-19
 
A.M.E. Church Elects First Woman as Bishop
The African Methodist Episcopal Church tonight elected the Rev. Vashti Murphy McKenzie of Baltimore its first woman as bishop in its 213-year history. A1
 
Democrats' Cash Advantage
House Democrats have built a historic financial advantage over the Republicans. The Democratic Congressional Campaign Committee had $37.4 million in the bank at the end of last month, $15.2 million more than the National Republican Congressional Committee had, according to fund-raising reports to be filed later this week at the Federal Election Commission. A1
 
Backing for Medicare Drugs
The head of the Senate Finance Committee has broken with House Republicans and will propose a government-administered program to offer drug benefits to Medicare recipients, senators of both parties said. A1
 
Gore on Patients' Rights
Vice President Al Gore, speaking at the University of Arkansas for Medical Sciences, prodded Gov. George W. Bush of Texas to get behind the patients' bill of rights before Congress. A18
 
Bush Promotes Adoption
Gov. George W. Bush, speaking in Michigan, said that "foster care ought to be a bridge to adoption" and called for measures to promote adoption. A18
 
California Pollution Fight
Southern California is caught in a pollution struggle involving a system that dumps polluted urban runoff into the ocean alongside some of the region's most fabled beaches. A19
 
SCIENCE/HEALTH 
 
Mercury Standards Affirmed
An independent panel of scientists has endorsed the E.P.A.'s stringent standard for allowable exposure to mercury in the environment. The conclusion clears the way for the E.P.A. to consider writing new regulations forcing power plants to cut emissions of mercury. A16
 
NEW YORK/REGION B1-10
 
3 Feared Dead in Blast That Rocked Two Buildings
Three people were missing and feared dead when an explosion destroyed a three-story red-brick building in downtown Brooklyn and heavily damaged the house next door, the authorities said. The explosion initially appeared to have been caused by a gas leak. B1
 
Ex-Doctor Charged in Deaths
Federal investigators have charged a former doctor, Michael Swango, with the 1993 killings of three patients who were under his care at a Veterans Affairs hospital in Northport, N.Y., and with a pattern of fraud dating back to 1984. B1
 
Man Sought in Slashings
Police investigators were searching for a man who has attacked four men late at night inside Prospect Park in Brooklyn over the last two weeks. The attacker appears to be seeking out gay men, police officials said. B2
 
Whitman Responds
Governor Whitman defended the 1996 trip to Camden in which she cheerfully frisked a black man while accompanying police officers, and suggested that a photograph of the encounter, which surfaced this weekend, was being misrepresented and exploited by her opponents. B5
 
DINING F1-12
 
ARTS E1-10
 
SPORTS D1-8
 
OBITUARIES B9
 
EDUCATION B10
 
Many Skip Summer School
More than 130,000 students -- nearly 40 percent -- are missing from the most ambitious summer school program in New York City's history, the Board of Education said. B1
 
BUSINESS DAY C1-22
 
UBS Offer for PaineWebber
UBS A.G., a giant Swiss bank, has offered to buy PaineWebber and the companies were expecting to announce an agreement today, according to executives close to the deal. The PaineWebber Group is the fourth-largest United States brokerage firm. C1
 
Doing Business in China
The pressure for economic change in China is increasing, but entrepreneurs are systematically shunned by China's banks, often discriminated against by government regulators and barred from entering many industries. A1
 
Stocks Close Mixed
The Dow Jones industrial average rose for a third consecutive session but technology stocks did not fare so well. The Dow gained 80.61 points, to 10,727.19; the S.& P. 500 rose 5.26 points, to 1,480.88; and the Nasdaq fell 23.87 points, to 3,956.42. C10
 
Yahoo Earnings Up
Yahoo Inc. announced better-than-expected second quarter earnings, quelling investor concerns. The company reported net income of $65.5 million, or 11 cents a share. C1
 
Business Digest C1
 
EDITORIAL A20-21
 
Editorials: Shredding the campaign laws; AIDS in South Africa; how to improve summer school; Lincoln's summer White House.
 
Columns: Paul Krugman, Maureen Dowd.
 
Crossword E4
TV Listings E9
Public Lives B2
Weather D7
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photo

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Summary

COUNTRY: NIGERIA (94%); BOSNIA & HERZEGOVINA (94%); FRANCE (93%); COLOMBIA (92%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (92%); ISRAEL (92%); MIDDLE EAST (92%); PALESTINIAN TERRITORY, OCCUPIED (92%); SERBIA & MONTENEGRO (79%); UNITED STATES (79%); 

STATE: CORSE, FRANCE (93%); ARKANSAS, USA (79%); MICHIGAN, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: UNITED NATIONS (57%); UNITED NATIONS (57%); 

ORGANIZATION: UNITED NATIONS (57%); UNITED NATIONS (57%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: NIGERIA (94%); BOSNIA & HERZEGOVINA (94%); FRANCE (93%); COLOMBIA (92%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (92%); ISRAEL (92%); MIDDLE EAST (92%); PALESTINIAN TERRITORY, OCCUPIED (92%); SERBIA & MONTENEGRO (79%); UNITED STATES (79%); CORSE, FRANCE (93%); ARKANSAS, USA (79%); MICHIGAN, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: NO INDEX TERMS FROM NYTIMES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (90%); TALKS & MEETINGS (90%); NEWS BRIEFS (90%); AIDS & HIV TREATMENT (90%); CHRISTIANS & CHRISTIANITY (90%); US PRESIDENTS (89%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (89%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); POLITICAL PARTIES (88%); AIDS & HIV (88%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (85%); ELECTIONS (78%); MUSLIMS & ISLAM (78%); PEACE PROCESS (78%); HEALTH CARE POLICY (78%); PRIME MINISTERS (78%); US FEDERAL ELECTIONS (78%); CONFERENCES & CONVENTIONS (78%); POLITICS (78%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (78%); BOMBINGS (77%); CRIMINAL INVESTIGATIONS (76%); PHARMACEUTICALS PRODUCT DEVELOPMENT (76%); RELIGION (76%); FUNDRAISING (75%); PROTESTANTS & PROTESTANTISM (75%); SEPARATISM & SECESSION (74%); ASSASSINATION (73%); PIPELINE TRANSPORTATION (72%); UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (71%); WORLD WAR II (69%); MEDICARE (69%); PHARMACY BENEFITS (64%); REFINED PETROLEUM PIPELINES (56%); ELECTION AUTHORITIES (50%); 

PERSON: BILL CLINTON (91%); AL GORE (58%); GEORGE W BUSH (58%); 

LOAD-DATE: July 12, 2000



276 of 757 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: July 12, 2000

SECTION: Section C; Page 1; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk

LENGTH: 650 words

HEADLINE: BUSINESS DIGEST

 BODY:

Yahoo's Quarterly Profit Beats Analysts' Estimates
Yahoo posted better-than-expected quarterly earnings, quelling investor concerns that consolidation and business failures among struggling dot-coms might hurt its revenue base.
Yahoo reported net income of $65.5 million, or 11 cents a share, exceeding analysts' projections of 10 cents a share. Revenue was $270.1 million, up from $128.6 million in the period a year earlier, and beat analysts' forecasts of $240 million. Shares of Yahoo fell $4.50, to $105.50, before the results were announced, but they rebounded as high as $121 in after-hours trading. Page C10. 

China Looks to Pick Up Reform Pace
Though China has been marching famously on the road toward economic change for more than two decades, barriers to capital formation keep most private businesses from providing more than a handful of jobs. There is growing pressure to change that. With World Trade Organization membership expected to open the domestic market wider to foreign companies, foreigners could take over a huge part of the economy unless China unleashes private entrepreneurs soon. A1.
 
A majority of Senate Republicans urged their leader, Trent Lott, to delay until September a vote on a major bill establishing permanent normal trade relations with China. A5.
 
Lessons on Capability and Integrity
Ronald W. Dollens, chief executive of Guidant, says he learned life's lessons from his father during drives to and from work at the family grocery store: "He taught me about integrity and respecting people no matter what their stature. He had a wallhanging in the kitchen: 'Don't try to teach a pig to sing. It wastes your time and annoys the pig.' I have that saying framed in my office. It reminds me that you have to start with a certain amount of capability or you're pretty limited in what you can do." The Boss. C8.
 
Dow Rises Again, but Nasdaq Falls
The Dow Jones industrial average rose for a third consecutive session, gaining 80.61 points, or 0.8 percent, to 10,727.19. The Standard & Poor's 500-stock index rose 5.26 points, or 0.4 percent, to 1,480.88, but technology stocks slumped, and the Nasdaq composite index fell 23.87 points, or 0.6 percent, to 3,956.42. C10.
 
Virgin Atlantic Ushers In Cell Calls
Virgin Atlantic Airways has introduced a system that routes incoming cellular calls to handsets at passengers' seats. Incoming calls ring quietly on passenger earphones or are announced as a text message on in-seat video screens. Joe Sharkey: Business Travel. C9.
 
Most United States airlines said that they would reduce some fares by about 25 percent into December, trying to maintain the strong traffic levels seen recently. C9.
 
Lawyer in Coke Case Is Restricted
A federal judge ordered a Florida lawyer who is representing four black former Coca-Cola employees in a racial-discrimination lawsuit not to interfere with the settlement reached last month between Coke and four other employees with similar claims. C21.
 
Profit Triples at International Paper
International Paper, the maker of paper and forest products, said that its second-quarter profit more than tripled as a result of higher prices and cost-cutting. The results beat Wall Street expectations by a penny. Shares of International Paper rose $3, to $35.25. International Paper had dropped 43 percent this year. C2.
 
Harper to Acquire British Publisher
HarperCollins Publishers agreed to acquire Fourth Estate, a small and highly regarded British publishing house based in London whose authors include the popular historian Dava Sobel and the novelist Annie Proulx. Terms were not disclosed. C6.
 
Bank Strike Ends in South Korea
The South Korean government and labor leaders agreed to end a strike by bank workers who walked off their jobs to protest mergers that could lead to thousands of layoffs. C4.
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photo
 
Chart: "YESTERDAY"
Dow industrials -- 10,727.19 up 80.61
Nasdaq composite -- 3,956.42 down 23.87
30-yr. Treasury yield -- 5.88% unchanged
The euro -- $0.9523 down 0.0026
The dollar -- 107.08 yen down 0.02
 
Graph shows International Paper share prices for the week.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Summary

TICKER: YHOO (NASDAQ) (93%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS519130 INTERNET PUBLISHING & BROADCASTING & WEB SEARCH PORTALS (93%); NAICS517110 WIRED TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (93%); SIC7375 INFORMATION RETRIEVAL SERVICES (93%); SIC7373 COMPUTER INTEGRATED SYSTEMS DESIGN (93%); NAICS481111 SCHEDULED PASSENGER AIR TRANSPORTATION (81%); SIC4512 AIR TRANSPORTATION, SCHEDULED (81%); 

COUNTRY: CHINA (94%); UNITED STATES (79%); 

STATE: FLORIDA, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: YAHOO! INC (93%); VIRGIN ATLANTIC AIRWAYS LTD (81%); WORLD TRADE ORGANIZATION (56%); WORLD TRADE ORGANIZATION (56%); 

ORGANIZATION: WORLD TRADE ORGANIZATION (56%); WORLD TRADE ORGANIZATION (56%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: CHINA (94%); UNITED STATES (79%); FLORIDA, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: NO INDEX TERMS FROM NYTIMES INTERIM FINANCIAL RESULTS (90%); NEWS BRIEFS (90%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (90%); STOCK INDEXES (90%); COMPANY PROFITS (90%); COMPANY EARNINGS (90%); STOCK EXCHANGES (89%); INTERNET & WWW (89%); ENTREPRENEURSHIP (78%); BUSINESS FINANCIAL TROUBLE (78%); SECURITIES TRADING (75%); MOST FAVORED NATION STATUS (74%); BUSINESS FORECASTS (72%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (71%); ECONOMIC NEWS (67%); EXECUTIVES (66%); AIRLINES (63%); LAWYERS (60%); TEXT MESSAGING (60%); JUDGES (60%); 

PERSON: TRENT LOTT (50%); 

LOAD-DATE: July 12, 2000



277 of 757 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: July 12, 2000

SECTION: Section B; Page 6; Column 3; Metropolitan Desk 

LENGTH: 705 words

HEADLINE: New York and London Urged to Learn From Each Other

BYLINE: By JOSEPH P. FRIED 

 BODY:
Does New York City need lessons in how to redevelop its waterfront? Take a look at what London has done. Does London need guidance in revitalizing old neighborhoods? Have a gander at New York's methods.
Those themes emerged when the government of the City of London, which is one of 33 boroughs that make up the overall city, decided to study the economies of the two cities with an eye to strengthening London's economic base. 
In the process, the recently completed study turned up some advice for New York. But if the reaction yesterday of one New York City official is typical, that advice may be seen as cautions from a well-meaning cousin who happens to be out of touch.
As viewed from the City of London, the borough that contains the city's financial district, London and New York are "without debate the leading global cities in the year 2000," and are cities whose economies have arrived "at an extraordinary point of symmetry."
Among the "striking parallels," according to the 402-page study, made public last month, are the cities' leading roles as centers of finance, culture, communications and tourism. But they also have common problems: long-term declines in older manufacturing industries; growing disparities in incomes; local unemployment rates that, though improving, remain higher than those of their nations'; and difficulties in "lifting the education and skills levels of residents and immigrants."
Those parallels are played out in cities with nearly identical numbers of residents: 7.4 million in New York's 5 boroughs and 7.2 million in London's 33.
Among the lessons "London can learn from New York's successes," according to the study, is the redevelopment approach used in downtown Manhattan, which has involved rezoning and other policies to stimulate both commercial rejuvenation and residential development.
London can also benefit from a system like New York's business improvement districts, dozens of which have proliferated in the city's commercial areas over the last two decades. The districts levy special taxes on property owners in their jurisdictions to pay for sanitation, security and other services and to promote local businesses.
The districts have attracted so much interest from London that the Central London Partnership, a group of business interests and local government officials, sent a delegation to New York recently to meet with leaders of some districts.
And the study also urged London's government to look at how New York had encouraged utility companies to participate in programs for supporting small manufacturing companies.
On the other hand, the study says, "London provides lessons for New York in the extensive redevelopment of its great waterfront, a process which is lagging" in New York.
And it urges state and city officials in New York to look at how London has expanded public transportation, including its recent expansion of the Underground.
In New York, the study says, little has been done in the last 30 years to expand the capacity of the region's public transportation, though it acknowledges that financing has been proposed for the long-delayed Second Avenue subway and that a rail link is being built to Kennedy Airport.
Among the study's directors was Rosemary Scanlon, an economic consultant, who served as deputy state comptroller for New York City and as chief economist for the Port Authority of New York and New Jersey. She took part in the study while she was a visiting research fellow at the London School of Economics.
Responding yesterday to some of the study's suggestions, Michael G. Carey, president of New York's Economic Development Corporation, took issue with some of the assertions, including that of not doing well on waterfront redevelopment.
"They're not aware of the different things we're doing," he said. He mentioned the park being built along the Hudson River from Battery Park City to 59th Street, plans for a Brooklyn Bridge Park along the Brooklyn waterfront and other plans to revitalize Coney Island and the area around the ferry terminal in St. George, Staten Island.
"And we reopened Howland Hook," he said, referring to a major Staten Island site for receiving seaborne freight. 
http://www.nytimes.com

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

LEGISLATION: 106 S. 5 DRUG-FREE CENTURY ACT (55%); 106 S. 5 INTERNATIONAL CRIME CONTROL ACT OF 1999 (55%); 106 S. 33 No Official Title Given (55%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (99%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (99%); 

CITY: LONDON, ENGLAND (98%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (95%); 

COMPANY: ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT CORP (NYC) CITY OF LONDON GROUP PLC (92%); LONDON SCHOOL OF ECONOMICS (95%); 

ORGANIZATION: ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT CORP (NYC) LONDON SCHOOL OF ECONOMICS (95%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK CITY; LONDON (ENG); UNITED STATES (99%); NEW YORK, USA (99%); LONDON, ENGLAND (98%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (95%); 

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS; AREA PLANNING AND RENEWAL CITY GOVERNMENT (90%); CITIES (89%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (78%); REAL ESTATE DEVELOPMENT (78%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (78%); RESEARCH REPORTS (77%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (76%); TRENDS (76%); ZONING (73%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (71%); ECONOMIC NEWS (70%); CONSTRUCTION (70%); TAXES & TAXATION (67%); PUBLIC TRANSPORTATION (66%); MANUFACTURING OUTPUT (65%); PROPERTY TAX (62%); 

PERSON: CAREY, MICHAEL G; FRIED, JOSEPH P

LOAD-DATE: July 12, 2000



278 of 757 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: July 12, 2000

SECTION: Section A; Page 21; Column 1; Editorial Desk 

LENGTH: 606 words

HEADLINE: Liberties;
L.A. Story: It's About Me!

BYLINE: By MAUREEN DOWD 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON

 BODY:

Memo
 
To: Terry McAuliffe, Chairman of the Democratic National Convention
From: Bill Clinton, Still President of the United States
Re: The Clinton Convention
Hey, buddy, I know you're really busy digging up more dollars for the cause. So I've taken the liberty of drafting a schedule for L.A. that makes a heap of sense. 
 Day One: Our theme is "Putting People Who Are President First."
1 p.m. Welcoming party, LAX.
3 p.m. Welcoming party, Century Plaza lobby.
4 p.m. Welcoming party in suite.
8 p.m. Hollywood Hails a Boy From Hope.
10 p.m. to 2 a.m. Miramax Salute to Welfare Reform at Spago.
 Day Two: Our theme is "Defending the Constitution."
1 p.m. Opening address by Senator Robert Torricelli: "The Inanity of Impeachment."
4 p.m. Panel with presidential scholars Sean Wilentz, Sidney Blumenthal and Salma Hayek: "The 22nd Amendment: A Good Idea Gone Bad."
Day Three: My prime-time speech about how I led the Democrats back from the wilderness, rescued the U.S. economy and made world peace. On stage, offering tributes, will be Barak, Arafat, David Trimble, Gerry Adams, Tony Blair and Tom Hanks.
Day Four: Our theme is "Savoring the Clinton Legacy."
8 a.m. Gores arrive at LAX. Janet Reno greets them.
9 a.m. "Thank You, Mr. President" Breakfast. Al can have his star turn introducing me.
3 p.m. Clinton Job Fair, with recruiters from DreamWorks, Sony, Goldman Sachs, Citigroup and AOL-Time Warner.
10 p.m. Hillary returns to Buffalo. I go to David Geffen's to chill on his cream leather couches.
 
Memo
 
To: Terry McAuliffe
From: Hillary Clinton
Re: The Hillary! Convention
Ideas for my convention:
Day One: Tribute to Hillary Rodham Clinton, First Lady of First Ladies.
Day Two: Tribute to Hillary!, Senate Candidate Extraordinaire and Superstar Successor to Bobby Kennedy. With a moving bio, "The Girl From Chappaqua."
Day Three: I make a rousing prime-time speech lambasting New York City electric rates, as Bill and Derek Jeter watch adoringly.
Day Four: Eleanor and Hillary, a Musical Paean to Two Great New York Dames, with Rosie O'Donnell.
I think we can best utilize the vice president by having him backstage hosting the Webcast each night, chatting online with New York voters about how I'm doing.
 
Memo
 
To: Terry McAuliffe
From: Al Gore
Re: The Gore Convention
Terry -- some musings about how we should prioritize the week.
Day One: 6 p.m. Clintons arrive at LAX for airport rally. They appear at the door of Air Force One, smiling and waving. I know Bill and Hillary are resisting a joint appearance at a time that competes with Monday Night Football. But it's only an exhibition game, and we'll time their appearance for halftime.
6:05 p.m. Clintons are No. 1 for takeoff. They disappear into the wilds of the Adirondacks on vacation. Are not seen or heard from again. At all. All week.
Day Two: Our theme is "Tipper Beats the Drum for Al."
6 p.m. Tipper plays the drums, accompanied by Karenna and Naomi Wolf, in an all-girl band salute to me.
8 p.m. Tipper gives a prime-time speech aimed at women voters about what a hunk of burning love I am. Afterward I come out and do a few push-ups to show how incredibly buff I am and then we dance to Motown, as film clips from "Love Story" play on a big screen.
Day Three: The theme is "Rediscovering the Human Side of Al Gore," including a yet-to-be-selected Gore family tragedy.
Day Four: The theme is "Rediscovering the Lighter Side of Al Gore," including hilarious and beloved comedy routines where I balance a broom on my nose, do the booty-call line dance and hypnotize chickens. 
http://www.nytimes.com

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Op-Ed

TICKER: C (NYSE) (54%); C (BMV) (54%); 8710 (TSE) (54%); GS (NYSE) (54%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (54%); NAICS522210 CREDIT CARD ISSUING (54%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (54%); NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (54%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (54%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (54%); SIC6289 SERVICES ALLIED WITH THE EXCHANGE OF SECURITIES OR COMMODITIES, NEC (54%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (54%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (54%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (94%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: SENATE (US) CITIGROUP INC (54%); GOLDMAN SACHS GROUP INC (54%); 

ORGANIZATION: SENATE (US)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK STATE; LOS ANGELES (CALIF); UNITED STATES (94%); NEW YORK, USA (94%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: PRESIDENTIAL ELECTION OF 2000; ELECTIONS; CONVENTIONS, NATIONAL (US) US DEMOCRATIC NATIONAL CONVENTIONS (90%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); CONFERENCES & CONVENTIONS (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); POLITICAL PARTY CONVENTIONS (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); ELECTIONS (89%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (89%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (89%); POLITICAL PARTIES (78%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (78%); LOBBYING (78%); CELEBRITIES (75%); INTERNET & WWW (73%); TERM LIMITS (73%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (71%); EMPLOYMENT FAIRS (69%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (68%); EMPLOYMENT (51%); UTILITY RATES (50%); 

PERSON: CLINTON, BILL (PRES); CLINTON, HILLARY RODHAM; DOWD, MAUREEN BILL CLINTON (93%); HILLARY RODHAM CLINTON (89%); AL GORE (78%); TOM HANKS (54%); TONY BLAIR (50%); DEREK JETER (50%); DAVID GEFFEN (50%); 

LOAD-DATE: July 12, 2000



279 of 757 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: July 12, 2000

SECTION: Section A; Page 21; Column 5; Editorial Desk 

LENGTH: 728 words

HEADLINE: Reckonings;
Building Glass Houses

BYLINE: By PAUL KRUGMAN 

 BODY:
On Monday, when JDS Uniphase and SDL announced their plans for a merger -- at $41 billion the largest technology merger so far -- my reaction was the same as that of most other people: "Who? What?" After a bit of reading established that JDS is based in Ottawa, I supplemented that initial reaction with a hearty "Eh?" What ever happened to companies whose names are recognizable, or at least give some hint about what business they are in?
But the mysterious obscurity of the companies and uninformativeness of their names are part of why this story is important. Most of the real "new economy" consists not of household names with easily understood businesses -- like Amazon.com -- but of less familiar companies doing mind-numbingly technical things. And the JDS-SDL merger is a reminder that while the dot-coms may have had their day, the era of the new economy is by no means over. 
 JDS and SDL are in the business of fiber-optics -- the use of light, rather than electrons, to carry information. To transmit a short, old-fashioned piece of plain text, like this article, copper wire will do; to transmit a concert video of the latest teenage pop star, or whatever it is that tomorrow's Web consumers will demand, glass conduits for light waves are what you need. If you, too, have been mystified by those Qwest ads -- the grungy motel with the comprehensive movie selection, and so on -- now you know what they are about (though I remain puzzled about how my willingness to "ride the light" will help Qwest's bottom line).
Fiber-optics isn't a high-profile business -- much of its product is literally underground -- but it nonetheless shares five features with more glamorous high-tech industries:
Globalization: O.K., residents of the United States have a hard time thinking of Canadians as foreigners, or indeed thinking about them at all. But this is another small step toward the dissolution of the nation-state as a meaningful economic unit.
The network economy: In a literal sense, of course, JDS and SDL are selling the stuff of which the network itself is built. But in a broader sense they are also beneficiaries of "network externalities," the way the Web creates demand for itself.
Market exuberance: As the dot-com bubble deflates, we are starting to hear mutters about an old-fashioned item called "cash." But that word is not being heard much in the fiber-optics sector. True, JDS and SDL aren't Boo.com or Toy smart.com; they have real products and earn real profits. But their stock prices are nonetheless extraordinary, hundreds of times earnings. And JDS, following in the footsteps of other tech companies, has in effect used the high value investors place on its stock as the basis for a series of acquisitions -- an empire built on expectations.
Neophilia: One slightly peculiar feature of the current business environment, which I discussed a few columns back, is the positive preference of the market for companies without a past, or a low-tech business on the side. This neophilia appears to have played some role in the JDS-SDL story: the rival fiber-optics company Corning was also interested in SDL, but was unable or unwilling to match the JDS offer because Corning stock sells at more modest multiples of revenue and earnings. There may be sound business reasons for the difference, but Corning reportedly feels that the market still values it a bit like a cookware manufacturer, and is considering spinning its fiber-optics off as a separate business.
Antitrust dilemmas: Even high-tech companies are not supposed to engage in old-fashioned monopolization; and last year a report on the industry by the technology magazine Red Herring declared that "three vendors -- JDS Uniphase, SDL, and E-Tek -- own their market now and for the foreseeable future." When you realize that JDS acquired E-Tek at the end of last month, you start to wonder. But on the other hand, JDS and SDL are both genuinely innovative companies; and temporary monopoly power is justified if it is the reward for innovation.
It's a judgment call; but if you ask me, the regulators should leave JDS/ SDL alone. (On the other hand, I've said that about Microsoft too.) It's a brave new world that has such mergers in it; and we should give that new world a chance to evolve before we start to place it under too many old-economy strictures. 
http://www.nytimes.com

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Op-Ed

TICKER: JDU (TSX) (58%); JDSU (NASDAQ) (58%); AMZN (NASDAQ) (56%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS334220 RADIO & TELEVISION BROADCASTING & WIRELESS COMMUNICATIONS EQUIPMENT MANUFACTURING (58%); NAICS334210 TELEPHONE APPARATUS MANUFACTURING (58%); NAICS454111 ELECTRONIC SHOPPING (56%); SIC5961 CATALOG & MAIL-ORDER HOUSES (56%); 

COUNTRY: CANADA (93%); UNITED STATES (79%); 

COMPANY: JDS UNIPHASE CORP; SDL INC JDS UNIPHASE CORP (58%); AMAZON.COM INC (56%); 

ORGANIZATION: JDS UNIPHASE CORP; SDL INC

GEOGRAPHIC: CANADA (93%); UNITED STATES (79%); 

SUBJECT: TELEPHONES AND TELECOMMUNICATIONS; MERGERS, ACQUISITIONS AND DIVESTITURES; ANTITRUST ACTIONS AND LAWS; FIBER OPTICS EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); NEW ECONOMY (89%); INTERNET & WWW (89%); FIBER OPTICS (87%); ANTITRUST & TRADE LAW (74%); ECONOMIC BUBBLE (69%); SINGERS & MUSICIANS (65%); POP & ROCK (65%); CELEBRITIES (65%); 

PERSON: KRUGMAN, PAUL PAUL KRUGMAN (54%); 

LOAD-DATE: July 12, 2000



280 of 757 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: July 12, 2000

SECTION: Section A; Page 17; Column 6; National Desk 

LENGTH: 608 words

HEADLINE: Senate Takes First Step On Repeal Of Estate Tax

BYLINE: By RICHARD W. STEVENSON 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, July 11

 BODY:
The Senate took a first step today toward a vote on a Republican proposal to repeal the federal estate tax, and Democrats scrambled to avoid defections that could allow passage of the bill later this week.
The legislation, which passed the House last month with support from some Democrats, would gradually eliminate the federal tax on large estates. Republicans said the tax robs many people at death of much of any wealth they have accumulated for their heirs, and hits family-owned farms and small businesses particularly hard. 
 "The idea that the federal government would reach into the grave and pull back half of a life's work offends people regardless of race, sex, region, financial situation or anything else," said Senator Trent Lott of Mississippi, the Republican majority leader.
The Senate began debating the estate tax bill today as Congress also prepared to take up other tax legislation. The Senate also plans to begin debate this week on a Republican plan to cut taxes for married couples.
In the House today, a bipartisan group unveiled a bill, which could come to the floor for a vote as soon as next week, that would allow increased tax-free contributions to individual retirement accounts and 401(k) plans.
President Clinton has signaled that he would veto the estate tax bill. But mindful that 9 of 45 Democratic senators have endorsed repeal of the estate tax, Democratic leaders unveiled an alternative proposal today that would eliminate the tax for most family-owned businesses and farms but leave it in place for a relatively small number of multimillion-dollar estates.
But it was unclear whether Democrats would be able to block the Republican bill as it confronts a procedural hurdle. To cut off debate on the bill and bring it to a final vote, the legislation's sponsors would have to muster 60 votes, meaning that Republicans would have to be joined by at least five Democrats.
The nine Democrats who support estate tax repeal urged Mr. Lott tonight to allow consideration of the Democratic alternative as well as other Democratic amendments.
So far Mr. Lott and his Democratic counterpart, Thomas A. Daschle of South Dakota, have been unable to agree on what measures should be considered, and if there is no agreement that Mr. Lott could force a vote on cutting off debate later this week.
Mr. Daschle said he is confident that all 45 Democrats will stick together to block a final vote on the bill if Republicans do not allow them to vote on the amendments they want to offer. But Mr. Lott said that if he can find a way to have a final vote, the bill would win support from as many as 70 senators.
The Republican bill would decrease federal revenues by $104 billion over the first 10 years, and $750 billion in its second decade. Democrats said their alternative would reduce revenues by $64 billion over the first 10 years and $300 billion over the second decade.
Democrats said that by insisting on full repeal of the tax, Republicans were intent on handing over a huge chunk of projected federal budget surpluses to the rich while doing nothing to address issues of concern to working people.
Under current law, estates valued at up to $675,000 are exempt from federal taxation, and the exemption is scheduled to rise to $1 million in 2006. Family-owned businesses and farms are exempt up to $1.3 million. Above those levels, estates are subject to a graduated tax with a top rate of 55 percent.
The issue has become politically potent as the 76 million members of the baby boom generation, their wealth swollen by the strong economy and stock market, has begun estate planning. 
http://www.nytimes.com

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

LEGISLATION: 106 S. 1079 TAX LEGISLATION (56%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); 

STATE: SOUTH DAKOTA (79%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES; UNITED STATES (92%); SOUTH DAKOTA (79%); 

SUBJECT: TAXATION; LAW AND LEGISLATION; INHERITANCE AND ESTATE TAXES; AGRICULTURE; FARMERS; PENSIONS AND RETIREMENT PLANS; INDIVIDUAL RETIREMENT ACCOUNTS ESTATE TAX (94%); TAX LAW (93%); LEGISLATION (91%); POLITICAL PARTIES (91%); TAXES & TAXATION (91%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (90%); TAX RELIEF (90%); PENSION & RETIREMENT PLANS (90%); ESTATE PLANNING (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); PERSONAL FINANCE (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); POLITICAL DEBATES (78%); VETO (78%); SMALL BUSINESS (75%); FAMILY COMPANIES (75%); US 401K PLANS (74%); INDIVIDUAL RETIREMENT ACCOUNTS (71%); MARRIAGE (70%); 

PERSON: STEVENSON, RICHARD W TRENT LOTT (79%); BILL CLINTON (58%); TOM DASCHLE (58%); 

LOAD-DATE: July 12, 2000



281 of 757 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: July 12, 2000

SECTION: Section A; Page 20; Column 6; Editorial Desk

LENGTH: 98 words

HEADLINE: More Foreign Workers?

 BODY:

To the Editor:
While I applaud your effort to keep our high-tech economy moving along by recommending that Congress raise the H-1B visa cap to ease the high-tech worker shortage (editorial, July 5), I am sorry that you do not recommend the retraining of American workers to help ease the shortage. High-tech companies are very quick to demand new bodies to help fuel their growth, but they are very slow to retrain (or train, for that matter) the many underemployed (or unemployed) people who live and work near these businesses.
 
JANE SULLIVAN
San Francisco, July 5, 2000
 
http://www.nytimes.com

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Letter

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (91%); 

CITY: SAN FRANCISCO, CA, USA (54%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (91%); SAN FRANCISCO, CA, USA (54%); 

SUBJECT: Terms not available from NYTimes. EMPLOYMENT VISAS (90%); LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); FOREIGN LABOR (90%); PASSPORTS & VISAS (88%); LABOR SHORTAGES (87%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (74%); 

LOAD-DATE: July 12, 2000



282 of 757 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: July 12, 2000

SECTION: Section A; Page 1; Column 1; National Desk 

LENGTH: 1254 words

HEADLINE: After 213 Years, A.M.E. Church Elects First Woman as a Bishop

BYLINE: By LAURIE GOODSTEIN 

DATELINE: CINCINNATI, July 11

 BODY:
After 213 years of fighting for the civil rights of blacks, the African Methodist Episcopal Church took a groundbreaking step tonight, electing a woman as bishop of the church for the first time.
As church members wept and whooped with emotion in the packed convention hall here, the Rev. Vashti Murphy McKenzie, a dynamic preacher and community organizer, was swept up in a mob embrace by her children and husband, supporters and members of her church in Baltimore. Later, she embraced the bishop who had first ordained her, and took the bishops' podium flanked by her family and a corps of women ministers and lay leaders. 
 "Brothers and sisters, because of God's mercy and grace, we are able to stand here in the sun," she said in a firm, clear voice. "The stained glass ceiling has been pierced."
Ms. McKenzie, who is the pastor of Payne Memorial A.M.E. Church in Baltimore, is the first woman to be elected bishop in any of the three predominantly black Methodist denominations. The A.M.E. is the nation's oldest black denomination and has often taken a leading role in civil rights battles and the push for black economic advancement. The post of bishop in the A.M.E. Church is prestigious and can transform a local pastor into a national leader.
"We need some female leadership," said Crissandra Abernathy, a church member from St. Louis, as a wave of McKenzie supporters in red T-shirts swept by. "She's committed. She knows what she's doing. And she has the charisma for the job. This is a new generation, and you have a whole new set of leaders coming up."
Ms. McKenzie was among 42 candidates for four open seats as bishop, and another candidate was a woman, the Rev. Carolyn Tyler Guidry, who as a presiding elder supervises 19 A.M.E. churches in Los Angeles.
Ms. McKenzie quickly formed an alliance with the other winners, all men, who prevailed after three rounds of balloting. They are the Rev. Preston Williams of Atlanta, the Rev. Gregory G. M. Ingram of Detroit and the Rev. Richard Norris of Philadelphia.
The voting in the convention center here was as passionately contested as any presidential race. Overseeing the proceedings were the church's 20 bishops, all of them men, many of them gray with age.
Once elected, bishops serve until retirement. The job comes with a salary that is usually more than $100,000, and other perquisites include paid housing and travel costs, and a car and driver. But some of the candidates who are pastors at large, influential churches already live with such perks.
The A.M.E. Church was founded when a group of black worshipers were forced from their knees while praying at a segregated church in Philadelphia in 1787. It is now an international organization, with more than 8,000 congregations and 2.5 million members.
More than 10,000 church members from the United States, Africa, the Caribbean, Britain and Canada today filled rows of chairs on the floor of the Cincinnati Convention Center, which could hold one and a half football fields, for the vote. Among them were 1,800 voting delegates who registered their choices on electronic keypads, the first time the group has voted without paper ballots at its general conferences, which are held every four years to elect officials and make decisions on everything from budgets to missionary priorities.
The election was hotly contested and highly political, with candidates making their way through the convention center shaking hands and waving, like members of Congress at a county fair. Supporters dressed in matching T-shirts and caps paraded through the convention center chanting and singing and carrying signs with pictures of their favorites. Candidates hand out pencils and water bottles, hair gel and even tubes of toothpaste imprinted with their names. Ms. McKenzie's campaign set up a television screen just inside the doors of the convention center to play over and over a video promoting her accomplishments.
According to church tradition, as the spouse of a bishop, Ms. McKenzie's husband, Stan McKenzie, who once played in the National Basketball Association, would be expected to serve as an episcopal superviser in the Women's Missionary Society. As with this election, any other arrangement would be unprecedented.
The election of bishops was delayed by a day, in part because of a controversy over how many bishops would retire. Bishops in the A.M.E. church are supposed to retire at 75, but lawyers were called in to resolve disputes over the birth dates of several long-serving bishops.
The conflict came to a head late Monday night when Bishop Hamel Hartford Brookins resisted a vote by the delegates in favor of his retirement. Angry shouting erupted from the convention floor and the bishops on the dais, and there was a brief attempt to evict reporters. Eventually, Bishop Brookins, who in the last decade weathered financial scandal in his post, was allowed to be "located" instead of retired. Under that arrangement, he will be able to stay on for four more years and serve at-large, on full salary, but a new bishop will be elected to his seat.
Ms. McKenzie was tapped for higher leadership in the church by Bishop Brookins when he appointed her to the pulpit of Payne Memorial, a large, influential church, 10 years ago. In that time, the congregation has grown from 300 members to 1,700, and runs several community development programs and ministries from an office building it now owns. Her church was among the first to apply for and receive money from the government to help former welfare recipients make the transition to employment.
The friction was an indication that many in the church were ready to see new leaders replace the older generation.
"You get the sense among many of the delegates," said Mike McKinney, communications director for the general conference, "that it is time for new leadership."
The A.M.E. Church is the first of the three predominantly black Methodist denominations, which also include the African Methodist Episcopal Zion Church and the Christian Methodist Episcopal Church, to select a woman bishop.
The United Methodist Church elected a woman as bishop in 1981, and the Episcopal Church consecrated its first woman as bishop in 1989.
It was 1964, at the church's 37th general conference in Cincinnati, when the first woman ran for bishop in the A.M.E. Church. The pathbreaker was the Rev. Carrie T. Hooper, an evangelist, author and composer from New York, said Bettye Collier-Thomas, a history professor at Temple University and the author of "Daughters of Thunder: Black Women Preachers and their Sermons, 1850-1979" (Josie Bass, 1997).
Only 13 delegates voted for Ms. Hooper, even though women had 230 of the 1,067 votes at the general conference, said Dr. Collier-Thomas.
"What has happened is, in the last 30 years," said Dr. Collier-Thomas, "you have more women who felt there was an opportunity for them to become ordained and to pastor churches. They went to seminary, they've got degrees, and their numbers have really risen. But the majority of them in terms of African-American women find they can't find a pastorate. Many are assistant ministers, which I call the stained-glass ceiling."
Ms. McKenzie addressed those women tonight in her victory speech, saying, "I stand here tonight on the shoulders of the unordained, women who serve without affirmation or appointment.
"I don't stand here alone, but there is a cloud of witnesses who sacrificed, died and gave their best," she said.
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photo: The Rev. Vashti Murphy McKenzie, the pastor of Payne Memorial A.M.E. Church in Baltimore, last night became the first woman to be elected bishop in any of the three mostly black Methodist denominations. (Associated Press)(pg. A17)
 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

LEGISLATION: 106 S. 20 BROWNFIELDS AND ENVIRONMENTAL CLEANUP ACT OF 1999 (56%); 106 S. 37 No Official Title Given (51%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (79%); 

STATE: GEORGIA, USA (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); PENNSYLVANIA, USA (75%); OHIO, USA (52%); 

CITY: ATLANTA, GA, USA (79%); CINCINNATI, OH, USA (52%); 

COMPANY: AFRICAN METHODIST EPISCOPAL CHURCH

ORGANIZATION: AFRICAN METHODIST EPISCOPAL CHURCH

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%); GEORGIA, USA (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); PENNSYLVANIA, USA (75%); OHIO, USA (52%); ATLANTA, GA, USA (79%); CINCINNATI, OH, USA (52%); 

SUBJECT: METHODIST CHURCHES; WOMEN; APPOINTMENTS AND EXECUTIVE CHANGES; BLACKS RELIGION (93%); CHRISTIANS & CHRISTIANITY (92%); PROTESTANTS & PROTESTANTISM (90%); WOMEN (90%); CIVIL RIGHTS (89%); GENDER EQUALITY (78%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (78%); GENDER & SEX DISCRIMINATION IN EMPLOYMENT (75%); WAGES & SALARIES (69%); VOTERS & VOTING (66%); 

PERSON: GOODSTEIN, LAURIE; MCKENZIE, VASHTI MURPHY (REV); MCKENZIE, STAN MURPHY MCKENZIE (91%); 

LOAD-DATE: July 12, 2000



283 of 757 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: July 12, 2000
Correction Appended

SECTION: Section G; Page 1; Column 1; Workplace 

LENGTH: 1045 words

HEADLINE: Waging a Battle Against Independence

BYLINE: By GREG WINTER 

 BODY:
After 14 years as an agent for the Allstate Insurance Company, Gene Romero thought he had mastered the art of keeping quiet. When the company required him to work weekends, he says, he did not complain. When it cut back on office help and had him do his own paperwork, he uttered no protest. At 51, Mr. Romero thought that his silence would pave the way to an easy retirement.
The job had been a good one. Though most big insurance companies have long relied on independent contractors to sell their policies, Allstate was among the few to hire agents as employees with benefits, arousing a fierce loyalty from its sale force. 
 But last November, Mr. Romero, in Kansas City, Mo., and about 6,000 other employee agents were told that their jobs would be terminated on June 30, their benefits canceled and their pensions frozen. They could stay with Allstate and earn higher commissions, but only as independent contractors who paid their own expenses, got no benefits and could be dismissed at any time. Or they could leave, taking a severance package or selling their business to fellow agents. In all cases, the agents had to waive their rights to sue the company.
Mr. Romero signed the waiver and sold his business. But all he could think about, he says, was how difficult it would be to find a new job with the same security and perquisites. "I felt betrayed," he said. "Ever since I have been with Allstate, they've always said the agent is the backbone of the company, but now they've changed their story."
In March, Mr. Romero filed a complaint with the Equal Employment Opportunity Commission over the waiver, starting a feud that has spread around the country. Since then, at least 50 agents have filed similar complaints, contending that Allstate, the nation's second-largest insurance company after State Farm, violated federal law by forcing them to surrender their civil rights to keep their jobs.
The commission has yet to rule, but it calls the number of complaints fairly large and cause for concern, considering how rarely discontented employees overcome fear of repercussion and take action.
The dispute is the latest skirmish in a long-simmering conflict over the use of independent contractors in the American workplace. The practice has long been scrutinized by the Internal Revenue Service because it enables businesses to escape payroll taxes, and labor unions attack it as a means for employers to evade benefits like pensions, sick pay and paid vacations.
But independent contractors have become an increasingly popular option for businesses in recent years, in part because Congress pressured the I.R.S. to scale back its 20 restrictions governing their use.
After paying severance packages and higher commissions, Allstate says the move is actually costing the company money. As independent contractors, though, agents will be free from the many restrictions typically imposed on employees, the company says, allowing them greater flexibility in an increasingly competitive marketplace that has been recast by the Internet.
The disgruntled agents, Allstate adds, are but a small fraction of the thousands who have stayed with the company. Hundreds of agents were so bullish on their prospects that they bought out departing employees, the company says.
"People are not investing large sums of money into a company that they are not happy about," said Barry L. Hutton, a vice president for sales for Allstate, which is based in Northbrook, Ill.
But many agents say they agreed only reluctantly to remain, in hopes of preserving careers that span 10 to 20 years or more. To them, the waiver represents the collapse of a relationship that was once the envy of the industry.
"I went with a company that I thought would be there for me," said Leanne McCurley, 52, an agent of 17 years in Brookings, Ore., who also filed an E.E.O.C. complaint. Before joining the company, Ms. McCurley read employee surveys indicating a 99 percent satisfaction rate among Allstate agents. Skeptical, she herself interviewed about 20 agents, all of whom poured out praise for the company.
Morale only rose in the mid-1980's after Allstate ventured beyond its box-like booths at Sears department stores to set up neighborhood branches. With allowances provided by Allstate, agents could rent offices, advertise and build their own customer bases with virtual autonomy.
"It was like having your own business, but completely without the risk," said Dick Roberts, 54, who left the company in May after 26 years in Lewiston, Idaho.
But the office allowance remained flat, agents contend, and as inflation drove their costs up, many began dipping into their own pockets. Then, Allstate began cutting back on its support staff, leaving agents to take up the paperwork slack. Some brought in their spouses to help at no pay. Others hired staff at their own expense.
To recoup costs, many agents began deducting the expenses on their income tax returns, a common practice for independent contractors. But in 1998 the I.R.S. ordered them to stop the practice to retain their status as employees.
Company officials say that the productivity of its employee agents began to fall at that point. Without the flexibility to invest in their businesses, the agents could no longer compete with Allstate's corps of about 9,000 independent contractors.
To bolster sales, Allstate then ordered offices to be open for set hours every day except Sunday, putting a huge burden on agents who worked alone.
"If I went to lunch and closed my office, if I went on vacation, if I was sick and couldn't go to work, I was told I would be fired," Mr. Roberts said.
Despite growing tensions, many agents say they remained with the company for fear of losing their benefits, especially their pensions, since most of them are over 45.
Now the pensions are frozen, meaning that the accounts accrue no interest or additional contributions from the company. Nor can employees take the money and invest it elsewhere until after they turn 65.
Some agents also say that the new commissions are lower than the industry average and hardly offset the cost of going into business for themselves. "We were in good hands up until now," Ms. McCurley said. "Then somebody dropped us."
 
http://www.nytimes.com

CORRECTION-DATE: July 14, 2000, Friday

 CORRECTION:
A credit on the Workplace page on Wednesday for a picture of an Allstate agent who figures in a dispute with the company misspelled the photographer's name. He is Don Ipock, not Ipook.

GRAPHIC: Photo: Gene Romero, an Allstate agent for 14 years, closed his office on June 30. (Don Ipook for The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: ALL (NYSE) (84%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS524126 DIRECT PROPERTY & CASUALTY INSURANCE CARRIERS (91%); SIC6331 FIRE, MARINE, & CASUALTY INSURANCE (91%); NAICS524113 DIRECT LIFE INSURANCE CARRIERS (84%); SIC6311 LIFE INSURANCE (84%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); 

STATE: MISSOURI, USA (76%); 

CITY: KANSAS CITY, MO, USA (71%); 

COMPANY: ALLSTATE INSURANCE CO; EQUAL EMPLOYMENT OPPORTUNITY COMMISSION ALLSTATE INSURANCE CO (91%); ALLSTATE CORP (84%); STATE FARM MUTUAL AUTOMOBILE INSURANCE CO (53%); US EQUAL EMPLOYMENT OPPORTUNITY COMMISSION (59%); 

ORGANIZATION: ALLSTATE INSURANCE CO; EQUAL EMPLOYMENT OPPORTUNITY COMMISSION US EQUAL EMPLOYMENT OPPORTUNITY COMMISSION (59%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES; ; UNITED STATES (92%); MISSOURI, USA (76%); KANSAS CITY, MO, USA (71%); 

SUBJECT: LABOR; LAW AND LEGISLATION EMPLOYMENT (95%); INSURANCE (90%); SELF EMPLOYMENT (90%); FREELANCE EMPLOYMENT (89%); SEVERANCE PAY (89%); TAXES & TAXATION (88%); CIVIL RIGHTS (87%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (86%); TAX LAW (85%); SALES FORCE (78%); LABOR & EMPLOYMENT LAW (75%); TAX AUTHORITIES (73%); RECRUITMENT & HIRING (71%); HOLIDAY & VACATION PAY (70%); BUSINESS TORTS (70%); LABOR UNIONS (70%); SICK LEAVE (67%); LEGISLATION (67%); 

PERSON: WINTER, GREG; ROMERO, GENE GENE ROMERO (79%); 

LOAD-DATE: July 12, 2000



284 of 757 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: July 13, 2000

SECTION: Section G; Page 1; Column 1; Circuits 

LENGTH: 2170 words

HEADLINE: Down on the Farm, Up on Technology

BYLINE: By CATHERINE GREENMAN 

 BODY:
FOR farmers, the months leading to harvest time are anxious ones, a time when things like weather, pest damage and soil conditions can be unpredictable. While farmers rely largely on experience and careful guesswork, many are beginning to practice what has come to be known as precision agriculture: the use of technology to cope with the variables that jeopardize their crops.
Farmers who may have blanketed entire fields with uniform sprays of of fertilizers or pesticides a few years ago may today use soil and crop analyses linked to precise location data to deliver just the right amount of chemicals in just the right spots. And farmers can now use digital yield monitors attached to their combines to track the performance of a field, practically row by row. 
 Much of precision agriculture technology relies on Global Positioning System devices and software that links information about weather patterns, soil properties and pest management to points on a map. That information is used to direct variable-rate applicators that can tailor the amount of fertilizer or pesticide needed in each part of a field. The technology has been most widely adopted in the Midwest for sugar beets, corn and soybeans.
Farmers who employ precision agriculture say the methods give them new ways to analyze the relationship between what they put into the soil and what they get out of it and allow them to manage more acres for the same cost. But adoption has been slow, largely because of the cost of equipment and services, an expense that can be prohibitive for small farms, and because the benefits are not always clear-cut.
"Producers of wheat in the Dakotas and Montana are finding it really difficult to make any profit with the price of wheat in the world market," said Dr. Pierre Robert, director of the Precision Agriculture Center at the University of Minnesota. "If you don't make any profit, you don't have the extra change to practice and invest and invest in new techniques."
Another problem is that it can be frustrating and intimidating to try to make different kinds of farm software and G.P.S. data formats work together.
"Most farmers do not want to spend hours and hours in front of a computer," said John Reifsteck, who runs an 1,800-acre corn and soybean farm in Champaign, Ill. "You can get very frustrated when all you want to do is print a nice map and things don't work that well."
"There's a 10-40-50 rule," said Dr. Steven Sonka, a professor of agricultural management at the University of Illinois at Urbana-Champaign. "Ten percent are using variable rate application and yield monitors because it's interesting to them and it seems like a good thing to do. Forty percent are watching and will start using them as soon as they're convinced it's economical. Then there are the 50 percent of farmers who are waiting to retire and not have to worry about all of this."
Most buyers in the agriculture industry agree that the components of precision agriculture are necessary for success. "The people who are resistant to precision methods aren't surviving," said Thomas Facer, vice president for agricultural services at Agrilink Foods, a food cooperative based in Rochester.
One farmer who is using precision methods is Ken Mattingly, owner of M-B Farms in LeRoy, N.Y., about 50 miles southwest of Rochester. Before planting sweet corn on 900 of his 2,000 acres, Mr. Mattingly hired Agricultural Consulting Services, a crop consultant company based in Rochester, to analyze the soil in different parts of his field and decide how much fertilizer the different parts needed.
During the year, the consulting company had sent Richard Wildman to take 400 soil samples in Mr. Mattingly's field, one sample for each four- or five-acre section. The soil samples were analyzed for about 15 components, including concentrations of calcium, phosphate and nitrogen. Mr. Wildman then compared the soil analyses with yield maps based on the previous year's harvest.
Early one morning last month, Mr. Mattingly was at the field with Mr. Wildman and Mike Belmore, a spray rig operator with J. D. Buckley & Son, a fertilizer and pesticide company in Stafford, N.Y. Hunched over the side of a truck, the three men pored over a digitized field map prepared by Mr. Wildman to show where phosphate and nitrogen would be sprayed at high, medium and low rates.
That same map was also loaded into a computer inside the spreader tractor, a tall vehicle loaded with fertilizer tanks; the computer was hooked up to a G.P.S. unit. Two 15-foot booms on either side of the tractor were lined with nozzles about every 30 inches. A controller in the tractor linked the fertilizer map to the nozzles, controlling the application rates and alternating fertilizer types as the tractor moved from one part of the field to another.
Throughout the day, Mr. Belmore, who spreads fertilizer across as much as 520 acres a day, navigated the tractor based on the G.P.S. coordinates on his screen, which told him where he was in the field.
Later in the week, Mr. Mattingly drove a planter tractor to spread the seeds across the field. And then a a few weeks into the planting season, Mr. Belmore returned to apply herbicides to any weedy areas and spray pesticides to protect the crop against corn borers and other pests. Farm consultants can look at aerial images and see signs of pest damage, then apply pesticides where they are needed.
"We're all looking for the optimums," Mr. Mattingly said, "and we don't want to waste money on the chemicals. It costs me money to hire these guys, but I think I'm doing a better job."
Mr. Mattingly said he was spreading fertilizer more carefully and using fewer pesticides than he did a few years ago because of the variable-rate applicators. But he said it was still too early to tell what effect that would have on his crop yield.
"There are so many variables that enter into what a crop yields that it's hard to tell yet whether this is making a difference," he said. "I think it will be four or five years before we can judge."
After a field has been fertilized and planted, farmers and crop consultants can use satellite and aerial imagery to monitor their crops each week or month. The images are particularly helpful for large farms, where it is difficult for the farmer to monitor different areas of the field from the ground.
"Large farms need the ability to know what is going on across the range of their acres, remotely," said Mr. Wildman, the agricultural consultant. "It's impractical for that one manager to go out and check all those fields. They physically cannot do it."
The satellite images used by farmers come from Landsat, the system of land-observing satellites operated by the federal government. The satellites take infrared photographs from about 20,000 feet above Earth; each pixel represents a little more than 5 to 10 square yards on the ground. The infrared camera can detect a field's heat and moisture levels. These images can be overlaid onto farm mapping programs to show areas of drought or flooding. Such images cost the farmer $2 to $3 per acre.
But if a farmer commissions Landsat to take an image of a farm at a time of day when there are clouds blocking the view, the farmer is out of luck and still has to pay the bill. And satellite images are less useful for small farms because the image resolutions are so low.
Aerial infrared photography costs $5 to $6 per acre, but it offers slightly better resolutions without the same risks of clouds. Zeke Hurd, a pilot based in Rochester, charges about $200 an hour to fly a small aircraft at low elevations to take infrared photographs of farmland. The plane can fly as slow as 40 miles per hour, allowing Mr. Hurd's Hasselblad digital infrared camera to take images that have a resolution of about six square inches per pixel. A G.P.S. unit on top of the camera automatically links every shot that is taken to a geographic spot.
"If there's an alteration in the moisture levels," Mr. Hurd said, "you won't be able to see it with the naked eye, but the infrared will pick up the reflection. An image might illustrate a need for irrigation in a specific area. Mr. Hurd said he was also working on a software program that will help farmers record the data and compare images from year to year.
Yield monitors, introduced in the early 1990's, are the most widely adopted tools in precision agriculture. About half of the new combines built by companies like the Pixall Corporation, Oxbo International and John Deere are equipped with yield monitors. The monitors can also be added to combines for about $5,000 to $7,000 each.
"If the maps of fertilizer application and aerial images are the X-rays, the yield monitors are the autopsy report," said Jim Kinsella, who operates an 850-acre corn and soybean farm in Lexington, Ill.
Yield monitors placed on combines as they harvest grain or wheat can tell the farmer how many bushels are being harvested per acre in any part of the field.
As a combine rolls across rows of field corn, for example, it delivers the ears of corn to a machine where the husk is removed and the kernels are extracted from the cob and collected in a bin. The husks and bare cobs are spit out of the back of the combine.
The kernels move on a conveyor belt, where a sensor analyzes their moisture content and compares that measurement with the volume being harvested on a bushels-per-acre basis.
The whole system is attached to a G.P.S. unit, which keeps track of the location of the combine, storing each set of coordinates on a flash memory card. After the harvest, the data can be used to generate a map showing yields in various parts of the field. Similar technology can be used for the harvesting of wheat and soybeans.
"I've talked to a lot of farmers, and never has anyone said they're sorry to have invested in a yield monitor," said Mr. Reifsteck, the farmer from Champaign, Ill. "It seems to satisfy an innate curiosity."
The farm equipment industry has been slower to build yield monitors for crops like sweet corn (where the kernels remain on the cob) and cotton. But last year, Oxbo International, based in Byron, N.Y., introduced a sweet-corn yield monitor that attaches to a combine. The monitor weighs the corncobs as they are harvested and comes up with a tons-per-acre figure that is based on the speed of the combine size of the swath it is harvesting. The company is also working on yield monitors for lima and green beans.
"We're ready to apply this technology to other combine equipment," said Alan Russell, project engineer at Oxbo International, "but we need interest from our growers and the food processing companies."
Case IH, based in Racine, Wis., is working on yield monitors that will use near-infrared sensors to detect the oil and protein content of wheat, corn and soybeans.
Yield monitors let farmers pinpoint crop values, and that helps them decide whether to put less profitable land in government reserve programs. The Conservation Reserve Program, part of the 1985 Farm Bill, for example, encourages farmers to plant buffer grasses and trees on some of their land so there will be less erosion and less runoff of pesticides and fertilizers into waterways. The government pays 90 percent of the cost of the plantings.
"It takes a real different mind-set to start breaking down the field into different areas," said Dan Towery, an agronomist with the Conservation Technology Information Center, a public-private partnership that focuses on conservation issues and is based in West Lafayette, Ind., "but a yield monitor gives a farmer an idea of how much money he'll make planting versus how much he'll make if he enrolls it in a conservation reserve program. If he doesn't have a yield monitor, he's just guessing."
Some farmers who use precision agriculture systems say they hope that the systems will allow them to exchange data with other farmers and work more effectively with members of the food industry.
"We need a system to document that a field in New York that sends cabbage to Kentucky Fried Chicken," said Craig Yunkers, owner of C-Y Farms in Elba, N.Y., "we have the ability to trace it back to what field it was harvested in, when it was harvested and what pesticides were used. It's a huge challenge, but with consumer safety and accountability issues at the forefront, the pressure is on us."
Sites like VantagePoint -- a joint venture of Deere & Company, Gromark and Farmland Industries -- and Rooster.com, -- started by Cargill, Cenex Harvest States Cooperatives and DuPont -- are offering farmers in different regions of the country forums where they can exchange information and get market information.
"I think there's a great appreciation that precision agriculture is about an information system and not just what happens on individual farms," said Professor Sonka, of the University of Illinois. "The values are greater if we look at the whole production system."
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photos: THE PULSE OF THE LAND -- A laptop computer and a dashboard G.P.S. receiver keep Mac Ewell on track as he surveys a crop. (Phil Matt for The New York Times)(pg. G1); HIGH-TECH TACTICS -- Craig Yunker, owner of C-Y Farms in Elba, N.Y., is one of the farmers who are embracing advanced technology. (Phil Matt for The New York Times)(pg. G8)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (90%); 

STATE: ILLINOIS, USA (90%); MINNESOTA, USA (79%); MIDWEST USA (79%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (90%); ILLINOIS, USA (90%); MINNESOTA, USA (79%); MIDWEST USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: AGRICULTURE; GLOBAL POSITIONING SYSTEM; PESTICIDES; FERTILIZER PESTICIDES (91%); PRECISION FARMING (91%); FERTILIZERS (90%); FARMERS & RANCHERS (90%); AGRICULTURAL EQUIPMENT (90%); COMPUTER SOFTWARE (88%); SOYBEAN FARMING (78%); WEATHER (78%); FRUITS & VEGETABLES (73%); LAPTOP COMPUTERS (73%); GLOBAL POSITIONING SYSTEM (73%); WHEAT MARKETS (69%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (62%); 

PERSON: GREENMAN, CATHERINE KEN MATTINGLY (71%); RICHARD WILDMAN (70%); 

LOAD-DATE: July 13, 2000



285 of 757 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: July 13, 2000

SECTION: Section A; Page 1; Column 1; National Desk 

LENGTH: 6414 words

HEADLINE: Bricks, Mortar And Coalition Building

SERIES: HOW RACE IS LIVED IN AMERICA/Fourteenth article of a series.

BYLINE: By MIREYA NAVARRO 

DATELINE: HOUSTON

 BODY:
It was an anonymous woman in the balcony who started the song, in a small voice, and as the notes drifted over the auditorium, heads turned and a hush fell.
Soon those around her joined in, hesitantly at first, then more boldly, until the triumphant words of the hymn widely known as the Negro National Anthem seemed to be cascading to the floor of the hall. 
 There, more of the political faithful filling the Wortham Center picked up the tune as they rose from their seats, and now hundreds were singing in a tide of jubilation that swept over the stage, as if to embrace Lee P. Brown, who had stood along with them, visibly moved. He had become Houston's first black mayor that inaugural day in 1998, and to many in the audience he was a symbol of newfound strength.
"Lift every voice and sing," the people sang, "till earth and heaven ring. Ring with the harmonies of liberty!"
For all their joy, though, the day had been more than a celebration of victory for blacks. It had also been a testament to how racial and ethnic groups in Houston had put aside their suspicions and rivalries and come together largely out of self-interest to achieve power.
In the audience were faces from that winning coalition. There was Richard G. Castaneda, 54, a Mexican-American who owned an engineering firm in metropolitan Houston. He had cast his lot with Mr. Brown and become active in his campaign because he had trusted the candidate when he said he would be fair to Latinos. And as a businessman who got 70 percent of his work through a Houston affirmative action program, Mr. Castaneda needed an open door at City Hall.
He had had doubts about supporting a black candidate, he said. There were distant, bruising memories of being harassed by blacks. But he had recognized that in Houston, where blacks, Anglos and Hispanics each made up roughly a third of the population, the 21st century would require interracial alliances in both politics and business if any one group's interests were to be served. Hispanics, he said, might even act as a swing group, allying themselves with Anglos or blacks when it served their interests.
But watching Mr. Brown bask in his moment of triumph, Mr. Castaneda said, he also felt apprehensive. "I wanted to see who he would surround himself with," he remembers thinking. "Who is he going to turn the power over to?"
It was a question that had come up during Mr. Brown's campaign. One cold morning at Velia's Cafe, about 100 prominent Latinos gathered to meet the candidate over breakfast. There was one thing everybody wanted to know, Mr. Castaneda recalled, and the question was finally asked: "One person got up and said, 'Look, we're concerned you're going to screw us over and give everything to the blacks.' "
Only rows away from Mr. Castaneda at the Wortham Center sat Richard W. Lewis, 51, a white man with a large stake in Mr. Brown's victory. It was Mr. Lewis who had nudged Mr. Castaneda, a business associate, to help the campaign and to bring his Latino friends on board.
Mr. Lewis was no friend of affirmative action. In backing Mr. Brown, who was, he had risked alienating the people he worked with, breaking ranks with his own Houston Contractors Association, of which he was a past president. The group, most of whose members were white, had supported the white Republican front-runner largely because he opposed affirmative action.
But Mr. Lewis, who describes himself as a "Republican from the womb," had fallen in behind Mr. Brown, a Democrat, on the basis of a simple calculation: Mr. Brown would win. And as the owner of a local construction company, Mr. Lewis, too, depended on a friendly City Hall. Ninety percent of his business came from municipal contracts. Backing the man he presumed would be the next mayor seemed only prudent.
"I wanted to be in a position of influence," he said, "and you can't influence a loser."
But when he heard the Negro hymn swelling up from the crowd, he said, he suddenly felt unwelcome.
"It turned me off," he recalled. Imagine the Republican had won, he said, "and we had started singing the Confederate song. It would have been equally out of place. It alienated you, and that was the specific purpose of it, I'm sure."
Brian G. Smith, who is black, also had a lot riding on Mr. Brown's victory. Mr. Smith, a 41-year-old architect who runs his own construction inspection company in Houston, had worked, like Mr. Lewis, as a Brown fund-raiser and with both Mr. Lewis and Mr. Castaneda on the new mayor's transition team. He was counting on Mr. Brown's election to provide opportunities for blacks like him who do business with the city.
"The feeling had been that whites would stay in control of Houston," Mr. Smith said. Now, "it was like, 'Wow! Our day has come.' It felt like, at this time, it was good to be black."
More than anything, Mr. Smith had wanted a mayor friendly to affirmative action. He remembered the affront of being denied work because he was black. Like Mr. Castaneda, he owed most of his business, 95 percent, to the city law that sets aside about 18 percent of city contracts for companies owned by minorities and women. And for Mr. Smith, public projects like water systems, stadiums and rails were where the money was.
So his support for Mr. Brown, like that of the other men, had largely been bound up with his business interests. Which was nothing new for him. From the day Mr. Smith started his company, in 1987, business had driven his political involvement, he said, no matter the candidate's color.
"For selfish reasons," he said. "Trying to get work." This time, with a black mayor, he said, "I hoped for access."
Mr. Smith was away on Inauguration Day and sent his mother to attend the ceremony in his place. She told him about how glorious it had been when everyone stood in a great wave and sang the hymn. He remembers how he felt on hearing about it.
"Electrified," he said.
 
Reaffirming Affirmative Action
Access, influence, money: all had been part of the political calculus for Mr. Castaneda, Mr. Smith and Mr. Lewis. In the end, all three had put practical considerations ahead of racial ones. Much as he yearned for a black mayor, Mr. Smith said, he would have opposed Mr. Brown if he had not supported affirmative action.
Mr. Lewis, for his part, swallowed any misgivings because, he said, Mr. Brown was "a sincerely decent man" whom the white community could do business with.
"What you worry about is getting a radical," he said. "I don't want a Klan member as mayor, or a black militant."
Mr. Brown was no radical. He had been Houston's police chief in the 1980's. In 1990, David N. Dinkins, New York's only black mayor, lured Mr. Brown to the city to be its police commissioner, a job in which he took some heat for the roundly criticized police response to racial violence in the Crown Heights section of Brooklyn. He had also been President Clinton's director of national drug control policy.
When the polls closed in a runoff election in 1997, Mr. Brown had vindicated the men who had gambled on him, defeating the Republican Rob Mosbacher, a businessman and son of a former commerce secretary in the Bush White House, by 6 percentage points. Though Anglos made up slightly more than half the turnout, Mr. Brown had won with 97 percent of the black vote, 66 percent of the Hispanic and 23 percent of the Anglo, according to an exit poll by Robert M. Stein of Rice University.
For Mr. Smith and Mr. Castaneda, the election of Lee Brown, a strong advocate of affirmative action, was reassuring. They could be confident of continued business with the city under the program, especially since it had just dodged a bullet.
A conservative initiative to scrap the city's program had been on the ballot that election year. The measure reflected a national mood against programs intended specifically to benefit minorities. But thanks to a record turnout by minority voters, and despite a 2-to-1 Anglo vote to scuttle the program, the law was preserved. That gave Houston the distinction of being the only major city in the country to retain affirmative action in a challenge at the polls.
To Mr. Lewis, affirmative action was just another form of welfare that in effect robbed him of profits. In his ample business with the city, he had been required to subcontract to minority-owned firms even when it was not to his financial advantage.
It was thus a measure of his pragmatism that he could still back Mr. Brown despite their polar differences on a critical campaign issue. Mr. Lewis had decided that it was only one issue.
As he analyzed the mayoral race in 1997, he said, he could see that Anglos in Houston were outnumbered in the aggregate by blacks, Latinos and Asians from Vietnam, China and India. Demographic trends were also suggesting that Anglos would dwindle in numbers even more. The days of conservative Republican mayors -- his own choice, he acknowledged, if he had had his druthers -- were pretty much gone.
So his city, the nation's fourth largest, had been transformed. "I feel like I can't do anything about it," he said. Except work with it.
In the two and a half years since Mr. Brown's inauguration, the pragmatism that drew the three men together has begun to bear fruit in the form of new business and political alliances and an opportunity to collaborate on a major city water project.
But to Mr. Castaneda, the new order is less about Mr. Brown than about the larger demographic forces. "Regardless of who is mayor now, that mayor has to be accountable to a lot of people," he said. "I don't think there's any way that in the future anybody can screw us over. We've just learned too much about the political system for that to happen."
He and others have also learned what can be gained through a system of "racial coalitions," he said.
"If you measure it in terms of dollars," he said, "we've never made as much money as we're making."
 
The Middle Plays Both Ends
In the tug of war between blacks and Anglos, Hispanics can pull on either end of the rope. Richard Castaneda began to demonstrate this shortly after the election.
He was raising money to pay off the mayor's campaign debt and calling Anglo engineers he knew, many of whom belonged to the trade group that had supported Mr. Brown's opponent. They would be wise, he told them, to deal with the Brown administration outside of the trade group -- and to be associated with the allies of the mayor.
"I told them, 'We can help you,' " he said.
In exchange, the bigger Anglo-owned firms would help smaller Hispanic ones land work, at least as subcontractors. And they would pool money to donate to political candidates, to make them pay attention.
His case was persuasive. An informal Hispanic-Anglo alliance christened the Dirty Dozen was born, and it raised more than $100,000. Hispanic engineers had not only won points with the mayor by helping retire his debt; with City Hall as the lure, they had reeled in Anglos for common gain.
Today, the Dirty Dozen -- there are actually 15, and 10 of them are Anglo -- chase projects together, send work one another's way and meet with city officials as a group.
Mr. Castaneda and his partner at Omega Engineers, Edelmiro Castillo, who is also in the Dirty Dozen, have a second power base: the Houston Hispanic Architects and Engineers, a 50-member association that tries to cultivate good relations both with big companies and with politicians.
Last month, Mr. Castillo, the president of the Hispanic group, got a call from his counterpart with a group of Asian-Americans. Minorities should unite, the Asian architect said. Mr. Castillo agreed. The timing was right. They had a fair-minded black mayor. A bustling economy had turned Houston into a boomtown for the construction industry. There were lawsuits testing affirmative action.
"We're going to say we're the coalition of the minority groups," Mr. Castillo said, "and whenever there are any decisions made, we want to be a part of it."
A glue binding Houston's minority groups was the city's affirmative action program, which set goals, not quotas, for minority participation. The program ensured minority-owned companies that they would have a shot at getting a piece of city contracts. The companies' political connections at City Hall ensured that they would have an edge on the minority competition.
Mr. Castaneda used to think affirmative action was for losers. He called it "white-collar welfare," he said.
But that was before he went into business for himself in the 1980's just as Texas's oil and construction industries were going bust, and he went through half his savings in six months to support his family. Affirmative action saved his business, he said.
Not all opportunity should be predicated on skin color, Mr. Castaneda said; a person's ability and determination are still the primary ingredients for success. But before the affirmative action law passed, in 1984, about 1 percent of city contracts went to firms owned by minority group members and women; now about 18 percent do. He said he wondered if the number would not go back to single digits if the law disappeared.
"My conscience tells me that affirmative action is a good way to give people opportunities without social upheaval," he said.
Teaming with Anglos on one hand and nonwhites on the other, Houston's Hispanics display a kind of cross-racial dexterity that blacks and whites appear to manage less easily. Mr. Castaneda has a theory about why. "There's still big mistrust between the whites and the blacks," he said, "and I think it's still much easier for each group to get together with Hispanics than each other."
Yet Mr. Castaneda suspects there is a limit to how close blacks want to be to Hispanics. When a Mexican-American friend ran for county judge, Mr. Castaneda called four black business friends to solicit money and got no answer. "I don't know if they don't trust me, or they're just cheap, or they don't have any interest," he said, "but I've never been able to break through that barrier."
At least among Anglos, he said, he can find a few who will give money, and sometimes one who will tell it to him straight. In the case of the judge's race, he called Mr. Lewis to find out why his contractors' group was not returning calls.
"Hey, partner," he remembers Mr. Lewis saying, "let me tell you what the problem is. That boy doesn't know how to talk. He sounds like he just came from Mexico. There's no way he's going to win."
Mr. Castaneda had understood, he said. He had even advised the candidate to take a diction class, to lose the accent. The man refused, saying voters would see beyond that. He lost.
Mr. Lewis agrees that Anglos and Latinos get along better. Latinos are less confrontational than blacks, less "hardheaded," he said.
He prides himself on working with people of different races. His foreman of 10 years, Leroy Robinson, is black. His crews are mostly Latino. He is a mentor to minority business owners. And he defends his trade group, saying it welcomes everybody. It is the minorities who shun it, he said.
"You can't separate yourself and then holler integration," he said.
For Mr. Lewis, affirmative action was all downside. By making him give minority-owned firms almost a fifth of the construction work he gets from the city, he said, the law forces him either to subcontract work that his company could do itself or to pass up Anglo subcontractors who charge less.
"Affirmative action is unconstitutional," he said. "Why don't we just call it Anybody but Whites?"
His main argument against the program is that it is no longer needed.
"When I first got into construction, it was a bunch of cowboys," he said. "They were drinking and chasing women. Now, by and large, they are business people. They take Metamucil at 8 o'clock and go to bed at 9.
"That changes the way everybody looks at each other. When I hire a man, I could care less what color you are. If you're dependable, if you don't steal, we embrace you."
If someone like Mr. Castaneda needs affirmative action after 16 years in business, he said, maybe he should not be in business.
The notion that affirmative action is a crutch, to be accepted with shame, angers Mr. Smith. "I don't cease being black, or being discriminated against," he said, an edge in his voice. "That doesn't change, so I'm not trying to graduate out of this."
He added: "If there's nothing to force majority firms to contract minority firms, they wouldn't do it. Why split the pie if you can have all of it? It is a race issue, but it has more to do with money."
There was not much pie for blacks when Mr. Smith began looking for a job in 1984 after he received his degree in architecture from Southern University in Baton Rouge, La.
"I would lay out my nice portfolio and people would hardly look at my work," he said. "They'd look at me and say, 'No, we're not hiring.' "
Black firms were hiring, and Mr. Smith found work. But in 1987 he decided to take advantage of the affirmative action law and opened his own firm, Brian Smith Construction Inspection Inc., providing not architecture but construction management.
Today, even with 34 employees and a good track record, Mr. Smith finds his dealings with white-owned companies to be "really something." He is asked absurd questions, he said, like whether he offers employee benefits. "They think you work out of your house," he said, "or it's just you in a room and you're pulling their leg."
But he does not feel threatened, he said, when he walks into a meeting with white men. "I don't bite my tongue," he said. "I don't view this as a white man's world." He added, "I'm there because I'm fighting for the money that's on the table."
Mr. Smith said a pilgrimage to Africa in 1992 did more than anything to equip him to deal with racial indignities. In Ghana, where he believes his ancestors were from, he toured a castle where slaves had been held for trans-Atlantic passage. In the dungeon, he said, he saw the "door of no return" through which slaves were pulled onto an auction block and then onto ships. Above the auction block, he said, he found a church.
The slave sellers, he said, "would auction off slaves downstairs, and then they would go upstairs in their own chapel and pray to the same God I pray to, and they call themselves Christians."
It only confirmed for him, he said, that if white people were capable of that, they could not be superior to him.
From the outset, Mr. Smith said, he felt more at ease shopping his services among Hispanic firms. With their lighter skin, Latinos may be more acceptable to whites than blacks, he said, but he nonetheless feels a kinship with Latinos as members of a minority group. On an issue like affirmative action, he said, they are on one side and whites like Mr. Lewis are on the other.
"There's no hope for us as minorities if he can't acknowledge that it's wrong that less than 40 percent of the population gets 90 percent of the work," Mr. Smith said.
Affirmative action, he said, has been "the only thing in the last 200 years that has excluded whites."
"So I can't feel sorry for them."
 
With Each His Own
About 40 boys and their relatives were gathered in Hermann Park on a Saturday in May for a Cub Scout rite of passage. While his father snapped pictures and his mother looked on proudly, Brian Nelson Stewart Smith, age 7, stepped out of a cluster of boys when his name was called, a shy smile under his big round glasses, and received a yellow neckerchief, a symbol of his rise in rank. Everyone applauded. Everyone was black.
The parents had set up tables of food and drink under the pitched roof of an open-air pavilion. The elder Brian Smith had provided the inspectors while the city was building the pavilion. So in some ways the setting carried symbolic weight of its own. It was a testament to how far Mr. Smith had come, starting from the low-income housing he had lived in until he was 9.
Yet the occasion also attested to how much Mr. Smith wanted Brian and his other son, 23-month-old Micah, to relive parts of his own childhood. The younger Brian belongs to the same scout pack that his father had. It meets in the same black church, Wheeler Avenue Baptist, that Mr. Smith has belonged to since age 6 and where he is a deacon. As a boy, Mr. Smith, whose parents were college graduates, attended a predominantly black public school. His son goes to a predominantly black private school.
Mr. Smith says he is giving his sons a racial grounding before they are "tainted" by the world. He himself remains anchored in a black world. He is on the board of a black-owned bank. His best friends are black. He takes family vacations to Africa.
Mr. Smith and his wife, Elizabeth, 43, a NASA engineer, live in an upper-middle-class, racially mixed neighborhood. In September they plan to move into a mostly black area nearby, where they have bought a four-bedroom house with a pool and a tennis court.
"It is a conscious choice," Mr. Smith said of the effort to furnish his sons with a black identity. "Once you know who you are," he said, then "go learn about other cultures."
If Mr. Smith's world is largely segregated, so are those of Mr. Castaneda and Mr. Lewis. The three men may run into one another at a political fund-raiser or at the Department of Public Works and Engineering. Two of them may even get together for the rare social occasion. Once, Mr. Lewis and his wife dropped by the Castanedas' to pick up some plants; the couples live in the same suburb, Katy. Once, the Castanedas went to a ballgame at the Astrodome at the invitation of Mr. Smith, who had rented a box.
But generally, so separate are their private and professional lives that both Mr. Castaneda and Mr. Smith were stunned to learn that Mr. Lewis was an ordained minister who sang every Sunday at a little church in Matagorda, a small town on the Gulf of Mexico where the Lewises have a weekend home. Indeed, the blunt, wisecracking businessman who wears jeans and black leather boots and carries a concealed handgun barely resembles the Mr. Lewis who spoke with teary eyes one Sunday in May. The pastor, C. J. Molmen, was retiring from the Community Baptist Church after nine years, and this was his last service.
The church has 50 members, but on this day the pews held only 17, including two black women and a Hispanic family of four. Mr. Molmen was the one who ordained him in December, Mr. Lewis told the congregation. The pastor was also the one who had encouraged Mr. Lewis's wife of 15 years, Betty, a 44-year-old former hairdresser, to play the piano. She had never touched a keyboard, she said, but one day, at the pastor's prodding, she sat down and played.
"It was a miracle," she said.
The son of an electrician who was also a Baptist deacon, Mr. Lewis grew up in Port Arthur, a refinery town. In 1970, after college, he took a job with an engineering company that transferred him to Houston. But he grew restless quickly and decided to start a construction firm with two partners.
Eighteen years later, RWL Construction Inc., which specializes in utility projects like water mains, has 50 employees and enough profits to easily pay for a grand new Southern Colonial home for Richard and Betty Lewis. They are planning to move in soon, their three children -- two from his first marriage, one from hers -- having grown.
The new home, in Eagle Lake, a small town west of the city, came with white pillars, a guest house and a black-face porch figure. Mr. Lewis said he was getting rid of the figure, though, just as he was getting rid of the many other artifacts -- "Southern folk art," he calls them -- depicting blacks that decorate his home in Katy. "I don't want to offend anybody needlessly," he said wearily. "It means nothing to us. Now everybody has gotten so darned sensitive."
While Mr. Smith and Mr. Lewis each retreat to one world, Mr. Castaneda has his feet in two. He reared his son and daughter in the mostly Anglo environment of Katy, where he and his wife, Christina, 53, an accounting assistant with ExxonMobil Chemical, moved 25 years ago.
Yet he has always regarded San Antonio as home. That is where his mother's homemade tortillas await. That is where Spanish is spoken. It is also where the Castanedas go on many holidays and weekends.
Richard and Christina Castaneda grew up poor in San Antonio but in the comfort of their own kind, they said. "The best enchiladas are made with welfare cheese," Mr. Castaneda said. He remembers his childhood world as giving him little sense that he was part of a minority.
Where he grew up in San Antonio, in the 1950's and 60's, everybody around him was like him, he said. The barber and the butcher were Mexican-American. So were the sales clerks downtown. There were Mexican-American elected officials all over the place, even a congressman, Henry B. Gonzalez. Mr. Castaneda says he even thought as a child that because there were so many Mexican-Americans, they must be above both blacks and Anglos at least a notch.
That view had to change with time, but he remembers thinking that if Anglos really were the dominant group in the city, Mexican-Americans definitely came in second. A pool in a public park had been open to whites and Mexicans, but not to blacks. The fanciest movie theater in town, the Majestic, had a back entrance for the "colored." That meant blacks, not Mexicans.
Still, there was the occasional incident to remind him of Anglo attitudes toward Mexicans. Once, in 10th grade, when he and the only black student in his class were talking, the teacher snapped, "I don't want to hear any comments from the colored gallery."
Mr. Castaneda remembers wondering, "What are you talking about?"
It wasn't until he had left home, though, that he felt the full force of prejudice, he said. When he was in the Navy for two years, in the late 1960's, blacks had been as bad as whites in making his life miserable, he said. They called him spic, half-breed, pancho. They harassed him when he spoke Spanish. He had expected to be a radio man. Instead, he said, "I washed dishes for eight months" on a ship carrying 500 men.
"They had a perception of me like the lazy Mexican," he said.
Such treatment only fed his resolve that his children would never endure the same. Unlike Mr. Smith, Mr. Castaneda was determined that his son and daughter would live in the Anglo mainstream. They could have a sense of their Mexican heritage, he said, but first they were American. He did not want them to be harassed for speaking Spanish. "I thought the opportunities were better if my kids were raised completely American," he said.
Mr. Castaneda said he resented being asked whether he considered himself Mexican or American. "People keep trying to put me in a situation where I have to choose between one culture and the other," he said.
And it grates on him when people assume he is from Mexico -- when he is asked about soccer and even flamenco. He said he had ancestors who were born in Texas when much of it belonged to Mexico, in the early 19th century. Yet people will ask him, "When did your family come to this country?"
"And then you start talking to them and you find out their grandfather came here in 1910. But they consider themselves real Americans because they're white."
Mr. Castaneda finds little in common with Mexican immigrants or foreign-born Hispanics. He recalls his father saying, "Trust only your own kind." But a City Council election five years ago underscored for him the fallacy of wearing ethnic blinders. Most Latino Democratic voters supported the Cuban-American candidate, Orlando Sanchez, against a white Democrat, even though Mr. Sanchez was a conservative Republican.
Mr. Sanchez turned out to oppose affirmative action. Born in Cuba and raised in Houston, Mr. Sanchez, 42, said Latinos should not be expected to behave as one. "I see Hispanics getting together on global issues -- if the police are singling us out, if banking institutions are denying us home loans," he said. "But we won't be a cohesive force like African-Americans."
Sometimes the priorities of the American- and foreign-born Hispanics are starkly different. Once, Mr. Castaneda said, a Nicaraguan acquaintance asked him to make a donation to buy a bulletproof car for the new president of Nicaragua. He chose not to.
"Let them shoot him," Mr. Castaneda said, "I don't care."
And he laments that the image of Mexican-Americans has become tied to that of the penniless immigrant crossing the border illegally. "That's what keeps the image of the Mexican-American down," Mr. Castaneda said. He said he finds more in common with black and Anglo native Texans than the "wetbacks," a term that sometimes slips into his conversation.
Still, he has begun to have second thoughts about his decision to Americanize his children so completely that neither ever learned to speak Spanish. Now that the country has become increasingly multicultural, he said, "it's an advantage" to be bilingual. "I've actually done them a disservice," he said.
His children came to recognize a need to embrace their heritage. As adults they both migrated to San Antonio, back to where their cousins and grandparents live and where they spent summers as children. Last year, Mr. Castaneda's daughter, Denise Ramirez, 27, married a Mexican-American, Gerardo Ramirez -- and not only for love, she said, but for their shared Hispanic values.
"I feel I have a pretty good grasp on my culture," said Ms. Ramirez, a public school social worker. "I'm really proud of it. So was my brother."
Her brother, Ricardo Cristian, known as Cris, was killed in December at the age of 24. He had been driving home after a hockey game when his new red pickup truck went off the road and into an embankment.
The previous May he had earned a bachelor's degree in technology from his father's alma mater, the University of Houston, and had taken a construction management job with a San Antonio firm.
While packing up his belongings after the death, his family found a Spanish-language instructional tape in the stereo. In his wallet, his mother said, they found a list of things he was looking for in a wife.
"Hispanic," he had written at the top.
 
A Calculated Move Pays Off
After Lee Brown was elected, Richard Lewis attended a meeting of the Houston Contractors Association, the mostly white group he had led some years back. He was confident that he had done the right thing by supporting Mr. Brown, he remembers, but he was also feeling betrayed.
Through his support for Lee Brown, Mr. Lewis had wanted his contractors' group to benefit, he said. He had wanted them at least to hedge their bets by staying neutral and giving money to both candidates. But when the association's political action committee decided to endorse Mr. Mosbacher and Mr. Lewis stood his ground, the committee stripped him of the chairmanship.
"He couldn't eat or sleep for days," Betty Lewis said.
Mr. Lewis did not resign from the association; he was still dead set against affirmative action, and the group carried that banner. It had even filed a lawsuit against it. He also knew, he said, that his ties with the Brown administration would be fleeting. Mr. Brown is now in his second two-year term and by law can serve only one more.
But for the moment Mr. Lewis was in and his fellow contractors were out, and he did not want them to forget it.
At the association's meeting that day, Mr. Lewis waited for someone to acknowledge the results of the vote. Finally, he recalls, someone said: " 'Well, Richard, I guess you were right. I know that you won't have a grudge and that if we need your help, you'll be there for us.' "
Without a word, Mr. Lewis stood up and unbuttoned his shirt to reveal a T-shirt. It showed a cartoon character with a lipstick mark on its buttocks.
"That," he said, "was my answer."
More than two years later, Mr. Lewis is no less confident that he did the right thing. Indeed, Mr. Lewis, Mr. Castaneda and Mr. Smith all say they have no complaints about how the mayor has treated them.
In part because of their connections to the Brown administration, ties that were forged during the 1997 campaign, the three were selected to join a team of industry professionals competing for a $100 million contract to build the Northeast Water Purification Project. The team is led by a group of private companies that also chose the men because they brought racial diversity to the table. Though the project is not subject to affirmative action regulations because it is being built with private money, it will still need to obtain approval from the city, the plant's client, and the City Council is made up of blacks, whites, Latinos and one Asian-American. In this case, Mr. Castaneda says, political realities have dictated the need for diversity, with or without the law.
"In Utopia, this is how it should work," Mr. Castaneda said.
But whatever promise of equal opportunity is embodied in that team, it is not a reason to scrap affirmative action, he said. Even with a mixed population and a multihued council to represent it, he said, there would be no guarantee that minority companies would be given a fair shake in an industry still dominated by Anglo-owned companies. And in politics, he said, even a minority leader could be bought or could enter into an alliance out of self-interest.
"I don't think you can leave it up to people's judgment," he said.
Mr. Lewis, Mr. Smith and Mr. Castaneda all agree that one of Mayor Brown's legacies will be the way he has led minorities, not just blacks, into government. But a looming question is how well the minority alliances that got him elected will survive the big demographic changes that are expected. Mr. Brown came to power in a city in which the Anglo, black and Hispanic populations had reached a rough parity. But Texas demographers say that he happened to catch the moment when these three groups, moving at different speeds or in different directions, were passing one another on the population charts.
As recently as 1960, whites made up 70 percent of the city's population, blacks 23 percent and Hispanics 7 percent. By 1997, whites were 35 percent, blacks 28 and Hispanics 31. By 2030, it is projected, Latinos will account for more than 50 percent of the population of Harris County, which includes Houston. Whites, meanwhile, will dip to 21 percent and blacks to 11 percent.
Whether the growing Hispanic numbers will translate into power at the polls is uncertain. In the 1997 election, only 13 percent of the turnout was Latino, compared with 32 percent black and 52 percent Anglo.
But whatever movement there is toward greater Hispanic power, Mr. Lewis is not troubled by it. He said he did not know many whites who fretted about their shrinking numbers.
"They're not concerned about it as long as green controls," he said. "They're the establishment. That's the establishment you have to blend with, and if you're not going to blend, you're not going to be accepted."
If one prospect is a kind of assimilation, as Mr. Lewis envisions, and another is continued ethnic divisions, as others predict, yet another is long-term coalitions, which Mr. Castaneda said he hoped for.
"If the blacks and Hispanics made a coalition, they could do a lot," he said.
To Mr. Smith, blacks may have achieved power at City Hall just in time to hand it over to Latinos. "At some point, we are not going to be able to get a black mayor," he said. "I hope we'll have a Hispanic mayor that we can trust to be inclusive."
A more immediate issue is the fate of affirmative action. Some city officials see it as a stabilizing force, but with lawsuits pending, opponents like Mr. Lewis expect a court to strike down the city law any day. Already, the Brown administration has endorsed two new race- and gender-neutral contracting programs.
Mr. Smith said he was more afraid of an economic downturn than the demise of affirmative action. With the numbers of people in minority groups increasing, he said, demands for parity are likely to increase, and "we'll be more and more protected."
Still, he said, he is exploring investing in a restaurant chain. And he said he was in talks with African entrepreneurs in Chad for what would be his first international construction management contract.
Mr. Lewis and Mr. Castaneda see a different picture, one without affirmative action. But while Mr. Lewis is pleased by that prospect, Mr. Castaneda is resigned to it. He said it would force him to reassess his options.
"Doing business without it would be too uncertain," he said. "I still don't see the private work out there."
He said he would probably close his doors without the government work and do something else: go back to school, maybe study environmental law, or move his business to San Antonio.
When the time comes for the men to cash in or retire, they plan to retreat to their separate worlds. The Castanedas think of moving permanently to a lakeside home near San Antonio and their son's grave. Mr. Lewis plans to live at least part of the time in Matagorda. Only Mr. Smith feels rooted in Houston.
The three have made a living in the same arena, sometimes helping each other get jobs, sometimes coming together out of mutual interest. But outside that arena, they said, they were not sure whether they would have any reason to see one another again.
Most relationships outside the family are superficial anyway, Mr. Castaneda said.
And though Houston has made him feel "95 percent comfortable" around other ethnic groups, he said, there is that remaining 5 percent, which he calls distrust.
"I know they're watching what they say," Mr. Castaneda said of Mr. Lewis and Mr. Smith, "because under normal circumstances, they could be saying something insensitive towards me."
Mr. Smith, who views opposition to affirmative action as racist, said he had nothing in common with Mr. Lewis except their support for a mayoral candidate. He said he felt closer to Mr. Castaneda.
But Mr. Lewis says friendship is not the point; tolerance is -- "where we don't have this open hostility toward one another."
"You work together well; we treat each other civilly," he said. "We send each other work.
"How close are we supposed to be?"
 
This series wil conclude with a special issue of The New York Times Magazine on Sunday.
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photos: Brian G. Smith, Richard G. Castaneda and Richard W. Lewis, left to right, are practical about race. (Monica Almeida/The New York Times)(pg. A1); Brian G. Smith, top center, at work in the construction inspection company he owns. Above, with his son Micah at a ceremony for his older son Brian's scout troop.; Richard W. Lewis is a blunt, wisecracking businessman in Houston; at his church in Matagorda, a small Texas town on the Gulf of Mexico, he is a singing minister. (pg. A15); Richard G. Castaneda at a power lunch with the Houston mayor, Lee P. Brown, and at the San Fernando Cathedral in his native San Antonio, where he lighted a candle for his late son. The 270-year-old cathedral is a spiritual and cultural center for Latinos. (Photographs by MONICA ALMEIDA/The New York Times)(pg. A14)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Series

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: TEXAS, USA (94%); GULF OF MEXICO (74%); ATLANTIC OCEAN (72%); 

CITY: HOUSTON, TX, USA (94%); SAN ANTONIO, TX, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: HOUSTON CONTRACTORS ASSOCIATION (90%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: HOUSTON (TEX); UNITED STATES (94%); TEXAS, USA (94%); GULF OF MEXICO (74%); ATLANTIC OCEAN (72%); HOUSTON, TX, USA (94%); SAN ANTONIO, TX, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: BLACKS; HISPANIC-AMERICANS; MEXICAN-AMERICANS; ELECTIONS; POLITICS AND GOVERNMENT; BUILDING (CONSTRUCTION); AFFIRMATIVE ACTION; SUITS AND LITIGATION; MAYORS HISPANIC AMERICANS (90%); MAYORS (90%); POLITICS (89%); ELECTIONS (76%); AFRICAN AMERICANS (76%); LITIGATION (74%); CITIES (74%); ETHNIC GROUPS (72%); DEMOGRAPHIC GROUPS (72%); AFFIRMATIVE ACTION (66%); ENGINEERING (64%); 

PERSON: NAVARRO, MIREYA; SMITH, BRIAN G; CASTENEDA, RICHARD G; LEWIS, RICHARD W; BROWN, LEE P (MAYOR) RICHARD W BROWN (71%); 

LOAD-DATE: July 13, 2000



286 of 757 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: July 13, 2000

SECTION: Section G; Page 1; Column 1; Circuits 

LENGTH: 1530 words

HEADLINE: Wireless Valhalla: Hints of the Cellular Future

BYLINE: By PETER H. LEWIS 

DATELINE: HELSINKI, Finland

 BODY:
IT is time for the "S.M.S. Dating Game" on Radio X3M. Romance is in the airwaves and Cupid carries a cell phone. Thumbs ready? In 160 characters or less, use the keypad on your mobile phone to type a description of yourself and your interests, and send it to the disc jockey's phone using the wildly popular Short Messaging Service.
In minutes, if your description catches the fancy of another mobile phone user -- and the odds are good, considering that most Finns over age 15 carry a wireless phone -- the phone will chirp, warble, vibrate or beep out a riff from a popular rock song, signaling that you have a text reply waiting on your phone. 
 "Apparently it's more fun than actually talking to the other person," said Richard Nordgren, head of programming for Radio X3M.
But that is nothing compared with what is going on in Sweden, where a company is developing a mobile Internet dating service that tracks the location of the phone. When two seemingly compatible people come into range of each other, the dating service will alert them by phone, enabling them to arrange a rendezvous.
Although it is indisputably the business leader in personal computer and Internet technologies, the United States is Old World when it comes to what many analysts and entrepreneurs see as the next big wave of technology: wireless Internet communications.
Market researchers are nearly unanimous in predicting that in three years more people around the world will gain access to the Internet through mobile devices than through personal computers. But to preview this transformation, which some call the "mobile lifestyle," one has to leave the United States.
"You're just starting to see it in the U.S., but here it is everywhere," said Rolf Skoglund, a venture capitalist in Stockholm.
According to the market research company International Data Corporation, Sweden has passed the United States and is now the world's dominant "information economy," measured in terms of the percentage of citizens who have access to computers, the Internet, wireless phones and other information technologies. Finland, Norway and Denmark round out the top five.
The Nordic countries are digital Valhalla, the forefront of the new information economy based on wireless communications. As a result, American technology companies and venture capitalists are rushing to set up or expand their offices in the growing high-tech centers near Helsinki and Stockholm. Microsoft opened a new research and development office in Stockholm last month, as did Motorola.
"All of the best companies are being forced into setting up sites in Europe or Japan, where they have working test beds to proceed with critical development," said Mark R. Anderson, a technology analyst who recently returned from touring northern Europe. "There's a reason why all these people are rushing over to Sweden. They have no choice. It could be that the wireless markets won't appear here in the United States for years after the markets are mature in Sweden and in Japan and in China."
The Nordic countries are also in the vanguard of mobile electronic commerce, or m-commerce. Although it is still a novelty, people in Finland are beginning to use their phones to pay for soft drinks from a vending machine, for parking and for car washes. In Sweden, trials are under way to allow people to check train schedules and to book and pay for tickets by phone. An advertisement in Stockholm shows a shopkeeper asking, "Will that be cash or phone?"
In Finland, it is difficult to find any young people who have a friend or relative who does not have a mobile phone. In fact, the question seemed to startle almost everyone, as if they had been asked whether they had friends who rode reindeer. Finally, after pausing a moment to contemplate the question, one Finn said: "Yes, my grandmother. But she is 83."
Such things are inevitable in a culture in which last year 78 percent of the country's 2.35 million households had at least one mobile phone, according to Statistics Finland, a research company. About one household in four no longer even has a traditional wired phone, relying entirely on mobile phones. The report stated, "nearly all Finns aged between 15 and 39 used the mobile phone."
The mobile lifestyle is only slightly more subdued in Sweden. "Why would you be glued to a wall to talk to someone?" asked Cyril Holm, a young entrepreneur in Stockholm who carried a phone with a built-in keyboard. "What a terrible, stinking idea."
But why Scandinavia, and not the United States, which views itself as the center of the technology revolution?
Several factors came together to make this the forefront of mobile telephones: an extremely high penetration of wireless phones among consumers, estimated as high as 70 percent among people over 10 years of age; the aggressive growth of wireless system operators like Telia and Sonera; and the headquarters of two of the biggest makers of mobile phones and equipment, Nokia in Finland and Ericsson in Sweden.
Technology experts in Scandanavia offer several other explanations. Part of the answer is geography. The Nordic countries are relatively large and remote, fostering the need for reliable communications. And beginning in the 1980's, the Scandinavian countries agreed on a common mobile phone standard, which evolved into G.S.M., or Global System for Mobile communications. The United States, meanwhile, uses two incompatible standards, called T.D.M.A. and C.D.M.A. Some carriers in the United States use a variant of G.S.M., but it uses a different frequency and is incompatible with the global standard, which has been adopted by 105 countries.
On a practical level, it means that most Americans cannot use their phones overseas, while someone from Estonia can call easily from London or Rome without needing a new phone.
Another impediment is the curious American billing system in which the recipient of a mobile call pays the toll, which is just the opposite of the European standard. The effect is that many Americans keep their phones turned off, unless they are expecting a call, and carry pagers instead. In Scandinavia, where the caller pays, phones are left on all the time and thus are used more.
"I haven't seen a pager for years," said Antti Laaksonen, a young programmer who is working to develop entertainment services for a new generation of cell phones. The last company in Finland to offer pagers recently closed its service, succumbing to the S.M.S. phenomenon.
In the United States, there is no way to distinguish between a mobile phone number and a fixed line number. They have the same number of digits. In Scandinavia, mobile numbers have an extra digit, so a caller can tell at a glance whether the other's person's phone is in his pocket or on his desk.
But more than all this, it appears that the idea of mobility has caught fire here in digital Valhalla in a way that even the highly mobile American society has not grasped.
The use of phones for nonverbal communication is one of the more striking differences between Europe and the United States. Finland, with a population of about 5 million, sends 75 million S.M.S. messages a month. S.M.S. allows people to send up to 160 characters of text to another phone, with the message displayed on the phone's tiny screen.
It typically costs the equivalent of 15 cents to 20 cents to send a message and nothing to receive one, unless you subscribe to one of the many S.M.S. services, like the joke of the day or a daily horoscope, which are among the most popular services. Despite the cost, S.M.S. is a cultural phenomenon among young people, who appear to possess an uncanny ability to type swiftly using their thumbs on the phone's tiny keypad.
Of course, the phones can be set to vibrate silently instead of ring, which has led to a new problem: Some schoolteachers have complained that students are using their phones to send test answers to one another in class.
Esa Puokannen, a Finn who studied at the University of Texas, said that in his family only his 8-year-old does not carry a phone. His 12-year-old son got a phone and ran up a tab of 400 markaa (more than $60) the first month, sending S.M.S. messages to his friends. He has since been put on a prepaid card, and once he exhausts his limit he can only receive messages, not send them.
The phones can be used to send simple pictures and musical compositions, and to play games. In Finland, Nokia phones come with a game called Snake, which is so popular that there was recently a national Snake championship. And the recreational use of the phones is not restricted to schoolchildren. In a Helsinki bar, one Finn showed a lewd graphic on his phone that he said a friend had sent him.
A popular Finnish rock band recently released its new song not on CD or over the radio, but as a digital download created especially for mobile phones. A radio station in Helsinki that used to play the Top 10 hits on Wednesday mornings now plays the Top 10 musical cell phone ring downloads.
And, by the way, the top cell phone ring last week in Finland was the theme song from "Batman."
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photos: In Stockholm, young people use their cell phones for more than small talk. Scandinavian countries are far ahead of the United States in developing new uses for cell phones. (Henrik Montgomery/Pressens Bild, for The New York Times)(pg. G1); Whether in a square in Stockholm or a bookstore in Helsinki, Finland, right, cell phones are almost everywhere in Scandinavia.
(Henrik Montgomery/Pressens Bild for The New York Times); (Jussi Nukari/Lehtikuva for The New York Times)(pg. G7)
 
Drawings: LOVE -- A dating service in Sweden will track cell phones and let potentially compatible users know when they are close enough for a rendezvous.; MONEY -- In Finland, people use cell phones to pay for soft drinks from vending machines, for parking and for car washes.; MAIL -- Sending short text messages is a popular way to communicate in Scandinavia. Some people say it is more fun than actually talking face to face.; TUNES -- A Finnish rock band released a new song, not as a CD or on the radio, but as a digital file that mobile phones could be used to download. (Randy Jones)(pg. G1)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: X (NYSE) (85%); MSI (NYSE) (51%); MSFT (NASDAQ) (51%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS331110 IRON & STEEL MILLS & FERROALLOY MANUFACTURING (85%); SIC3312 STEEL WORKS, BLAST FURNACES (INCLUDING COKE OVENS) & ROLLING MILLS (85%); NAICS541910 MARKETING RESEARCH & PUBLIC OPINION POLLING (81%); SIC8742 MANAGEMENT CONSULTING SERVICES (81%); NAICS334220 RADIO & TELEVISION BROADCASTING & WIRELESS COMMUNICATIONS EQUIPMENT MANUFACTURING (51%); SIC3663 RADIO & TELEVISION BROADCASTING & COMMUNICATIONS EQUIPMENT (51%); NAICS511210 SOFTWARE PUBLISHERS (51%); SIC7372 PREPACKAGED SOFTWARE (51%); 

COUNTRY: SWEDEN (96%); FINLAND (96%); UNITED STATES (94%); EUROPE (92%); NORDIC COUNTRIES (90%); JAPAN (79%); NORWAY (79%); NORTHERN EUROPE (79%); DENMARK (66%); 

CITY: STOCKHOLM, SWEDEN (91%); HELSINKI, FINLAND (90%); 

COMPANY: UNITED STATES STEEL CORP (85%); INTERNATIONAL DATA CORP (81%); MOTOROLA SOLUTIONS INC (51%); MICROSOFT CORP (51%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: SWEDEN; NORWAY; DENMARK; FINLAND; STOCKHOLM (SWEDEN); HELSINKI (FINLAND); SWEDEN (96%); FINLAND (96%); UNITED STATES (94%); EUROPE (92%); NORDIC COUNTRIES (90%); JAPAN (79%); NORWAY (79%); NORTHERN EUROPE (79%); DENMARK (66%); STOCKHOLM, SWEDEN (91%); HELSINKI, FINLAND (90%); 

SUBJECT: COMPUTERS AND THE INTERNET; CELLULAR TELEPHONES MOBILE & CELLULAR TELEPHONES (95%); DATING SERVICES (90%); INTERNET & WWW (90%); MOBILE & CELLULAR COMMUNICATIONS (90%); WIRELESS INTERNET ACCESS (90%); TEXT MESSAGING (90%); WIRELESS INDUSTRY (90%); COMPUTER EQUIPMENT (87%); MARKET RESEARCH FIRMS (86%); COMPUTING & INFORMATION TECHNOLOGY (79%); INFORMATION MANAGEMENT (79%); CONSUMER ELECTRONICS (78%); MOBILE MEDIA (78%); ONLINE DATING SERVICES (78%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS EQUIPMENT (78%); NEW ECONOMY (77%); POP & ROCK (73%); PERSONAL COMPUTERS (73%); ENTREPRENEURSHIP (72%); RESEARCH & DEVELOPMENT (72%); MARKET RESEARCH (72%); VENTURE CAPITAL (70%); MARKET RESEARCH & ANALYSIS (70%); COMPUTER NETWORKS (67%); 

PERSON: LEWIS, PETER H

LOAD-DATE: July 13, 2000



287 of 757 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: July 13, 2000

SECTION: Section F; Page 1; Column 4; House & Home/Style Desk 

LENGTH: 1271 words

HEADLINE: A Promenade Emerges To Catch the Falling Sky

BYLINE: By JOHN LELAND 

 BODY:
WHEN the ribbon of scaffolding and razor coils went up around his building on 101st Street and Broadway a few months back, Paul Byard took it as a harmless inconvenience. As an architect, he'd been responsible for his share of those steel and plywood constructions over the years. The awning was an eyesore, but a temporary one. Then, walking down Broadway on a recent night, he approached yet another makeshift overhang, this one more isolated, an ad hoc darkened alley.
"It was grungy, scary, not well lit," Mr. Byard, a partner in Platt Byard Dovell, recalled. "And it was richly inhabited by people with social problems." He considered crossing the street but soldiered through, more annoyed than genuinely threatened. "It's a nuisance," he said of the structures casting a shadow over an ever-greater part of the city grid. "You have to walk in the street to get around it. It cuts off diagonals. And it makes it awkward to jaywalk." 
 It is becoming the signature profile for much of the city: not the grand Deco kitsch of the Chrysler building or the telltale green canvas of Starbucks creep, but the unlovely clump of plywood and metal tubing known in the trade as the sidewalk shed or bridge. The Buildings Department, which regulates the structures, issued 1,806 permits for sheds in the first six months of 2000, up roughly 80 percent from the same period just five years ago. Obstructing sightlines and walking paths, squeezing already congested sidewalks, the sheds have become pedestrians' analogue to squeegee guys, a minor obstacle replicated onto every street corner, at least when you're in a hurry.
"They're out of hand," said Vanessa Gruen, director of special projects at the nonprofit Municipal Art Society, referring not just to the sheds but to the giant billboards screaming from many. "I think they're terrible."
Some sheds come and go in a few months; others, erected around buildings caught up in litigation or other financial entanglements, can linger for years, without any sign of repair work above.
So where, you might ask, is the outrage? New Yorkers, especially those who sit on co-op boards, can come to blows over carpet samples. Yet, they have been strangely accommodating on the scaffold question, accepting the civic intrusion as a twist of providence, like car alarms or private school tuition.
"One gets used to it," said Michael Blackwood, a documentary filmmaker, who has for more than a year lived behind a dark steel mesh while workers restore the facade of his landmark 58th Street co-op. Mr. Blackwood described the disruption as necessary and minor. "It's like being sick for a while," he added. "You go through it, and then you get better."
The reasons for shed spread are mundane. Contractors like Sal Impieri, branch manager of Safway Steel Products in Brooklyn, credit the strong economy for a boom in construction and renovation.
At the same time, the city's infrastructure is showing the effects of a century of erosion and stress, developing unfortunate creeks and cracks that threaten the pedestrians below.
There is no telling how many passers-by or billable hours have been saved by a timely shed. Mr. Impieri, who works the high end of the market, estimates that his business has grown 30 to 40 percent in each of the last two years, a rise he described as common in the industry.
By his lights, the aesthetic impact of all that scaffolding is not to be underestimated. "When you're in the business," he said, "everything looks beautiful, whether I do it or someone else."
But the main reason for all the sheds may be bureaucratic. In 1998, after bricks fell from a Madison Avenue office building, the city passed a regulation known as Local Law 11, calling for inspection of all facades over six stories. The deadline for inspection was in March. Once up, sheds can linger, sometimes for several years. Landlords run out of money for repairs; contractors leave for more lucrative jobs.
"It's just like dealing with contractors on my own house," said Gary Larson, executive vice president of the Scaffolding Industry Association, a trade group. "I'm ready to shoot them." Scaffolding contractors set up the sheds, then take them away when all is finished: It is up to all the other parties to get the work done. Though scaffold permits last only a year, landlords can renew them by attesting that they have not done the repair work. As long as the shed keeps the sidewalk safe, the city doesn't penalize landlords for not finishing the work.
On a recent stroll up the Avenue of the Americas toward Herald Square, Neel Scott emerged from the shadow of one rusty overhang like a swimmer coming up for air before diving under the next. Mr. Scott is a campaign coordinator for Transportation Alternatives, an advocacy group for pedestrians and bicyclists; strictly speaking, this disarray is his metier. "That's just what I'm talking about," he said, trying to squeeze upstream against a rush-hour tide heading down. The shed's support poles stood about two and a half feet from the building and one and a half feet from the curb, trimming the sidewalk by about four feet. Sidewalk vendors hawked cheap toys and gadgets underneath; a man oblivious to the crush slept under a ragged blanket in the shade.
For Zoltan Lebovich, the building's superintendent, this scene was a vision of progress. "Everyone likes it, they hide from the rain -- even the homeless," he said, adding that the shed would come down in four to six months, once the building was repointed.
David Barone, standing in the shadow before his empty shop, was less enthusiastic about the obstruction and the community growing beneath it. "People are missing the store," he complained, his awning obscured by the protective canopy. "It hurts, but what are you going to do?"
The answer, some architects contend, is prettier scaffolding. Michael Graves drew mostly positive responses to the aluminum and blue polyester sheath he erected around the Washington Monument, since removed in time for the Fourth of July festivities.
Modeled after a 16th-century etching by the Roman architect Domenico Fontana, the construction was a cover-up Washington people could get behind; groups in Minneapolis and Richmond, Va., campaigned to move it to their towns for permanent display. Both projects fell through, but Mr. Graves sees the restoration as a possible lead to a new, decorative age of scaffolding. "Think of the advertising opportunities, or the opportunities for younger artists," he said, speaking from a hotel phone in Amsterdam.
For his part, Mr. Graves considers New York's current scaffold glut an emblem of dynamism, not an aesthetic blight. "My worry isn't about the scaffolding, but that what you see when it comes down is a disappointment," he said. "You think maybe the scaffolding was better."
The British writer G. K. Chesterton proposed that "there is something strangely primary and poetic about this sight of the scaffolding and main lines of a human building; it is a pity there is no scaffolding round a human baby." A warming thought, perhaps. But then, Chesterton never had to squeeze himself under a cramped Midtown awning at rush hour, or return home to find his apartment swaddled in steel tubes and marquee-size ads for a Web site.
Which is to say, he did not live in New York City at the start of the 21st century, looking up for the stars and seeing instead the corrugated sheet metal of yet another sidewalk shed. If he had, he might have viewed scaffolding differently. Or he might have kept his head down and commented on it not at all.
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photos: AN URBAN ALLEE -- Scaffolding has become an accepted part of the landscape. (Suzanne DeChillo/The New York Times)(pg. F1); TUNNEL VISION -- Negotiating the shadows in a shed outside a nursing home on West End Avenue. (Suzanne DeChillo/The New York Times)(pg. F10)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (90%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (90%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: SCAFFOLDING INDUSTRY ASSOCIATION (66%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK CITY; UNITED STATES (90%); NEW YORK, USA (90%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: BUILDING (CONSTRUCTION); SCAFFOLDS WALKING & JOGGING (71%); NONPROFIT ORGANIZATIONS (69%); RESIDENTIAL COOPERATIVES (65%); OUTDOOR ADVERTISING (65%); DOCUMENTARY FILMS (63%); VISUAL ARTISTS (62%); LITIGATION (50%); TUITION FEES (50%); 

PERSON: LELAND, JOHN NEEL SCOTT (66%); PLATT BYARD DOVELL (62%); SAL IMPIERI (61%); MICHAEL BLACKWOOD (57%); 

LOAD-DATE: July 13, 2000



288 of 757 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: July 13, 2000

SECTION: Section F; Page 9; Column 1; House & Home/Style Desk 

LENGTH: 1038 words

HEADLINE: GOOD FENCES;
Would a Few Celebrities Please Move Here?

BYLINE: By JOE QUEENAN 

 BODY:
ONE of the least examined mysteries of modern suburban life is the impact on a small community when its most famous citizen suddenly ups and leaves. Did residents of Nyack, N.Y., feel they had failed last year when Rosie O'Donnell packed up her three children and moved to Greenwich, Conn.? Will they feel redeemed if she indeed buys a house nearby and returns to the greater Nyack area?
Do house prices in Bedford, N.Y., go up or down when Mariah Carey leaves town? And would Americans once again start confusing Chappaqua with Pound Ridge should Hillary Clinton lose her senatorial race and grab the next train to a place called Hope? Or for that matter, a place called Chicago? 
 Although I am as concerned about the psychological well-being of Nyackers, Bedfordians and Chappaquii as the next person, it is the impact of celebrity defections on house prices that has consumed my waking hours. As a 17-year resident of historic Tarrytown, an intermittently idyllic but celebrity-deprived Hudson River hamlet, I've spent a lot of time wondering whether luring a Celine Dion or at least one of the Backstreet Boys to our headless-horsemanlike community might not put some juice into house prices.
At the same time, I have given much thought to whether Tarrytowners could withstand the devastating blow of having a mega-deity -- say, Regis -- briefly alight among us, only to blow town a few months later. But mostly I've been thinking about those house prices.
As is usually the case when I begin to fantasize about sudden Croesian windfalls, my dreams are cruelly dashed as soon as I subject them to the sober review of seasoned professionals. Real estate agents in Bedford, Chappaqua and Nyack are unanimous in their belief that the peregrinations of celebrities have little or no effect on prices.
"They might make an impact on the ultra-ultra-top level of the market," said Lois Barnett, the owner of Vincent & Whittemore Real Estate in Bedford. But for every Mariah that high-tails it back to Manhattan, 10 more will spring up in her place. As Ms. Barnett noted, "When Martha Stewart moves in, Michael Crichton and George Soros already live right down the street."
Bedford is not the only village that can fall back on its daunting reservoir of equally radiant celebrities. The same is true of Nyack. When I visit this quirky, quasi-Bohemian village that seems to taunt stolid, un-quirky Tarrytown from across the Hudson, it is clear that residents had been cushioned from the blow of Rosie O'Donnell's departure by the presence of celebrities of comparable luminosity, which has long been the case.
"The first person I ever waited on, 23 years ago, was Helen Hayes," said Kenneth Kral, "assistant everything" at the Pickwick Bookshop. In fact, it was Hayes's beloved house, Pretty Penny, that Ms. O'Donnell bought for $770,000 in 1996, remodeled for hundreds of thousands of dollars, then abruptly unloaded for close to $2.75 million. Yet, locals did not seem chastened by her departure.
"Bill Murray was in here last week," said a waitress at a pastry shop called the Runcible Spoon, located not far from Edward Hopper's boyhood home.
"You see William Hurt, Al Pacino and one of the Baldwins all the time," a merchant added.
"This is Hollywood on the Hudson!" chimed in a second waitress from the Runcible Spoon, located not far from Carson McCullers's house.
"We had Edward James Olmos sitting right in that very chair," a man in a thrift shop observed.
Obviously, a town frequented by the likes of Edward James Olmos (most famous people sighted in Nyack may actually live somewhere else) does not need a Rosie O'Donnell to bolster its image. Real estate agents in Nyack say she is considering buying a $2 million house on 25 acres in adjoining Valley Cottage. But even so, for Nyackers, it will only be icing on an already remarkable cake.
What about an equally charming, much more upscale, yet less overtly cool community like Chappaqua? Does the arrival of the Clintons substantially boost the town's self-esteem? Would that self-esteem evaporate if they vamoosed? And what about those house prices?
"It's definitely seen as a victory for Chappaqua," said Colin Calhoun, the owner of Calhoun's Restaurant. "People feel validated."
But would the locals feel de-validated if Hillary Clinton lost the senatorial election and left? "No," Mr. Calhoun said. "If she loses, 90 percent of the people would expect her to leave. But the Clintons being here is already a victory for Chappaqua."
Margaret Atkinson, a real estate agent at Houlihan Lawrence in Chappaqua, agreed that having the president of the United States and an aspiring United States senator as neighbors has given the Chappaquii some sort of psychological boost. But she doesn't see how that affects house prices. Instead, she mentioned the excellent schools, the easy commute to the city, the guaranteed residents' parking spaces at the train station and other unquantifiable quality-of-life elements.
"People come to Chappaqua because it's very child-oriented," she said. "It's an easy town. Who wouldn't want to live here?"
Good question. But here's an even better one. Tarrytown is also an easy town. It is also a child-oriented town. And it is a town that offers an even easier commute to the city than Chappaqua. Moreover, it is not a snooty town, not the sort of town that acts like celebrities are no big deal. Indeed, I would be willing to wager that if an Al Pacino or a Bill Murray or even a Jonathan Demme were willing to ford the Hudson and set down roots in our community, most of the locals would be ready to lay out the red carpet.
Why then the delay? Is it possible that Tarrytown's well-documented parking problems are all that is keeping celebrities away? Were these parking problems eased, might not Mariah Carey be willing to give Westchester a second chance? And if so, wouldn't that do wonders for house prices? Specifically, mine?
Predictably, a knowledgeable real estate agent blithely dismisses my dreams of imminent Tarrytownian cultural and economic suzerainty.
"Celebrities don't raise house prices," she said. "SAT scores raise house prices."
Yes, but I still think Madonna could help.
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photos: HOME AGAIN -- Rosie O'Donnell sold her Nyack, N.Y., house, above, but may buy the one, left, in nearby Valley Cottage. (Alan Zale for The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (79%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (79%); CONNECTICUT, USA (73%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); CONNECTICUT, USA (73%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: HOUSING; PRICES (FARES, FEES AND RATES); CELEBRITIES REAL ESTATE (92%); HOME PRICES (90%); HOUSING MARKET (90%); REAL ESTATE VALUATIONS (90%); SUBURBS (78%); REAL ESTATE AGENTS (68%); 

PERSON: QUEENAN, JOE HILLARY RODHAM CLINTON (79%); MARIAH CAREY (55%); MARTHA STEWART (55%); CELINE DION (54%); GEORGE SOROS (50%); 

LOAD-DATE: July 13, 2000



289 of 757 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: July 13, 2000

SECTION: Section C; Page 13; Column 5; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 451 words

HEADLINE: Anticipate Financial Crises And Prepare, Greenspan Says

BYLINE: By RICHARD W. STEVENSON 

 BODY:
Saying that globalization is showing no signs of slowing and that further international financial crises are all but inevitable, Alan Greenspan, the Federal Reserve chairman, offered a wide-ranging set of prescriptions last night for preventing and coping with acute economic problems around the world.
Drawing on lessons learned during the financial crisis that began in Asia in 1997, Mr. Greenspan said industrialized and developing countries alike needed to focus on developing strong banking systems and active capital markets so that if one source of financing dried up, another would be available. 
 He stressed the need for governments to regulate their financial systems adequately, for governments and the private sectors to provide investors with full and timely economic and financial information, and for governments not to insulate investors from risk by bailing them out when times become tough. And he warned about allowing a buildup of debt within the financial system.
Speaking to the Council on Foreign Relations in New York, Mr. Greenspan did not mention current economic conditions in the United States or provide any hints about whether the Fed would raise interest rates again when it meets next, on Aug. 22. Mr. Greenspan is scheduled to testify about monetary policy before the Senate Banking Committee next Thursday.
Mr. Greenspan broke no new ground in his speech. But he said it was "essential that we employ the current period of relative international financial stability to address as best we can some of the more evident short-run potentials for crises."
The key, he said, is to develop "flexible institutions that can adapt to the unforeseeable needs of the next crisis, not financial Maginot lines."
One reason to be flexible, he said, is the complexity of the financial transactions and instruments through which capital flows around the world. The best insurance against allowing a nasty surprise to develop under the cloak of complexity, he suggested, is to limit the amount of debt in the system.
Mr. Greenspan spent much of his speech building a case that countries with both strong banking systems and healthy capital markets were far better able to weather financial troubles than countries that have only one or the other.
Countries like Thailand and Japan that relied heavily, if not exclusively, on their banking systems found themselves without another steady source of capital when their banks ran into trouble, he said. But countries like the United States and Sweden, he said, have come through crises relatively unscathed because they were able to turn to banks when their capital markets landed in trouble, and vice versa.
 
http://www.nytimes.com

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); ASIA (92%); JAPAN (79%); THAILAND (77%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: COUNCIL ON FOREIGN RELATIONS (56%); COUNCIL ON FOREIGN RELATIONS (56%); 

ORGANIZATION: COUNCIL ON FOREIGN RELATIONS (56%); COUNCIL ON FOREIGN RELATIONS (56%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%); ASIA (92%); JAPAN (79%); THAILAND (77%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS; THIRD WORLD AND DEVELOPING COUNTRIES; FINANCES; BANKS AND BANKING ECONOMIC CRISIS (92%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (91%); BANKING & FINANCE (91%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); ECONOMIC POLICY (90%); DEVELOPING COUNTRIES (90%); PUBLIC POLICY (78%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); MONETARY POLICY (78%); GLOBALIZATION (78%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (77%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (73%); FOREIGN RELATIONS (73%); CAPITAL MOVEMENTS (73%); TRENDS (70%); FOREIGN POLICY (68%); INTEREST RATES (52%); 

PERSON: GREENSPAN, ALAN (CHMN); STEVENSON, RICHARD W ALAN GREENSPAN (93%); 

LOAD-DATE: July 13, 2000



290 of 757 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: July 13, 2000

SECTION: Section A; Page 16; Column 1; National Desk 

LENGTH: 892 words

HEADLINE: Mount Crested Butte Journal;
In the Heart of Ski Country, Wildflowers Are a Summer Draw

BYLINE: By MICHAEL JANOFSKY 

DATELINE: MOUNT CRESTED BUTTE, Colo., July 12

 BODY:
Ever so slowly, the secret is getting out. This time of year, the fields and mountain slopes here explode into color, with more than 1,000 varieties of wildflowers poking through the grasslands in a dazzling crazy-quilt of brilliance.
Residents always knew about the wildflowers, but not many others did until it occurred to a group of local leaders nearly 20 years ago that the flowers might be an ideal way to show off a town known almost exclusively as a ski resort. So they began the Crested Butte Wildflower Festival as a weekend of wildflower hikes led by experts who can tell a harebell from a fringed gentian and a sneezeweed from a little sunflower. 
 "Back then," said Nan Buxton, a visitor from Oklahoma City who has attended the festival almost every year, "you could just come down and sign up."
Now look: The festival has grown so big and popular that participants call weeks in advance to reserve space for nearly 150 hikes, workshops and evening programs that have turned the festival into a week-long event. In addition to nature walks, activities include classes on nature photography, medicinal plants, edible plants, organic gardens, insects, butterflies and ecosystems. Some fill up so quickly that people are turned away.
And that is beginning to worry festival organizers.
Not unlike the region itself -- Mount Crested Butte and the larger town three miles below, Crested Butte -- the wildflower festival has reached a critical point, forcing organizers to confront thorny questions of how to manage growth while preserving the reasons for which the festival became so popular. In its early years, about 100 people attended. By the end of this year's events on Sunday, organizers say 2,500 will have participated.
"We began with a handful of people, and we ended up getting bigger every year," said Dana Bradley Spencer, a wildlife biologist who is the festival's board president. "If we get too big, we can't really offer the quality and specialness of teaching people about the flowers. Visitors want a quaintness, stylized to fit their enjoyment of flowers."
For now, groups of a dozen or so seem manageable. Leading a two-and-a-half-hour hike on Tuesday, Alison Gannett, a botanist from the University of Vermont, had plenty of time to spot more than two dozen varieties of wildflowers, discuss their characteristics, answer questions and keep group members from trampling too many other flowers to see the ones she was pointing out.
With a group that size, Ms. Gannett never had to raise her voice when explaining that yarrow, a purple flower, is a natural antibiotic, or that according to folklore, sheep that eat false skunk cabbage, a pale green plant, give birth to offspring with only one eye -- "sheep cyclops," she said. In a larger group, some might have missed that.
Just as Ms. Spencer said organizers would have to review this year's festival to decide how much, if at all, it could grow next year, the owners of the ski resort are also contemplating how to expand without overwhelming a region that visitors have always appreciated for its charm and community spirit.
As a ski area, Crested Butte cannot match the size or glitz of the larger ski resorts in Colorado. Former President Jimmy Carter visits here annually, and James MacArthur, the actor who played Danno on "Hawaii Five-0," lives here. But that is about it for the town's famous connections.
What Crested Butte does have in common with nearly every other Colorado ski resort is a recent downward economic trend. Warm winters and a lack of snow have cut sharply into the number of skier-visits, which is defined as one skier skiing per day. Over the last two winters, the number at Crested Butte has fallen by 24 percent, compared with the statewide average decline of 9 percent.
The Callaway family, which owns the ski resort, has known for years it has to change to remain competitive. It helps that the wildflower festival and dozens of other cultural events are drawing more people into the area in summer. But the ultimate health of a ski resort depends upon skiing facilities, amenities and ease of access to the slopes. Expanding them has become no less perplexing to the Callaway family than the same issue on a smaller scale is to the wildflower organizers.
"Every time you put in a new lift or a new hotel, it echoes down the valley," Edward C. Callaway, the resort's president and chief executive, said today, explaining why the family has taken a slow approach to growth that preserves open space, rather than adopt an aggressive strategy that could choke the region with traffic, overwhelm the supply of housing and drive out ranchers whose families have worked land in the valley for generations.
More than anything, the resort needs a second mountain for skiing, and it has one nearby, Snodgrass Mountain. By adding intermediate ski runs to Snodgrass to complement the beginner and expert runs that Crested Butte Mountain has in abundance, the resort would become more attractive to more families.
But for now, Mr. Callaway said, that will wait, and the owners will spur growth at a more modest rate.
"We want to grow but we want to grow smart, by putting in development where it exists, not where it doesn't exist," Mr. Callaway said. "We've drawn a line in the flowers, and we never want to go over it."
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photo: The Crested Butte Wildflower Festival exploits the area's colorful flowers as a tourist draw. Alison Gannett leads a flower identification walk. (Nathan Bilow for The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (79%); 

STATE: OKLAHOMA, USA (79%); 

CITY: OKLAHOMA CITY, OK, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: BUTTE WILDFLOWER (61%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: MOUNT CRESTED BUTTE (COLO); UNITED STATES (79%); OKLAHOMA, USA (79%); OKLAHOMA CITY, OK, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: FLOWERS AND PLANTS; MOUNT CRESTED BUTTE WILDFLOWER FESTIVAL MOUNTAINS (91%); FESTIVALS (90%); SKIING (90%); RESORTS (90%); HIKING (90%); MAMMALS (87%); WILDLIFE (77%); BOTANY (77%); GARDENING (71%); INSECTS & ARACHNIDS (71%); SKIING FACILITIES (70%); ANTIBIOTICS (50%); 

PERSON: JANOFSKY, MICHAEL EDWARD C CALLAWAY (66%); ALISON GANNETT (56%); DANA BRADLEY SPENCER (56%); 

LOAD-DATE: July 13, 2000



291 of 757 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: July 13, 2000

SECTION: Section C; Page 8; Column 3; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 954 words

HEADLINE: THE MEDIA BUSINESS: ADVERTISING;
AMedia starts a Web site to draw Asian-American clientele.

BYLINE: By Jane L. Levere 

 BODY:
A PRINT media company specializing in the Asian-American market is branching out online to broaden its audience and advertising potential.
Privately held aMedia, the publisher of the bimonthly aMagazine, introduced a new Web site, aOnline.com, in June. The site is part of aMedia's long-term strategy to develop a multimedia empire that would also include production and distribution of online video, film and music. 
 Like the magazine, aOnline.com caters to the English-speaking Asian-American market, which research shows is younger, better educated, and more affluent and technology-oriented than many other ethnic groups in the United States. These qualities make Asian-Americans desirable to marketers, even though they constitute only 4 percent of the nation's total population.
A recent report by Forrester Research, based in Cambridge, Mass., found that Asian-Americans ranked higher than white Americans, African-Americans and Hispanic-Americans in both income and education: Asian-Americans had a median annual household income of $65,000, and 60 percent of them were college educated. More than three-fourths were technologically inclined, also the highest rating of the four groups, while their median age was 36, the youngest of the four groups.
AMedia, which has published aMagazine for 11 years, opted to go online because "there were limitations inherent in the print product," said Jeff Yang, founder and chief executive. "To create a mass medium for Asian-Americans, you have to go where they are. Seventy percent of them, 7.5 million, are online."
By contrast, Mr. Yang said aMagazine had a circulation of 180,000, with advertising sales of $1.1 million last year.
"We want to leverage the resources we have off-line, and address the frailties of traditional media," he added. "The Internet allows interaction and feedback, flexibility and customization for advertisers, and constant contact with our readers."
AOnline contains original editorial content as well as articles from aMagazine, various chat rooms for visitors of different ages, and an electronic calendar. Online chats are also being held with Asian-American celebrities like Deepak Chopra.
In addition, aOnline is developing a network of other sites of Asian-American student, civic, service and professional groups that, like aOnline, will be sold to advertisers; the Asian-Pacific American Medical Student Association, for example, is already part of it. aMedia, which has Web design and development capabilities, will help these groups build their sites, if needed, either at a reduced price or free, depending on their finances.
According to Mr. Yang, aMedia's next step will be to add streaming audio and video to aOnline, thus creating a multimedia, multichannel menu of options for marketers. He also eventually plans to add an e-commerce component, to sell books, music, videos, food and other items, and to expand overseas.
So far, three advertisers are buying space on aOnline -- Verio, , a provider of Internet and Web-site-operating services; Ford Motor, a long-time supporter of aMagazine; and the Army. The Army began advertising in aMagazine this last spring and is running banner ads on aOnline to recruit for its active and reserve units.
Sandra Nicholls, a corporate advertising executive for Ford, said her company was working with aMedia's magazine and Web site because "the Asian market is so diverse in and of itself.
"Asian-Americans are a fast-growing community, an affluent community, and aMagazine does a good job of reaching them," she said. "I look at the Internet as added value."
Ford is spending $110,000 this year on advertising in both aMagazine and aOnline, a slight increase over previous expenditures.
Ekaterina O. Walsh, an analyst with Forrester Research, generally praised aMedia's online business strategy.
"They're on the right track when it comes to targeting Asian-Americans online, because they're significantly more likely to be there," she said. "Between Asian-Americans' significantly higher income and the fact that they're much younger, they'll also be an attractive target to advertisers. They're also more open to novelty, which will make them a good launch pad to test new products."
Len Fong, director of cross-cultural marketing for e21corp, a Fremont, Calif., marketing communications firm, said that although aMedia does face competition from older Asian-American sites like Click2Asia.com, it has "10 years of history behind it."
"They've got good connections and know the Asian-American marketplace fairly well," he said. "Their chances of success are pretty high."
For aOnline to make the most of its advertising potential, Ms. Walsh says it should create specialized Web sites on individual subjects like music or finance, perhaps joining forces with financial institutions like Charles Schwab or Fidelity.
"The era of the broad-based portal is coming to an end," she said. "Forrester expects that only three will remain by 2004. Niche sites hold the best chance of survival, and this trend applies to ethnic sites, too."
Eliot Kang, president and chief executive of Kang & Lee Advertising in New York, a unit of Young & Rubicam that specializes in the Asian-American market, warned that aMedia faces tough challenges.
"If you do one thing really well in the general market, you can do really well," said Mr. Yang, who is also president of the Association of Asian-American Advertising Agencies. "But in the Asian market, you've got to do everything well. AMedia's got to be eBay and Amazon.com and Priceline.com and CNBC in the aggregate to provide enough income and revenue, and be a stable business. There's not much room to make mistakes."
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photo: AOnline.com caters to English-speaking Asian-Americans, many of whom are adept in technology. (aMedia)
 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TITLE: ADVERTISING (TIMES COLUMN)

TICKER: FORR (NASDAQ) (56%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS541910 MARKETING RESEARCH & PUBLIC OPINION POLLING (56%); SIC8732 COMMERCIAL ECONOMIC, SOCIOLOGICAL, & EDUCATIONAL RESEARCH (56%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (99%); 

STATE: MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: AMEDIA (CO); AONLINE.COM FORRESTER RESEARCH INC (56%); 

ORGANIZATION: AMEDIA (CO); AONLINE.COM

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (99%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: COMPUTERS AND THE INTERNET; ASIAN-AMERICANS; ADVERTISING; MARKETING AND MERCHANDISING ASIAN AMERICANS (93%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING (92%); PERIODICAL PUBLISHING (90%); PUBLISHING (90%); WEB SITES (90%); MULTICULTURAL MARKETING (90%); INTERNET & WWW (89%); CAUCASIAN AMERICANS (78%); INTERNET SOCIAL NETWORKING (78%); COMPANY STRATEGY (78%); STREAMING MEDIA (78%); MAGAZINE ADVERTISING (78%); ETHNIC GROUPS (78%); HISPANIC AMERICANS (78%); MARKET RESEARCH FIRMS (78%); INTERNET VIDEO (78%); DEMOGRAPHIC GROUPS (78%); INTERNET AUDIO (77%); VIDEO INDUSTRY (76%); EXTRA CURRICULAR ACTIVITIES (76%); MUSIC INDUSTRY (76%); RANKINGS (75%); STUDENT ORGANIZATIONS (75%); POPULATION & DEMOGRAPHICS (74%); CHAT ROOMS (73%); RETAIL MERCHANDISE MANAGEMENT (73%); ELECTRONIC COMMERCE (73%); AFRICAN AMERICANS (73%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (72%); WEB DEVELOPMENT (72%); MUSIC (71%); PERSONAL & FAMILY INCOME (67%); ETHNICITY (55%); EXECUTIVES (50%); 

PERSON: LEVERE, JANE L DEEPAK CHOPRA (50%); 

LOAD-DATE: July 13, 2000



292 of 757 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: July 13, 2000

SECTION: Section A; Page 29; Column 2; Editorial Desk 

LENGTH: 609 words

HEADLINE: Slavery's Fellow Travelers

BYLINE: By Eric Foner; Eric Foner, professor of history at Columbia University, is the author, most recently, of "The Story of American Freedom."

 BODY:
Retrospective apologies can be a kind of psychopolitics that makes the apologizer feel good without doing anything concrete about the enduring consequences of past injustices. But the recent apologies by two Connecticut companies, Aetna and The Hartford Courant, have a singular virtue: They remind us of the usually glossed-over participation of the North in America's slave system.
Yes, many college and even some high school textbooks make clear that slavery was embedded in every aspect of American life -- not just Southern life -- from the early colonial era to the Civil War. But museums and popular histories rarely give this fact the prominence it deserves. 
 Aetna and The Courant were apologizing for profits their companies derived from insuring and advertising slaves in the 19th century. But the economic participation of the North in the slave trade and the use of slave labor went much deeper, even after Northern states no longer allowed slaveholding within their own borders.
Nowhere did the connection go deeper than in New York City. How many New Yorkers today know that when the South seceded, Mayor Fernando Wood proposed that New York declare itself a free city, so as to be able to continue to profit from slavery, as it had from its beginnings?
Slaves built New York -- and the rest of the country -- from their earliest arrival here at the beginning of the 1600's. In 1750, slaves represented more than 10 percent of the city's population; and in 1712 and 1741, New York was the site of slave conspiracies. Accounts of the city's rise to commercial prominence in the 19th century rightly point to the Erie Canal's role in opening access to produce from the West, but they don't talk about the equal importance to the city's prosperity of its control over the South's cotton trade. Because of this connection, New York merchants and bankers were consistently pro-slavery, pressing during the 1840's and 1850's for one concession to the South after another in order to maintain their lucrative access to cotton.
Elsewhere in the North, too, textile factories relied on slave-grown cotton, shipping interests carried cotton to England, and banks and merchants financed cotton production.
Some cities in Europe have begun to make a public display of their historical connection to slavery. In Liverpool, England's biggest slave-trading port, local museums candidly depict the role of slavery in the city's growth. Nantes, France, another city where much wealth derived from the slave trade, recently had a similar exhibition. New York should more candidly acknowledge that much of its early prosperity rested on slave labor.
I am not proposing that Mayor Rudolph Giuliani issue a retrospective apology. Far more valuable would be long-term projects to increase the city's historical self-consciousness. For example, when New York's history is taught in public schools, the city's intimate link with slavery should receive full attention. The city should have a permanent exhibition -- perhaps even an independent museum -- depicting the history of slavery and New York's connection with it.
On the eve of the Civil War, the economic value of slaves in the United States was $3 billion in 1860 currency, more than the combined value of all the factories, railroads and banks in the country. Much of the North's economic prosperity derived from what Abraham Lincoln, in his second inaugural address, called "the bondman's two hundred and fifty years of unrequited toil." Lincoln was asking Americans to consider the obligations created by slavery. The first of those obligations is to acknowledge the full truth. 
http://www.nytimes.com

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Op-Ed

TICKER: AET (NYSE) (92%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS524114 DIRECT HEALTH AND MEDICAL INSURANCE CARRIERS (92%); NAICS524113 DIRECT LIFE INSURANCE CARRIERS (92%); SIC6324 HOSPITAL & MEDICAL SERVICE PLANS (92%); SIC6321 ACCIDENT & HEALTH INSURANCE (92%); SIC6311 LIFE INSURANCE (92%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (97%); ENGLAND (91%); FRANCE (79%); EUROPE (79%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (97%); CONNECTICUT, USA (94%); BRETAGNE, FRANCE (79%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%); LIVERPOOL, ENGLAND (71%); 

COMPANY: HARTFORD COURANT; AETNA INC AETNA INC (92%); 

ORGANIZATION: HARTFORD COURANT; AETNA INC

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK CITY; NEW YORK STATE; SOUTHERN STATES (US); NORTHERN STATES (US); UNITED STATES (97%); ENGLAND (91%); FRANCE (79%); EUROPE (79%); NEW YORK, USA (97%); CONNECTICUT, USA (94%); BRETAGNE, FRANCE (79%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%); LIVERPOOL, ENGLAND (71%); 

SUBJECT: SLAVERY; LIFE INSURANCE; NEWSPAPERS; ADVERTISING SLAVERY (91%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); COTTON & COTTONSEED (88%); CITIES (87%); EXHIBITIONS (75%); MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (75%); COTTON MARKETS (73%); BANKING & FINANCE (73%); CITY LIFE (72%); POPULATION SIZE (72%); TEXTBOOKS (71%); LIFE INSURANCE (69%); NEWSPAPER ADVERTISING (69%); FABRIC MILLS (63%); COTTON FARMING (62%); TEXTILE MFG (60%); SECONDARY SCHOOLS (57%); 

PERSON: FONER, ERIC RUDY GIULIANI (51%); 

LOAD-DATE: July 13, 2000



293 of 757 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: July 13, 2000

SECTION: Section D; Page 1; Column 1; Sports Desk 

LENGTH: 785 words

HEADLINE: Sports of The Times;
Yankees Lead Majors In Dollars

BYLINE: By MURRAY CHASS 

 BODY:
THE Yankees made a contingency trade for Juan Gonzalez. They needed a pitcher. The Yankees tried to make a trade for Sammy Sosa. They needed a pitcher. The Yankees traded for David Justice. They needed a pitcher. The Yankees yesterday traded for Denny Neagle. He is a pitcher.
Fortunately for the Yankees, they did not allow George Steinbrenner's wide-eyed desire for a big-name big hitter to prompt them to clean their shelves of minor league and other prospects. Instead of sending them in a package to Detroit for Gonzalez or to the Cubs for Sosa, they delivered some prospects to Cleveland for Justice, a creditable run producer, and others to Cincinnati for Neagle, the best starting pitcher available in the weeks leading up to the July 31 nonwaiver trading deadline. 
 The Neagle acquisition was costly in prospects, but it was and will be costly economically, too. The Yankees' timing, in fact, is impeccable. Bud Selig, the commissioner with the payroll disparity problem, has summoned the owners to New York for a meeting tomorrow. There they will receive the report from a committee assigned the task of figuring out how to solve baseball's economic imbalance.
The Yankees are Exhibit A of a team that spends money with no concern for the ramifications their expenditures have for their poorer relatives. Maybe that's the way it should be. The Yankees, after all, are engaged in a free-market, free-enterprise pursuit. Steinbrenner is out to win championships and make money. If spending a few extra million here or there produces a pennant and an invitation to the October dance, by all means spend the money.
With the addition of Neagle and his $4.75 million salary, the Yankees' payroll, which passed the unprecedented $100 million milestone when Justice arrived, climbs still higher to about $107 million. But that's not the only economic element at work here.
Two of the four minor leaguers the Yankees gave the Reds are Jackson Melian and Drew Henson. When Melian was a 16-year-old Venezuelan in 1996, the Yankees got him with a then-unprecedented $1.6 million signing bonus. When they drafted Henson two years ago, they bought a share of his future sports plans for a $2 million signing bonus.
Henson was a top-notch high school quarterback who intended to play football in college. The Yankees made it worth his while to leave his options open and play baseball in the summer before playing football in the fall. Had they retained Henson and he had opted for the N.F.L., they would have eaten the $2 million and not suffered indigestion.
But the Yankees have now taken that $3.6 million investment in Melian and Henson and used it to secure a pitcher who could put his left arm in their pitching dike and stem the tide that threatens to sweep them away from their October goal. And, of course, the Yankees don't want Neagle to work for them only for the rest of the season. With his free agency looming after the season, they will want to sign him -- and he's eager to accommodate them -- to a contract extension to keep him around. How would $9 million a year sound?
The numbers that follow the dollar signs add to a big, big total. With the Yankees, it doesn't stop. The printing press in the basement at Yankee Stadium keeps pouring out the cash. If the secretaries and the executives think they have it tough having to be at their desks on time and not leaving a minute early in case the owner calls, what about those little old men running the money machine? They're not allowed to leave. Other teams find the playing surface uneven because the Yankees can afford to make mistakes, and most of them can't.
Out in the international arena, the Yankees have signed Melian, Alfonso Soriano, Ricardo Aramboles, Hideki Irabu, Orlando Hernandez, Wily Mo Pena and Adrian Hernandez. If one or two of those remaining players and others fail to make it, the Yankees will balance the lost bonus against profits, shrug it off and pursue another unproven Latin or Asian kid.
Most other teams feel they have to be more protective of their bonus money. They have to reduce the hit-or-miss ratio to as tiny a number as possible before committing a few million here or there. Who else last year would have given Pena, then a 17-year-old Dominican outfielder, $2.4 million to sign?
The commissioner usually cringes when the Yankees make yet another move involving money (they all do, don't they?). Maybe this move, though, he will welcome, considering the timing. Maybe Selig can use this one, letting it incense the other owners to the point that it induces them to accept some radical form of revenue sharing the blue-ribbon task force might propose, Steinbrenner be damned.
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photo: Sammy Sosa (Associated Press)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TITLE: SPORTS OF THE TIMES (TIMES COLUMN)

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (91%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (91%); OHIO, USA (71%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (78%); CINCINNATI, OH, USA (71%); CLEVELAND, OH, USA (57%); 

COMPANY: NEW YORK YANKEES; CINCINNATI REDS CINCINNATI REDS (67%); NEW YORK YANKEES (94%); NEW YORK YANKEES (94%); CINCINNATI REDS (59%); CINCINNATI REDS (59%); 

ORGANIZATION: NEW YORK YANKEES; CINCINNATI REDS NEW YORK YANKEES (94%); NEW YORK YANKEES (94%); CINCINNATI REDS (59%); CINCINNATI REDS (59%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (91%); NEW YORK, USA (91%); OHIO, USA (71%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (78%); CINCINNATI, OH, USA (71%); CLEVELAND, OH, USA (57%); 

SUBJECT: BASEBALL; FINANCES; TRADES (SPORTS) BASEBALL (92%); ATHLETES (78%); SPORTS & RECREATION EVENTS (75%); WAGES & SALARIES (63%); AMERICAN FOOTBALL (60%); SPORTS (60%); 

PERSON: CHASS, MURRAY; NEAGLE, DENNY; SELIG, BUD GEORGE STEINBRENNER (72%); BUD SELIG (69%); 

LOAD-DATE: July 13, 2000



294 of 757 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: July 13, 2000

SECTION: Section A; Page 3; Column 1; Foreign Desk 

LENGTH: 1411 words

HEADLINE: Travel Boom Pulls Japan and South Korea Closer

BYLINE: By HOWARD W. FRENCH 

DATELINE: FUKUOKA, Japan

 BODY:
As he waited to board a flight back to his native South Korea, Kim Tae Won still could not believe the reception his 40-person theater troupe had received all week from standing-room-only audiences in this provincial capital in southern Japan.
After years of hearing stories about Japan tinged in mistrust and disdain, Mr. Kim, whose troupe was performing a historical play about a Mongol invasion of Japan via Korea, pronounced what amounted to a burying of the hatchet between two of Asia's most closely related, yet persistently contentious, neighbors. 
 "We don't have the old feelings of hatred toward Japan like we used to anymore," he said. "And I guess our stay here shows that the Japanese have finally learned to respect us, too."
The burgeoning detente between South Korea and Japan can be seen in many ways, from their agreeing to be co-hosts of the World Cup soccer tournament in 2002, to the increasingly frequent trips back and forth between leaders of the two countries, to South Korea's pending invitation of the Japanese emperor to Seoul, which, given Japan's bitterly resented imperial rule of Korea early this century, would have been unthinkable even just a few years ago.
Mr. Kim visited during Korea Week in Fukuoka, where Korean master potters displayed their works and lectured Japanese audiences about ceramics, brought to this country from Korea centuries ago. And Korean flower arrangers showed off their innovations in an art largely inspired by ancient Japanese traditions.
But the best reflection of the spreading warmth between the countries is the way travel between them -- not just by business people and officials, but by homemakers, students and ordinary tourists -- has exploded in the last few years, making South Korea the preferred destination of Japanese last year, replacing the longtime favorite, Hawaii.
Travel between the countries is booming at a time of historic shifts in relationships throughout the region. Japan and South Korea are enjoying rare warmth in what had long been lucrative but frosty economic ties.
For the first time in years, starting with a historic summit meeting of their leaders in June, North and South Korea have been making major progress toward ending the state of war between them. The thaw between North and South Korea, meanwhile, has encouraged the government in Pyongyang, North Korea, to moderate its often shrill rhetoric against Tokyo, and even begin hinting at a reconciliation with Japan, which North Korea usually depicts as the source of evil and corruption in Northeast Asia.
The softer tone may reflect a recognition that capital from Japan -- which has the world's second largest economy -- will be indispensable for the reconstruction of a North Korea on the verge of collapse.
It would be hard to find a sea boundary in Asia whose history has been more tumultuous or of deeper impact than the Korea Strait, a 100-mile-wide stretch of ocean separating Fukuoka from Pusan, in southern South Korea. Although the subject remains shrouded in mystery and is taboo here, Japan's imperial family is believed by many historians to have arrived from across these seas some 2,000 years ago.
The Mongols, who ruled Korea, invaded twice and were defeated the second time only by a typhoon, the original kamikaze, or holy wind, which wrecked their armada of 3,500 ships in 1281.
Three centuries later, feudal Japan launched two invasions of its own, involving 150,000 or so troops each time, but was undone by help from Chinese allies and Korea's invention of the world's first armored sea craft, the Turtle Ship.
These days, the invasions are different but still aggressive: weekend shopping expeditions and culinary raids for spicy Korean kimchi or delicate Japanese specialties, or school trips, amusement park visits and health spa "cures." Private visits between the two countries are taking place at a rate of more than two million a year, and because of its proximity to the Korean peninsula, Fukuoka, once the favored jumping-off point for conquerors, has become the leading springboard for travelers.
Where diplomacy has often come up short in the past, growing contacts like these between South Korea and Japan seem to be changing the ways -- often deeply stereotyped -- the two peoples think about each other. Japanese people visit South Korea and discover a country far more orderly and developed than they had been led to believe.
"I had heard a lot about Korea before I went, but my impressions of the place were much better than the image I used to have," said Kyoko Fukuda, a Japanese beautician whose flight from Seoul, where she went to attend a conference, had just landed. "We have always heard that the living standard is very low there, but in fact the difference was not so terribly great."
South Koreans, meanwhile, are noting a greater willingness among Japanese to acknowledge them as peers rather than subjects and to acknowledge that Japanese culture has borrowed heavily from its western neighbor -- which is important given South Koreans' deep sense of national pride.
In June, as a result, South Korea lifted restrictions on imports of Japanese films and most television programming. The measure follows a more timid relaxation of controls on "cultural imports" from Japan that began in 1988.
"The Japanese were deeply influenced by Korea," said Lee Kang Hyo, a South Korean ceramics artist who lectured recently in Fukuoka, where Korean masterpieces were on display at a municipal exhibition hall, along with historical correspondence from Hideyoshi, the Japanese shogun who twice invaded the country. "But you have to come to Japan to see the best of our classical tradition preserved."
That fact has much to do, Mr. Lee hastened to add, with Japan's 35-year colonization of Korea, which ended in 1945, and its previous conquest of the country, when Korean masterpieces were carted off to Japan in large quantities. But he said he was also surprised to learn during his first visit to Fukuoka, last month, that there was still a deep sense of prestige attached to the classical Korean style here.
Japanese academics, meanwhile, say that they have begun to work closely together with their Korean counterparts to piece together the shared history of the two peoples, overcoming a legacy of mutual contempt. "It is safe to say that Japan had a feeling of superiority over Korea," said Koji Saeki, a professor of history at Kyushu University, in Fukuoka. "But the exchanges between Japanese and Korean scholars are very active now, and they are strengthening all the time."
It is in the area of the painful history that has long divided the two peoples that the most distance has been traveled.
Only in fits and starts has the Japanese government shown a willingness to address the question of Japanese imperial rule over the Korean peninsula, apologizing officially to the Korean government, but devoting relatively little attention in officially sanctioned textbooks to Japanese brutality, like the use of Korean women as sex slaves for the imperial army.
Prominent Japanese politicians, meanwhile, periodically continue to make provocative statements about Koreans in Japan, blaming them for crime, for example.
Individual Japanese who have traveled to South Korea, however, say that their experience of the country has brought them to reflect deeply about their own country's expansionist past. Often they express a kind of remorse whose sincerity rings far truer than any official declaration.
South Korean tour guides play a subtle but important role, deliberately bringing Japanese visitors to sites that commemorate the sacking of their country and attempted destruction of their culture by several generations of Japanese invaders.
"We learned almost nothing about this in school," said Makiko Nakatsukuma, a 27-year-old homemaker, who had just traveled with her best friend to Pusan by high-speed ferry for a weekend of shopping. "In Korea it was explained to us how Japan had forced Koreans to learn our language, and to abandon their names in favor of Japanese names. Many Koreans were brought to Japan by force, too, and had to work as virtual slaves.
"The whole time I was there, I just felt like apologizing to the Korean people. It is very hard to explain, but even though I am from the postwar generations, I felt so bad about all of this. You want to say you are sorry, but who do you say it to?"
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photo: After decades of animosity, South Koreans and Japanese are seeing a softer side of each other thanks to a big increase in travel between their countries. South Korean mascots welcomed a Japanese tourist in Seoul. (Agence France-Presse)
 
Map of Japan highlighting Fukuoka: Fukuoka is a springboard for Japanese traveling to South Korea.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: KOREA, REPUBLIC OF (99%); JAPAN (99%); KOREA, DEMOCRATIC PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF (94%); NORTHERN ASIA (94%); ASIA (93%); UNITED STATES (79%); 

STATE: KYUSHU, JAPAN (88%); HAWAII, USA (79%); 

CITY: SEOUL, KOREA, REPUBLIC OF (88%); PYONGYANG, KOREA, DEMOCRATIC PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF (74%); TOKYO, JAPAN (58%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: SOUTH KOREA; JAPAN; FUKUOKA (JAPAN); KOREA, REPUBLIC OF (99%); JAPAN (99%); KOREA, DEMOCRATIC PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF (94%); NORTHERN ASIA (94%); ASIA (93%); UNITED STATES (79%); KYUSHU, JAPAN (88%); HAWAII, USA (79%); SEOUL, KOREA, REPUBLIC OF (88%); PYONGYANG, KOREA, DEMOCRATIC PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF (74%); TOKYO, JAPAN (58%); 

SUBJECT: INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; JAPAN-INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS-SOUTH KOREA; TRAVEL AND VACATIONS THEATER COMPANIES (90%); THEATER (90%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (88%); SPORTS AWARDS (78%); TALKS & MEETINGS (73%); TRAVEL HOSPITALITY & TOURISM (68%); SOCCER (67%); SPORTS & RECREATION EVENTS (67%); SPORTS & RECREATION (67%); TOURNAMENTS (67%); SOCCER TOURNAMENTS (53%); 

PERSON: FRENCH, HOWARD W KIM TAE WON (58%); 

LOAD-DATE: July 13, 2000



295 of 757 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: July 13, 2000

SECTION: Section C; Page 1; Column 2; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 1241 words

HEADLINE: Despite Benefits, Democrats' Estate Tax Plan Gets Little Notice

BYLINE: By DAVID CAY JOHNSTON 

 BODY:
Small-business owners and farmers whose Washington lobbyists are ardent backers of a Republican-backed plan to repeal the estate tax seem largely unaware that President Clinton -- who has vowed to veto the Republican proposal -- has said he would sign legislation that would exempt nearly all of them from the tax starting next year.
Business owners and farmers would be allowed to leave $2 million -- $4 million for a couple -- to their heirs without paying estate taxes under the plan favored by the President and the Democratic leadership in Congress. The Republican proposal, which passed the House last month with some Democrats' support and is being debated in the Senate this week, would be phased in slowly, with the tax eliminated in 2009. 
 Supporters of the Republican plan say the tax is so complicated that eliminating it is the only effective reform; they argue that the nation's growing wealth means more estates will steadily fall under the tax if it remains law on the Democratic proposal's terms.
Still, had the Democratic plan been law in 1997, the last year for which estate tax return data is available from the Internal Revenue Service, the estates of fewer than 1,300 owners of closely held businesses and 300 farmers would have owed the tax.
According to the data, 95 percent of the roughly 6,000 farmers who paid estate tax that year would have been exempted under terms of the Democrats' plan, as would 88 percent of the roughly 10,000 small-business owners who paid the tax.
Had the estate tax been repealed in 1997, as the Republicans now propose, more than half of the tax savings would have gone to the slightly more than 400 individuals who died that year leaving individual estates worth more than $20 million each.
Two prominent experts on estate taxes said yesterday that the Democrats were offering a much better deal to small-business owners and farmers, because the relief under their bill would be immediate and the estate tax would be eliminated for nearly all of them.
"The fact is that the Democrats are making the better offer -- and I'm a Republican saying that," said Sanford J. Schlesinger of the law firm of Kaye, Scholer, Fierman, Hays & Handler in New York. With routine estate planning, he said, the $4 million exemption could effectively be raised to as much as $10 million in wealth that could be passed untaxed to heirs. Only 1,221 of the 2.3 million people who died in 1997 left a taxable estate of $10 million or more, I.R.S. data shows.
Neil Harl, an Iowa State University economist who is a leading estate tax adviser to Midwest farmers, said that only a handful of working family farms had a net worth of $4 million. "Above that, with a very few exceptions, you are talking about the Ted Turners who own huge ranches and are not working farmers," he said.
Mr. Harl said he was surprised that farmers were not calling lawmakers to demand that they take the president up on his promise to sign the Democratic bill.
One reason for that may be that in leading the call for repeal of the tax, two organizations representing merchants and farmers -- the National Federation of Independent Business and the American Farm Bureau Federation -- have done little to tell members about the Democratic plan. Interviews this week with half a dozen people whom the two organizations offered as spokesmen on the estate tax showed that only one of them had any awareness of the Democratic proposal.
Officials of the business federation and the farm bureau said that in the event full repeal failed, they might push for approval of the Democratic plan. But both groups say outright repeal makes more sense.
"My concern is not over the Bill Gateses of the world," said Jim Hirni, a Senate lobbyist for the business federation. "But we have to eliminate this tax, because it is too complicated to comply with the rules. Instead of further complicating the system, the best way is to eliminate the tax, period."
A farm bureau spokesman, Christopher Noun, said that the Democrats' plan appeared to grant benefits that would erode over time. "Farmers are not cash wealthy, they are asset wealthy," he said. "And those assets are only going to continue to gain value over the years. So while some farmers may not be taxed now under the other plan -- 10 or 15 years out they will."
Whether the proposal to repeal the tax dies in the Senate or is passed and then vetoed by the President, it will become a powerful tool for both parties in the fall elections. The Republicans will be able to paint themselves as tax cutters who would carry out their plans if they could just win the White House and more seats in Congress. The Democrats could try to paint the Republicans as the party that abandoned Main Street merchants and family farmers to serve the interests of billionaires.
A vote in the Senate could come as early as this evening.
At the grass roots, however, those who would benefit from any reduction in the scope of the estate tax take a much more pragmatic view of the matter.
"The whole reason I took up this cause is I do not want to see another small family business get into the situation we are in," said Mark Sincavage, a land developer in the Pocono Mountains of Pennsylvania whose family expects to sell some raw land soon to pay a $600,000 estate tax bill to the federal and state governments.
The independent business federation cited Mr. Sincavage's situation as an especially good example of problems the estate tax causes its members who are asset rich but short on cash. Facing similar circumstances is John H. Kearney, a Ford and Lincoln dealer in Ravena, N.Y., who said he "got slammed pretty hard" when his father died last year. Most of his father's $1.6 million estate was in land and the car dealership, said Mr. Kearney, who added that he dipped into savings intended for his children's education to pay the estate tax bill.
Neither Mr. Sincavage nor Mr. Kearney said he was aware of the Democrats' plan to roll back the tax.
But Mr. Kearney said his interest was in reasonable tax relief so that merchants and farmers could continue to nurture their businesses, not in helping billionaires.
"No part of me has any sympathy for people with more than $5 million," he said. "Would I feel terrible if all they did was raise the exemption to $4 million or $5 million? I would say from my selfish standpoint that we have covered the small family farm and small business and thus we achieved what we wanted to achieve.
"But I would still be asking: Is it really a moral tax to begin with? And that's a point you can argue a hundred different ways."
Carl Loop, 72, who owns a wholesale decorative-plant nursery in Jacksonville, Fla., said he favored repeal, partly because estate tax planning was fraught with uncertainty.
"The complexity of it keeps a lot of people from doing estate planning because they don't understand it," Mr. Loop said. "And they don't like the fact that they have to give up ownership of property while they are alive."
Professor Harl, the Iowa State University estate tax expert, said that he had heard many horror stories about people having to sell farms to pay estate taxes. But in 35 years of conducting estate tax seminars for farmers, he added, "I have pushed and pushed and hunted and probed and I have not been able to find a single case where estate taxes caused the sale of a family farm; it's a myth."
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photo: John Kearney, a car dealer in Ravena, N.Y., said he "got slammed pretty hard" by estate taxes. (David Jennings for The New York Times)(pg. C23)
 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

INDUSTRY: NAICS541110 OFFICES OF LAWYERS (83%); SIC8111 LEGAL SERVICES (83%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (79%); MIDWEST USA (79%); IOWA, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: KAYE SCHOLER LLP (83%); INTERNAL REVENUE SERVICE (55%); INTERNAL REVENUE SERVICE (55%); 

ORGANIZATION: INTERNAL REVENUE SERVICE (55%); INTERNAL REVENUE SERVICE (55%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES; UNITED STATES (93%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); MIDWEST USA (79%); IOWA, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: TAXATION; WILLS AND ESTATES; LAW AND LEGISLATION; LOBBYING AND LOBBYISTS; SMALL BUSINESS; AGRICULTURE; ELECTION ISSUES; INHERITANCE AND ESTATE TAXES ESTATE TAX (94%); TAXES & TAXATION (92%); ESTATE PLANNING (91%); LOBBYING (91%); SMALL BUSINESS (90%); LEGISLATION (90%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); TAX RELIEF (90%); TAX LAW (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (90%); VETO (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); FARMERS & RANCHERS (89%); ESTATE GIFT & TRUST LAW (78%); PLATFORMS & ISSUES (78%); TAX CONSULTING (78%); FAMILY FARMS (78%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (77%); WEALTH MANAGEMENT (75%); PERSONAL FINANCE (75%); WILLS (73%); TAX AUTHORITIES (73%); MAJOR US LAW FIRMS (72%); 

PERSON: CLINTON, BILL (PRES); JOHNSTON, DAVID CAY; SCHLESINGER, SANFORD J; HART, NEIL BILL CLINTON (73%); 

LOAD-DATE: July 13, 2000



296 of 757 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: July 13, 2000

SECTION: Section A; Page 24; Column 3; National Desk 

LENGTH: 573 words

HEADLINE: THE 2000 CAMPAIGN;
In His Own Words

 BODY:

AL GORE
Speaking yesterday to delegates at the N.A.A.C.P. annual convention in Baltimore:
" W. E. B. Du Bois described the N.A.A.C.P.'s mission this way: "the discovering and redress of cases of injustice." The N.A.A.C.P. has always championed the people, not the powerful; the weak and the weary, not the well off and the well connected. 
 So to you, and to those who can hear my voice, I want to say it as plainly as I can: I'm running for president because I want to fight for you. I want to help those who have not had their fair share of justice, opportunity, equality and the American dream. We've got to move forward together. I want to serve the people, not the powerful. I want to take on the special interests on behalf of working families. I don't want to work for those who make excuses for the way things are instead of striving for the way things are supposed to be. . . .
I want to offer you some specifics. I believe that it is time to invest in people. I pledge to you that I will bring about, as president, with your help, a continuation of the economic plan that has been good for our people. I don't want to go back to the giant deficits that are caused by focusing on massive tax cuts for the wealthy. I want tax cuts that are targeted to the people who need them, that are affordable, that are focused on education and health care and child care and raising children and strengthening families.
I believe we need more Empowerment Zones, so that we can lift up the communities that have not shared in this prosperity yet. Alvin Brown, my executive director of the Empowerment Zone program, has worked with me all over this country. And we have brought jobs to the places where they are most needed.
I want a specific program to clean up contaminated brownfields, good properties in good locations that need to be cleaned up and used to attract new jobs.
Now let me tell you why they're not being cleaned up. I'm going to go and visit one here in the Baltimore area that the local leadership has tried mightily to get to turn into a magnet for opportunity and hope. There is national legislation pending right now that would do that, and the Democrats support it, and many moderate Republicans support it.
Certainly people around the country support it. Why isn't it passing?
Well, it is because there are powerful and wealthy special interests that have entered into a secret agreement that was made public, to the embarrassment of those who signed it, and the Republican leadership in the Senate pledged not to allow legislation to go forward that would clean up brownfields, because some of the big polluters in this country didn't want it to go forward and they secured a pledge that it would be tied to a special interest provision to help the polluters.
Now, I believe that the bipartisan majority in the Congress that supports this, the bipartisan majority in the country that is overwhelmingly in favor of it, has a right to say to the Republican leadership and to the titular head of the Republican Party nationally: "Put the people first. Let's pass this legislation and bring some jobs to the inner city. Let's don't just talk about it. Let's actually do it, by passing the legislation." But instead of passing legislation to revitalize our community, this Congress keeps blocking progress and trying to pass these massive giveaways to the powerful and the special interests." 
http://www.nytimes.com

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Text

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (79%); 

STATE: MARYLAND, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: NATIONAL ASSN FOR THE ADVANCEMENT OF COLORED PEOPLE ACP (BELGIUM) (74%); NATIONAL ASSOCIATION FOR THE ADVANCEMENT OF COLORED PEOPLE (94%); 

ORGANIZATION: NATIONAL ASSN FOR THE ADVANCEMENT OF COLORED PEOPLE NATIONAL ASSOCIATION FOR THE ADVANCEMENT OF COLORED PEOPLE (94%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%); MARYLAND, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: BLACKS; ELECTION ISSUES; PRESIDENTIAL ELECTION OF 2000 PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); FAMILY (88%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (88%); BROWNFIELD SITES (85%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (83%); POLITICAL PARTIES (83%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (79%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (79%); CONFERENCES & CONVENTIONS (78%); PLATFORMS & ISSUES (78%); HUMAN RIGHTS ORGANIZATIONS (77%); ELECTIONS (75%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (75%); EXECUTIVES (75%); CHILDREN (73%); TAXES & TAXATION (72%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (71%); JOB CREATION (70%); ENVIRONMENTAL CLEANUP (61%); 

PERSON: GORE, AL (VICE PRES) AL GORE (89%); 

LOAD-DATE: July 13, 2000



297 of 757 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: July 13, 2000

SECTION: Section C; Page 1; Column 5; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 782 words

HEADLINE: De Beers Halts Its Hoarding Of Diamonds

BYLINE: By BLAINE HARDEN 

 BODY:
De Beers Consolidated Mines, the diamond company that reigned as one of the most powerful monopolies of the 20th century, announced yesterday in London a seismic shift in the way it does business.
It will retreat from its 70-year-old practice of manipulating prices by hoarding the world's diamonds and will charge into the advertising-driven game of selling the stones as branded luxuries. 
 The strategic overhaul, analysts say, was driven by the anemic performance of De Beers shares in recent years and by public-relations fears that "conflict diamonds" from Africa are poisoning a carefully nurtured image that De Beers stones are symbols of "love, beauty and purity."
"We all need to become more customer- focused and recognize the power of marketing to sell more diamonds," Nicky Oppenheimer, the company chairman, said in a news release.
De Beers, which was created 110 years ago in South Africa, controls two-thirds of the trade in uncut diamonds and owns mines around the world that produce about half the stones unearthed each year.
It has been embarrassed by disclosures that to prop up prices, it bought millions of dollars of diamonds from rebels in Angola.
The company has insisted that it bought the stones on the open market and stopped all buying when a United Nations embargo was imposed in 1998.
In London yesterday, De Beers made the most far-reaching of a series of moves to back away from trading in diamonds mined by African rebels who brutalize civilians. The company yesterday warned its 125 major trading partners that they would be barred from buying De Beers diamonds if they trafficked in stones that originated in war zones.
"De Beers is sending a clear signal to the rest of the industry that it is no longer tolerable to profit from these diamonds," said Christine Gordon, a diamond industry analyst in London who serves on a panel monitoring the United Nations embargo on rebel diamonds from Angola.
The Security Council imposed a global ban this month on diamond exports from Sierra Leone, where the stones have fueled a savage rebel war. There are no sanctions, however, on stones from Congo, where the scramble for diamonds helps sustain a war among rebels, the government and armies from six African countries.
While De Beers's move will further reduce the chances that rebel-mined diamonds will trickle into American jewelry stores, Ms. Gordon said there remained a large network of dealers who are not beholden to De Beers. In addition, human rights groups are skeptical about De Beers's ability to enforce its new rules.
"It is one thing to announce all these changes, but it is another thing to make it stick," said Ian Smillie, co-author of a scathing report this year about how the diamond industry supplied the money that made war possible in Sierra Leone. "There are quite a lot of diamonds coming from these areas and somebody is going to lose money if they stop dealing with the rebels."
Human Rights Watch called the De Beers move "an important announcement," but said more remained to be done.
"The fundamental issue is verification," said Carroll Bogert, a spokeswoman in the New York for the group, which has closely monitored the trade in rebel-mined diamonds. "Unless you have an independent monitoring mechanism, I think questions will remain."
As part of the shift in business strategy, executives from De Beers said that the company would reduce its stockpile of uncut diamonds from $3.9 billion to about $2.5 billion toward the end of next year.
Over the last seven decades, De Beers has used that stockpile -- which it maintains in London and as recently as last year was valued at $5.2 billion -- as a way to absorb excess diamonds from Africa, Russia or anywhere else in the world that might lower the cartel price of diamonds.
With the money earned by selling off much of the stockpile, De Beers officials said they would expand spending on diamond advertising, while insisting that the company's trading partners do the same.
"There's a huge untapped opportunity for all of us in the industry to grow the diamond business and match the growth rates enjoyed by leading luxury goods companies," said Gary Ralfe, managing director of the company.
Although diamond sales have soared in the last year, De Beers's profitability has not. Much of the reason, company officials have said, is that too much capital is tied up in the diamond stockpile.
Diamond sales have grown far less robustly over the last 50 years than sales of other luxury goods. By reducing the stockpile and increasing advertising, De Beers executives have said they hope to experience the sales growth of items like Gucci handbags.
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Graph: "Losing It's Luster"
Weekly price of De Beers's American Depositry receipts.
 
Graph tracks Depositry receipts since 1997.
(Source: Bloomberg Financial Markets)(pg. C4)
 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: DBRSY (NASDAQ) (90%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS423940 JEWELRY, WATCH, PRECIOUS STONE & PRECIOUS METAL MERCHANT WHOLESALERS (95%); NAICS212399 ALL OTHER NONMETALLIC MINERAL MINING (95%); SIC5094 JEWELRY, WATCHES, PRECIOUS STONES, & PRECIOUS METALS (95%); 

COUNTRY: AFRICA (94%); SIERRA LEONE (93%); ANGOLA (92%); CONGO (79%); SOUTH AFRICA (79%); UNITED STATES (79%); 

CITY: LONDON, ENGLAND (90%); 

COMPANY: DE BEERS CONSOLIDATED MINES LTD; UNITED NATIONS DE BEERS SA (95%); DE BEERS CONSOLIDATED MINES LTD (59%); UNITED NATIONS (82%); UNITED NATIONS (82%); 

ORGANIZATION: DE BEERS CONSOLIDATED MINES LTD; UNITED NATIONS UNITED NATIONS (82%); UNITED NATIONS (82%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: AFRICA; SIERRA LEONE; CONGO REPUBLIC; AFRICA (94%); SIERRA LEONE (93%); ANGOLA (92%); CONGO (79%); SOUTH AFRICA (79%); UNITED STATES (79%); LONDON, ENGLAND (90%); 

SUBJECT: DIAMONDS; MARKETING AND MERCHANDISING; ADVERTISING; PRICES (FARES, FEES AND RATES); COMPANY AND ORGANIZATION PROFILES; INDUSTRY PROFILES; EMBARGOES AND ECONOMIC SANCTIONS; INTERNATIONAL TRADE AND WORLD MARKET; CONSUMER BEHAVIOR INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (90%); DIAMOND MARKETS (90%); EMBARGOES & SANCTIONS (90%); DIAMOND MINING (89%); UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (86%); MINING & EXTRACTION SECTOR PERFORMANCE (78%); CONFLICT MINERALS (78%); JEWELRY STORES (78%); RETAIL MERCHANDISE MANAGEMENT (77%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (77%); MARKET RESEARCH (76%); CONSUMER BEHAVIOR (76%); EXPORT TRADE (72%); PUBLIC RELATIONS (70%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (69%); AGENCY RULEMAKING (66%); HUMAN RIGHTS ORGANIZATIONS (61%); HUMAN RIGHTS (60%); 

PERSON: HARDEN, BLAINE NICKY F OPPENHEIMER (56%); 

LOAD-DATE: July 13, 2000



298 of 757 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: July 13, 2000

SECTION: Section B; Page 5; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk 

LENGTH: 781 words

HEADLINE: Officials Criticize Timing of Mrs. Clinton's Medicaid Plan

BYLINE: By JENNIFER STEINHAUER 

 BODY:
The Pataki administration yesterday criticized a proposal by Hillary Rodham Clinton to increase the amount of money New York receives from Washington for Medicaid expenditures, charging that she is far too late in addressing an issue state leaders have complained about for years.
Her proposal, of which she has offered few details, would require the federal government to foot a larger part of the state's total annual Medicaid bill. Under her formula, New Yorkers' taxes could be cut by an estimated average of $400 a year through $3 billion in new funds. 
 What annoys officials in the Pataki administration is not the proposal itself, which they fully embrace, but its timing. New York's elected officials have gone after federal increases for years. And a proposal to increase the state's percentage of money from the federal government was part of a bill vetoed by President Clinton in 1995.
"Hillary Rodham Clinton is using this issue for her own political benefit, just like her husband," said John Signor, a spokesman for the State Health Department. "This administration has been fighting for this change for years and the Clintons have not said boo about it since that veto. This is a credibility issue."
The criticism was echoed by the campaign staff of Rick A. Lazio, Mrs. Clinton's opponent in the New York race for the Senate.
"We think this is a recycled broken promise," said Michael Marr, Mr. Lazio's spokesman. "Mrs. Clinton has been in a position of influence for seven and a half years and never spoke out on this issue. Now she is having a deathbed conversion for the need to convert this formula."
Under the current formula, the state and the city generally split 50 percent of all Medicaid costs, with the Federal government picking up the other half. This calculation has long bothered members of both parties in New York, who feel the state shoulders too much of the burden and that its costs are greater than that of other states.
Senator Daniel Patrick Moynihan, whose seat Mrs. Clinton desires, has made many proposals over the years to change the formula in New York's favor. Mrs. Clinton, whose plan involves the federal government's picking up a 56 percent share of the state's total costs, said this week that an expected increase in the federal budget surplus would make her plan more viable than in previous years.
Pataki officials say their attack on Mrs. Clinton's plan has nothing to do with the governor's support for Mr. Lazio, and that their ire is molded by policy rather than politics. "This has been an issue for us for the last five years," said Robert Hinckley, the state's deputy commissioner for operations.
"We have a large urban poor population and our taxpayers are footing the bill for other states." In an example, he cited Arkansas as a state that receives 72 cents on the dollar from Washington for its Medicaid expenditures. "This is an issue for us every single year," Mr. Hinckley said.
Had Mrs. Clinton suggested that the current spending formula be left as is, the Pataki administration would have been equally unhappy, he conceded. "We would have been opposed to that too," he said.
Mrs. Clinton's staff disputed the assertion that the Balanced Budget Act of 1995, which President Clinton vetoed, would have allocated more federal Medicaid money for New York. Further, her staff questioned why the state was bringing up the issue at all. "It sounds like a political attack and they don't have their facts straight," said Howard Wolfson, Mrs. Clinton's spokesman.
And he questioned the State Health Department's motives in releasing a criticism of Mrs. Clinton's plan. "I can't imagine that this has anything to do with Governor Pataki's support for Rick Lazio, because that would be a misuse of government resources on behalf of a political campaign," Mr. Wolfson said.
In a fashion, both camps' accounts are factual. While a complicated formula under the 1995 bill would have increased some money for New York, it also set a cap on how much money each state would get each year. That amount would have risen at roughly the rate of inflation, even though Medicaid spending was outpacing that by a great deal. So in effect, New York would have ended up footing a larger percentage of each year's Medicaid bill.
Further, the overall Medicaid budget, as well as that for Medicare, was reduced under the bill, in cuts the president cited when he vetoed it. New York's hospitals and health care workers strongly opposed the bill as well.
"We very much wanted it to be vetoed," said David Rich, a senior vice president at the Greater New York Hospital Association. "There was a lot in it not to like."
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photo: Hillary Rodham Clinton, running for the Senate, with Councilman Herbert E. Berman, right, and the City Council speaker, Peter F. Vallone, at a news conference yesterday at City Hall about high electric bills. (Ruby Washington/The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

LEGISLATION: 106 H.R. 1070 BREAST AND CERVICAL CANCER TREATMENT ACT OF 1999 (91%); 105 P.L. 33 BALANCED BUDGET ACT OF 1997 (52%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (98%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (98%); 

COMPANY: SENATE (US) GREATER NEW YORK HOSPITAL ASSOCIATION (95%); MEDICAID (94%); 

ORGANIZATION: SENATE (US) MEDICAID (94%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK STATE; UNITED STATES (98%); NEW YORK, USA (98%); 

SUBJECT: MEDICINE AND HEALTH; ELECTION ISSUES; ELECTIONS MEDICAID (92%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); VETO (90%); HEALTH DEPARTMENTS (78%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (78%); BUDGETS (78%); GOVERNORS (78%); ELECTIONS (77%); PLATFORMS & ISSUES (77%); POLITICS (73%); POOR POPULATION (73%); PUBLIC HEALTH ADMINISTRATION (53%); 

PERSON: STEINHAUER, JENNIFER; CLINTON, HILLARY RODHAM; CLINTON, BILL (PRES); PATAKI, GEORGE E (GOV); LAZIO, RICK A (REPR) HILLARY RODHAM CLINTON (94%); BILL CLINTON (79%); 

LOAD-DATE: July 13, 2000



299 of 757 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: July 13, 2000

SECTION: Section B; Page 1; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk 

LENGTH: 1322 words

HEADLINE: Little Improved Despite an Overhaul, L.I. School District Is at a Crossroads

BYLINE: By EDWARD WYATT 

 BODY:
In 1995, the year before state education officials stepped in to overhaul the troubled Roosevelt school district on Long Island, just four graduating seniors received the respected Regents diplomas, symbolizing academic success in a host of subject areas.
This year, after five years of the state's efforts, 6 students did so, out of a graduating class of 107. 
 By almost any measure, the Roosevelt Free Union School District has barely improved and the state's attempt to turn it around is in disarray. The chairman of the state advisory panel that oversees the district resigned last month, the third change in the panel's leadership in five years. For months this spring, members of the state panel and the Roosevelt Board of Education were barely speaking to one another. The school district, meanwhile, has employed four superintendents in five years.
Now, with one year remaining in the state's legislative mandate to set the district's 3,000 students on a path toward academic success, the effort is at a critical crossroads. Richard P. Mills, the state education commissioner, told the Roosevelt Board of Education this week that the district must show measurable progress this year in four areas -- local leadership, curriculum, financial stability and community support -- or face further state intervention. The district's students, he added, must meet specific targets on standardized tests in math and in English. Today, Mr. Mills will tell the Board of Regents what he plans to do if the district does not meet those goals.
His options, however, appear to be limited. Simply ending state oversight without demonstrable academic progress would be an admission of failure at a time when Gov. George E. Pataki's administration is seeking to impose tougher learning standards on students throughout the state.
And the district itself is confronting severe budget constraints, brought on by voters who rejected a construction bond issue and defeated proposed tax increases that would have raised school spending.
Meanwhile, several members of the Board of Regents, including Chancellor Carl T. Hayden, oppose a direct takeover of Roosevelt's operations. A more severe option would be to revoke the registration of the Roosevelt middle and high schools and disperse its students. But people on all sides of the debate over Roosevelt schools say that option could be too politically charged to carry out, given that the district's students, who are overwhelmingly black and Hispanic, would have to be transferred to schools that are far more affluent and largely white.
And the state has a significant investment beyond the district, as it tackles problems at 104 other failing schools, 97 of them in New York City. Critics of state supervision point to the lack of progress at Roosevelt, and ask whether the state's floundering role there indicates deeper flaws in the state's program for imposing tough standards on failing schools statewide.
Mr. Mills said in an interview that Roosevelt's elementary schools had improved in recent years, and that the district had made progress in renovating crumbling buildings. But in the middle and high schools, continual turnover in teachers and administrators combined with the instability in the district's leadership have made any sustained progress all but impossible, he said.
In Roosevelt, news of Mr. Mills's mandates for this year -- and the implied threat of more severe action next year -- raised hackles among some residents at a Board of Education meeting on Tuesday night.
"Now that they've made a mess of things, they're trying to put the onus on our board of education," said Serretta C. McKnight, who was president of the school board that was removed by the State Education Department in 1996. "They want us to do lickety-split what they haven't done in five years."
Since 1990, the Roosevelt Junior-Senior High School, a combined school that the state wants to split up, has been listed as underperforming, with low test scores and low graduation rates. In March 1995, a state panel issued a harshly critical review, leading the State Legislature to grant Governor Pataki's request for intervention.
While the legislation authorized the removal of the school board, a move the state took in early 1996, it left long-term governance to a new school board, elected a few months later. Since then, the state's power has been limited to advising the new board on recommended reforms.
The state has also provided financial support, including legislative approval of an advance of $4 million in each of the last several years when the district essentially ran out of money before the end of the fiscal year.
Better fiscal management is one of the state's goals for the district this year, Mr. Mills said. Entwined with that, he added, is the need to improve relations between the district and local residents, who have voted down school budget increases in each of the last two years. Last month, voters also defeated a $70 million school construction bond issue.
Because of those votes the district, which is in southern Nassau County, faces a second straight year of a so-called austerity budget, which limits any spending increase to the level of inflation. Meanwhile, a charter school is scheduled to open in the fall, which will take $1.7 million out of the district's $35 million budget. In a school district with high poverty rates and virtually no commercial tax base, paying for the school system is a continuing problem.
"The people who live here are overassessed and overtaxed," said Francis Cooper, a Roosevelt resident who regularly attends school board meetings. "But the state, in coming to Roosevelt, didn't bring any financial resources to the table. They gave us a loan of $4 million, which actually puts us further in the hole."
Mr. Mills contends, however, that the district has harmed itself, in part by not applying for grants and other state money for which the district is eligible.
Mark Davis, who was elected president of the Roosevelt school board on Tuesday, said the board had begun to formulate plans to achieve the commissioner's goals, including his directive to hire chairmen for its math and English departments. In addition, a recently approved teachers' contract raises pay scales and should reduce teacher turnover. While Roosevelt's per pupil spending and teacher salaries are above the state average, they have been below that of nearby districts.
But Mr. Davis said the state had failed to provide the financial resources necessary to allow the district to hire the administrators it needed to accomplish the changes the state wanted.
"The board is not short of plans to improve the district; we're short of people to execute the plans," he said.
On all sides, participants have pointed fingers at others who they say are to blame for the district's problems. Michael Mostow, who retired as superintendent last month after losing the support of the board, said the State Education Department contained mainly theorists who did not have the skills to help a district with day-to-day operations.
Ken Stubbolo, who resigned last month as a member of the state advisory board, said the Roosevelt Board of Education thwarted the efforts of the state advisers, who were in turn hamstrung by the Legislature's failure to give the oversight panel any operational responsibility.
There is plenty of blame to go around, said the Rev. Reginald Tuggle, pastor of Memorial Presbyterian Church in Roosevelt, who once worked with the state panel and who is now on the board of the recently approved charter school.
"There has been an absence of constructive parental and community involvement," he said. "I know everybody means well -- the state, the school board and the administration. But this is a small school district. I don't know why they can't pull this together. It's hurting our children."
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Chart: "Status Report -- Roosevelt District Report Card"
In 1997-98, the Roosevelt School District spent more money per student than the state average . . .
 
Roosevelt District: $11,539
New York State: $9,810
 
. . . but more students, especially those in higher grades, tested below the state-mandated standard.
 
Graphs show the percentage of students below standard in Mathematics and English Language Arts in Grades 4 and 8 in the Roosevelt District and New York State.
(Source: New York State Education Dept.port Card)(pg. B7)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

LEGISLATION: 106 S. 3 TAX CUTS FOR ALL AMERICANS ACT (57%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (94%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: BOARD OF REGENTS (NYS) ROOSEVELT FREE UNION (91%); STATE EDUCATION DEPARTMENT (59%); 

ORGANIZATION: BOARD OF REGENTS (NYS) STATE EDUCATION DEPARTMENT (59%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ROOSEVELT (NY); NEW YORK STATE; UNITED STATES (94%); NEW YORK, USA (94%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: EDUCATION AND SCHOOLS SCHOOL DISTRICTS (94%); EDUCATION DEPARTMENTS (91%); SCHOOL BOARDS (90%); EDUCATION SYSTEMS & INSTITUTIONS (90%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (89%); PRIMARY & SECONDARY EDUCATION (78%); ACADEMIC STANDARDS (78%); SCHOOL BONDS (78%); ACADEMIC TESTING (78%); HIGH SCHOOLS (78%); STANDARDIZED ACADEMIC TESTING (78%); CURRICULA (78%); EDUCATION FUNDING (78%); INTERVIEWS (75%); SECONDARY SCHOOLS (73%); BUDGETS (71%); BONDS (62%); TAX LAW (50%); TAXES & TAXATION (50%); 

PERSON: WYATT, EDWARD; MILLS, RICHARD P (COMR) RICHARD P MILLS (76%); 

LOAD-DATE: July 13, 2000



300 of 757 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: July 13, 2000

SECTION: Section C; Page 1; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk

LENGTH: 654 words

HEADLINE: BUSINESS DIGEST

 BODY:

United States and Vietnam In a Sweeping Trade Accord
The United States and Vietnam have completed a sweeping trade agreement that would allow unfettered commerce between the two nations for the first time since the end of the Vietnam War more than a quarter-century ago, people involved in the negotiations said.
A handful of large American companies have invested in Vietnam, and some analysts think they would immediately add thousands of jobs in Vietnam if American tariffs of Vietnamese-produced goods are substantially lowered. The agreement would also open Vietnam's market of 77 million people to a wide range of American companies. Page A1. 

Not All Profiting From Oil Prices
Drivers have been paying almost twice as much for gasoline as they did a few years ago, but many operators of service stations and convenience stores, like Kenneth Cerny, who runs a market in Wisconsin, are poorer for it. The wholesale price of gas has risen faster than the price retailers can charge and still stay competitive, so rising gas prices have brought little benefit, and in some regions they have actually made it tougher to do business. For producers and refiners, however, higher gasoline and oil prices have meant sharply higher profits. A1.
 
Mylan Settles Price-Fixing Case
Mylan Laboratories, one of the world's largest producers of generic drugs, tentatively agreed to pay $147 million to settle accusations that it improperly cornered the market on raw materials for two widely prescribed drugs and then raised the price of those drugs. A1.
 
Nasdaq Back in the Black for Year
Technology stocks surged, propelling the Nasdaq composite index into positive territory for the year. The Nasdaq rose 143.17 points, or 3.6 percent, to 4,099.59 The Dow Jones industrial average posted its fourth consecutive gain, rising 56.57 points, or 0.5 percent, to 10,783.76. The Standard & Poor's 500-stock index gained 12.04 points, or 0.8 percent, to 1,492.92. C12.
 
Motorola Reports Strong Earnings
Motorola, the telecommunications and semiconductor giant, reported strong sales and profit growth for the second quarter, which were in line with Wall Street estimates, despite lingering weakness in the sales of its cellular telephones in Europe. C23.
 
Global Crossing to Sell Local Unit
Global Crossing agreed to sell its local phone operations to Citizens Communications of Stamford, Conn., for $3.65 billion in cash, which Global will use to further its construction of a worldwide communications network. The deal transfers to Citizens about one million phone lines in Iowa, Minnesota, New York, Pennsylvania and Wisconsin and about 3,000 employees. Shares of Global Crossing rose $2.9375, to $32.0625, while Citizens rose 12.5 cents, to $18.8125. C10.
 
Greenspan Offers Global Advice
In a speech, Alan Greenspan, the Federal Reserve chairman, offered a wide-ranging set of prescriptions for preventing and coping with global economic problems. C13.
 
A Hutchison Wireless Venture
Hutchison Whampoa, the Hong Kong conglomerate, is teaming up with NTT DoCoMo, Japan's largest wireless phone company, and Royal KPN, the Dutch mobile phone operator, to buy rights to offer next-generation mobile communication services in Europe. C4.
 
Deal Reached for Connecticut Post
The company that owns The Connecticut Post, the state's second-largest daily newspaper, said that it would sell the paper and five community newspapers to MediaNews Group in Denver. Terms were not disclosed. B5.
 
The Economic Cost of 'Ugly'
Across the country, conflicts are brewing over aesthetics, with more and more Americans demanding a world free of "visual pollution" like tacky porch furniture. This push to expand the definition of "pollution" forces us to re-examine why and how we regulate the spillovers that economists call externalities. Virginia Postrel: Economic Scene. C2.
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photo
 
Chart: "YESTERDAY"
Dow industrials -- 10,783.76 up 56.57
Nasdaq composite -- 4,099.59 up 143.17
30-yr. Treasury yield -- 5.88% Unch.
The euro -- $0.9418 down 0.0105
The dollar -- 108.27yen up 1.19
 
Graph tracks Global Crossing share price since Wed.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Summary

TICKER: MSI (NYSE) (52%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS334220 RADIO & TELEVISION BROADCASTING & WIRELESS COMMUNICATIONS EQUIPMENT MANUFACTURING (52%); SIC3663 RADIO & TELEVISION BROADCASTING & COMMUNICATIONS EQUIPMENT (52%); 

COUNTRY: VIET NAM (98%); UNITED STATES (97%); EUROPE (79%); 

STATE: WISCONSIN, USA (92%); MINNESOTA, USA (79%); PENNSYLVANIA, USA (79%); IOWA, USA (79%); CONNECTICUT, USA (79%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: MOTOROLA SOLUTIONS INC (52%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: VIET NAM (98%); UNITED STATES (97%); EUROPE (79%); WISCONSIN, USA (92%); MINNESOTA, USA (79%); PENNSYLVANIA, USA (79%); IOWA, USA (79%); CONNECTICUT, USA (79%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: NO INDEX TERMS FROM NYTIMES OIL & GAS PRICES (91%); TRADE TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (90%); TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (90%); NEWS BRIEFS (90%); GASOLINE PRICES (90%); STOCK INDEXES (90%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE LAW (90%); PRICE INCREASES (89%); STOCK EXCHANGES (89%); COMPANY PROFITS (89%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS SERVICES (88%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS EQUIPMENT MFG (87%); PRESCRIPTION DRUGS (86%); CARTELS (78%); RESTRAINT OF TRADE (78%); SETTLEMENT & COMPROMISE (78%); SALES FIGURES (77%); COMPANY EARNINGS (77%); RETAILERS (75%); GENERIC DRUGS (75%); DRUG PRICES (74%); GAS STATIONS (74%); PRICE CHANGES (74%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS (73%); VIETNAM WAR (73%); RETAIL SALES (73%); PRICE FIXING (72%); MOBILE & CELLULAR COMMUNICATIONS (68%); CONVENIENCE STORES (68%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS EQUIPMENT (66%); SEMICONDUCTOR MFG (66%); LOCAL TELEPHONE SERVICE (62%); MOBILE & CELLULAR TELEPHONES (61%); 

PERSON: ALAN GREENSPAN (50%); 

LOAD-DATE: July 13, 2000



301 of 757 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: July 13, 2000

SECTION: Section A; Page 1; Column 5; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 1683 words

HEADLINE: Small Gas Stations Struggle As Big Oil Producers Profit

BYLINE: By RICHARD A. OPPEL Jr. 

 BODY:
Drivers have been paying almost twice as much for gasoline at Kenneth Cerny's service station as they did a few years ago, but Mr. Cerny is a poorer man for it.
His Cerny's Midway Market sells gas under the Citgo brand in Mukwonago, Wis., where prices soared to over $2 a gallon last month after pipeline problems and new federal clean-fuel rules crimped Midwest supplies. Customers have been furious. "All they understand is what they see at the gas pump," Mr. Cerny said. 
 But the price he pays for his gasoline has risen faster than the price he can charge customers and still stay competitive, he said. For many independent operators, who own most of the country's service stations and convenience stores, rising gas prices have brought little benefit, and in some regions they have actually made it tougher to do business.
But elsewhere along the chain that takes oil from the ground to the filling station, higher prices have meant sharply higher profits -- for producers and refiners. Major oil companies are expected to post average earnings growth of 121 percent for the three months ended in June, compared with the period last year, according to First Call/Thomson Financial.
Exploration and production companies are expected to report average increases of 371 percent. Even refiners, who have suffered through two years of very thin profits, are seeing profits double or triple.
With a host of politicians, including Vice President Al Gore, demanding an investigation of "price gouging," the Federal Trade Commission has started an inquiry into possible industry collusion.
Why are profits up so sharply?
Collusion by OPEC has clearly played a role. The primary reason crude oil prices have risen sharply -- the biggest factor in the leap in gasoline prices -- was the decision by the cartel's ministers in March 1999 to curtail oil production. Despite two production increases this year, and Saudi Arabia's plan to raise output by another 500,000 barrels a day, oil hovers at close to $30 a barrel, almost triple the low prices of early last year.
With their costs remaining much the same but the price they're being paid for oil rising sharply, oil producing nations and companies are doing far better. For example, the largest United States oil producers generally see their profits rise about 6 percent for every $1 increase in crude oil prices, according to Bruce Lanni, an industry analyst at CIBC World Markets.
An even more drastic turnabout in profits has come in the refining business, the middle step between pumping oil from the ground and pumping gas into cars. Refiners take crude oil and "crack" it into refined products, including gas, heating oil and jet fuel. This is done by major integrated oil companies, like Exxon Mobil, based in Irving, Tex., as well as by independents, like the Valero Energy Corporation, based in San Antonio, and the Tosco Corporation, based in Stamford, Conn.
Before gas prices started their rise last year, drivers reaped the benefits of both low crude prices and slim margins for refiners. For refiners, though, it was a very painful period, as overcapacity and stiff competition cut profits, making last year the worst for the industry in more than a decade, analysts say. Refining "is just a horrible business," said Paul Y. Cheng, an analyst at Lehman Brothers.
But this year has brought at least temporary relief to refiners, and that is not simply because of higher oil prices. Refiners profit if the price of gas and heating oil rises faster than the price of crude. That is what happened this year, analysts say, as strong demand and low inventories allowed refiners to sell their product on the spot market at higher and higher prices, which were then passed on to the marketing companies, distributors and wholesalers that deliver gas to the pump.
Refiners use the term "crack spread" to describe the gap between what it costs them to buy crude oil and the price they get for selling gas and other refined products. As 1999 came to a close, spreads were thin, but a late blast of winter in the Northeast caused demand for heating oil to soar, lifting prices and margins.
Spreads improved further during the spring, as it became clear that domestic gas inventories were quite low even as demand for gas was accelerating with the strong economy and the approach of the summer driving season. And they widened even more in May and June as low inventories, supply disruptions and the federally mandated introduction of a new type of reformulated gas caused pump prices to soar, especially in the Midwest.
Before, "you had low crude prices and an oversupply, which led to cutthroat competition and a period of companies trying to liquidate inventories into a market that was oversold," said Arthur L. Smith, the chief executive of John S. Herold Inc., an industry researcher. "That has reversed, and now you have high crude prices to pass through, and you can pass them through because inventories are down."
Refining margins across the United States averaged $6.64 a barrel in the second quarter, compared with $3.27 in the period last year, according to calculations by Mr. Lanni. In the Midwest, where a pipeline break and a shortage of new reformulated gas caused the worst spike in retail prices, margins averaged $9.45 a barrel for the period -- topping $17 at one point -- compared with $3.18 the year before.
Spreads "this year are better than they have ever been," said William E. Greehey, Valero's chief executive. "We entered the season with low inventories, demand has been strong and distillate inventories are still very low."
Whether the oil industry is profiting excessively is a matter of debate. President Clinton, for example, has said there is "no economic explanation" for the surge in prices, particularly in the Midwest.
But industry analysts say the industry is merely doing what many other businesses, from makers of software to makers of sport utility vehicles, are doing: pricing aggressively and opportunistically to maximize profits.
Philip K. Verleger, a senior advisor to the Brattle Group, an economic consulting firm, who has served on several federal and state investigations into accusations of oil industry collusion, said past efforts to pin price-fixing charges on the industry had had little success. "When I served on these things, and every time I talked to F.T.C. economists, nobody can find anything," he said.
After peaking three weeks ago the price of gas is now falling. Regular gas is now $1.59 a gallon -- both nationally and in the Midwest -- down from $1.68 nationally and $1.87 in the Midwest.
Looking ahead, industry officials say that while the recent drop in gas prices had caused refinery spreads to narrow in the last few weeks, a potential shortage in heating oil should keep profits strong during the second half of the year.
Analysts say that by October, the nation needs inventories of heating oil and similar distillates of at least 135 million barrels to ensure that prices are somewhat stable during the winter. But inventories are now at 109 million barrels, and with many refiners still focused on capturing the wide spreads from gas, it is not certain that heating oil inventories will reach more normal levels by the time cold weather arrives. And since the price of natural gas has also risen sharply this year, that is expected to add to demand for heating oil.
"The market is so tight right now that any refinery that goes down is going to cause a disruption," Mr. Greehey said, "and if we have any kind of winter, we're going to see people complaining about fuel oil prices like they were complaining about gas prices in the Midwest."
The recent drop in wholesale gas prices has brought some relief to service station and convenience store owners, but it may be a while before they recover from the whipsawing they suffered in May and June, when wholesale prices soared.
In March and early April, many retailers enjoyed widening margins as wholesale prices fell. But that reversed quickly, and their margins contracted severely across much of the nation, especially in the Midwest and West Coast.
The average national wholesale price of regular gas leaped 37 cents, to $1.19 a gallon, between April 13 and June 22, according to the Oil Price Information Service, which tracks gas prices. Over the same time, the average retail pump price rose just 15 cents, to $1.65. Owners of service stations say that their business is too competitive to enable them to pass all their price increases to customers immediately.
"On the way up, retail tends to lag, so in a fast-rising market a retailer can get really squeezed," said Kevin J. Lindemer, who tracks refining at Cambridge Energy Research Associates. "When the market starts to fall, it depends on how aggressive the competition is, you can recover a little bit of that margin, but that's not always the case."
Service station and convenience store owners have had to contend with other problems. For example, in regions of the nation where station owners shy away from requiring drivers to prepay, the number of "drive-offs" has soared, according to industry associations, as customers apparently feel more justified stealing gas. Bill Douglas, who owns nine service stations and runs a gasoline distribution company in Sherman, Tex., has been losing $1,000 a month in drive-offs recently at his largest stations. In at least five states, new laws have gone into effect this year requiring people who repeatedly steal gas to lose their license.
And service station owners are being squeezed in other ways: with gas prices so much higher, the value of a typical station's inventory has soared, making it more costly to finance. Many gas credit cards often charge 3 percent of the transaction amount as a fee, so station owners are paying more in credit card fees.
"Everybody that I meet thinks I'm getting rich. They say, 'I bet you're really enjoying these high prices,' " Mr. Douglas said. "But cashiers take the brunt of it. They get insulted regularly."
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photo: Bill Douglas, who owns nine service stations and runs a gasoline distribution company in Texas, says he has not been earning large profits even though gas prices have increased sharply. (Mark Graham for The New York Times)(pg. C10)
 
Chart: "When More Is Less"
As gasoline prices have risen, oil producers and refiners have been doing better, while many distributors and retailers have suffered.
 
MAY 1999
GASOLINE PRICE CENTS PER GALLON: 113.1 cents
TAXES: 41.5 cents -- 37%
DISTRIBUTION, MARKETING, AND RETAIL: 20.7 cents -- 18%
REFINING: 12.9 cents -- 11%
CRUDE OIL PRICES: 38.0 cents -- 34%
 
MAY 2000
GASOLINE PRICE CENTS PER GALLON: 148.5 cents
TAXES:42.2 cents -- 28%
DISTRIBUTION, MARKETING, AND RETAIL: 13 cents -- 9%
REFINING: 30 cents -- 20%
CRUDE OIL PRICES: 63.4 cents -- 43%
 
(Sources: Energy Information Administration; American Petroleum Institute)(pg. C10)
 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: VLO (NYSE) (84%); XOM (NYSE) (50%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS324110 PETROLEUM REFINERIES (84%); SIC2911 PETROLEUM REFINERIES (84%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (51%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (51%); NAICS325110 PETROCHEMICAL MANUFACTURING (50%); NAICS211111 CRUDE PETROLEUM & NATURAL GAS EXTRACTION (50%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); SAUDI ARABIA (79%); 

STATE: MIDWEST USA (90%); TEXAS, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: FEDERAL TRADE COMMISSION VALERO ENERGY CORP (84%); THOMSON FINANCIAL (67%); CIBC WORLD MARKETS INC (51%); EXXON MOBIL CORP (50%); AMERICAN PETROLEUM INSTITUTE (59%); FEDERAL TRADE COMMISSION (59%); ENERGY INFORMATION ADMINISTRATION (59%); FEDERAL TRADE COMMISSION (59%); ENERGY INFORMATION ADMINISTRATION (59%); AMERICAN PETROLEUM INSTITUTE (59%); 

ORGANIZATION: FEDERAL TRADE COMMISSION AMERICAN PETROLEUM INSTITUTE (59%); FEDERAL TRADE COMMISSION (59%); ENERGY INFORMATION ADMINISTRATION (59%); FEDERAL TRADE COMMISSION (59%); ENERGY INFORMATION ADMINISTRATION (59%); AMERICAN PETROLEUM INSTITUTE (59%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%); SAUDI ARABIA (79%); MIDWEST USA (90%); TEXAS, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: OIL (PETROLEUM) AND GASOLINE; PRICES (FARES, FEES AND RATES); GARAGES AND SERVICE STATIONS; ANTITRUST ACTIONS AND LAWS GAS STATIONS (91%); PRICE INCREASES (90%); ANTITRUST & TRADE LAW (90%); OIL & GAS EXTRACTION (90%); CRUDE OIL & NATURAL GAS EXTRACTION (90%); OIL & GAS PRICES (90%); OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (90%); GASOLINE PRICES (90%); GASOLINE MARKETS (89%); CARTELS (89%); PETROLEUM REFINERIES (89%); PETROLEUM PRODUCTS (89%); CRUDE OIL MARKETS (89%); CRUDE OIL PRICES (89%); OIL EXTRACTION (88%); INVESTIGATIONS (87%); COMMERCE DEPARTMENTS (86%); MINING & EXTRACTION SECTOR PERFORMANCE (77%); OIL & GAS EXPLORATION & EXTRACTION (77%); PRICE CHANGES (77%); HEATING OIL (76%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (76%); CORPORATE WRONGDOING (73%); JET FUEL (73%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (72%); RETAILERS (72%); COMPANY PROFITS (72%); BUSINESS FORECASTS (72%); COMPANY EARNINGS (72%); CONVENIENCE STORES (69%); 

PERSON: OPPEL, RICHARD A JR AL GORE (50%); 

LOAD-DATE: July 13, 2000



302 of 757 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: July 13, 2000

SECTION: Section C; Page 2; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 1015 words

HEADLINE: Economic Scene;
When it comes to enforcing taste, it's best to tread lightly -- if at all.

BYLINE: By Virginia Postrel; This column appears here every Thursday. Virginia Postrel is the editor at large of Reason magazine and the author of "The Future and Its Enemies: The Growing Conflict Over Creativity, Enterprise and Progress." Four economic analysts -- Ms. Postrel, Jeff Madrick, Alan B. Krueger and Hal R. Varian -- rotate as contributors.

 BODY:
ALL around the country, conflicts are brewing over aesthetics. Instead of tolerating sights they don't like -- from tacky porch furniture to innovative architecture -- more and more Americans are demanding a world free of "visual pollution." Appearance is getting the sort of regulatory scrutiny once reserved for public health and safety.
In Portland, Ore., you can no longer build a home whose front is less than 15 percent windows and doors or whose garage takes up more than half the facade. The goal, a local official suggested in response to critics, is to "put a stop to the ugly and stupid houses that we see going up." 
 New York City is revising its land-use code for the first time since 1961. The proposed Uniform Bulk Program establishes a design review committee and uses height limits to preserve the skyline. The new rules don't claim to be healthful or to preserve historic buildings. They're all about looks. "Everything proposed by the Uniform Bulk Program is entirely a matter of taste," wrote Herbert Muschamp, the architecture critic for The New York Times.
Suburbanites now take offense at their neighbors' paint colors, their window frames, even their backyard swing sets. And just about everywhere, residents are fighting new cell-phone towers, which can block views or just look ugly.
The push to expand the definition of "pollution" to include aesthetic offenses forces us to re-examine why and how we regulate the spillovers that economists call externalities. Should we really ban, tax or otherwise deter any action that has unpleasant effects on other people? After all, just about everything people do in society has spillover effects, many of them unwanted.
Ronald Coase of the University of Chicago addressed these questions in 1960, in "The Problem of Social Cost," an article that helped win him the 1991 Nobel Prize in economics. But the most relevant parts of that paper are the least noted.
The paper is most famous for what was later called the Coase Theorem.
This is the idea that if making deals in the marketplace costs nothing, it won't matter how the law assigns liability. If a factory has the right to operate even if it pollutes, then people who don't want to breathe stinky air can pay the owner not to pollute. If, on the other hand, the neighbors have the right not to suffer pollution, the factory can pay them to waive that right. In either case, a deal will be made at the level that makes everyone as happy as possible.
But as Professor Coase would be the first to point out, we don't live in a world where deals are free. Gathering information, rounding up all the affected parties, negotiating contracts, monitoring pollution levels and so on are all costly. These transaction costs can make such happy deals difficult, though certainly not impossible.
In the real world, the way rights are assigned -- to polluters or to their neighbors -- does matter. That makes it important to assign them correctly.
What principles should we use to get the best result?
Professor Coase's first insight is that pollution is not a simple matter of physical invasion or evil-doing. It is a byproduct of valuable actions. Preventing those actions would also be harmful. "The real question that has to be decided," he writes, "is should A be allowed to harm B or should B be allowed to harm A? The problem is to avoid the more serious harm."
So if a Portland resident builds a house with a big garage door, people who find that facade unfriendly are harmed. But if the city forbids that design, making two-car garages impossible to build on many lots, homeowners who want garages are harmed.
The question, from a Coasean perspective, is which is the greater harm, and how should we avoid it? It's wrong to declare that invading someone's eyesight is by definition the action that should be prevented. We have to consider both sides, and we should find the least costly remedy.
Imagine, Professor Coase suggests, that a factory spews smoke that causes $100 in damage. Traditional economics might suggest that the government put a $100 tax on the factory to compensate for the pollution. That gives the company an incentive to eliminate the pollution by, for instance, installing a $90 device. This sort of analysis is what many economists still teach.
But, Professor Coase says, the $90 device may not be the only or cheapest way to avoid $100 in damage. Again, we must consider both sides. Suppose neighbors could avoid the pollution for just $40 by moving or by installing other technology. That would be an even better approach because it would keep the overall harms to a minimum.
While it may be hard to find real-life examples like this for air pollution, they are extremely common for aesthetic conflict. If you don't like your neighbors' backyard swing set or the mural on the side of a local building, you can generally avoid looking at it -- a cheap solution. And since we tend to become used to our surroundings over time, it becomes easier and easier to ignore visual offenses. Sometimes we even come to enjoy sights we once found annoying.
So if we consider not just the offense but the value of the activity that gives rise to it, more often than not we find that the least costly way to deal with aesthetic conflicts is to put up with occasional ugliness.
That is one reason homeowners have generally been free to decorate to their own tastes -- a large benefit to them, at a small cost to neighbors who disagree. And it is why federal law prohibits communities from completely banning cell-phone towers.
Tolerance looks even better when we factor in something "The Problem of Social Cost" did not consider: the value of innovation and learning.
Enforcing taste means blocking experimentation. So architects in Portland can't find as many new ways to fit efficient houses on small lots. And Mr. Muschamp worries that New York City will zone out architectural creativity in favor of safe "hackery." If we call visual offenses "pollution" and demand that they be banned, we aren't considering all the costs.
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photo: One homeowner's eyesore may be a neighbor's necessity. So should the city of Portland, Ore., or any government for that matter, try to control "visual pollution"? (Shane Young for The New York Times)
 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%); 

STATE: OREGON, USA (93%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); ILLINOIS, USA (69%); 

CITY: PORTLAND, OR, USA (90%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); CHICAGO, IL, USA (69%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: PORTLAND (ORE); UNITED STATES (93%); OREGON, USA (93%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); ILLINOIS, USA (69%); PORTLAND, OR, USA (90%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); CHICAGO, IL, USA (69%); 

SUBJECT: HOUSING; ZONING; LAW AND LEGISLATION; ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS; PUBLIC OPINION REAL PROPERTY LAW (90%); HISTORIC DISTRICTS & STRUCTURES (78%); AGENCY RULEMAKING (77%); TRENDS (75%); ZONING (74%); LAND USE PLANNING (72%); POLLUTION MONITORING (72%); ECONOMIC NEWS (69%); NOBEL PRIZES (69%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (63%); AWARDS & PRIZES (62%); MOBILE & CELLULAR TELEPHONES (51%); 

PERSON: POSTREL, VIRGINIA RONALD COASE (90%); 

LOAD-DATE: July 13, 2000



303 of 757 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: July 13, 2000

SECTION: Section A; Page 13; Column 1; Foreign Desk 

LENGTH: 382 words

HEADLINE: North Korea Vows to Continue Missile Program

BYLINE: AP 

DATELINE: KUALA LUMPUR, Malaysia, July 12

 BODY:
North Korea refused today to stop developing missiles that it says are for self-defense, claiming that Washington has deployed "thousands of missiles" that threaten it.
"That is why the United States has no right to make such unjust claims for the freeze of our missile capabilities," said Jang Chang Chon, head of North Korea's bureau on United States affairs. 
 He spoke as talks on North Korea's missile program ended in a stalemate here, with the United States refusing to pay North Korea to curb exports of missile technology.
Mr. Jang said the North regards its missile program as part of its right to self-defense. But he said it will discuss curbing exports of missile technology if paid enough. "We clarified that we will continue our discussions," he said, "on the condition that the U.S. gives compensation for our economic and political losses in case of suspension."
After three days of talks, the North Koreans restated their offer: $1 billion a year in exchange for a halt to missile-technology exports.
The talks were the first in 16 months, and the chief American negotiator, Robert Einhorn, assistant secretary of state for proliferation, said no breakthrough had been expected. "The North Koreans should not be compensated for conducting activities they should not be conducting in the first place," he said.
Mr. Einhorn said North Korea, long-reclusive and impoverished, stood to gain far more politically and economically from a better security environment and normalized relations with Washington.
The United States claims North Korea is the world's top exporter of missile equipment and technology, to customers including Pakistan and Iran. Though North Korea has said it will not negotiate its right to develop defensive missiles, there are hopes that it may be flexible on exports.
The talks come amid increasing North Korean willingness to discuss defense issues, marked by the historic June summit meeting between Kim Dae Jung of South Korea and Kim Jong Il of North Korea.
This week's negotiations took on fresh importance in American eyes after last weekend's failed test for the proposed American missile defense shield. Proponents of such tests say the United States needs to develop a way to defend itself from states like North Korea.
 
http://www.nytimes.com

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (99%); KOREA, DEMOCRATIC PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF (95%); MALAYSIA (79%); IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (79%); KOREA, REPUBLIC OF (79%); PAKISTAN (79%); 

CITY: KUALA LUMPUR, MALAYSIA (59%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: NORTH KOREA; UNITED STATES (99%); KOREA, DEMOCRATIC PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF (95%); MALAYSIA (79%); IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (79%); KOREA, REPUBLIC OF (79%); PAKISTAN (79%); KUALA LUMPUR, MALAYSIA (59%); 

SUBJECT: UNITED STATES ARMAMENT AND DEFENSE; UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; NORTH KOREA-INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS-US; MISSILES AND MISSILE DEFENSE SYSTEMS; FOREIGN AID; ARMS SALES ABROAD MISSILE SYSTEMS (95%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (90%); MILITARY WEAPONS (90%); TALKS & MEETINGS (90%); EXPORT TRADE (90%); MISSILE RESEARCH & DEVELOPMENT (90%); DEFENSE INDUSTRY (90%); DEFENSE ELECTRONICS (90%); MISSILE DEFENSE SYSTEMS (89%); ARMS TRADE (78%); FOREIGN POLICY (78%); INTERNATIONAL ASSISTANCE (74%); 

PERSON: KIM JONG IL (58%); 

LOAD-DATE: July 13, 2000



304 of 757 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: July 13, 2000

SECTION: Section A; Page 1; Column 5; Foreign Desk 

LENGTH: 1173 words

HEADLINE: U.S. AND VIETNAM ARE SAID TO AGREE ON NORMAL TRADE

BYLINE: By JOSEPH KAHN 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, July 12

 BODY:
The United States and Vietnam have completed a sweeping trade agreement that would allow generally unfettered commerce between the two nations for the first time since the end of the Vietnam War more than a quarter-century ago, people involved in the negotiations said today.
Vietnamese and American officials reached the agreement in Washington this week after nearly four years of fitful negotiations and after Vietnam walked away last year from a deal that the Clinton administration had considered sealed. The agreement is expected to be signed this week or early next week, the people, who spoke on condition of anonymity, said. 
 Though Vietnam and the United States restored full diplomatic ties in 1995, it has been cold peace commercially. The two nations have minuscule trade flows totaling about $1 billion. America ranks ninth among foreign investors there despite an initial flurry of interest in the Vietnamese market.
A handful of major American multinationals, including Cargill, Caterpillar and Nike, have invested in Vietnam. Some economic analysts expect that companies like Nike would immediately add thousands of jobs there if American tariffs of Vietnamese-produced goods are substantially lowered, because they could then use that country's industrious but low-wage workers to produce in bulk for the American market the way workers in China do today.
The trade agreement would also open Vietnam's market of 77 million people to a range of American companies as never before, though it would not immediately eliminate the bureaucratic inertia that has made that market impenetrable for all but the most resilient multinationals.
Some analysts also see the agreement as an indication that Vietnam's leaders are willing to push the economic reforms started in the 1980's to a new level, perhaps because neighboring China has accelerated its economic overhaul in preparation to join the World Trade Organization. Hanoi has also said it plans to open its first stock market later this month, an idea it has been debating since the early 1990's.
The accord, if signed as scheduled, would allow President Clinton to claim yet another milestone in trade liberalization shortly after the House of Representatives granted China permanent normal trading rights, another of the administration's final remaining foreign policy priorities. The Senate has yet to vote on the China trade bill.
Several people involved in negotiating the Vietnam agreement said it was likely to be signed this week if Mr. Clinton is able to return from Camp David, where he is brokering peace talks between Israeli and Palestinian leaders.
But Congress would still have to approve the agreement and extend normal trade privileges to Vietnam, a vote that some administration official believe is unlikely this election year.
The agreement would require sharp reductions in United States tariffs on sensitive Vietnamese goods -- like textiles, shoes and electronics -- a concession that labor unions have often fought bitterly to prevent in the past.
Some 58,000 American soldiers died and 2,000 are still listed as missing in action in Vietnam from the war years, and anti-Vietnam sentiment among some veteran groups and members of Congress still runs strong, especially because the government in Hanoi has not embarked on substantial political change.
But few expect strong resistance to the agreement in Congress.
"I think this should be viewed as a sign that they are undertaking serious economic and political reform there, and that's something we have to be in favor of," Senator John McCain, the Arizona Republican who was a prisoner of war in Vietnam, said today. "There's some negative sentiment left over, but I think Congress would be happy to pass this."
The agreement would grant Vietnam the same trading rights here that most other nations have, with tariffs levied on Vietnamese exports falling from 40 percent to 3 percent on average. That would make Vietnam a far more attractive place for manufacturing companies, which have invested much less in Vietnam than in China and Southeast Asian nations that have broader trading rights in the United States.
American companies, in turn, could crack open areas that are today essentially off limits in Vietnam today, including telecommunications, financial services, retail and distribution, people involved in the talks said. Vietnam would also agree to protect foreign intellectual property.
Administration officials declined to release details of the agreement.
"This trade agreement is absolutely necessary if Vietnam wants to be connected to a globalized world," said Thomas Vallely, an expert on the country at Harvard's Kennedy School of Government. "It's just a huge problem for them to remain basically cut off from the world's biggest economy."
The market-opening agreement was reached in principle this week after talks between the United States trade representative, Charlene Barshefsky, and Vietnam's trade minister, Vu Khoan.
The Vietnamese delegation has remained in Washington, awaiting the time to sign the accord with Mr. Clinton.
Vietnam is expected to use the momentum created by the deal to push for membership in the World Trade Organization. But many expect that process to take several years.
A similar American-Vietnamese pact was initialed by trade negotiators in November but came to a dead stop after Communist leaders in Hanoi apparently had second thoughts.
Experts said that while the Vietnamese government generally supports trade liberalization, some elements of the Communist Party and powerful leaders of state-run industries, combined with a lingering distrust of the United States, have kept Vietnam several steps behind China in adapting to capitalist ways.
Vietnam's economy, which was expanding at a double-digit clip in the early 1990's, has managed relatively tepid growth of just over 5 percent in recent years. The country is not creating enough new jobs to absorb the estimated one million people entering the labor force each year.
Moreover, foreign businesses no longer have the ardor for the untapped Vietnamese market that they did in the mid-1990's, just after Mr. Clinton first lifted the trade embargo. Total foreign investment pledges reached $8 billion in 1996 but plunged to $2 billion last year.
Many companies have had disappointing experiences. Daimler-Chrysler, which shelved a plan for a $190 million automobile assembly plant, is one casualty of Vietnam's heavy bureaucracy and uncertain legal protections.
Procter & Gamble, which was among the pioneers in Vietnam's consumer products market, has racked up what company officials have described as multimillion-dollar loses as it battled its state-owned joint-venture partners.
Still, many expect that the trade agreement offers Vietnam an opportunity to reinvent itself as a foreign investment-friendly export and production base, and for the United States to eliminate the last obstacle to full relations with its former foe. 
http://www.nytimes.com

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: NKE (NYSE) (84%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS316210 FOOTWEAR MANUFACTURING (84%); NAICS315240 WOMEN'S, GIRLS' & INFANTS' CUT & SEW APPAREL MANUFACTURING (84%); NAICS315220 MEN'S & BOYS' CUT & SEW APPAREL MANUFACTURING (84%); SIC3149 FOOTWEAR, EXCEPT RUBBER, NEC (84%); SIC3021 RUBBER & PLASTICS FOOTWEAR (84%); SIC2339 WOMEN'S, MISSES', & JUNIORS' OUTERWEAR, NEC (84%); SIC2329 MEN'S & BOYS' CLOTHING, NEC (84%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (98%); VIET NAM (97%); CHINA (94%); ISRAEL (79%); PALESTINIAN TERRITORY, OCCUPIED (79%); VIETNAM (78%); 

STATE: DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA, USA (92%); 

CITY: HANOI, VIETNAM (78%); 

COMPANY: NIKE INC (84%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: VIETNAM; UNITED STATES (98%); VIET NAM (97%); CHINA (94%); ISRAEL (79%); PALESTINIAN TERRITORY, OCCUPIED (79%); VIETNAM (78%); DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA, USA (92%); HANOI, VIETNAM (78%); 

SUBJECT: INTERNATIONAL TRADE AND WORLD MARKET; UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; UNITED STATES-INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS-VIETNAM INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (90%); TRADE TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (90%); TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (90%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE LAW (90%); TRADE DEVELOPMENT (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); VIETNAM WAR (89%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (89%); MULTINATIONAL CORPORATIONS (88%); EMERGING MARKETS (78%); TALKS & MEETINGS (78%); PEACE PROCESS (78%); APPROVALS (77%); FOREIGN RELATIONS (74%); TAXES & TAXATION (74%); FOREIGN INVESTMENT (73%); DIPLOMATIC SERVICES (73%); ECONOMIC POLICY (72%); ECONOMIC NEWS (72%); FOREIGN POLICY (69%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (68%); WAGES & SALARIES (67%); LABOR UNIONS (66%); 

PERSON: KAHN, JOSEPH; CLINTON, BILL (PRES) BILL CLINTON (79%); 

LOAD-DATE: July 13, 2000



305 of 757 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: July 13, 2000

SECTION: Section A; Page 1; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk 

LENGTH: 2257 words

HEADLINE: Mayor Eases Reins On City's Spending As Economy Booms

BYLINE: By ERIC LIPTON 

 BODY:
From his first days in office, Mayor Rudolph W. Giuliani worked to build a reputation for fiscal restraint, prescribing for the city a sober regimen necessary to eliminate the excesses he said he inherited.
He championed deep cuts in social agencies and in other services as he reshaped city government in subtle and stark ways. Litter baskets overflowed, public libraries bought fewer books and the city work force was reduced by about 20,000. 
 Through other efforts, the mayor claimed credit for a severe decline in crime, the revival of long-struggling city neighborhoods, and the improvement of standards and expectations within the nation's largest school system. Those goals remain the same. The emphasis on frugality, though, has eased.
In contrast with the early restraint, as the city economy has flourished, government spending has accelerated over the last three years, growing at more than twice the rate of inflation, according to budget monitors. Many of the early cuts -- in the libraries, museums and other areas -- have been reversed. And spending is expected to jump by more than 7 percent in this fiscal year, the mayor's last full budget year, according to the monitors, although Mr. Giuliani considers this analysis inaccurate. The overall city work force, meanwhile, has surged again, and is expected to reach 255,443, the highest it has been in at least 25 years.
The Giuliani administration is proud of its fiscal management. Officials say that the mayor has improved the city's financial shape and maintained control over spending, while also taking advantage of climbing revenues to enhance services in selected areas, like the police and the schools. The mayor called the current 2001 budget, which began July 1, "an investment in the city's fiscal health that will benefit all New Yorkers."
But the spending shift has caught the notice of budget monitors, who are asking why, in such good economic times, the Giuliani administration is projecting a $2.64 billion budget deficit for the 2002 fiscal year.
"Things have looked so good people have not really paid a lot of attention to the trend that is developing," said State Comptroller H. Carl McCall, a Democrat and frequent critic of the mayor's whose office has been responsible for monitoring city finances since the fiscal crisis 25 years ago. "But I find it very troubling. It does represent a complete reversal of the kind of prudent management that you saw in the beginning."
Charles Brecher, research director at the private Citizens Budget Commission, which has had frequent conflicts with the mayor, said, "It turns out the Giuliani administration has not been very strong to resist the temptation to spend when money is in the treasury."
What is happening in New York City, where overall government spending has increased by about $4.7 billion since 1997, is far from an anomaly. Across the United States, city governments are loosening their belts, taking advantage of the wave of new revenues generated by the booming economy. In fact, New York City's overall spending has grown at a slower rate than the average of the nation's top 10 cities during Mr. Giuliani's six years in office.
The questions about Mr. Giuliani's fiscal habits are, at least in part, tied up in politics: Mr. McCall is contemplating a bid for governor, and another critic, City Comptroller Alan G. Hevesi, is among the list of possible Democratic candidates for mayor. A slowing or a downturn in the economy could leave the next mayor in a situation not unlike the one Mr. Giuliani encountered when he arrived in office.
And the criticisms of Mr. Giuliani as profligate are intensifying pressure on him as he negotiates with the city's labor unions because the settlement terms could drive up city costs into his successor's term.
Giuliani officials do not dispute that spending has gone up in recent years. But the increases are at a lower rate than under Mr. Giuliani's predecessors, Edward I. Koch and David N. Dinkins, said Adam L. Barsky, director of Mr. Giuliani's Office of Management and Budget. Increases in state and federal money have, in part, fueled the growth in spending and the work force.
"There was never a conscious effort to say, 'Oh, we can afford to now spend more money,' " Mr. Barsky said, noting that the number of employees under the mayor's direct control is still lower today than when Mr. Giuliani came in. "The approach has been, let's spend efficiently, let's spend smart, let's cut taxes and let's do all the things necessary to make sure the city is in good fiscal shape."
Jeffrey L. Sommer, acting executive director of the New York State Financial Control Board, agreed. While the city still projects a budget deficit for next year, he pointed to the the administration's record of handling such challenges. And the areas where spending has grown, by and large, have been smart investments, he said. "It has been a manageable increase," Mr. Sommer said. "The city had needs it wanted to address."
The shrinking and later expansion of the city government have not occurred at random. Staff cuts in city social service agencies, for the most part, have not been restored. But dollars dedicated to the school system and the Police Department have climbed. As a result, 53 percent of the overall city work force today is made up of police officers or school employees, up from 46 percent in 1993.
There is literally concrete evidence of a freer-spending government in recent years. The city has committed to borrowing more money for new construction in 2001 than at any other time in at least 25 years. The hundreds of new projects include schools, bridges and minor league ballparks.
Some bond rating agencies, like Standard & Poor's, have expressed concern about the amount of money the city is borrowing to pay for these new construction projects, like $300 million for a new courthouse on Jay Street in Brooklyn. They say that if the economy falters, the heavy debt burden will leave the city with little choice but to either make substantial cuts in its programs to balance the budget, or increase taxes.
The mayor, his critics and other budget monitors calculate expenses in different ways, often with conflicting results. Most budget analyses focus on programs that are financed by city taxpayers, given that the mayor and City Council have little control over federal and state grants. For the 2001 fiscal year, the city-financed budget is $25.47 billion out of the $37.61 billion total. On the face of it, these figures suggest that the city's spending for the new fiscal year is down 3 percent from last year, a conclusion reached by the mayor's analysis.
But budget monitors say the city's calculations distort year-to-year spending changes because the administration spends most of its end-of-the-year surpluses to prepay bills for the next fiscal year. After taking this and other factors into account, the budget adopted in June by the City Council and signed by the mayor raises spending by about $2 billion, an amount the budget monitors say means an increase -- not a decrease -- of at least 7.4 percent. According to either model, spending has grown more rapidly in the last three years.
School enrollment grew about 3 percent during that time, reaching 1.1 million students. But city-taxpayer-financed spending grew by $1.44 billion, or 13 percent a year, according to the state comptroller's analysis. With this extra money, the teaching staff has swelled to a record high of more than 78,000, up by more than 9,125 in three years. Class sizes in lower grades are declining. Summer school has been expanded. Spending on teacher training, supplies and computers is up.
The Police Department, meanwhile, has added 3,484 officers since June 1996; the force now numbers 40,212 officers, also a record high. The extra staff, hired in part with the assistance of federal grants, has allowed the department to expand special units, like narcotics squads, domestic violence teams and a new gang investigation division. City taxpayers spent $2.86 billion on the Police Department in the 2000 fiscal year, an increase of $637 million compared with 1997's budget.
Spending has been cut deeply in some corners. The reduction in the welfare caseloads by about 583,900 people in the last five years is saving the city about $435 million just in this fiscal year. Spending on programs to preserve and build new housing -- most of it for lower- and moderate-income families -- has been cut from $161 million in 1993 to $60 million this year. Full-time social services employees overall have decreased by 7,047 since the mayor arrived, although in part this drop is a reflection of more reliance on private contractors for homeless shelters and other services.
Without these cuts, city spending increases would be even greater. The hiring of part-time workers, increases in overtime payments for police officers and others, raises for city workers and rising health care costs, among other factors, have all pushed the city budget upward in the last several years.
The New York City economy has been growing faster than the national average, and with this surge has come a bounty of new tax revenues. The revenue increases have been so great that overall city receipts have been going up, even as the mayor, the City Council and the State Legislature have approved tax cuts over the last five years cumulatively worth about $2.34 billion in 2000.
At the same time, end-of-the-year surpluses have been growing, setting a fourth record in a row; the city wrapped up this last fiscal year with an estimated $3.2 billion in extra money. To the Giuliani administration and City Council leaders, this combination -- focused spending increases, tax cuts and surplus-laden budget years -- proves they are prudent fiscal stewards. And they attribute much of the work force expansion these days to increases in state and federal financing, city officials said.
"If we end up with more revenue, what are we going to do with it? You have to spend it," said City Councilman Herbert E. Berman, a Brooklyn Democrat who is chairman of the Council Finance Committee. "But we have taken the steps necessary to maintain the city's fiscal stability."
The trouble, fiscal monitors say, is that the city has come to rely on the huge budget surpluses to balance the budget. This year, for example, 72 percent of the $3.2 billion surplus from 2000 is dedicated to balance the 2001 budget.
But, they note, an economic slowdown or even a smaller surplus would pose risks that would intensify given that the city has grown increasingly reliant on Wall Street for revenues. Those who work in the city's financial industry now pay nearly one-fourth of all income taxes, up from more than 14 percent about seven years ago. Their contribution underscores the gains of Wall Street: they fill fewer than 5 percent of the jobs in New York City.
Some monitors are also troubled by the increase in city borrowing required to pay off the expansive new construction projects. The annual debt service payments are projected to increase from $3.5 billion in 2000 to $4.7 billion in 2004, according to the state comptroller's count. Paying off the city's debt will then account for one of every five available city dollars, making it harder to cut spending, if necessary, because the city is required by law to pay off its debt.
The fiscal monitors cite other causes of concern. The recent approval by legislators in Albany of automatic cost-of-living pension increases for retired city workers is expected to cost the city an extra $236 million in 2002. A contract settlement with most of the city's unions could cost $425 million more than is budgeted for 2003, if salaries increase at just the rate of inflation.
Finally, they note, the city decided to add $800 million to its recent operational budgets, using money generated by the city pension funds during the Wall Street boom that exceeded pension obligations. The monitors felt the city should have either left the extra money in the pension funds, in case of an economic slowdown, or used it to reduce the city's debt.
Instead, the city could face a budget gap for 2002 as high as $3.3 billion, according to a coming report by the city comptroller.
"If you anticipate the revenue growth will continue in the next 10 years as it has in the last four, then you can dismiss the existence of out-year deficits," Mr. Hevesi said. "But it would be foolish to predict that given there are already signs the economy is slowing."
Mr. Sommer of the Financial Control Board predicted that the deficit projections would probably shrink, given that the Giuliani administration has been conservative in its revenue estimates. Mr. Barsky, the mayor's budget director, said he was already taking steps to reduce the spending gap, which he said was partly the State Legislature's fault.
Ultimately, what the budget monitors hope to see in the coming months is the mayor's return to an emphasis on shaving unnecessary costs, perhaps by challenging city unions to increase productivity or face replacement by private-sector contractors or by putting more civilians into jobs now held by police officers.
"The more you can do to boost productivity, the more you are able to sustain city services when times get rougher," said Ronnie Lowenstein, chief economist and deputy director at the New York City Independent Budget Office. "You don't want to wait until your back is against the wall."
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Chart: "LEDGER -- Spending in the Giuliani Administration"
At the start of the Giuliani administration in 1994, spending was relatively flat, but since 1997 it has accelerated.
 
Overall Spending (Spending from city revenues only*)
 
Graph shows adjusted for inflation and actual spending amounts from 1993-2001.
*Spending figures are modified to account for the city's use of its surplus to prepay some bills.
 
Wall Street's Contribution
Graph shows the percentage of city income tax revenues from the securities industry from 1993-99.
 
City Employees
City work force has grown from 252,332 in 1993 to a projected 255,443 in 2001*
 
Graphs show figures for board of education, all others, police, and social services hirings. (*Staffing totals based on money from city, state and federal taxpayers from 1993-2000)
 
Shifting Priorities in Spending
Changes in city-taxpayer financed spending from 1997 to 2000, adjusted for inflation
 
PERCENTAGE CHANGE
 
Board of Education: +36.6
Police Dept.: +21.2
Debt service: +4.0
Child service: +84.9
Medicaid: +4.1
Sanitation: +35.1
Health insurance: +14.2
Public assistance: -40.7
 
How New York Compares With Other Big Cities
Cities listed in order of population. Adjusted for inflation.
 
GENERAL FUND SPENDING CHANGE, 1993-2000
New York: 8.0%
Los Angeles: 3.3
Chicago: 18.8
Houston: 15.2
Philadelphia: 2.2
San Diego: 15.0
Phoenix: 48.7
San Antonio: 35.5
Dallas: 12.5
Detroit: 14.8
 
GENERAL FUND SPENDING CHANGE, 1997-2000
New York: 7.2%
Los Angeles: 5.5
Chicago: 8.7
Houston: 8.0
Philadelphia: 5.0
San Diego: 12.7
Phoenix: 19.8
San Antonio: 15.9
Dallas: 11.8
Detroit: 2.8
 
(Sources: Office of the State Deputy Comptroller for the City of New York overall spending ; City Comptroller; Other cities listed)(pg. B4) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (96%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (96%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (93%); 

COMPANY: MEDICAID (59%); 

ORGANIZATION: MEDICAID (59%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK CITY; UNITED STATES (96%); NEW YORK, USA (96%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (93%); 

SUBJECT: FINANCES; BUDGETS AND BUDGETING; ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS CITIES (90%); BUDGETS (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); LABOR FORCE (90%); CITY GOVERNMENT (90%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (89%); PUBLIC FINANCE (89%); TRENDS (89%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (89%); BUDGET DEFICITS (78%); CITY LIFE (78%); PUBLIC LIBRARIES (78%); GOVERNMENT CONTROLLERS & AUDITORS (78%); EDUCATION SYSTEMS & INSTITUTIONS (77%); CRIME RATES (76%); LIBRARIES (76%); SCHOOL BUDGETS (74%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (72%); INFLATION (69%); MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (67%); 

PERSON: LIPTON, ERIC; GIULIANI, RUDOLPH W (MAYOR) RUDY GIULIANI (91%); 

LOAD-DATE: July 13, 2000



306 of 757 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: July 13, 2000

SECTION: Section A; Page 2; Column 3; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 1373 words

HEADLINE: NEWS SUMMARY

 BODY:

INTERNATIONAL A3-13
 
U.S. and Vietnam Reach Broad Trade Agreement
The United States and Vietnam have completed a trade agreement that would allow generally unfettered commerce between the two nations for the first time since the end of the Vietnam War, people involved in the negotiations said. Vietnamese and American officials reached the agreement after nearly four years of fitful negotiations. A1
 
Israel Cancels Disputed Sale
Israel announced that it had canceled its sale of a sophisticated $250 million airborne radar system to China, a decision timed for the second day of the Camp David talks and intended to improve the mood in Congress, where heated opposition to the deal threatened aid to Israel. A1 

Jail for an Israeli Politician
The Israeli Supreme Court ruled that the leader of the Shas Party, Aryeh Deri, should be jailed for three years, upholding his conviction for bribery and fraud. After 10 years of investigations and litigation, the ruling dashed Mr. Deri's hopes of returning soon to the leadership of the Orthodox party. A12
 
Russia Car Executives Charged
The Russian authorities brought tax evasion charges against top executives at the country's biggest carmaker as part of President Vladimir V. Putin's efforts to loosen the grip of Russia's richest men on the country's most profitable enterprises. A7
 
Mexican Party Regroups
The leaders of the recently defeated governing party of Mexico, the Institutional Revolutionary Party, agreed on a formula to maintain internal discipline as its monopoly over power and wealth draws to a close. A10
 
Nigeria Struggles Against Fire
Firefighters tried to douse burning pools of gasoline in southern Nigeria, struggling to extinguish a pipeline fire as villagers hastily buried charred bodies. While the cause of a fuel explosion on Monday is unclear, oil company executives said a fuel-smuggling ring had punctured the line to siphon gasoline. A8
 
Protestants Parade in Ireland
More than 80,000 members of the Orange Order, Northern Ireland's once-dominant Protestant fraternal group, paraded through Belfast and 17 other towns in tense circumstances to commemorate the triumph of William of Orange over the Catholic James II in 1690. A10
 
World Briefing A8
 
SCIENCE/HEALTH
 
Risks of Anti-H.I.V. Agent
The United Nations warned that women at high risk of contracting the AIDS virus should not use nonoxynol-9, a widely sold spermicide, because it may increase the risk of H.I.V. rather than protect against it. Studies show that the spermicide is either ineffective or could even be harmful as an anti-H.I.V. agent. A8
 
NATIONAL A14-26
 
DNA Fails to Exonerate Inmate Given Stay by Bush
A DNA test has failed to exonerate a Texas death row inmate, Ricky Nolen McGinn, whose case took on political significance last month when Gov. George W. Bush interrupted his presidential campaign to grant him a stay of execution, according to officials knowledgeable about the results. A1
 
Chief Justice Impeached
The New Hampshire House of Representatives impeached the chief justice of the State Supreme Court, David A. Brock, accusing him of ethical lapses on four grounds and handing his fate over to the State Senate for trial. The 253-to-95 vote on Chief Justice Brock culminated weeks of constitutional agony in the state. A16
 
Pentagon Cites Anthrax Failure
Pentagon officials, in unusually blunt language, acknowledged the failure of their ambitious policy to inoculate all military personnel against the deadly anthrax virus. A22
 
Gore Courts Black Voters
Al Gore summoned black voters to support his presidential candidacy, citing his long commitment to their cause and deriding Gov. George W. Bush as offering only words. A24
 
A foreign policy adviser to Governor Bush, in the days leading up to the Camp David peace talks, counseled Israeli officials to accept only a comprehensive peace agreement and to resist any efforts by the Clinton administration to use the summit in the presidential campaign. A24
 
Former Senator Bill Bradley indicated that he would endorse Vice President Gore when he appears with him today in their first joint appearance since Mr. Bradley quit the race in March. A24
 
Gays Rally in West Virginia
Hundreds of gays and lesbians, blacks and whites, joined in Fairmont, W.Va., and demanded justice in behalf of Arthur Warren Jr., whose beaten body was found last week. A16
 
Assurances of Federal Inquiry
Attorney General Janet Reno and other top Justice Department officials assured the Rev. Jesse Jackson that the department was actively investigating the hanging death of a black youth in his front yard in Mississippi a month ago. A21
 
NEW YORK/REGION B1-8
 
Brooklyn Block Reeling In Aftermath of Explosion
Residents roamed the block in Boerum Hill where a building was blown to bits on Tuesday, monitoring the fruitless rescue efforts and crying in each other's arms. A1
 
Three bodies were recovered from the rubble, and fire investigators said they strongly suspected that a gas leak had caused the blast. Officials suspect a leak in part because of the nature of the damage and the accounts of neighbors who said they smelled gas before the explosion. B6
 
New York City Spends More
The Giuliani administration's emphasis on frugality has eased, according to budget monitors. As the city economy has flourished, government spending has accelerated over the last three years, growing at more than twice the rate of inflation. A1
 
Care Ordered at Rikers Jail
A state judge ruled that the Giuliani administration must arrange for the continuing mental health care of thousands of inmates before they are released from Rikers Island. B1
 
Taking Bids to Restore Armory
The state invited nonprofit organizations and private companies to submit proposals for rehabilitating and operating the Seventh Regiment Armory in Manhattan. B1
 
CIRCUITS G1-12
 
HOUSE & HOME F1-16
 
ARTS E1-10
 
SPORTS D1-8
 
Yankees Trade for Pitcher
New York shipped a ransom in top prospects to the Cincinnati Reds for the left-hander Denny Neagle. D1
 
OBITUARIES A27
 
Robert Runcie
The former archbishop of Canterbury was 78. He was considered a reform-minded if provocative churchman, known for his outspoken views on the royal family and the government of Prime Minister Margaret Thatcher. A27
 
BUSINESS DAY C1-24
 
Oil Producers' Profits Soar
Higher gasoline prices have meant sharply higher profits for producers and refiners. Major oil companies are expected to post average earnings growth of 121 percent for the three months ended in June, compared with that period a year ago, and exploration and production companies are expected to report average increases of 371 percent. A1
 
Drug Maker to Settle Charges
One of the world's largest producers of generic drugs, Mylan Laboratories, tentatively agreed to pay $147 million to settle accusations that it improperly cornered the market on raw materials for two widely prescribed drugs and then raised the price of those drugs, in some instances more than 3,000 percent. A1
 
Shift for Diamond Company
De Beers Consolidated Mines, the diamond company that reigned as one of the most powerful monopolies of the last century, announced a major shift in the way it does business. C1
 
Nasdaq Index Rises
Internet and other computer-related stocks surged, propelling the Nasdaq market to its biggest gain in more than five weeks and back into positive territory for the year. C12
 
Greenspan Offers Prescriptions
Alan Greenspan, the Federal Reserve chairman, suggested ways for preventing and coping with economic problems around the world. C13
Business Digest C1
 
EDITORIAL 28-29
 
Editorials: An Everglades action plan; building peace in Ulster; Governor Whitman's gaffe.
 
Columns: Bob Herbert.
 
Bridge E6
TV Listings E10
Crossword E4
Weather D7
Public Lives B2
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photos

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Summary

INDUSTRY: NAICS 213112 OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (75%); 

COUNTRY: ISRAEL (95%); UNITED STATES (94%); VIET NAM (94%); NIGERIA (92%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (90%); NORTHERN IRELAND (79%); CHINA (79%); 

STATE: DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA, USA (79%); 

CITY: BELFAST, NORTHERN IRELAND (77%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ISRAEL (95%); UNITED STATES (94%); VIET NAM (94%); NIGERIA (92%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (90%); NORTHERN IRELAND (79%); CHINA (79%); DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA, USA (79%); BELFAST, NORTHERN IRELAND (77%); 

SUBJECT: NO INDEX TERMS FROM NYTIMES TRADE TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (90%); FRAUD & FINANCIAL CRIME (90%); TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (90%); NEWS BRIEFS (90%); CHRISTIANS & CHRISTIANITY (90%); LITIGATION (90%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE LAW (90%); EXECUTIVES (88%); OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (75%); CAPITAL PUNISHMENT (74%); CRIMINAL CONVICTIONS (74%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (74%); POLITICS (74%); JAIL SENTENCING (74%); FORENSIC DNA TESTING (73%); VIETNAM WAR (73%); INVESTIGATIONS (73%); FIRES (73%); PROTESTANTS & PROTESTANTISM (72%); DECISIONS & RULINGS (71%); SETTLEMENTS & DECISIONS (71%); SUPREME COURTS (70%); RADAR SYSTEMS (70%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (70%); TAX FRAUD (69%); TAX LAW (69%); BRIBERY (69%); TAX ENFORCEMENT (68%); BRITISH MONARCHS (67%); AUTOMOTIVE MFG (67%); SMUGGLING (67%); AUTOMAKERS (67%); AUTOMOBILE MFG (67%); DNA (65%); GENETIC SCREENING (64%); DNA TESTING (60%); VIRUSES (60%); AIDS & HIV (50%); 

PERSON: VLADIMIR PUTIN (58%); GEORGE W BUSH (57%); 

LOAD-DATE: July 13, 2000



307 of 757 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: July 13, 2000

SECTION: Section B; Page 7; Column 5; Metropolitan Desk 

LENGTH: 693 words

HEADLINE: Co-op City's Operators Face Race Discrimination Lawsuit

BYLINE: By JUAN FORERO 

 BODY:
The operators of Co-op City, the sprawling apartment development in the Bronx that is home to 60,000 mostly black and Hispanic residents, are being sued by 50 employees and residents who say they faced racial discrimination in the workplace and in the sales office of the complex.
In the suit, which the plaintiffs plan to file this morning in State Supreme Court in the Bronx, the employees charge that they faced crude racial harassment at the hands of white co-workers and were denied promotions based on their race. The workers and tenants, all but one of whom are black or Hispanic, also say prospective black residents were steered into less desirable buildings, with preference given to whites. 
 The suit names as defendants the Riverbay Corporation, Co-op City's owner; Marion Scott Real Estate Company, the development's private manager; and Steve Gold, the sales manager. Parts of the suit were provided yesterday to The New York Times.
Jeffrey K. Brown, the lawyer for the plaintiffs, said the development's owners had "systematically repressed minorities."
"They've done it through various mechanisms," he said. "One is denial of advancements. Two is disparate treatment and three is a racially hostile and intimidating environment, where people are called the 'N' word, where people have feces smeared on their vehicles, where people are told not to place African-Americans and minorities in certain housing sections."
The accusations were aggressively denounced by Marion Scott, president of Marion Scott Real Estate, which last year became the first private company to run Co-op City since the 1968 construction of its 35 towers, schools and retail centers in the northeast Bronx.
Mr. Scott, who is African-American, called the claims ludicrous given that two-thirds of Co-op City's 925 employees and more than 70 percent of residents are black or Hispanic. He said he was incensed at charges that prospective black residents were steered toward "black" buildings or that their applications were shredded. He said state oversight of Co-op City prevents such bias.
He also said creating hurdles for prospective minority residents would have been economically foolhardy, especially because the development had about 700 vacancies during the time that the plaintiffs are alleging the wrongdoing.
"We have outside bouncers throwing people in here, not throwing people out," he said. "We were looking for anyone who had the money and the qualifications to apply."
Mr. Scott also accused the Long Island law firm filing the suit, Leeds, Morelli & Brown, of being "stick-up artists." He said the firm was trying to extort money from Co-op City with a frivolous case.
Last week, Riverbay's lawyers filed a complaint with the New York State Grievance Committee of the 10th Judicial District, accusing Leeds, Morelli & Brown of trying to force Riverbay to pay $7.5 million in fees to pay for mediation to resolve the complaints and forgo litigation.
Several plaintiffs remained adamant about their charges yesterday. Jaime Paredes, 57, said he kept running into obstacles when he tried to buy a two-bedroom apartment in a desirable area. He was rejected last September, he said.
"They're looking to put a white family in that apartment, not a Hispanic, and I'm a Hispanic," Mr. Paredes said.
Brenda Brown, 48, a former Riverbay office worker and resident of Co-op City who is black, said she put up with racial taunts and watched white office workers make it difficult for blacks to move into Co-op City. Ms. Brown also said she was passed up for promotions.
"It's hostile," she said, "when your face is black and you see injustices done."
But Mr. Scott said Ms. Brown was fired in June 1999 after she was caught on videotape punching the time cards of fellow workers hours after the workers had finished their shift. As for Mr. Paredes's claims, Mr. Scott said people who are rejected often complain to regulators, though most claims are unfounded.
"If you look at the demographics of the young people who've rented, they're mostly black and Hispanics," Mr. Scott said. "He might have been turned down for other reasons." 
http://www.nytimes.com

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

INDUSTRY: SIC6531 REAL ESTATE AGENTS & MANAGERS (70%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (95%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (95%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (95%); 

COMPANY: RIVERBAY CORP; SCOTT, MARION, REAL ESTATE CO RIVERBAY CORP (70%); 

ORGANIZATION: RIVERBAY CORP; SCOTT, MARION, REAL ESTATE CO

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK CITY; UNITED STATES (95%); NEW YORK, USA (95%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (95%); 

SUBJECT: HOUSING; SUITS AND LITIGATION; CO-OP CITY (BRONX, NYC); DISCRIMINATION; BLACKS; HISPANIC-AMERICANS; LABOR SUITS & CLAIMS (92%); LITIGATION (91%); AFRICAN AMERICANS (91%); RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (90%); RACE & RACISM (90%); EMPLOYMENT DISCRIMINATION (90%); RACIAL DISCRIMINATION IN EMPLOYMENT (90%); REAL ESTATE (90%); MULTIFAMILY REAL ESTATE (90%); HISPANIC AMERICANS (90%); DISCRIMINATION (90%); LAWYERS (89%); SALES MANAGEMENT (77%); CRIMINAL HARASSMENT (77%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (76%); RETAILERS (72%); LEGAL SERVICES (72%); SUPREME COURTS (71%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (71%); EXTORTION (70%); REAL ESTATE AGENTS (68%); 

PERSON: FORERO, JUAN; GOLD, STEVE; SCOTT, MARION MARION SCOTT (91%); JAIME PAREDES (61%); JEFFREY K BROWN (61%); 

LOAD-DATE: July 13, 2000



308 of 757 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: July 13, 2000

SECTION: Section A; Page 28; Column 5; Editorial Desk 

LENGTH: 149 words

HEADLINE: Old, Frail and on Costly Drugs

 BODY:

To the Editor:
It is hardly surprising that Nevada's prescription drug program for the elderly is floundering from the start ("Ominous Start for a Drug Prescription Plan for the Elderly," news article, July 8). Insurance companies have no incentive to offer coverage for those patients who need it most: those with high use and high costs. Even with the available subsidies from the state, there are insufficient economies of scale to make the program profitable. 
 The program also suffers from a fatal philosophical flaw. It depends upon money received from tobacco companies rather than from taxpayers or healthy payers of insurance premiums. A successful program over the long term depends upon the assumption of financial responsibility by the American public.
 
ROBERT M. KAISER, M.D.
Durham, N.C., July 9, 2000
 
The writer is a fellow in geriatrics at Duke University. 
http://www.nytimes.com

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Letter

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%); 

STATE: NEVADA, USA (93%); NORTH CAROLINA, USA (79%); 

CITY: DURHAM, NC, USA (50%); 

COMPANY: DUKE UNIVERSITY (56%); DUKE UNIVERSITY (56%); 

ORGANIZATION: DUKE UNIVERSITY (56%); DUKE UNIVERSITY (56%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEVADA; UNITED STATES (93%); NEVADA, USA (93%); NORTH CAROLINA, USA (79%); DURHAM, NC, USA (50%); 

SUBJECT: MEDICINE AND HEALTH; DRUGS (PHARMACEUTICALS); HEALTH INSURANCE; AGED; MEDICARE; PRICES (FARES, FEES AND RATES) LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); PRESCRIPTION DRUG INSURANCE (90%); AGING (90%); PRESCRIPTION DRUGS (90%); SENIOR CITIZENS (90%); PHARMACEUTICALS INDUSTRY (88%); GERIATRICS (88%); INSURANCE PREMIUMS (87%); INSURANCE (87%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (74%); WRITERS (73%); MEDICARE (72%); GOVERNMENT GRANTS & SUBSIDIES (71%); TOBACCO INDUSTRY (68%); 

PERSON: KAISER, ROBERT M

LOAD-DATE: July 13, 2000



309 of 757 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: July 13, 2000
Correction Appended

SECTION: Section A; Page 24; Column 1; National Desk 

LENGTH: 1240 words

HEADLINE: THE 2000 CAMPAIGN: THE VICE PRESIDENT;
Gore Gets Wild Applause At Meeting of N.A.A.C.P.

BYLINE: By KATHARINE Q. SEELYE 

DATELINE: BALTIMORE, July 12

 BODY:
From his opening salutation "I am a member of the N.A.A.C.P.; it's good to be home" -- to his closing motivational cry -- "I'm not asking you to read my lips; I'm asking you to read my heart!" -- a spirited Al Gore summoned black voters today to support his presidential candidacy, reminding them of his long commitment to their cause and deriding Gov. George W. Bush as offering only words, not action.
"I have come here not just in an election year, but year after year," the vice president told several hundred members of the National Association for the Advancement of Colored People, the nation's largest civil rights organization. "I have worked with you. I have stood with you. I am proud to have won some battles alongside you." 
 Mr. Gore's message, threaded thickly with his policy positions, was in deliberate counterpoint to Mr. Bush's speech to the same group on Monday, when the Texas governor was criticized by many in the organization who said he offered only breezy generalities. Mr. Bush was the first Republican presidential candidate to court the N.A.A.C.P. since his father spoke to the group in 1988; still, the governor received a tepid response compared with the rousing and repeated standing ovations that Mr. Gore drew today.
The vice president delved into details, from his support of affirmative action and hate-crimes legislation to jobs and education. He said he would defend affirmative action "because it is still needed in this country" and it is "good for our economy."
He reiterated his opposition to raising the retirement age for Social Security benefits and to Mr. Bush's proposal to divert some Social Security investment into the stock market. Mr. Gore spoke of his support for a patients' bill of rights, gun control and a full count of people in the census as opposed to sampling.
Invoking the heroes of black history, from Frederick Douglass and Harriet Tubman to Thurgood Marshall and Rosa Parks, Mr. Gore promised to ban racial profiling so that motorists would not be pulled over simply for "driving while black."
"I will make the D.W.B. offense obsolete in America," he said.
He castigated Mr. Bush for invoking the notion of "states' rights" to avoid taking a position on whether South Carolina should remove the Confederate battle flag from its Statehouse.
And he reminded his listeners of his longtime commitment to their concerns. "I have made more trips to Africa than I have to Asia," the vice president said.
Mr. Gore's appearance comes amid some concern among his staff members that blacks have been left dispirited by the campaign. Black voters account for about 15 percent of the electorate, and they usually support Democrats overwhelmingly. A New York Times/CBS News Poll in May showed Mr. Gore with 69 percent of the black vote and about 17 percent for Mr. Bush.
But President Clinton, by contrast, has more than a 90 percent approval rating among black voters. Analysts said Mr. Gore could probably claim that level of support by Election Day, but questioned the commitment of black voters.
David Bositis, chief pollster for the Joint Center for Political and Economic Studies, said: "He'll get 90 to 95 percent of the black vote. The larger question for Gore really is black turnout, as opposed to his share of the black vote."
Mr. Bositis said that Mr. Gore would inherit the good relations with blacks that the president had built up, stemming from the record economic expansion, low unemployment among blacks, numerous appointments of blacks to administration positions and falling crime rates.
Also, Mr. Bositis said, Mr. Bush's message of being a "different kind of Republican" was aimed less at winning over black voters than at white swing voters.
Still, he added, overall turnout in November is likely to be low, precisely because the economy is doing so well, and Mr. Gore's challenge is to activate his base, which he has had some difficulty doing. While polls show Mr. Bush winning the support of 90 percent of Republicans, Mr. Gore has the support of only about 70 percent of Democrats.
Today's event was aimed at drumming up enthusiasm among voters who should be squarely behind him.
This was evident in the introduction of Mr. Gore by William Lucy, an N.A.A.C.P. board member, who said, "Al Gore, unlike a lot of other people, has not just discovered the N.A.A.C.P."
Mr. Lucy also noted Mr. Gore's lineage as the son of Senator Albert Gore, who supported most civil rights legislation (though he did not back the Civil Rights Act of 1964). "He has drawn from that deep well of public consciousness given to him by his father," Mr. Lucy said.
And Mr. Lucy set a robustly partisan tone, although the N.A.A.C.P. cannot endorse candidates because of its tax-exempt status. In noting that the Clinton administration had nominated 57 African-American judges to the federal bench, he added, "not a single Clarence Thomas among them."
Mr. Gore easily assumed command of the audience. In imploring his listeners to work hard to help the Democrats recapture the House, Mr. Gore said: "I want you to consider how much we can get done by taking back the Congress, how much justice will be redeemed when John Conyers is chairman of the House Judiciary Committee, how much economic progress will be made when Charlie Rangel is chairman of the Ways and Means Committee."
Amid gales of laughter, he prompted delegates to their feet with a cadenced ridicule of Mr. Bush's talk of compassionate conservatism -- "Talk doesn't cost much," Mr. Gore said -- compared to his own record of accomplishment.
"I know that you heard some nice-sounding words on Monday afternoon," Mr. Gore said. "But I remembered what scripture teaches in the Book of James, Chapter 2, Verse 18: 'Yay, a man may say thou hast faith, and I have works. Show me thy faith without thy works, and I will show thee my faith by my works."'
And he accused Mr. Bush of repeated failures to respond to minority voters, at one point offering a dramatized rendition of an imagined chilly, monosyllabic Bush response -- "no" -- to the family of James Byrd, a black man dragged to his death in Texas in June 1998, when the family asked the governor to support legislation against hate crimes.
N.A.A.C.P. officials seemed thrilled with Mr. Gore's performance. Julian Bond, the organization's chairman, said, "The vice president had substance and Governor Bush had a drive-by photo opportunity."
Kweisi Mfume, the president of the organization, said he appreciated the fact that Mr. Bush spoke to the group, but acknowledged Mr. Gore's edge. "Al Gore is pretty much a family member," Mr. Mfume said. He told reporters he could forgive Mr. Gore's support for the death penalty -- a subject Mr. Gore did not raise -- because his stand was principled and not political.
Delegates to the convention were pleased, too. "He's beautiful," said Faye Sandle, 64, of Denver.
Joe Watson, 55, a meat cutter from Monterey, Calif., said: "I believe Gore is more for the people. I like what he said about affirmative action, jobs and investing back in the communities."
Edith McDougald, 57, a schoolteacher from Glen Burnie, Md., said she would not hold Mr. Gore's support for the death penalty against him, because it was the only area where she disagreed with him. "Bush's reaction to the executions will be in the negative for him," she said, referring to the recent execution of a black man in Texas.
 
http://www.nytimes.com

CORRECTION-DATE: July 15, 2000, Saturday

 CORRECTION:
An article on Thursday about a speech by Vice President Al Gore at the annual convention of the N.A.A.C.P. in which he reiterated his policy proposals misstated his position on statistical sampling to adjust the census count. He favors sampling; he does not oppose it.

GRAPHIC: Photo: Vice President Al Gore made a spirited speech at a convention of the N.A.A.C.P. yesterday in Baltimore. After the speech Mr. Gore laughed while being applauded by Julian Bond, left, chairman of the group's board of directors, and Kweisi Mfume, president and chief executive of the group. (Associated Press) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

LEGISLATION: 106 H.R. 906 CIVIC PARTICIPATION AND REHABILITATION ACT OF 1999 (90%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (79%); ASIA (73%); 

STATE: TEXAS, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: NATIONAL ASSN FOR THE ADVANCEMENT OF COLORED PEOPLE NATIONAL ASSOCIATION FOR FEMALE EXECUTIVES (56%); NATIONAL ASSOCIATION FOR THE ADVANCEMENT OF COLORED PEOPLE (94%); 

ORGANIZATION: NATIONAL ASSN FOR THE ADVANCEMENT OF COLORED PEOPLE NATIONAL ASSOCIATION FOR THE ADVANCEMENT OF COLORED PEOPLE (94%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%); ASIA (73%); TEXAS, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: BLACKS; ELECTION ISSUES; PRESIDENTIAL ELECTION OF 2000 PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (91%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (90%); GOVERNORS (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (90%); VOTERS & VOTING (89%); CIVIL RIGHTS (89%); RACE & RACISM (89%); AFFIRMATIVE ACTION IN EMPLOYMENT (88%); HUMAN RIGHTS ORGANIZATIONS (88%); SOCIAL SECURITY (87%); ELECTIONS (76%); RACIAL PROFILING (76%); PLATFORMS & ISSUES (76%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (75%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (75%); HEALTH CARE POLICY (71%); US SOCIAL SECURITY (71%); LEGISLATION (69%); GUN CONTROL (69%); HATE CRIME (67%); RETIREMENT AGE (67%); AFFIRMATIVE ACTION (67%); CRIMINAL LAW (66%); RETIREMENT & RETIREES (63%); HISTORY (50%); 

PERSON: SEELYE, KATHARINE Q; GORE, AL (VICE PRES); BUSH, GEORGE W (GOV) AL GORE (92%); GEORGE W BUSH (79%); 

LOAD-DATE: July 13, 2000



310 of 757 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: July 14, 2000

SECTION: Section C; Page 6; Column 3; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 39 words

HEADLINE: THE MARKETS: CURRENCIES

 BODY:

EURO SLIDES. The euro fell in advance of United States economic reports that could ratchet up expectations for further interest rate increases. In New York, the euro settled at 93.72 cents, down from 94.18 cents on Wednesday.
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Graph tracks Euro to the dollar, since Jan., 1999. (Source: Bloomberg Financial Markets). It also shows yesterday's closes for the British pound (in U.S. dollars), the Canadian dollar (per U.S. dollar), the German mark (per U.S. dollar), the Japanese yen (per U.S. dollar), the Mexican peso (pers U.S. dollar), and the South Korean won (per U.S. dollar).

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (97%); EUROPE (92%); CANADA (79%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (79%); GERMANY (79%); MEXICO (79%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (92%); 

COMPANY: EUROPEAN UNION EUROPEAN UNION (59%); EUROPEAN UNION (59%); 

ORGANIZATION: EUROPEAN UNION EUROPEAN UNION (59%); EUROPEAN UNION (59%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: EUROPE; UNITED STATES (97%); EUROPE (92%); CANADA (79%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (79%); GERMANY (79%); MEXICO (79%); NEW YORK, USA (92%); 

SUBJECT: CURRENCY; UNITED STATES ECONOMY; CREDIT; INTEREST RATES INTEREST RATES (86%); ECONOMIC NEWS (86%); 

LOAD-DATE: July 14, 2000



311 of 757 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: July 14, 2000

SECTION: Section A; Page 24; Column 4; Editorial Desk 

LENGTH: 152 words

HEADLINE: Jobs and Inflation

 BODY:

To the Editor:
As you note in a July 11 editorial, the welfare-to-work transition was much more successful than expected as a result of a strong "economy that cut the unemployment rate in about half." Corporations could no longer indulge their misconceived stereotypes and were forced to hire welfare recipients. But what of the dangers inherent in the Federal Reserve policy of eliminating tight labor markets? 
 The policy has had a small but adverse effect on young and less educated workers. Further slowdowns in job growth will make it harder for many people to retain employment and for additional welfare recipients to find it. Isn't the ability to get these groups into the mainstream worth the risk of a bit more inflation -- or are the interests of bondholders paramount?
 
ROBERT CHERRY
Brooklyn, July 11, 2000
 
The writer is a professor of economics at Brooklyn College, CUNY. 
http://www.nytimes.com

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Letter

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (90%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (90%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (90%); 

COMPANY: FEDERAL RESERVE BOARD BROOKLYN COLLEGE (63%); FEDERAL RESERVE BANK OF NEW YORK (63%); 

ORGANIZATION: FEDERAL RESERVE BOARD

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (90%); NEW YORK, USA (90%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (90%); 

SUBJECT: WELFARE (US); UNITED STATES ECONOMY; LABOR; WELFARE RECIPIENTS, EMPLOYMENT OF INCOME ASSISTANCE (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (88%); LABOR SECTOR PERFORMANCE (87%); CENTRAL BANKS (87%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (74%); WRITERS (73%); BONDS (73%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (71%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (64%); BUSINESS EDUCATION (64%); 

PERSON: CHERRY, ROBERT (PROF) ROBERT CHERRY BROOKLYN (63%); 

LOAD-DATE: July 14, 2000



312 of 757 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: July 14, 2000

SECTION: Section A; Page 3; Column 1; Foreign Desk 

LENGTH: 420 words

HEADLINE: Last of Hostages Freed in Fiji As Chiefs Pick New President

BYLINE: AP 

DATELINE: SUVA, Fiji, July 13

 BODY:
After two months of national crisis, the leader of a coup here freed the ousted prime minister and 17 others today.
Later the Great Council of Chiefs, Fiji's traditional power, elected as president Ratu Josefa Iloilo, who was the choice of the coup leader, George Speight. 
 Mr. Speight made clear that three decades of democracy in Fiji were at an end. His rebels said they had taken the hostages inside Parliament in a effort to disfranchise Fiji's ethnic Indian minority.
This morning, the former prime minister, Mahendra Chaudhry, shook hands with Mr. Speight and they hugged. The hostages then were taken to the Red Cross building for medical checkups.
Later, Mr. Speight walked into a news conference wearing a Western-style suit jacket, the traditional Fijian sulu skirt and sunglasses in the evening darkness. A horde of reporters chased him, asking him how he felt. "Excellent," he replied.
What was left behind was a vastly different Fiji.
The elected government is gone, ethnic tensions remain inflamed and the tourist industry is ravaged. The United States and other countries have urged their citizens to leave, and the tiny nation faces the possibility of sanctions.
The crisis began May 19 when Mr. Speight's rebels stormed Parliament and took several dozen hostages, including Mr. Chaudhry. The rebels are indigenous Fijians who said the nation's large ethnic Indian minority had too much power. They demanded that Fiji's Constitution be scrapped and that Mr. Chaudhry be deposed.
In the days after the seizure, Speight supporters looted and burned ethnic Indian homes and businesses, and many Indians made plans to flee the country. The violence led Fiji's military to declare martial law.
On Sunday, after weeks of negotiations, military leaders and Mr. Speight reached a deal to free the hostages in exchange for meeting many of Mr. Speight's demands, including a new government and a new Constitution curtailing Indian rights.
The Great Council of Chiefs' selection of Mr. Iloilo as president raised hopes that civil unrest would abate. They were to meet Friday to choose two vice presidents, endorse the cabinet proposed by Mr. Speight and decide who will serve on a commission to write a new constitution.
For the most part, the civil disturbances that began sweeping the country a week ago in support of Mr. Speight began easing shortly after the hostage release. Roadblocks that had cut off traffic between the international airport and the capital, Suva, were removed.
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photo: The leader of a coup in Fiji, George Speight, right, escorted the deposed prime minister, Mahendra Chaudhry, from Parliament yesterday. (News Limited via Reuters)
 
Map of Fiji highlighting Suva: In Suva, rebels freed the last of their hostages, held since May 19. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: FIJI (99%); UNITED STATES (92%); 

CITY: SUVA, FIJI (72%); 

COMPANY: GREAT COUNCIL (57%); 

ORGANIZATION: GREAT COUNCIL (57%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: FIJI; FIJI (99%); UNITED STATES (92%); SUVA, FIJI (72%); 

SUBJECT: POLITICS AND GOVERNMENT; COUPS D'ETAT AND ATTEMPTED COUPS D'ETAT; HOSTAGES; FREEDOM AND HUMAN RIGHTS; TRAVEL AND VACATIONS; UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; SANCTIONS (ECONOMIC) HOSTAGE TAKING (92%); COUPS (92%); PRIME MINISTERS (91%); REBELLIONS & INSURGENCIES (90%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); ETHNIC CONFLICTS (75%); POLITICS (73%); HUMAN RIGHTS (70%); RIOTS (69%); PRESS CONFERENCES (69%); TOURISM (53%); AIRPORTS (50%); 

PERSON: SPEIGHT, GEORGE; CHAUDHRY, MAHENDRA (PRIME MIN); ILOILO, RATU JOSEFA GEORGE SPEIGHT (95%); MAHENDRA CHAUDHRY (70%); JOSEFA ILOILO (57%); 

LOAD-DATE: July 14, 2000



313 of 757 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: July 14, 2000

SECTION: Section C; Page 17; Column 5; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 284 words

HEADLINE: Oil Prices Inject a Hefty Spike Into Index on Imported Goods

BYLINE: Bloomberg News 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, July 13

 BODY:
The price of goods imported to the United States rose last month at the fastest pace since February, driven by a jump in oil costs, government figures showed today.
The index of imported prices increased 0.8 percent last month, after rising 0.3 percent in May, the Labor Department said. Excluding petroleum, the index was unchanged after falling 0.2 percent in May. 
 "Outside of oil, the pressures from imports on inflation are tame," said Joel L. Naroff, president of Naroff Economic Advisors Inc. in Holland, Pa. Still, "petroleum costs are clearly an issue, and they're beginning to show up in other sectors," he said.
The report on import prices is the first of three measures of inflation for June. On Friday, the Labor Department will report on prices paid by manufacturers, farmers and other producers. A report on consumer prices is to be released on Tuesday.
Compared with June 1999, import prices are up 7.1 percent. From June 1998 to June 1999, import prices fell 0.2 percent.
June prices for petroleum, which is used in products ranging from gasoline to asphalt, rose 7 percent after a 4.8 percent increase in May, the report issued today showed. The June increase in oil costs was the largest since they rose 14.9 percent in February. Imported oil costs were up 80.2 percent since June 1999.
A separate Labor Department report showed that the number of Americans filing new applications for state unemployment benefits rose last week to its highest level in more than a year as temporary shutdowns at automobile plants idled thousands.
Initial jobless claims increased by 27,000, to a seasonally adjusted 319,000, in the week ended July 8, the department said.
 
http://www.nytimes.com

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

COMPANY: LABOR DEPARTMENT US DEPARTMENT OF LABOR (91%); 

ORGANIZATION: LABOR DEPARTMENT US DEPARTMENT OF LABOR (91%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%); 

SUBJECT: INTERNATIONAL TRADE AND WORLD MARKET; PRICES (FARES, FEES AND RATES); OIL (PETROLEUM) AND GASOLINE; LABOR; UNEMPLOYMENT INSURANCE; UNITED STATES ECONOMY IMPORT TRADE (95%); IMPORT PRICES (94%); OIL & GAS PRICES (92%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); PRICE INCREASES (90%); LABOR DEPARTMENTS (90%); PRICE CHANGES (90%); INFLATION (90%); PETROLEUM PRODUCTS (90%); UNEMPLOYMENT INSURANCE (86%); PETROLEUM EXPORTS & IMPORTS (78%); CONSUMER PRICE INDEX (78%); OIL & GAS EXPORTS & IMPORTS (78%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (77%); JOBLESS CLAIMS (77%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (71%); AUTOMOTIVE MFG (68%); AUTOMOBILE MFG (68%); 

LOAD-DATE: July 14, 2000



314 of 757 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: July 14, 2000

SECTION: Section C; Page 6; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 551 words

HEADLINE: THE MARKETS: STOCKS & BONDS;
Technology Shares Lift Nasdaq, but Wave Stops There

BYLINE: By ROBERT D. HERSHEY Jr. 

 BODY:
Strong quarterly reports from several companies touched off fresh buying in technology stocks yesterday, lifting the Nasdaq composite index to a second consecutive solid gain as the rest of the market mostly languished.
The Nasdaq, which climbed 75.27 points, or 1.8 percent, to 4,174.86, moved more solidly into positive territory for the year. With a gain of 2.6 percent, it has now outperformed the broader Standard & Poor's 500-stock index, which is up 1.8 percent this year. Nasdaq has surged 31.9 percent since May 23, when its springtime plunge -- a drop of 37.3 percent from its March peak -- hit bottom. 
 "The earnings announcements are giving people confidence" that Internet and other high-technology companies will sustain profit growth, said Michael D. Jamison, managing director at Brandywine Asset Management in Wilmington, Del.
Ariba, for example, jumped 27 11/16, to 13 13/16, after issuing its quarterly report, and Applied Micro Circuits, which reported late Wednesday, added 28 1/16, to 153 1/2. Motorola, a New York Stock Exchange company that also posted results on Wednesday, gained 3 3/4, to 39 1/4, as the second most actively traded stock of the day, after Cisco Systems, which rose 1 3/8, to 65 1/4.
But there was little enthusiasm for other than technology shares.
The S.& P. 500 rose 2.92 points, or 0.2 percent, to 1,495.84. The biggest upward force was WorldCom, which rose 3 7/16, to 47 15/16, after its merger with Sprint was officially ended. Pfizer was the biggest drag, falling 1 7/8, to 46 1/8.
The Dow Jones industrial average edged up 5.30 points, or 0.05 percent, to 10,788.71, its fifth consecutive rise, but is still down 6.16 percent for the year.
Drug stocks were battered again as Washington appeared to move closer to adding prescriptions to Medicare coverage. Investors fear that will bring price limitations.
Schering-Plough and Merck each lost more than 4 points, and Bristol-Myers Squibb dropped more than 3.
Investors were also bracing for government reports today on producer prices, retail sales and industrial output for June, and for a reading on consumer sentiment by the University of Michigan. Evidence that the pace of inflation has become more than a creep or that the economy is not slowing markedly would undermine an assumption that the Federal Reserve's yearlong raising of short-term interest is near an end.
"The conclusion that most people have is that the Fed is finished," said Robert Bloom, president of Friends, Ivory & Sime, a money manager. But he said he disagreed, citing, among other things, a still-taut job market in which job growth is slowing because the pool of potential workers is drying up, not because demand for them has slackened.

 	 	 		--------------------	 	
 
Treasury Prices Rise
 (By Bloomberg News) -- Bond prices rose yesterday after a report showed an increase in jobless claims and the Federal Reserve bought Treasuries in two rounds of purchases.
The price of the 10-year Treasury note rose 1 8/32, to 103 21/32. The note's yield, which moves in the opposite direction from the price, fell to 5.99 percent from 6.07 percent on Wednesday. The 30-year Treasury bond increased 2 9/32, to 106 4/32. The bond's yield fell to 5.82 percent from 5.88 percent on Wednesday.
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Graph tracks the Dow Jones industrial average over the past year. (Sources: Associated Press; Bloomberg Financial Markets)
 
Tables: "Hot & Cold" provides a look at stocks with large percentage gains and losses; "The Favorites" lists stocks held by largest number of accounts at Merrill Lynch. (Compiled from staff reports, The Associated Press, Bloomberg News, Bridge News, Dow Jones, Reuters)
 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: CSCO (NASDAQ) (58%); VZC (LSE) (56%); VZ (NYSE) (56%); MSI (NYSE) (55%); PFZ (LSE) (53%); PFE (NYSE) (53%); BMY (NYSE) (53%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS334210 TELEPHONE APPARATUS MANUFACTURING (58%); SIC3661 TELEPHONE & TELEGRAPH APPARATUS (58%); NAICS517210 WIRELESS TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (EXCEPT SATELLITE) (56%); NAICS517110 WIRED TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (56%); NAICS334220 RADIO & TELEVISION BROADCASTING & WIRELESS COMMUNICATIONS EQUIPMENT MANUFACTURING (55%); SIC3663 RADIO & TELEVISION BROADCASTING & COMMUNICATIONS EQUIPMENT (55%); NAICS325414 BIOLOGICAL PRODUCT (EXCEPT DIAGNOSTIC) MANUFACTURING (53%); NAICS325412 PHARMACEUTICAL PREPARATION MANUFACTURING (53%); NAICS325411 MEDICINAL & BOTANICAL MANUFACTURING (53%); SIC2836 BIOLOGICAL PRODUCTS, EXCEPT DIAGNOSTIC SUBSTANCES (53%); SIC2834 PHARMACEUTICAL PREPARATIONS (53%); SIC2833 MEDICINAL CHEMICALS & BOTANICAL PRODUCTS (53%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (79%); 

STATE: MICHIGAN, USA (79%); DELAWARE, USA (76%); 

CITY: WILMINGTON, DE, USA (56%); 

COMPANY: CISCO SYSTEMS INC (58%); VERIZON COMMUNICATIONS INC (56%); BRANDYWINE GLOBAL INVESTMENT MANAGEMENT LLC (56%); NEW YORK STOCK EXCHANGE LLC (55%); MOTOROLA SOLUTIONS INC (55%); PFIZER INC (53%); BRISTOL-MYERS SQUIBB CO (53%); FRIENDS IVORY & SIME PLC (50%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%); MICHIGAN, USA (79%); DELAWARE, USA (76%); WILMINGTON, DE, USA (56%); 

SUBJECT: STOCKS AND BONDS; NASDAQ COMPOSITE INDEX; DOW JONES STOCK AVERAGE; STANDARD & POOR'S 500-STOCK INDEX STOCK INDEXES (98%); INTERIM FINANCIAL RESULTS (90%); STOCK EXCHANGES (90%); BOND MARKETS (90%); BONDS (90%); PHARMACEUTICALS INDUSTRY (89%); MANUFACTURING OUTPUT (78%); LABOR SECTOR PERFORMANCE (78%); ECONOMIC NEWS (78%); COMPANY PROFITS (78%); CONSUMER CONFIDENCE (78%); PRODUCER PRICES (78%); COMPANY EARNINGS (78%); EMPLOYMENT (74%); EXECUTIVES (73%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (73%); MEDICARE (61%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (60%); RETAIL SALES (50%); 

PERSON: HERSHEY, ROBERT D JR

LOAD-DATE: July 14, 2000



315 of 757 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: July 14, 2000

SECTION: Section B; Page 1; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk 

LENGTH: 765 words

HEADLINE: The Big City;
The High Cost Of Gasoline And Meddling

BYLINE: By JOHN TIERNEY 

 BODY:
HIGH oil prices have set off a 70's revival among politicians. Senator Charles E. Schumer is calling for a national commission to avert a new energy crisis. Hillary Rodham Clinton wants to crack down on price-gouging oil companies; she and her opponent for the Senate, Rick A. Lazio, both advocate a heating oil reserve for the Northeast.
To economists, these proposals are weirdly retrograde versions of policies that failed miserably in the 1970's. But politicians know that the policies have an enduring public appeal, especially here. The energy crisis was created by following economic principles that still rule New York City. It was a brief version of our perpetual housing crisis. 
 Starting in 1971, President Nixon and Congress tried to protect energy consumers the way that New York politicians protect tenants. High prices were outlawed. The price controls on petroleum prevented refiners from passing along the rising cost of imported oil, with predictable results. They imported less oil.
As supplies tightened, the major oil companies kept supplying their own brand-name service stations but reduced shipments to independent stations. The independent dealers howled, and politicians demanded investigations and more controls. The oil companies became everyone's favorite villain, the national equivalent of New York's landlords.
Clearly only politicians could be trusted to provide energy. Congress established what Mr. Lazio and Mrs. Clinton are now proposing for heating oil: a politically controlled reserve. In September 1973, Congress set aside 5 percent of gasoline supplies to be allocated by the governor of each state.
The next month brought the Yom Kippur War, soaring oil prices and an oil embargo against America. The embargo need not have produced shortages: as long as the Arabs kept selling their oil to others, there was enough on the world market for America to buy indirectly. The oil just cost more.
But the higher price further discouraged American importers unable to pass along the increase, so inventories kept shrinking. Then the gas line panic was set off by the very 5 percent reserve program enacted to prevent it, as the economist Peter Van Doren concluded in his book analyzing the energy crisis, "Politics, Markets, and Congressional Policy Choices" (University of Michigan Press, 1991).
"Every gas station in America suddenly could count on only 95 percent of its monthly allotment," said Dr. Van Doren, the editor of Regulation, an economic journal published by the Cato Institute. "Some would run low at the end of the month, and they never knew when or if the governor would release his 5 percent share. So they began informally rationing supplies by reducing their hours or saving gasoline for their best customers."
SOON drivers, who keep their tanks half full on average, were showing up daily to top their tanks, which led to more shortages, panic and lines around the block. Dr. Van Doren said that a similar chain reaction could take place this year if Congress disrupts the market by establishing a heating oil reserve.
"Energy markets are volatile," Dr. Van Doren said. "With heating oil inventories already down, if the government starts diverting oil into a reserve, the price will rise as dealers compete for what's left. The fear of price increases could lead more homeowners to fill up their tanks in August, which would stimulate still higher prices, which could lead to more newspaper stories, which could cause panic and set off a run on heating oil."
The shortages of the 1970's inspired predictions of $100-a-barrel-oil and grandly expensive programs to develop alternative sources of energy. But what ended the energy crisis was the deregulation of petroleum prices in the late 1970's and 1980's.
Once the hated oil companies were allowed to set their own prices, they surprised their critics by providing so much cheap oil and natural gas that alternative sources of energy could not compete. There was no shortage even during another Middle East war in 1991. Prices have spiked at times, like this year, but the inflation-adjusted price of gasoline today is still a third lower than it was two decades ago.
"I guess politicians have forgotten their lesson from the energy crisis," Dr. Van Doren said. "It was the most massively messed up political intervention in any market that I'm aware of, except maybe for New York City's rent control program. It was such a mess that politicians stopped intervening for a while. But now they seem to be back, and I don't think consumers will be well served." 
http://www.nytimes.com

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

INDUSTRY: NAICS 213112 OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (90%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (93%); MICHIGAN, USA (79%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (77%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%); NEW YORK, USA (93%); MICHIGAN, USA (79%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (77%); 

SUBJECT: OIL (PETROLEUM) AND GASOLINE; PRICES (FARES, FEES AND RATES); SHORTAGES OIL & GAS PRICES (92%); GASOLINE (90%); OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (90%); HEATING OIL (90%); GASOLINE PRICES (90%); PETROLEUM PRODUCTS (90%); POLITICS (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); ENERGY & UTILITY POLICY (90%); PRICE INCREASES (89%); GAS STATIONS (89%); IMPORT TRADE (88%); PRICE MANAGEMENT (78%); PETROLEUM EXPORTS & IMPORTS (78%); IMPORT PRICES (78%); STRATEGIC FUEL RESERVES (78%); OIL & GAS EXPORTS & IMPORTS (78%); NATURAL GAS & ELECTRIC UTILITIES (77%); ECONOMIC NEWS (76%); RENTAL PROPERTY (74%); CONSUMER PROTECTION (74%); EMBARGOES & SANCTIONS (73%); LANDLORD & TENANT LAW (73%); ENERGY CONSUMPTION (73%); GASOLINE MARKETS (69%); INVESTIGATIONS (67%); RESEARCH INSTITUTES (60%); 

PERSON: LAZIO, RICK A (REPR); CLINTON, HILLARY RODHAM; SCHUMER, CHARLES E (REPR); TIERNEY, JOHN HILLARY RODHAM CLINTON (93%); CHARLES SCHUMER (88%); RICHARD NIXON (58%); 

LOAD-DATE: July 14, 2000



316 of 757 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: July 14, 2000

SECTION: Section A; Page 24; Column 1; Editorial Desk 

LENGTH: 338 words

HEADLINE: Capitalism in Vietnam

 BODY:
More than 25 years after the fall of Saigon, the United States signed a broad trade agreement yesterday with Vietnam. The accord pledges further opening of the Vietnamese economy and permits American companies there to compete on a more equal footing with other foreign businesses. Its signing marks another welcome step toward healing the wounds of a bitter and divisive war.
Vietnam has been opening its markets for more than a decade. But foreign companies operating there have been discouraged by burdensome and costly bureaucratic interference. American companies entered the Vietnamese market after the two countries established normal diplomatic relations in 1995. But with their late start and the absence, until now, of a trade agreement, American concerns have been at a disadvantage. The United States ranks only ninth among countries investing in Vietnam, and trade between the two countries is a disappointingly small $1 billion a year. 
 The new trade agreement, which still must be approved by Congress, could change that picture significantly. High-growth industries like telecommunications will be opened to freer competition. American tariffs on goods manufactured in Vietnam will be sharply reduced, permitting American companies there to produce for export to the United States market. From the Vietnamese side, the agreement represents a recognition that market reforms must go forward if Vietnam is to compete effectively with China for foreign investment.
Politically, Vietnam remains a repressive Communist dictatorship. Intellectuals calling for more democracy face isolation and house arrest, Buddhist leaders are harassed, senior Communists pressing for faster reforms face persecution. Washington rightly made progress on refugee issues and finding the remains of missing American combatants conditions for signing the trade agreement. With America now likely to play a larger economic role in Vietnam, Washington should raise its voice on behalf of persecuted Vietnamese democrats. 
http://www.nytimes.com

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Editorial

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (99%); VIET NAM (99%); VIETNAM (92%); 

CITY: HO CHI MINH CITY, VIETNAM (92%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: VIETNAM; UNITED STATES (99%); VIET NAM (99%); VIETNAM (92%); HO CHI MINH CITY, VIETNAM (92%); 

SUBJECT: EDITORIALS; UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; INTERNATIONAL TRADE AND WORLD MARKET; POLITICS AND GOVERNMENT; ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS; FREEDOM AND HUMAN RIGHTS INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (92%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); TRADE TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (90%); TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); VIETNAM WAR (90%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE LAW (90%); EXPORT TRADE (78%); FOREIGN INVESTMENT (77%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (73%); TRENDS (73%); DIPLOMATIC SERVICES (73%); FOREIGN RELATIONS (72%); REFUGEES (72%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS (72%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (72%); HUMAN RIGHTS (69%); TARIFFS & DUTIES (67%); POLITICS (65%); BUDDHISTS & BUDDHISM (50%); RELIGION (50%); 

LOAD-DATE: July 14, 2000



317 of 757 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: July 14, 2000

SECTION: Section C; Page 2; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 572 words

HEADLINE: Profit Rises 20% at G.E., Powered by Push Into Online Sales

BYLINE: By CLAUDIA H. DEUTSCH 

 BODY:
The General Electric Company, benefiting from a robust economy and its aggressive push into selling products online, said yesterday that its second-quarter earnings rose 20 percent, beating analysts' estimates.
For the quarter ended June 30, net income rose to $3.38 billion, or 34 cents a share. That compares with $2.82 billion, or 28 cents a share, in the quarter a year earlier when adjusted for a 3-for-1 stock split in April. Revenue surged 20 percent, to $32.9 billion from $27.4 billion. 
 Analysts had expected the company to earn 33 cents a share, according to First Call/Thomson Financial, which tracks company earnings.
"A strong quarter is business as usual for G.E., but this quarter was even better than normal," said Charles L. Hill, director of research at First Call.
Investors seemed unimpressed as shares of G.E., based in Fairfield, Conn., fell $1, to $52.50. Analysts, in contrast, were practically adulatory.
"Most industrial companies are experiencing no more than 5 percent organic growth, so G.E.'s results are just phenomenal," said Jeffrey Sprague, an analyst at Salomon Smith Barney.
Nicholas P. Heymann, an analyst with Prudential Securities, added: "You'd need a jeweler's glass to find a problem here."
The numbers did little to help handicap the race to succeed John F. Welch Jr., the G.E. chairman, who will retire next year. Analysts expect the heir to be one of three executives: Robert L. Nardelli, head of GE Power Systems; Jeffrey R. Immelt, head of GE Medical Systems; or W. James McNerney Jr., head of GE Aircraft Engines.
"Succession wouldn't swing on one quarter anyway, but all of the contenders had good results," said Russell A. Leavitt, an analyst at Banc of America Securities.
GE Power Systems had a particularly robust quarter, with sales up 60 percent. All makers of turbines had growth spurts as utilities continued their buying spree, but analysts say that G.E. grabbed share away from competitors like ABB and Siemens.
GE Medical nearly doubled its sales of X-ray machines, while sales of CAT scanners and ultrasound machines were up more than 35 percent. Thanks to robust sales of high-margin services, GE Aircraft Engines saw its profit rise 20 percent on a revenue increase of just 4 percent.
Even without new reality or game shows, G.E.'s television network, NBC, held onto a high share of viewers 18 to 49 -- the ones advertisers pay most to reach.
Earnings at GE Capital, meanwhile, were up 17 percent on a revenue rise of 23 percent. Analysts expect those earnings to rise even higher as GE Capital continues to de-emphasize businesses like the leasing of rail cars in favor of those featuring financial services.
"They're all over the Internet, capturing customers for services rather than for leases of depreciable assets," Mr. Heymann said.
G.E., never short of cash, will soon have even more. On Tuesday, UBS said it would buy PaineWebber for $12.4 billion. G.E. owns part of PaineWebber and should reap $1.4 billion from the deal. Gary Sheffer, a G.E. spokesman, said G.E. was not consulted on the merger and had not yet made plans for the money.
Buying back stock is one option. G.E., in fact, bought back $523 million in stock during the quarter.
But not all analysts like that idea. "Theirs isn't a cheap stock," said Mr. Nelson of ING Barings. "They should invest in Internet companies whose stories they believe."
 
http://www.nytimes.com

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: GNE (PAR) (96%); GEC (LSE) (96%); GE (SWX) (96%); GE (NYSE) (96%); BAC (NYSE) (56%); BAC (LSE) (56%); 8648 (TSE) (56%); SIN (SWX) (52%); SIE (LSE) (52%); SIE (FRA) (52%); SIE (BIT) (52%); SI (NYSE) (52%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS336412 AIRCRAFT ENGINE & ENGINE PARTS MANUFACTURING (96%); NAICS335222 HOUSEHOLD REFRIGERATOR & HOME FREEZER MANUFACTURING (96%); NAICS335210 SMALL ELECTRICAL APPLIANCE MANUFACTURING (96%); NAICS515120 TELEVISION BROADCASTING (82%); SIC4833 TELEVISION BROADCASTING STATIONS (82%); NAICS335312 MOTOR & GENERATOR MANUFACTURING (67%); SIC3621 MOTORS & GENERATORS (67%); SIC7372 PREPACKAGED SOFTWARE (66%); NAICS339113 SURGICAL APPLIANCE & SUPPLIES MANUFACTURING (63%); NAICS339112 SURGICAL & MEDICAL INSTRUMENT MANUFACTURING (63%); NAICS334517 IRRADIATION APPARATUS MANUFACTURING (63%); NAICS334516 ANALYTICAL LABORATORY INSTRUMENT MANUFACTURING (63%); NAICS334510 ELECTROMEDICAL & ELECTROTHERAPEUTIC APPARATUS MANUFACTURING (63%); NAICS325414 BIOLOGICAL PRODUCT (EXCEPT DIAGNOSTIC) MANUFACTURING (63%); NAICS325413 IN-VITRO DIAGNOSTIC SUBSTANCE MANUFACTURING (63%); NAICS325412 PHARMACEUTICAL PREPARATION MANUFACTURING (63%); NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (56%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (56%); SIC6712 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (56%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (55%); NAICS335110 ELECTRIC LAMP BULB & PART MANUFACTURING (52%); NAICS334513 INSTRUMENTS & RELATED PRODUCTS MANUFACTURING FOR MEASURING, DISPLAYING & CONTROLLING INDUSTRIAL PROCESS VARIABLES (52%); NAICS334413 SEMICONDUCTOR & RELATED DEVICE MANUFACTURING (52%); NAICS334210 TELEPHONE APPARATUS MANUFACTURING (52%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (78%); 

STATE: CONNECTICUT, USA (78%); 

COMPANY: GENERAL ELECTRIC CO GENERAL ELECTRIC CO (96%); NBC UNIVERSAL INC (82%); THOMSON FINANCIAL (70%); GE POWER SYSTEMS (67%); GE MEDICAL SYSTEMS HEALTHCARE SOLUTIONS (66%); GE HEALTHCARE (63%); BANK OF AMERICA CORP (56%); SMITH BARNEY HOLDINGS INC (55%); SIEMENS AG (52%); 

ORGANIZATION: GENERAL ELECTRIC CO

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (78%); CONNECTICUT, USA (78%); 

SUBJECT: COMPANY REPORTS INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (91%); COMPANY EARNINGS (91%); INTERIM FINANCIAL RESULTS (90%); NATURAL GAS & ELECTRIC UTILITIES (89%); ELECTRIC POWER PLANTS (89%); IRRADIATION APPARATUS MFG (89%); SALES & SELLING (78%); SALES FIGURES (78%); ELECTRICITY TRANSMISSION & DISTRIBUTION (78%); TELEVISION RATINGS & SHARES (77%); BANKING & FINANCE (77%); STOCK SPLITS (77%); MARKET SHARE (77%); JEWELRY (70%); MEDICAL ULTRASOUND (69%); DIAGNOSTIC IMAGING (68%); AIRCRAFT ENGINES (68%); TELEVISION INDUSTRY (64%); NETWORK TELEVISION (63%); TRAINS (63%); TURBINE MFG (58%); COMPUTER SCANNERS (50%); RAILROAD ROLLING STOCK (50%); 

PERSON: DEUTSCH, CLAUDIA H JAMES MCNERNEY (58%); JACK WELCH (58%); BOB NARDELLI (58%); JEFFREY IMMELT (58%); 

LOAD-DATE: July 14, 2000



318 of 757 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: July 14, 2000

SECTION: Section A; Page 23; Column 2; National Desk 

LENGTH: 642 words

HEADLINE: THE 2000 CAMPAIGN: THE PRESIDENT;
Clinton Gets Hero's Welcome At Convention of N.A.A.C.P.

BYLINE: By MARC LACEY 

DATELINE: BALTIMORE, July 13

 BODY:
President Clinton strongly criticized Republicans today for blocking his African-American and Hispanic judicial nominees, and he urged delegates to the annual convention of the N.A.A.C.P. to elect Vice President Al Gore to ensure that the courts remained diverse.
"One of the most important responsibilities of the next president is appointing judges," said Mr. Clinton, who predicted that over the next four years there would be two to four Supreme Court vacancies, more than a score of Court of Appeals vacancies and more than 100 openings on federal district courts. 
 Mr. Clinton called it "outrageous" that the United States Court of Appeals for the Fourth Circuit, which has the highest percentage of African-American residents of any judicial area, is without a single black judge. He singled out for criticism Senator Jesse Helms, Republican of North Carolina, whom the president blamed for blocking his nominees.
Mr. Clinton also said the presumptive Republican presidential nominee, Gov. George W. Bush of Texas, had remained silent when Republicans in that state blocked a Hispanic nominee, Enrique Moreno, to the United States Court of Appeals for the Fifth Circuit.
"The quality of justice suffers when highly qualified women and minority candidates, fully vetted, fully supported by the American Bar Association, are denied the opportunity to serve for partisan political reasons," the president said.
Mr. Clinton took a break from the Middle East peace talks today to make his final address as president to the National Association for the Advancement of Colored People, which helped turn out black voters for Mr. Clinton in 1992 and 1996.
"I had to come to Baltimore today," Mr. Clinton said, likening "the spirit of freedom and reconciliation" of the N.A.A.C.P. with what he is seeking in the Middle East.
When he took the podium, Mr. Clinton quickly transformed from peacemaker to politician.
He praised Mr. Bush for not avoiding the N.A.A.C.P convention, as the Republican presidential nominee in 1996, Bob Dole, had done. But Mr. Clinton said he thought Mr. Gore had delivered the better speech of the two presidential contenders and would make the better president.
Members of the audience clapped politely when Mr. Bush spoke on Monday. They jumped to their feet after Mr. Gore's address on Wednesday. But they saved a hero's welcome for Mr. Clinton today.
"We've had a lot of vice presidents, a lot of vice presidents made great presidents -- Thomas Jefferson, Teddy Roosevelt, Harry Truman, Lyndon Johnson," Mr. Clinton said. "But we've never had a vice president that did so much good as vice president as Al Gore -- never, not ever in the history of the country."
As Mr. Gore had done in his speech on Wednesday, Mr. Clinton quoted from the Bible in his remarks. Citing Ecclesiastes 11:25 -- "In the day of prosperity, there is forgetfulness of affliction" -- the president said this period of economic growth is the ideal time to focus on the less fortunate.
He reminded the audience of his first visit to an N.A.A.C.P. convention, in 1992, when he was governor of Arkansas and Mr. Gore was a senator from Tennessee.
"I pledged then -- and I want to quote it exactly, I don't want to miss a word -- I pledged you 'an administration that looks like America; one that knows the promise and the pain of this country; one that will rebuild, reunite and renew the American spirit,' " Mr. Clinton said. "I think together we have honored that pledge."
The N.A.A.C.P. is a nonpartisan organization, but the political preferences of those in the audience were clear. They jumped to their feet, applauded loudly and cried out as the president spoke.
"We don't endorse politicians," said Julian Bond, the chairman of the N.A.A.C.P. "But we know how to recognize our friends, and this president is our friend."
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photo: President Clinton acknowledged the cheers he received yesterday at the N.A.A.C.P. convention in Baltimore. (Associated Press)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (96%); MIDDLE EAST (91%); 

STATE: NORTH CAROLINA, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: NATIONAL ASSN FOR THE ADVANCEMENT OF COLORED PEOPLE NATIONAL ASSOCIATION FOR FEMALE EXECUTIVES (54%); NATIONAL ASSOCIATION FOR THE ADVANCEMENT OF COLORED PEOPLE (94%); AMERICAN BAR ASSOCIATION (55%); AMERICAN BAR ASSOCIATION (55%); 

ORGANIZATION: NATIONAL ASSN FOR THE ADVANCEMENT OF COLORED PEOPLE NATIONAL ASSOCIATION FOR THE ADVANCEMENT OF COLORED PEOPLE (94%); AMERICAN BAR ASSOCIATION (55%); AMERICAN BAR ASSOCIATION (55%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (96%); MIDDLE EAST (91%); NORTH CAROLINA, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: COURTS; APPOINTMENTS AND EXECUTIVE CHANGES; JUDGES; BLACKS; HISPANIC-AMERICANS; PRESIDENTIAL ELECTION OF 2000; ELECTION ISSUES AFRICAN AMERICANS (91%); APPEALS COURTS (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); HISPANIC AMERICANS (90%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); CONFERENCES & CONVENTIONS (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (89%); HUMAN RIGHTS ORGANIZATIONS (87%); ELECTIONS (79%); APPOINTMENTS (79%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (79%); SUPREME COURTS (78%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (78%); PLATFORMS & ISSUES (78%); JUDGES (77%); TALKS & MEETINGS (74%); VOTERS & VOTING (74%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (73%); PEACE PROCESS (67%); BUSINESS & PROFESSIONAL ASSOCIATIONS (65%); 

PERSON: CLINTON, BILL (PRES); LACEY, MARC BILL CLINTON (93%); AL GORE (89%); GEORGE W BUSH (59%); 

LOAD-DATE: July 14, 2000



319 of 757 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: July 14, 2000

SECTION: Section C; Page 1; Column 2; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 1016 words

HEADLINE: General Mills Is in Talks to Buy Pillsbury Division of Diageo

BYLINE: By CONSTANCE L. HAYS 

 BODY:
In a move that could mean the corporate union of Betty Crocker and the Pillsbury Doughboy, General Mills Inc. said yesterday that it was in talks to acquire the Pillsbury division of Diageo P.L.C.
While confirming the talks, neither side would give details on a proposed price for Pillsbury. Analysts said it could end up at $9 billion to $11 billion, with Diageo retaining a minority stake. They said the deal could be completed by early next week. 
 General Mills is attracted to Pillsbury's refrigerated-dough business, which includes ready-to-bake cookies and biscuits. Together with the General Mills yogurt business, which consists of Yoplait and Colombo yogurt, it would create a behemoth with $1.7 billion in sales in that crucial corner of the supermarket.
"They would have a refrigerated division that is second only to Kraft, and maybe the leader in terms of growth potential," said John M. McMillin, a food stocks analyst for Prudential Securities.
Still, another analyst said that while there would be immediate cost savings by combining the two companies, both of which are based in Minneapolis, it was not clear that the merger would increase General Mills' sales in the long run. "The biggest hurdle for General Mills would be convincing investors that it could accelerate top-line growth," said Andrew Lazar of Lehman Brothers.
The announcement portends the latest in a series of pairings between food companies, all intended to increase the size and alter the balance of power between the companies and grocery retailers. In recent years, consolidation among supermarket chains has left the industry with a handful of large multinational players, leaving food makers scrambling for position. The prevailing thinking, that larger food companies make better global suppliers, has led to mergers like the $20.3 billion proposed acquisition by Unilever of Bestfoods, which was announced last month, and the $14.9 billion proposed purchase of Nabisco by Philip Morris.
It also signals further revision of the Diageo corporate structure. Last month, the company said it would spin off 20 percent of its Burger King holdings, with the goal of eventually spinning off the whole enterprise. Paul S. Walsh, Diageo's chief operating officer who formerly led Pillsbury, has said he wants to focus the company on its Guinness beer brand and liquor business.
Diageo was formed in 1997 when Grand Metropolitan P.L.C. merged with Guinness; the company changed its name the same year. Diageo is the largest global player in liquor, with about 9 percent of the market; without Burger King and Pillsbury, its holdings would consist solely of alcoholic beverages.
A sale of Pillsbury "would open up other options," said a Diageo spokeswoman, Kathryn B. Partridge, adding that the company was likely to purchase brands "within the beverage-alcohol category." With the sale of Seagram to Vivendi last month, several brands are up for sale, including Chivas Regal and Martell cognac.
General Mills makes and markets breakfast cereals, including Lucky Charms, Cheerios and Cocoa Puffs. Besides Yoplait and Colombo yogurt, it recently scored a major hit with Go-Gurt, a yogurt aimed at children that is packaged in a slender portable tube that requires no spoon. So successful is Go-Gurt, in fact, that an adult version is being planned as well.
The company's Betty Crocker line includes cake mixes as well as Hamburger Helper and Suddenly Salad. General Mills also makes Gold Medal Flour and Lloyd's packaged barbecue, as well as snacks like Gushers and Fruit by the Foot.
Pillsbury's lineup, which includes the Old El Paso line of Mexican food and Green Giant frozen vegetables, overlaps in several areas, particularly flour and cake mixes.
It was unclear yesterday whether combining with General Mills would raise antitrust issues. A spokesman for the Federal Trade Commission would not comment on the proposed deal. The talks were reported in yesterday's Wall Street Journal.
In recent years, General Mills has won praise from Wall Street as the company steadily gained market share for its cereals at the expense of Kellogg. Other General Mills products also succeeded, in large part because of strong marketing and close identification with consumer desires.
"They could bring to bear their innovation and consumer research to bring out very focused products that consumers like," said Erika Gritman Long, an analyst for J. P. Morgan. "They could improve the operating margins of the existing businesses, just by running them well."
Pillsbury, on the other hand, has been perceived as an underachiever by the profit-hungry investment community. "Pillsbury is not as efficient," said Jaine Mehring, an analyst for Salomon Smith Barney.
A merger would probably mean job cuts in Minneapolis, where both companies are based. "As with any merger there will be some consolidation of jobs and things like that, and I assume some executive-level jobs will be lost," said Thomas Stinson, the Minnesota state economist. But he predicted that the packaged-food sector would grow as a result. "In general, it will be beneficial for this state," he said.
Some analysts also said they expected General Mills to sell some Pillsbury businesses, including Green Giant frozen vegetables and Progresso soups, that do not fit neatly into the existing lineup.
The deal, if it goes through, may set up one more. The combination of General Mills and Pillsbury may make General Mills a more enticing target for another company, Ms. Long said. "It would reduce their exposure in cereal from 45 percent to about 25 percent," she said, noting that cereal is a difficult market lately. "And Haagen Dazs would make General Mills even more attractive to Nestle than it already is."
Other companies that are considered likely merger candidates include H. J. Heinz, the Campbell Soup Company and the Kellogg Company.
Shares of General Mills rose 25 cents, to $37, while Diageo fell 12.5 pence, to 599 pence, in London. Diageo's American depository receipts fell 56.25 cents, to $36.3125.
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Charts: "Adding to the Menu"
If General Mills combines with Pillsbury, the food division of Diageo, the new company would be the world's fourth-largest packaged goods company.
 
FOOD SALES FOR LATEST FISCAL YEAR
 
Nestle -- $35.1
Kraft/Nabisco* -- 34.9
Unilever/Bestfoods* -- 32.4
General Mills/Pillsbury -- 12.6
PepsiCo -- 11.6
Groupe Danone -- 9.8
Conagra/Int'l Home Foods* -- 9.6
H.J. Heinz -- 9.4
Sara Lee -- 8.0
Kellogg -- 7.0
 
*Pending mergers
(Source: PaineWebber)(pg. C1)
 
"Shopping for Baked Goods"
General Mills is in talks about acquiring Diageo's Pillsbury division. The unit could fetch $9 billion to $11 billion, according to analysts, and Diageo might retain a stake in Pillsbury as part of the deal.
 
DIAGEO
Created from the 1997 merger of Guinness and Grand Metropolitan, the company had fiscal 1999 sales of $18.6 billion and employs some 80,000.
 
UNITED DISTILLERS AND VINTNERS -- $7.79 BILLION
World's largest wine and spirits company. Brands include Baileys, Gordon's, J&B, Johnnie Walker, Jose Cuervo, Moet & Chandon, Smirnoff and Tanqueray.
 
PILLSBURY -- $5.94 BILLION
Besides the dough and baked goods of the flagship brand, Pillsbury brands include Haagen-Dazs ice cream, Green Giant vegetables, Progresso soups and Old El Paso Mexican-style foods.
 
GUINNESS -- $3.53 BILLION
Guinness is brewed in 50 countries and sold in 150; other beers include Harp and Red Stripe.
 
BURGER KING -- $1.38 BILLION
The world's second-largest hamburger chain has more than 10,500 restaurants in 58 countries.
 
GENERAL MILLS
The cereal maker reported $6.7 billion in sales for the year ending May 28, 2000. Based in Minneapolis, it employs about 10,700.
 
BIG G CEREALS
The company sold $2.6 billion of brands like Wheaties, Cheerios, Trix, Total, Lucky Charms and Cocoa Puffs in fiscal 2000.
 
MIX PRODUCTS AND FLOUR
Brands include Betty Crocker and Bisquick mixes, Gold Medal Flour and Hamburger Helper.
 
SNACKS AND YOGURT
Yoplait and Colombo yogurt brands; snacks include Pop Secret popcorn, Nature Valley bars and Fruit Roll-Ups.
 
JOINT VENTURES AND ORGANIC FOODS
Has European joint ventures in cereals and snacks with Nestle and PepsiCo; recently added organic brands Cascadian Farms and Sunrise.
 
(Sources: company reports; Hoover's)(pg. C17)
 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: DGE (PAR) (97%); DGE (LSE) (97%); DEO (NYSE) (97%); GIS (NYSE) (94%); BKW (NYSE) (66%); UNIA (AMS) (53%); UNA (BIT) (53%); UNA (AMS) (53%); UN (NYSE) (53%); ULVR (LSE) (53%); UL (NYSE) (53%); VIV (PAR) (50%); VIV (BIT) (50%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS312140 DISTILLERIES (97%); NAICS312120 BREWERIES (97%); SIC2085 DISTILLED & BLENDED LIQUORS (97%); SIC2082 MALT BEVERAGES (97%); NAICS311919 OTHER SNACK FOOD MANUFACTURING (94%); NAICS311824 DRY PASTA, DOUGH & FLOUR MIXES MANUFACTURING FROM PURCHASED FLOUR (94%); NAICS311230 BREAKFAST CEREAL MANUFACTURING (94%); NAICS311211 FLOUR MILLING (94%); SIC2099 OTHER FOOD PREPARATIONS (94%); SIC2043 CEREAL BREAKFAST FOODS (94%); SIC2041 FLOUR & OTHER GRAIN MILL PRODUCTS (94%); NAICS722513 LIMITED-SERVICE RESTAURANTS (66%); SIC5812 EATING PLACES (66%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (54%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (54%); NAICS325620 TOILET PREPARATION MANUFACTURING (53%); NAICS325611 SOAP & OTHER DETERGENT MANUFACTURING (53%); NAICS311412 FROZEN SPECIALTY FOOD MANUFACTURING (53%); NAICS311411 FROZEN FRUIT, JUICE & VEGETABLE MANUFACTURING (53%); NAICS311225 FATS & OILS REFINING & BLENDING (53%); NAICS517210 WIRELESS TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (EXCEPT SATELLITE) (50%); NAICS515120 TELEVISION BROADCASTING (50%); NAICS512110 MOTION PICTURE & VIDEO PRODUCTION (50%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); 

STATE: MINNESOTA, USA (92%); 

CITY: MINNEAPOLIS, MN, USA (65%); 

COMPANY: GENERAL MILLS INC; PILLSBURY CO; DIAGEO PLC DIAGEO PLC (97%); GENERAL MILLS INC (94%); BURGER KING WORLDWIDE INC (66%); LEHMAN BROTHERS HOLDINGS INC (54%); UNILEVER PLC/NV (53%); VIVENDI (50%); 

ORGANIZATION: GENERAL MILLS INC; PILLSBURY CO; DIAGEO PLC

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%); MINNESOTA, USA (92%); MINNEAPOLIS, MN, USA (65%); 

SUBJECT: FOOD; MERGERS, ACQUISITIONS AND DIVESTITURES FOOD INDUSTRY (91%); FOOD & BEVERAGE (90%); MERGERS (89%); DEMERGERS & SPINOFFS (89%); BUSINESS FORECASTS (89%); FAST FOOD (88%); FOOD & BEVERAGE TRADE (88%); ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGES (86%); FOOD MFG (78%); COMPANY NAME CHANGES (78%); ACQUISITIONS (77%); BEVERAGE INDUSTRY (77%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (77%); GROCERY STORES & SUPERMARKETS (75%); EXECUTIVES (73%); BEVERAGE PRODUCTS (70%); ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGE INDUSTRY (69%); RETAILERS (69%); BEER & ALE (64%); 

PERSON: HAYS, CONSTANCE L

LOAD-DATE: July 14, 2000



320 of 757 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: July 14, 2000

SECTION: Section C; Page 2; Column 2; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 528 words

HEADLINE: Class-Action Bias Suits Name Two Insurers

BYLINE: By JOSEPH B. TREASTER 

 BODY:
The two largest American life insurance companies, MetLife and Prudential Insurance of America, have been accused in two class-action lawsuits of charging their black customers higher premiums for life insurance coverage than they charged white customers.
The lawsuits, the latest of several on similar grounds, were filed in Federal District Courts in New York and Newark, where the companies have their headquarters. The companies said they stopped using race as a factor in life insurance sales about 50 years ago. 
 Both companies said that some of these policies remained in effect, but that they had stopped collecting premiums on them in the early 1980's.
"This is in no way reflective of MetLife's business today," said Kevin Foley, a spokesman for MetLife, which is based in New York.
Prudential said through a spokesman, Robert DeFillippo, that while race had once been a factor in the company's sales, it was now "completely unacceptable."
Less than three weeks ago, American General, the fourth-largest life insurer, agreed to pay restitution of $206 million to settle a class-action lawsuit and claims from insurance regulators that for decades the company charged black customers higher premiums than whites and that it often collected premiums from customers of all races that exceeded the value of their insurance policies.
Florida is investigating four other companies for similar practices.
The focus of the lawsuits and investigation has been on policies intended to cover burial expenses. Death benefits were often a few hundred or a few thousand dollars.
Insurance regulators say more than 30 companies sold these policies, and they suspect that many discriminated against blacks. For years, insurance actuarial tables were based on the assumption that blacks had shorter life spans than whites. Now, actuaries and sociologists say that poverty rather than race led to shorter lives.
The two suits were first reported in The Wall Street Journal.
Prudential said that over several decades it had been increasing the death benefits on policies for black customers who had paid higher premiums, or had been refunding the higher premiums. MetLife insisted that it never had separate rates for blacks and whites, but that being black was regarded as an additional risk factor.
"If you were rated a high risk, white or black, you paid the same price and got the same benefits," Mr. Foley, the MetLife spokesman, said. He said he did not know whether the high-risk category was made up of more blacks than whites.
John Stoia, a partner in the law firm of Milberg Weiss Bershad Hynes & Lerach, who has been working on both lawsuits with lawyers at several other firms, said he hoped to get refunds or increased death benefits for customers who paid higher rates for coverage.
Mr. Foley of MetLife said his company would "defend itself against the idea that MetLife was deceitful, that it defrauded African-American policyholders or hid from them any facts necessary for them to make their purchases." He added, "There was no economic loss on the part of any African-American policyholder who bought a policy from us."
 
http://www.nytimes.com

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: MET (NYSE) (95%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS524130 REINSURANCE CARRIERS (95%); NAICS524126 DIRECT PROPERTY & CASUALTY INSURANCE CARRIERS (95%); NAICS524113 DIRECT LIFE INSURANCE CARRIERS (95%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (95%); SIC6371 PENSION, HEALTH & WELFARE FUNDS (95%); SIC6331 FIRE, MARINE, & CASUALTY INSURANCE (95%); SIC6311 LIFE INSURANCE (95%); NAICS541110 OFFICES OF LAWYERS (81%); SIC8111 LEGAL SERVICES (81%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (93%); 

COMPANY: METROPOLITAN LIFE INSURANCE CO; PRUDENTIAL INSURANCE CO METLIFE INC (95%); MILBERG LLP (81%); INSURANCE OF AMERICA AGENCY INC (58%); AMERICAN LIFE INSURANCE CO (58%); WALL STREET JOURNAL (53%); 

ORGANIZATION: METROPOLITAN LIFE INSURANCE CO; PRUDENTIAL INSURANCE CO

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%); NEW YORK, USA (93%); 

SUBJECT: LIFE INSURANCE; SALES; PRICES (FARES, FEES AND RATES); BLACKS; DISCRIMINATION; SUITS AND LITIGATION LIFE INSURANCE (95%); SUITS & CLAIMS (95%); INSURANCE (94%); LITIGATION (93%); CLASS ACTIONS (92%); INSURANCE PREMIUMS (90%); RACE & RACISM (89%); INSURANCE REGULATION & POLICY (89%); INSURANCE POLICIES (89%); ACTUARIAL SERVICES (89%); INVESTIGATIONS (86%); LAWYERS (78%); INSURANCE COVERAGE (78%); FRAUD & FINANCIAL CRIME (78%); INSURANCE REGULATORY BODIES (78%); DISCRIMINATION (78%); AFRICAN AMERICANS (78%); SETTLEMENT & COMPROMISE (73%); LIFE EXPECTANCY (69%); LEGAL SERVICES (63%); SOCIOLOGY (50%); 

PERSON: TREASTER, JOSEPH B KEVIN FOLEY (70%); 

LOAD-DATE: July 14, 2000



321 of 757 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: July 14, 2000

SECTION: Section C; Page 1; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk

LENGTH: 513 words

HEADLINE: BUSINESS DIGEST

 BODY:

WorldCom and Sprint End Their Agreement to Merge
WorldCom and Sprint officially abandoned their $115 billion merger, bowing to pressure from regulators, who were concerned that the creation of such a large telecommunications company would stifle competition.
Far from dampening the outlook for ever-larger communications concerns, the dissolution of the agreement fueled speculation about consolidation among large telecommunications companies, with both WorldCom and Sprint being mentioned as potential takeover targets for foreign companies. Shares in WorldCom rose $3.4375, to $47.9375, while shares of Sprint increased 68.75 cents, to $48. Page C5. 

Two Insurers Face Bias Lawsuits
MetLife and Prudential Insurance have been accused in two class-action lawsuits of charging their black customers higher premiums for life insurance than white customers. The companies said that they stopped using race as a factor about 50 years ago but that some of these remained in effect. They said they stopped collecting premiums on the policies in the early 1980's. C2.
 
Nasdaq Outpaces Dow and S.& P.
Strong quarterly reports touched off new buying in technology stocks, lifting the Nasdaq composite index 75.27 points, or 1.8 percent, to 4,174.86. The rest of the market mostly languished as the Standard & Poor's 500-stock index rose 2.92 points, or 0.2 percent, to 1,495.84, and the Dow Jones industrial average edged up 5.30 points, or 0.05 percent, to 10,788.71. C6.
 
Senate Rejects Hold on Gas Tax
The Senate voted against suspending the federal gasoline tax through the November election, calling the measure a calibrated attempt to cozy up to voters at the expense of the nation's roads and highways. A1.
 
Tyco Says S.E.C. Inquiry Is Over
The Securities and Exchange Commission has ended its investigation of Tyco International's accounting practices without taking action against the company, Tyco said. The news helped lift shares of Tyco $3, to $51.50. C7.
 
G.E. Earnings Increase by 20%
General Electric, benefiting from a robust economy and its aggressive push into selling products online, said that its second-quarter earnings rose 20 percent, beating Wall Street projections by a penny. C2.
 
Advertising Bursts Into Song
Television commercials that feature elaborate musical production numbers, long out of favor on Madison Avenue, are making a comeback. Big advertisers, like the Gap, are offering viewers minimusicals with maxi-casts for products as disparate as books, shampoo, apparel, soft drinks, cleaners and credit cards. Stuart Elliott: Advertising. C5.
 
Price of Imported Goods Up 0.8%
The price of goods imported to the United States rose 0.8 percent last month, the fastest pace since February, driven by a jump in oil costs, government figures showed. C17.
 
Ford to Take a $3.3 Billion Charge
Ford will take $3.3 billion in charges for costs of spinning off its Visteon parts unit and reorganizing its European business, resulting in its first quarterly loss since the end of 1992. C17.
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photo
 
Chart: "YESTERDAY"
Dow industrials -- 10,788.71 up 5.30
Nasdaq composite -- 4,174.86 up 75.27
30-yr. Treasury yield -- 5.82% down 0.06
The euro -- $0.9372 down 0.0046
The dollar -- 108.19yen down 0.08
 
Graphs: "TODAY" shows Producer Prices, Retail Sales and Industrial Production since Dec.
 
Graph tracks Worldcom share price since Thurs.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Summary

TICKER: VZC (LSE) (92%); VZ (NYSE) (92%); S (NYSE) (91%); TYC (NYSE) (53%); GNE (PAR) (52%); GEC (LSE) (52%); GE (SWX) (52%); GE (NYSE) (52%); VC (NYSE) (50%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS517210 WIRELESS TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (EXCEPT SATELLITE) (92%); NAICS517110 WIRED TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (92%); NAICS561621 SECURITY SYSTEMS SERVICES (EXCEPT LOCKSMITHS) (53%); NAICS339113 SURGICAL APPLIANCE & SUPPLIES MANUFACTURING (53%); NAICS335931 CURRENT-CARRYING WIRING DEVICE MANUFACTURING (53%); SIC3669 COMMUNICATIONS EQUIPMENT, NEC (53%); NAICS336412 AIRCRAFT ENGINE & ENGINE PARTS MANUFACTURING (52%); NAICS335222 HOUSEHOLD REFRIGERATOR & HOME FREEZER MANUFACTURING (52%); NAICS335210 SMALL ELECTRICAL APPLIANCE MANUFACTURING (52%); NAICS336390 OTHER MOTOR VEHICLE PARTS MANUFACTURING (50%); NAICS336350 MOTOR VEHICLE TRANSMISSION & POWER TRAIN PARTS MANUFACTURING (50%); NAICS336330 MOTOR VEHICLE STEERING & SUSPENSION COMPONENTS (EXCEPT SPRING) MANUFACTURING (50%); NAICS336320 MOTOR VEHICLE ELECTRICAL & ELECTRONIC EQUIPMENT MANUFACTURING (50%); NAICS327211 FLAT GLASS MANUFACTURING (50%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (79%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (92%); 

COMPANY: VERIZON COMMUNICATIONS INC (92%); SPRINT NEXTEL CORP (91%); TYCO INTERNATIONAL LTD (53%); GENERAL ELECTRIC CO (52%); VISTEON CORP (50%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%); NEW YORK, USA (92%); 

SUBJECT: NO INDEX TERMS FROM NYTIMES STOCK INDEXES (95%); MERGERS (91%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS SERVICES (90%); NEWS BRIEFS (90%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS (90%); SUITS & CLAIMS (90%); IMPORT TRADE (89%); STOCK EXCHANGES (89%); SECURITIES LAW (89%); COMPANY EARNINGS (89%); INTERIM FINANCIAL RESULTS (87%); INVESTIGATIONS (87%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (86%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING (85%); INSURANCE (78%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (78%); BANKING & FINANCE AGENCIES (78%); TAKEOVERS (78%); PRICE INCREASES (76%); FINANCIAL RATINGS (76%); INSURANCE PREMIUMS (75%); CLASS ACTIONS (75%); LIFE INSURANCE (75%); ACCOUNTING (73%); TAXES & TAXATION (72%); SALES & SELLING (72%); LITIGATION (70%); ELECTIONS (69%); GASOLINE (69%); OIL & GAS PRICES (69%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (69%); FUEL TAX (69%); MUSIC INDUSTRY (66%); MUSICAL THEATER (60%); TELEVISION ADVERTISING (60%); IMPORT PRICES (60%); SOFT DRINKS (50%); 

LOAD-DATE: July 14, 2000



322 of 757 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: July 14, 2000

SECTION: Section A; Page 24; Column 1; Editorial Desk 

LENGTH: 556 words

HEADLINE: Democratic Harmony

 BODY:
The formal endorsement of Vice President Al Gore by former Senator Bill Bradley of New Jersey yesterday was predictable, but Mr. Gore had reason to savor it. Although the vice president defeated Mr. Bradley in every state primary early this year, his campaign since then has been strangely lethargic. The polls show Mr. Gore with only 70 percent support among Democrats, while Gov. George W. Bush has 90 percent support among Republicans. Though Mr. Bradley did poorly in the primary season, he might give Mr. Gore a lift among young people and independents.
Mr. Bradley's endorsement also marks a shift toward the convention season and the vice-presidential selections. As political theater, his performance at a boisterous rally in Wisconsin was far different from the awkward endorsement of Mr. Bush in May by Senator John McCain, who jokingly compared the exercise to taking medicine. In both cases, how Mr. McCain and Mr. Bradley handle themselves for the rest of the year will be watched by party professionals as a sign of whether either will be able to pick up the pieces and run again if their nominees are defeated in November. 
 The Bush campaign was quick to try to recycle the former New Jersey senator's earlier criticism of Mr. Gore, particularly the charges that Mr. Gore was not telling the truth about his record. But there is a long history of challengers having to eat their words at convention time with little ill effect. It was Mr. Bush's father, after all, who had to live down his description of Ronald Reagan's tax-cut plans as "voodoo economics." Both Mr. Bradley and Senator McCain have ruled themselves out for the vice-presidential nominations of their parties, and there does not seem to be a rush to make them change their minds.
Only two weeks before the opening of the Republican National Convention in Philadelphia, speculation is rampant over Mr. Bush's choices. The governor said yesterday he had a short list. The guessing has centered on three governors -- Frank Keating of Oklahoma, George Pataki of New York and Tom Ridge of Pennsylvania -- as well as Elizabeth Dole and Senator Chuck Hagel of Nebraska. Mr. Pataki and Mr. Ridge are pro-choice Catholics who might stir up an unwelcome furor among anti-abortion forces at the convention.
On the Democratic side, Mr. Gore is said to be looking closely at Senators Evan Bayh of Indiana and Bob Graham of Florida, as well as Gov. James Hunt of North Carolina. But because of the vice president's weak standing among the Democratic faithful, he is said to be considering the House minority leader, Representative Richard Gephardt of Missouri. Some party insiders say Mr. Gephardt, more than anyone else, would put Missouri in the Democratic column and expand Mr. Gore's support generally within the Democratic base, especially in the industrial Midwest. But such thinking also highlights one of Mr. Gore's problems. At this point, he should be thinking of strategies for reaching beyond Democrats to independents and Republicans and not have to worry about support among Democrats.
This has been a slow season for the campaign. But it is worth remembering that the primary elections were a time of unusually intense public interest. Our guess is that the conventions will reawaken the public's appetite for a combative fall campaign. 
http://www.nytimes.com

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Editorial

LEGISLATION: 106 S. 100 THE SEPARATE ENROLLMENT AND LINE ITEM VETO ACT OF 1999 (90%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); 

STATE: PENNSYLVANIA, USA (92%); INDIANA, USA (79%); NORTH CAROLINA, USA (79%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); MIDWEST USA (79%); NEBRASKA, USA (79%); WISCONSIN, USA (79%); 

CITY: PHILADELPHIA, PA, USA (53%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%); PENNSYLVANIA, USA (92%); INDIANA, USA (79%); NORTH CAROLINA, USA (79%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); MIDWEST USA (79%); NEBRASKA, USA (79%); WISCONSIN, USA (79%); PHILADELPHIA, PA, USA (53%); 

SUBJECT: PRESIDENTIAL ELECTION OF 2000; ENDORSEMENTS; EDITORIALS PRIMARY ELECTIONS (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2012 (89%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (89%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (89%); POLITICAL PARTY CONVENTIONS (89%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (89%); GOVERNORS (89%); ELECTIONS (78%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (78%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (78%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (77%); US REPUBLICAN NATIONAL CONVENTIONS (76%); CONFERENCES & CONVENTIONS (75%); POLLS & SURVEYS (72%); ABORTION (60%); RELIGION (60%); CATHOLICS & CATHOLICISM (50%); 

PERSON: GORE, AL (VICE PRES); BRADLEY, BILL AL GORE (92%); RONALD REAGAN (79%); GEORGE W BUSH (79%); CHUCK HAGEL (79%); JOHN MCCAIN (78%); EVAN BAYH (58%); ELIZABETH DOLE (58%); 

LOAD-DATE: July 14, 2000



323 of 757 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: July 14, 2000

SECTION: Section B; Page 1; Column 5; Metropolitan Desk 

LENGTH: 942 words

HEADLINE: $12 Billion For Schools In New Jersey

BYLINE: By DAVID M. HALBFINGER 

DATELINE: TRENTON, July 13

 BODY:
In a surprisingly swift climax to a long-running battle over how to rebuild New Jersey's crumbling and overcrowded schools, the Assembly gave final approval today to the largest construction program in state history, a $12 billion effort with something for everyone, from the poorest cities to the wealthiest suburbs.
The measure, one of the most ambitious school-construction initiatives by any state, will provide $6 billion from the sale of bonds for projects in 30 of New Jersey's neediest districts, where the state will cover all rebuilding costs. Other communities will receive $2.6 billion borrowed by the state, on a sliding scale according to their wealth, to be matched by more billions borrowed locally. 
 The Assembly interrupted its summer recess today to vote on revisions made by Gov. Christine Todd Whitman to both the school construction bill and a $3.75 billion refinancing of the state's Transportation Trust Fund. Both items passed easily and now await only the governor's signature.
The vote on school construction put an end to arduous negotiations over how, or even whether, to comply with a court order in a decades-old lawsuit, Abbott v. Burke. The New Jersey Supreme Court ruled in May 1998 that the state must pay fully for projects in the neediest districts. It set this past spring as the deadline for construction to begin. Officials said today that, realistically, the building program was not likely to get into full swing until early next year, meaning that new classrooms would begin to open, at the earliest, by the fall of 2001.
The inclusion of even the wealthiest districts, which will be reimbursed for at least 40 percent of their approved construction costs, drew support for the bill from across the political and economic spectrum. But critics warned that borrowing so much to rebuild schools would increase the state's already soaring debt burden from $14 billion to nearly $23 billion in just a few years.
Still, the vote in the Assembly, 66 to 8 with one abstention, was not nearly as close as had been expected.
One of those voting no was Assemblyman Leonard Lance, whose father helped draft the State Constitution in 1947. Mr. Lance, a Republican of Flemington, said the Constitution required that bond offerings be approved by the voters in a general election. He added that if they were asked, "the people might indeed vote yes."
"No constitutional purpose can be effected in an unconstitutional manner," Mr. Lance said. "I am concerned that what we are doing today, while we are well-intentioned, is bad public policy."
But Democrats from Bayonne, Newark and other cities that stand to receive the most said the need to repair unsafe, obsolescent and overcrowded school buildings outweighed any constitutional concerns.
"This is the most important bill I've ever voted on," Assemblyman Raul Garcia of Union City said. "Our children can wait no longer."
Lawmakers and advocates for inner-city schoolchildren praised the Assembly's vote today but warned that overseeing billions of dollars in contracts would sorely test the Whitman administration, noting that it had stumbled badly in overseeing a much smaller automobile emissions-testing program.
A small state agency, the Economic Development Authority, will be responsible for managing hundreds of construction projects on behalf of local districts.
"This was the easy part," said David G. Sciarra, executive director of the Education Law Center, a Newark advocacy group for poor schoolchildren that has challenged all of the state's school-financing plans since 1973. "Now the hard work begins. The state is about to undertake a program that it has no capacity to implement and no track record for. And we have a lot of concerns about whether the state agencies involved -- the Department of Education, Treasury, and the E.D.A. -- can come together and develop an infrastructure and expertise that will lead to construction projects in the urban communities that actually meet the needs of the children there."
The school construction effort, which could cost $15 billion in bond repayments over 30 years, may well exceed that in any other state, officials said.
Illinois and Virginia, by comparison, are spending about $1 billion each for school buildings, according to the National Conference of State Legislatures.
In 1998, California voters approved a $9.2 billion bond issue for public schools and community colleges.
The New Jersey Assembly speaker, Jack Collins, a likely candidate for governor next year, had done more than any other lawmaker to delay a compromise on the school plan, which was introduced in October 1998 by Governor Whitman and had the early support of the Senate president, Donald T. DiFrancesco, Mr. Collins's chief rival for the Republican gubernatorial nomination.
Mr. Collins had said, for example, that by ordering the Legislature to fully pay for construction in the districts covered by the Abbott v. Burke litigation, the court had infringed upon the separation of powers. "Till about an hour ago, I didn't think I was going to be able to vote for this," Mr. Collins said today in a lengthy speech at the close of debate. "Why? Because I think the Supreme Court has way overstretched."
One of the changes Mrs. Whitman made to the school construction bill in a conditional veto on June 29 was to strip lawmakers of the right to veto individual school projects. But Mr. Collins, who had argued for that power, instead introduced a separate resolution today that would create a special Assembly oversight committee to ensure against waste and fraud in school projects.
 
http://www.nytimes.com

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (96%); 

STATE: NEW JERSEY, USA (96%); 

CITY: TRENTON, NJ, USA (79%); NEWARK, NJ, USA (78%); 

COMPANY: NEW JERSEY SUPREME COURT (55%); NEW JERSEY SUPREME COURT (55%); 

ORGANIZATION: NEW JERSEY SUPREME COURT (55%); NEW JERSEY SUPREME COURT (55%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW JERSEY; UNITED STATES (96%); NEW JERSEY, USA (96%); TRENTON, NJ, USA (79%); NEWARK, NJ, USA (78%); 

SUBJECT: EDUCATION AND SCHOOLS; BUILDING (CONSTRUCTION); FINANCES; GOVERNMENT BONDS SCHOOL BUILDINGS (91%); INSTITUTIONAL CONSTRUCTION (90%); CONSTRUCTION (90%); APPROVALS (90%); BONDS (89%); POLITICAL PARTIES (78%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (78%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (78%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (78%); ELECTIONS (77%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (77%); PUBLIC POLICY (77%); PUBLIC DEBT (77%); CONSTRUCTION COSTS (77%); GOVERNORS (77%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (74%); BOND ISSUES (71%); SUPREME COURTS (71%); LITIGATION (71%); GOVERNMENT BONDS (71%); DECISIONS & RULINGS (67%); SETTLEMENTS & DECISIONS (67%); SUITS & CLAIMS (67%); PUBLIC FINANCE (67%); 

PERSON: HALBFINGER, DAVID M LEONARD LANCE (78%); 

LOAD-DATE: July 14, 2000



324 of 757 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: July 14, 2000

SECTION: Section A; Page 1; Column 1; National Desk 

LENGTH: 1105 words

HEADLINE: SUSPENSION OF TAX ON GAS IS REJECTED

BYLINE: By LIZETTE ALVAREZ 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, July 13

 BODY:
The Senate voted overwhelmingly today against suspending the federal gasoline tax through the November election, calling the measure a calibrated attempt to cozy up to voters at the expense of the nation's roads and highways.
The amendment required that 60 senators vote to bypass the law governing the nation's budget. But it was defeated when only 40 senators agreed to waive the law. An additional 59 voted against waiving the budget law, including 15 Republicans. 
 Despite cries from voters for relief from record-high gasoline prices, both Republicans and Democrats criticized the measure today, saying it would have conveniently suspended 18.3 cents a gallon of the federal gasoline tax for 150 days, or until after the November elections, and then reinstituted it.
What's more, the measure, attached to a bill that would reduce inheritance taxes, could imperil favorite road, highway, bridge and safety projects, opponents asserted.
"This is really in some sense a disingenuous amendment," said Senator Max Baucus, a Montana Democrat.
"It would make Tammany Hall blush. It purports to lower taxes before an election and then increase taxes right after the election. I tell you. Is that what the American public wants us to do?"
The amendment was put forward by Senator Spencer Abraham, a Michigan Republican who is in a close re-election race, and several other senators from the Midwest, the region that has been hardest hit by increasing gasoline prices. Senator Kay Bailey Hutchison, a Republican from oil-rich Texas, also co-sponsored the measure.
For weeks motorists have expressed outrage over high prices at the pump, turning the increases into a touchy political issue. Lawmakers have scrambled to appease motorists and assign blame, and some states have gone so far as to suspend their own gas taxes temporarily.
Vice President Al Gore, the presumed Democratic presidential nominee, tried to capitalize on the issue by painting his likely opponent, Gov. George W. Bush of Texas, as a lackey for the oil industry, which has profited from high gasoline prices. Mr. Bush, in turn, has accused Mr. Gore and the Clinton administration of failing to devise a coherent domestic energy policy and relying too much on foreign oil. Last month, Mr. Gore laid out a plan to reduce dependence on foreign oil.
The Federal Trade Commission has begun an investigation, at President Clinton's behest, to determine why gasoline prices climbed so high and whether oil companies were engaged in price-fixing.
Analysts say gasoline prices have spiked for a number of reasons: past decreases in oil production from oil-producing countries, pipeline disruptions, shortages at refineries and new rules on clean-burning fuel.
After peaking several weeks ago, the price of gas is now falling. Regular gasoline averages $1.59 a gallon both nationally and in the Midwest, down from average highs of $1.68 nationally and $1.87 in the Midwest. When prices rose to that $1.68 figure, they were nearly 44 percent higher than last summer's average.
Oil-producing countries remain reluctant to support the Saudi Arabian proposal that would increase output and send oil prices back to $25 a barrel from the current level of around $30.
OPEC nations did raise output quotas on July 1, but the additional production goals proposed by Saudi Arabia were criticized by other OPEC members, which describe current prices as reasonable and supply as sufficient.
John Cook, the federal Energy Information Administration's petroleum division director told the Senate Energy Committee that despite some moderation of prices in the Midwest, other areas might see price surges. "We may experience more volatility before the summer is over," Mr. Cook said.
Mr. Abraham said prices were still much higher than they were last year. Mothers with mini-vans, farmers and truckers, some of whom have lost jobs because they could not afford the gasoline, deserve immediate relief, he said.
"It's the one thing we can do in the Congress to bring down the price of gas and bring it down immediately," Mr. Abraham said.
Most opponents of the amendment said a suspension of the federal gasoline tax would mean an estimated $12 billion loss for the Highway Trust Fund, which provides vital financing to build highways, repair roads and maintain safety.
Many state and local leaders also opposed the measure, fearing an interruption in their own transportation planning. Some also make an economic argument against cutting the price of gasoline, saying it would only encourage consumers to buy more.
Senator Abraham and others sought to allay those concerns, saying the $12 billion would be replenished by money from the budget surplus that is not reserved for Social Security.
"If the highway trust fund were going to be affected at all, I would not be a sponsor of this amendment," Senator Hutchison said.
Most senators disagreed with her assessment. "It would, over the long run, put at risk billions of dollars of necessary investment in our nation's highway infrastructure, while providing absolutely no guarantee that the consumer will see even one penny of this tax reduction at the gas pump," said Senator Robert C. Byrd, the ranking Democrat on the appropriations committee, who called the measure "nefarious."
Countering conventional wisdom, Senator Daniel P. Moynihan, Democrat of New York, said gasoline prices were not high. In fact, taking inflation into account, motorists are paying one-third less today than they were in 1981. "We are not paying more for gasoline," he said. "We are paying less for it."
The federal gasoline tax is actually 18.4 cents a gallon, but Mr. Abraham's amendment protected the 0.1 cent earmarked for underground fuel storage.
Despite attempts by some Republican leaders to win support for a repeal of the federal gasoline tax, the Senate has been reluctant to embrace the move, regardless of political appeal. In April, the Senate voted to reject the repeal of a 4.3 cent surcharge on the gasoline excise tax.
The gasoline-tax suspension was one of a long series of amendments offered to a bill that would repeal the federal estate tax.
The Senate adopted a number of election-year tax breaks in the form of amendments to the bill as it debated into the night. They included repeal of the 3 percent federal excise tax on telephone calls, the creation of tax-advantaged savings accounts for farmers and the permanent extension of tax credits to corporations for their research and experimentation costs.
Republican leaders said they planned a final vote on the estate tax repeal for Friday.
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photo: Senator Spencer Abraham of Michigan greeted constituents yesterday, minutes before he returned to the Senate floor to introduce an amendment to suspend federal taxes on gasoline through the November election. At right was Jim Farhat and his family, and at left, Valery Malivuk. (Paul Hosefros/The New York Times)(pg. A16) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

INDUSTRY: NAICS 213112 OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (88%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%); 

STATE: MIDWEST USA (93%); MONTANA, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: SENATE ENERGY COMMITTEE (59%); 

ORGANIZATION: SENATE ENERGY COMMITTEE (59%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES; UNITED STATES (93%); MIDWEST USA (93%); MONTANA, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: OIL (PETROLEUM) AND GASOLINE; PRICES (FARES, FEES AND RATES); LAW AND LEGISLATION; TAXATION; ROADS AND TRAFFIC; FINANCES; BUDGETS AND BUDGETING; PRESIDENTIAL ELECTION OF 2000; ELECTION ISSUES CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (92%); FUEL TAX (92%); ELECTIONS (91%); TAXES & TAXATION (91%); GASOLINE MARKETS (90%); GASOLINE (90%); OIL & GAS PRICES (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (90%); BUDGETS (90%); GASOLINE PRICES (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); HIGHWAYS & STREETS (90%); PRICE INCREASES (89%); PRICE CHANGES (89%); PLATFORMS & ISSUES (89%); SUMMER 2008 GAS TAX HOLIDAY (89%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (89%); ENERGY & UTILITY POLICY (89%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (89%); OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (88%); US PRESIDENTS (85%); LEGISLATION (78%); ENERGY REGULATION (78%); TAX RELIEF (78%); PUBLIC POLICY (78%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (78%); TAX INCREASES (78%); ESTATE TAX (78%); RESTRAINT OF TRADE (77%); PETROLEUM PRODUCTS (75%); PRICE FIXING (66%); BUSINESS FORECASTS (66%); AGENCY RULEMAKING (65%); COMMERCE DEPARTMENTS (61%); ANTITRUST & TRADE LAW (60%); INVESTIGATIONS (60%); 

PERSON: ALVAREZ, LIZETTE BILL CLINTON (79%); AL GORE (78%); MAX BAUCUS (58%); KAY BAILEY HUTCHISON (58%); GEORGE W BUSH (58%); 

LOAD-DATE: July 14, 2000



325 of 757 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: July 14, 2000

SECTION: Section A; Page 3; Column 3; Foreign Desk 

LENGTH: 831 words

HEADLINE: Vietnam and the U.S. Sign Pact Aimed at Promoting Trade

BYLINE: By JOSEPH KAHN 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, June 13

 BODY:
In what President Clinton described today as a "historic step in normalization, reconciliation and healing," the United States and Vietnam signed a lengthy trade agreement that, if put into effect fully, would transform America's onetime enemy from a quasi-socialist redoubt into Asia's newest capitalist recruit.
The 150-page accord covers bank branches, customs fees, publication of laws and regulations, and tariffs on onions, garlic, potatoes and cheese among many other goods, services and investment protections -- a prescription for economic overhaul that substantially curtails the power of Vietnam's Communist Party over its economy. 
Vietnam, with its small, troubled and highly protected economy, risks much more than the United States. But the agreement requires the United States to reduce its tariffs on Vietnamese imports substantially, a concession that has often proved a tough sell in Congress. It is unlikely that Congress will vote on the measure during Mr. Clinton's term, however.
The United States trade representative, Charlene Barshefsky, and Vietnam's trade minister, Vu Khoan, signed the agreement this afternoon. At a Rose Garden ceremony shortly after the signing, Mr. Clinton, flanked by several Vietnam war veterans who now serve in Congress, hailed the trade deal as a vital step in resuming full ties. Mr. Clinton normalized diplomatic relations in 1995.
"From the bitter past, we plant the seeds of a better future," Mr. Clinton said. "This agreement is one more reminder that former adversaries can come together to find common ground."
Washington and Hanoi have been trying to seal their first postwar trade accord for nearly five years, about as much time as it took them to sign the Paris Peace Agreement of 1973, which led to the withdrawal of American troops from Vietnam. Hanoi balked at American demands several times and walked away from a completed agreement last year, Clinton administration officials said.
But Vietnamese officials became far more flexible in June, just after the House voted to grant China, Vietnam's neighbor, rival and fellow Communist reformer, coveted trading rights in the American market.
Clinton administration officials said that China's pending admission to the World Trade Organization and signs that Vietnam's economy had stagnated convinced Vietnamese leaders that the time had come to inject some capitalist energy into the economy akin to the initial wave of reforms that began in 1986.
"It was a confluence of factors, and China was clearly an important one," Ms. Barshefsky said today. "This will deepen and accelerate economic reforms, strengthen the rule of law, and help Vietnam integrate itself into the world economy."
The agreement shows that Vietnam insisted on a comfortable grace period to allow its companies to adjust to foreign competition. Though American retailers can enter the market there for the first time, they will be limited to a single retail store indefinitely. Vietnam would allow American financial companies to issue credit cards, but only eight years after the agreement takes effect.
In businesses that might affect Vietnam's ability to exercise political control, including phone and Internet services, foreign companies will have to wait at least three years before they can begin to enter joint-venture agreements with local partners, and then they will be allowed to take only minority equity stakes.
The changes Vietnam has agreed to undertake are similar to those China pledged to make, but the pace is often slower. There are a few exceptions: Vietnam has agreed to allow foreign banks to take deposits and make loans in local currency, the dong, relatively quickly.
Carlyle A. Thayer, an expert on Vietnam at the Asia-Pacific Center for Security Studies in Honolulu, said top leaders clearly decided to mimic Chinese-style market-openings, gambling that they can maintain party control just as their northern counterparts have. But he said the agreement takes away much of the flexibility the leaders have to dictate the scope and the speed of change.
"If they drag their feet this time, they are going to be facing legal guerrilla warfare," he said.
The agreement will not take effect at all unless Congress approves the measure and awards Vietnam so-called normal trade relations, subject to annual review. Though Clinton administration officials predicted that Congress would embrace the idea of normalizing economic ties, labor unions quickly disagreed.
Unions have long demanded that developing countries accept international labor standards as part of market-opening trade agreements. This accord, like others negotiated by the Clinton administration, does not contain language to that effect.
"I am very disappointed that they did not even attempt to address worker rights," said Thea Lee, a top official at the A.F.L.-C.I.O. "This is just another agreement that encourages American companies to move their jobs overseas." 
http://www.nytimes.com

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (99%); VIET NAM (99%); CHINA (93%); ASIA (92%); VIETNAM (88%); 

STATE: DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA, USA (93%); 

CITY: HANOI, VIETNAM (88%); 

COMPANY: AMERICAN FINANCIAL HOLDINGS INC (53%); AMERICAN FINANCIAL TITLE CO (53%); AMERICAN FINANCIAL ENTERPRISES INC (53%); AMERICAN FINANCIAL CORP (53%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: VIETNAM; UNITED STATES; UNITED STATES (99%); VIET NAM (99%); CHINA (93%); ASIA (92%); VIETNAM (88%); DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA, USA (93%); HANOI, VIETNAM (88%); 

SUBJECT: INTERNATIONAL TRADE AND WORLD MARKET; CUSTOMS (TARIFF); LAW AND LEGISLATION; UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; US-INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS-VIETNAM TRADE TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (91%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (90%); TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (90%); TAXES & TAXATION (90%); FRUITS & VEGETABLES (90%); TRADE DEVELOPMENT (90%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE LAW (90%); TARIFFS & DUTIES (90%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (89%); EMERGING MARKETS (78%); BANKING & FINANCE (78%); VIETNAM WAR (78%); LEGISLATION (76%); RETAILERS (76%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (75%); COMMERCE DEPARTMENTS (73%); DIPLOMATIC SERVICES (73%); ARMED FORCES (72%); CREDIT CARDS (71%); ECONOMIC POLICY (70%); ECONOMIC NEWS (70%); POLITICAL PARTIES (70%); VETERANS (66%); FOREIGN RELATIONS (65%); BANK BRANCHES (56%); PAYMENT CARDS & SERVICES (50%); 

PERSON: KAHN, JOSEPH; CLINTON, BILL (PRES) BILL CLINTON (96%); HILLARY RODHAM CLINTON (94%); HILLARY RODHAM CLINTON (94%); 

LOAD-DATE: July 14, 2000



326 of 757 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: July 14, 2000

SECTION: Section A; Page 1; Column 5; National Desk 

LENGTH: 1722 words

HEADLINE: THE 2000 CAMPAIGN: THE VICE PRESIDENT;
Bradley Is Back To Praise Gore And Bury Bush

BYLINE: By KATHARINE Q. SEELYE with ALISON MITCHELL 

DATELINE: GREEN BAY, Wis., July 13

 BODY:
Bill Bradley emerged from months of political seclusion today to endorse Al Gore, his erstwhile primary foe, and to help the vice president appeal to independent voters here in the Midwest.
Mr. Bradley, whose bitter primary battle with Mr. Gore ended without the former New Jersey senator's winning a single state, used the words of Vince Lombardi, the former coach of the Green Bay Packers, to say he would work for a Democratic president and a Democratic Congress. "Winning is a team sport," he said. 
 "Today I want to make it clear that I endorse Al Gore for president of the United States," Mr. Bradley told a crowd at an old-fashioned amusement park on the shore of Lake Michigan. He cited the vice president's leadership and his understanding of technology, saying that that understanding would allow Mr. Gore to keep the nation steady in an era of rapid change.
Mr. Gore effusively praised Mr. Bradley for his "high ideals," adding, "There is no more passionate voice for justice and equality in all of America."
As the two Democrats were making up on the stage, Mr. Gore's campaign was engaged in the kind of political pounding of Gov. George W. Bush's policies that Mr. Gore had used so effectively against Mr. Bradley in the primaries.
The Gore campaign seized on news of a $750 million state budget shortfall in Texas as evidence that Mr. Bush's proposal for a $1.3 trillion tax cut for the United States over 10 years would derail the nation's roaring economy.
"Governor Bush wants to do for America what he's done for Texas -- go to Washington and spend our surplus and then more for budget-busting tax cuts, and hope then that somehow it will all add up," Mr. Gore asserted. "The last thing this country needs is an era of Bush economics that brings us back to deficits, high interest rates and high unemployment."
Mr. Bush responded with a sharp attack on Mr. Gore, contending that the vice president did not understand the budget process in Texas and that his state's budget shortfall would be covered by surplus tax revenue. "If Al Gore suggests a state with a surplus shouldn't cut taxes, then how can the American people count on Al Gore to cut taxes when our nation has a surplus?" Mr. Bush said.
But the main task of the day, at least for Mr. Gore, was to present Mr. Bradley as an ally and to win over the independent voters that the former senator appealed to in his own campaign.
Today's appearance was the first time Mr. Bradley and Mr. Gore had met since debating in Los Angeles on March 1. Mr. Bradley, who last fall surprised the Gore campaign by gaining strong support in New Hampshire and other critical states, was ultimately trounced by Mr. Gore in every state in which they competed. Mr. Bradley dropped out of the race on March 9, retaining his handful of delegates and not issuing an explicit endorsement of Mr. Gore.
But the Gore campaign has had trouble attracting the kind of voters to whom Mr. Bradley appealed, particularly white men and independents. And as the mid-August Democratic convention approaches, officials said, the Gore camp has been ever more eager to knit up the raveled Bradley relationship and aggressively court the swing voters who are up for grabs in the Midwest battleground states.
"I really appreciated Senator Bradley's support," Mr. Gore told supporters at the airport here after the event. "This is one of the most important days in the election."
The Gore campaign chose this quaint set-piece of Americana as the site of the long-awaited reunion for its picturesqueness and the chance to reach out to swing voters.
The crowd, which local police officials estimated at about 3,500, was bolstered by Gore supporters from organized labor, including the National Education Association and the International Association of Fire Fighters. They have been among the vice president's most ardent supporters, and their presence reflected the Gore campaign's concern, given the intensity that characterized their primary battle with Mr. Bradley, that the event could have gone awry.
As it happened, the event appeared to go smoothly, even if there was little warmth between the candidates and their staffs. None of the Bradley aides is joining the Gore campaign, and the two candidates did not make themselves available to reporters for questioning after their speeches.
Democratic officials said Mr. Bradley could not be available because he had to catch a plane tonight to Italy, but there also was some grumbling among Bradley backers that Mr. Gore had held the event in Wisconsin instead of a state like New Jersey or New York, where Mr. Bradley is better known and more popular.
The two met privately at the airport here for 40 minutes, with no aides present, before they appeared together and clasped hands for the cameras. Gore aides said that Mr. Bradley would have a prime-time speaking slot on the second night of the four-day nominating convention and that they expect Mr. Bradley to campaign on behalf of Mr. Gore, but nothing has been scheduled.
In his speech, Mr. Bradley alluded to the "big" issues he had raised in the primaries -- racial strife, poverty, globalization -- and said that, under Mr. Gore's leadership, "We will come closer to solving the problems I mentioned earlier than under the leadership of Gov. George W. Bush -- and it's not even a close call."
Mr. Bradley also said he was endorsing Mr. Gore because the vice president understood technology.
"Vice President Gore has a deep understanding of those technological forces changing America," Mr. Bradley said. "I know he will strive to keep America ahead of those forces so that they maximize our future for the greatest number of Americans."
Whether Mr. Bradley was quite ready to step out today seemed arguable. Famously contemplative and reluctant to follow the traditional norms of politics, he acknowledged somewhat wistfully in his speech that his loss to Mr. Gore had been a deep disappointment, one that he was chalking up to experience.
" 'Experience' then is what you get when you don't get what you really wanted," Mr. Bradley said.
A Bradley aide said that when friends ask Mr. Bradley how he is doing, he recalls the advice that Thomas Dewey, who lost the presidency to Harry S. Truman in 1948, is said to have given Richard M. Nixon after Mr. Nixon lost the 1960 presidential race. "Bradley says, 'Dewey told Nixon, don't make any important decisions within six months of losing the presidency,' " the aide said, adding, "Bradley says he's in his fifth month."
In addition to their full-scale effort to present the Bradley endorsement in the best possible light, the Gore team went to great lengths today to focus reporters' attention on the Texas budget, delivering reams of documents and flying a policy aide from Washington and a state legislator from Texas to Green Bay to brief reporters on it.
Mr. Gore said that his own proposals for balancing the budget and paying down the debt would maintain the current economic boom. He added: "Governor Bush has a different priority -- massive tax breaks for those who don't need them. Let's give Governor Bush credit -- he practices what he preaches, in that his top priority for Texas's budget surpluses was a big tax cut."
At a news conference in Pittsburgh, Mr. Bush responded to the criticism by saying that President Clinton was planning to sign a $15 billion supplemental appropriation for extra expenses in the current fiscal year.
"That's why Vice President Al Gore has got no credibility on an issue like this," Mr. Bush said. "On one hand he wants to launch an attack. On the other hand President Clinton is doing the same thing."
Asked later why Mr. Bush had made such a point of aggressively rebutting Mr. Gore, Ari Fleischer, a spokesman for the governor, pointed to the man who lost so badly to Mr. Gore in the primaries. "Bush is not Bradley," Mr. Fleischer said. "Bush will counterpunch."
 
In His Own Words
 
BILL BRADLEY
Endorsing Vice President Al Gore yesterday in Green Bay, Wis.:
"The Democratic Party is a place of many different voices but all with the same values. It's why we're Democrats. Democrats know that ultimately, government sometimes must do big things that individuals cannot do, the nonprofit sector doesn't have the resources to do and the private sector will not do. Helping people help themselves through government support is a healthy prescription for creating a stronger society.
Throughout my campaign I talked about the enormous opportunity we had to do big things, again. An enormous opportunity made possible by the economic growth we've had for the last decade and by the Democratic leadership of Bill Clinton, Al Gore and the Democratic Congressional candidates who helped make it possible. . . .
Our problems are well known. Forty-four million people without health coverage; 13 million children living in poverty; continued racial discord; a public education system that needs universal quality; working families still struggling against the forces of technological change, and globalization and a political process dangerously awash in money.
At this time of unparalleled prosperity there is no excuse for not acting now.
For 15 months I ran for president of the United States. I am honored and grateful to those people across America who supported me. I had a remarkable experience. Someone once told me that when one uses the term experience in this context, experience then is what you get when you don't get what you really wanted.
Indeed, Democratic voters spoke and selected Vice President Gore as our party's nominee. I'm here in Green Bay today because I believe what Vince Lombardi once said is true: Winning is a team sport.
Our party is strongest when we're unified, when we speak with one voice, when we work to guarantee a Democratic Congress and a Democratic president. I will work to accomplish both because I believe that Democrats have a better chance of guiding America to a brighter future than do Republicans, and it's not even close.
And today, I want to make it clear that I endorse Al Gore for president of the United States.
I believe that under his leadership we will come closer to solving the problems I mentioned earlier than under the leadership of George W. Bush, and it's not even close."
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photos: In endorsing Al Gore's presidential candidacy yesterday in Green Bay, Wis., Bill Bradley used the words of Vince Lombardi, the former coach of the Green Bay Packers, and he said he would work for the candidate. (Reuters)(pg. A1); Putting the bitter primary battle behind him, Bill Bradley joined Al Gore yesterday in Green Bay, Wis. (Associated Press)(pg. A23) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (95%); 

STATE: WISCONSIN, USA (95%); MIDWEST USA (92%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); LAKE MICHIGAN (71%); 

CITY: GREEN BAY, WI, USA (95%); 

COMPANY: GREEN BAY PACKERS INC (57%); GREEN BAY PACKERS (83%); GREEN BAY PACKERS (83%); 

ORGANIZATION: GREEN BAY PACKERS (83%); GREEN BAY PACKERS (83%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: GREEN BAY (WIS); UNITED STATES (95%); WISCONSIN, USA (95%); MIDWEST USA (92%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); LAKE MICHIGAN (71%); GREEN BAY, WI, USA (95%); 

SUBJECT: PRESIDENTIAL ELECTION OF 2000; ENDORSEMENTS CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); VOTERS & VOTING (89%); TAX LAW (89%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); BUDGETS (89%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (89%); TAXES & TAXATION (89%); TAX RELIEF (86%); BUDGET DEFICITS (86%); ELECTIONS (78%); PRIMARY ELECTIONS (78%); US PRESIDENTS (78%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (78%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (78%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (78%); GOVERNORS (78%); BUDGET PLANNING & MANAGEMENT (69%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (64%); SPORTS (55%); SPORTS & RECREATION (55%); INTEREST RATES (50%); ECONOMIC NEWS (50%); 

PERSON: SEELYE, KATHARINE Q; MITCHELL, ALISON; GORE, AL (VICE PRES); BRADLEY, BILL AL GORE (94%); GEORGE W BUSH (79%); 

LOAD-DATE: July 14, 2000



327 of 757 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: July 14, 2000

SECTION: Section A; Page 16; Column 5; National Desk 

LENGTH: 853 words

HEADLINE: House Vote Sets Up a Battle On Family Planning Abroad

BYLINE: By STEVEN A. HOLMES 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, July 13

 BODY:
The House of Representatives has set the stage for a reprise of last year's battle over the financing of international family planning, narrowly voting today to maintain restrictions on the ability of private organizations that receive federal money to use their own money to provide abortions overseas.
By a vote of 221 to 206, the House defeated an amendment to a $13.3 billion foreign aid bill that would have removed the restrictions. The limitations had been attached to the foreign aid measure last year as part of a one-year compromise worked out by the White House and Congressional Republicans to end a stalemate over the federal budget. 
 The foreign aid bill for the next fiscal year was approved today by the House on a vote of 239 to 185 after lawmakers added money for indebted nations and anti-AIDS programs to the package of economic, military development measures. The total was $1.8 billion less than President Clinton had requested, and the measure faces a possible presidential veto on that basis.
With the failure of the family-planning amendment, which was co-sponsored by Representatives Nita M. Lowey, Democrat of New York, and James C. Greenwood, Republican of Pennsylvania, the spotlight returns to the White House. President Clinton's advisers have said they will recommend, as they did last year, that he veto the measure, in part because of the restrictions.
Both sides say that, like last year, the issue will loom large in the budget negotiations. And both sides agree that the only question is whether President Clinton will hold firm on a veto or whether, as he did last year, he will allow the restrictions to become law.
Representative Carolyn B. Maloney, a Manhattan Democrat who supports abortion rights, sighed when asked whether she was confident that Mr. Clinton would adhere to his veto pledge.
In measured tones, she said: "I know the president doesn't want his legacy to be that this administration turned its back on the young women of the world. I believe the president will stand firm."
The restrictions affect groups that provide abortions in foreign countries, or lobby foreign governments on the issue, even if they use their own money for these activities. Current law prohibits the federal government from directly financing abortions in foreign countries. The rules were first enacted by President Ronald Reagan in an executive order in 1984. One of Mr. Clinton's first acts as president was to issue his own order rescinding the restrictions.
Last year, during the crush of negotiations about spending bills, the Clinton administration permitted the restrictions to become law for one year. In return, Congressional Republicans agreed to legislation that began paying down the United States' debt to the United Nations.
The compromise permitted Mr. Clinton to waive the restrictions, which he did. But in doing so he automatically invoked a provision in the law that cut federal money to all international family planning organizations by $12 million. The compromise also required that no more than $15 million in federal money could go to international family planning groups or their overseas subcontractors that refuse to abide by the limitations.
Should the legislation stand, President Clinton could again waive the restrictions, but a consequence would be further cuts in family planning financing.
Anti-abortion campaigners in Congress are seeking to extend the limits for another year, arguing that a precedent has been set. They say the cuts in family planning money last year did not result in many family planning groups refusing to accept American money for their services.
"I think our position is much stronger now because all of the scare tactics that were put forward were totally unfounded," said Representative Chris Smith, a New Jersey Republican who is a leading abortion opponent in the House. Indeed, during today's debate, Representative Jim Ryun, Republican of Kansas, said the House should "honor the spirit of the compromise." The Senate foreign aid bill does not contain similar restrictions, but lawmakers say the issue will be among the last resolved resolved before the end of the fiscal year on Sept. 30.
Administration officials have assured abortion-rights advocates that Mr. Clinton intends to stand firm on vetoing any legislation that contains restrictions on the activities of international family planning organizations. But some advocates recall the President's reversal last year.
"I was in a meeting with the chief of staff last year where he said under no circumstances would the president cave on this," said one abortion-rights supporter who spoke on the condition of anonymity. "A few days later he did."
But some abortion rights advocates predicted that the administration's resolve would be strengthened by a need to keep faith with a core constituency in an election year.
"It being a presidential election year, the advocates will direct their attention to the vice president and tell him it's time to keep the president's knees straight on this," Mr. Greenwood said.
 
http://www.nytimes.com

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (79%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (75%); 

COMPANY: HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES INC (92%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES; UNITED STATES; UNITED STATES (94%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (75%); 

SUBJECT: ABORTION; LAW AND LEGISLATION; BIRTH CONTROL AND FAMILY PLANNING; FINANCES; BUDGETS AND BUDGETING FAMILY PLANNING (91%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (90%); LEGISLATION (90%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); VOTERS & VOTING (90%); INTERNATIONAL ASSISTANCE (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); VETO (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); BUDGETS (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (89%); POLITICAL PARTIES (89%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (89%); PUBLIC DEBT (89%); ABORTION (89%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (78%); FAMILY (78%); APPROPRIATIONS (78%); EXECUTIVE ORDERS (72%); APPROVALS (70%); 

PERSON: BILL CLINTON (92%); RONALD REAGAN (79%); CAROLYN MALONEY (58%); NITA M LOWEY (58%); 

LOAD-DATE: July 14, 2000



328 of 757 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: July 14, 2000

SECTION: Section B; Page 8; Column 4; Metropolitan Desk 

LENGTH: 371 words

HEADLINE: For Many, a Return to Homelessness

BYLINE: By JAYSON BLAIR 

 BODY:
Many tenants told tales of having been out on the streets before. They told stories of having lived in shelters and off the kindness of others. Some had lived on the very streets of the East Village neighborhood where they now have apartments.
For many residents of 16 Second Avenue, the collapse yesterday of an adjacent building, which forced them from their homes, brought back unwelcome memories. Instead of drugs, unemployment or other similar unfortunate circumstances, the tenants of 16 Second Avenue -- and two other apartment buildings, 31 East First Street and 35 East First Street -- were put on the streets this time by a sudden calamity. 
 Standing on the steps of LaSalle Academy, at Second Avenue and Second Street, where the American Red Cross set up an aid center, Jen Villa, 20, said the loss of her home had snuffed out a recent ray of hope she had found.
"We went through so much to get our apartment, and now we are back on the streets," she said.
Red Cross officials said there were 51 apartments in the three buildings that were evacuated. Fire officials estimated that 100 people were displaced. By 11 p.m., 47 adults and 23 children had signed up for assistance from the Red Cross. Most decided to stay with relatives or friends.
Chief Donald Burns, the Fire Department's operations commander, said the residents would not be allowed back into their buildings until a few hours after the demolition of the four-story building at 14 Second Avenue. That could happen as early as this morning, he said. That did not calm the concerns of those who had left pets and medicine in their apartments.
For many, the first sign of their displacement came on the way home from work. The F trains that many of them ride were rerouted away from the Second Avenue station. The next sign came as they walked down Second Avenue and saw the orange police cones that lined the blocks from Houston to Fifth Street. The cones were followed by red and white Red Cross trucks, white police cars, fire trucks and a phalanx of emergency workers.
"I was getting nervous," Inocencia Tejada, 32, a resident of 16 Second Avenue, said. "I don't know what I am going to do. I don't know where I am going to stay."
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photo: "I don't know where I am going to stay," said Inocencia Tejada, whose apartment building was evacuated. (Vincent Laforet/The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (79%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (79%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: IRREPLACEABLE ARTIFACTS (NYC) AMERICAN RED CROSS (83%); AMERICAN RED CROSS (83%); 

ORGANIZATION: IRREPLACEABLE ARTIFACTS (NYC) AMERICAN RED CROSS (83%); AMERICAN RED CROSS (83%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: BUILDINGS (STRUCTURES); DEMOLITION; ACCIDENTS AND SAFETY RELIEF ORGANIZATIONS (88%); DISPLACED PERSONS (88%); FIRE DEPARTMENTS (77%); HOMELESSNESS (76%); CHILDREN (76%); MULTIFAMILY REAL ESTATE (72%); MOTOR VEHICLES (61%); 

PERSON: BLAIR, JAYSON

LOAD-DATE: July 14, 2000



329 of 757 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: July 14, 2000

SECTION: Section A; Page 24; Column 4; Editorial Desk 

LENGTH: 177 words

HEADLINE: An Urban Headache: Not Enough Housing

 BODY:

To the Editor:
Your July 9 news article about New York's housing crisis highlights one of the city's biggest problems.
Earlier this year, my office released "A Time to Build," a report of our Affordable Housing Task Force. 
 It recommends the creation of a $200 million Affordable Housing Trust Fund using existing revenues from the commercial rent tax to provide a flexible subsidy to low-, moderate- and middle-income housing development.
The report also proposes creating a program to put together economically viable housing development sites that include both publicly and privately owned property; providing property tax incentives to encourage owners of vacant parcels to develop affordable housing; and making transfer of city-owned land contingent upon an agreement to develop affordable housing within a set timetable.
With the political will, we can put many of these recommendations into effect and once again develop a real housing program for our city.
 
C. VIRGINIA FIELDS
Manhattan Borough President
New York, July 10, 2000
 
http://www.nytimes.com

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Letter

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (90%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (90%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (88%); 

COMPANY: AFFORDABLE HOUSING TASK FORCE (62%); 

ORGANIZATION: AFFORDABLE HOUSING TASK FORCE (62%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK CITY; UNITED STATES (90%); NEW YORK, USA (90%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (88%); 

SUBJECT: HOUSING LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (90%); HOUSING ASSISTANCE (90%); REAL ESTATE DEVELOPMENT (90%); LOW COST HOUSING SCHEMES (90%); HOUSING AUTHORITIES (88%); PROPERTY TAX (88%); TAXES & TAXATION (84%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (74%); CITY GOVERNMENT (72%); COMMERCIAL RENTAL PROPERTY (70%); TRUST ARRANGEMENTS (70%); TAX INCENTIVES (70%); TAX LAW (70%); 

PERSON: FIELDS, C VIRGINIA (BORO PRES) C VIRGINIA FIELDS MANHATTAN (62%); 

LOAD-DATE: July 14, 2000



330 of 757 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: July 14, 2000
Correction Appended

SECTION: Section A; Page 23; Column 5; National Desk 

LENGTH: 930 words

HEADLINE: THE 2000 CAMPAIGN: THE STATE BUDGET;
For Bush, Texas Deficit Becomes Issue in Race

BYLINE: By JIM YARDLEY 

DATELINE: HOUSTON, July 13

 BODY:
For the past few years, Texas has enjoyed such a booming economy that any news about the state budget has usually been good. So when state lawmakers this week announced a $610 million shortfall, the bad news came as a surprise and prompted a pregnant political question:
How much of the blame belongs to Gov. George W. Bush? Needless to say, Mr. Bush and his presidential rival, Vice President Al Gore, offered very different answers today as they campaigned across the country. 
 In Wisconsin, where he appeared with former Senator Bill Bradley of New Jersey, Mr. Gore blamed the Texas governor for putting "politically popular" tax cuts ahead of paying for Medicaid and other state services.
"Now," Mr. Gore said, "Governor Bush wants to do for American what he's done for Texas: go to Washington and spend our surplus and then more for budget-busting tax cuts and hope that somehow it will all add up."
In Pennsylvania, with Gov. Tom Ridge at his side, Mr. Bush shot back, pointing out that earlier state budget surpluses had made tax cuts the right thing to do.
"If Al Gore suggests a state with a surplus shouldn't cut taxes," he asked, "then how can the American people count on Al Gore to cut taxes when our nation has a surplus?"
There also was no agreement in Texas as to where any blame should lie. Several Democratic lawmakers traced the shortfall to the $1.6 billion in tax cuts pushed by Mr. Bush and his allies. But the governor's supporters countered that such assertions were cheap politics, noting that many Democrats had voted for the budget package.
The immediate question in Texas is, what, if anything, the deficit means for the state's fiscal future. In a bad economic year, the news might have meant immediate budget cuts. But the strong economy is expected to generate $1 billion in surplus tax revenues, and key lawmakers said the money would more than cover the shortfall.
Still, there were predictions of future belt-tightening. On Tuesday, Lt. Gov. Rick Perry, a Republican, agreed that the state did not face any budget cuts, but he said expanding services as part of the next budget package now seemed less likely.
The basic explanation for the shortfall can be found in Texas' two-year budget cycle. Lawmakers drafted the current budget, which runs through Aug. 31, 2001, during last year's legislative session. The $99 billion budget, which is divided about evenly between federal matching funds and state general revenues, included a $3,000 pay raise for teachers and $1.7 billion in tax cuts -- the latter pushed aggressively by Mr. Bush.
But State Representative Robert Junell, the Democratic chairman of the House Appropriations Committee, said the shortfall occurred because lawmakers had underestimated the cost of some services when they drafted the current budget. In particular, he said, the rising cost of prescription drugs had created Medicaid overruns of $439 million, while a shortage of prison space meant the state had to spend $168 million to pay for local jail space. The remaining overruns were divided between different state agencies.
"You do the best you can in forecasting these numbers, but you're going to be wrong," said Mr. Junell, a legislative ally of the governor's.
He said such midcycle shortfalls requiring supplemental appropriations were common in Texas. "Had we not had a governor running for president of the United States, there would be no story, because we do this all the time," he said.
Linda Edwards, a spokeswoman for Mr. Bush, noted that shortfalls also occurred in midstream during other budgets: $182 million in 1997 and $104 million in 1999. In Pennsylvania, Mr. Bush said President Clinton was planning today to sign a $15 billion supplemental appropriation for extra expenses in the current federal budget year.
"But today my opponent attacked me because we're going to do the same thing in Texas," he said. He added: "That's why Vice President Al Gore has got no credibility on an issue like this. On one hand he wants to launch an attack. On the other hand President Clinton is doing the same thing."
Several Democratic Texas lawmakers were critical of Mr. Bush and the emphasis he has placed on tax cuts. Representative Garnet F. Coleman flew to Wisconsin to appear with Mr. Gore and brief reporters about the budget shortfall. He said the size of this year's shortfall was particularly worrisome.
"A supplemental appropriation is standard," said Mr. Coleman. "A supplemental appropriation between $610 million and $750 million is not."
Some Democrats say they worry that the deficit may reach $750 million. Mr. Coleman was particularly critical of the Medicaid overruns, saying that Mr. Bush and lawmakers had known that fewer federal dollars would be available for the program. He said lawmakers intentionally underfinanced Medicaid to free up money for tax cuts.
He also said that by spending this year's $1 billion surplus to cover the shortfall, future budgets are short-changed. "Once you've spent that $1 billion, you've got to keep spending it forever," he said.
Pete Gallego, a Democrat state representative expressed concern that the state might return to the problems of the early 1990's, when tough economic times prevented any expansion of services. But he, like other Democrats, did vote in favor of the budget package.
"It's kind of unfair to Monday morning quarterback, to say what you did didn't work," he said. "We had an opportunity to vote yay or nay, and most of us voted yay. We're in the same boat as Governor Bush on this issue." 
http://www.nytimes.com

CORRECTION-DATE: July 15, 2000, Saturday

 CORRECTION:
A headline yesterday about the Texas budget referred imprecisely to a $610 million shortfall. As the article reported, state spending will exceed the amount budgeted but will not exceed tax revenues; there is no deficit.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (95%); 

STATE: TEXAS, USA (95%); PENNSYLVANIA, USA (79%); WISCONSIN, USA (79%); 

CITY: HOUSTON, TX, USA (78%); 

COMPANY: MEDICAID (56%); 

ORGANIZATION: MEDICAID (56%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: TEXAS ; UNITED STATES (95%); TEXAS, USA (95%); PENNSYLVANIA, USA (79%); WISCONSIN, USA (79%); HOUSTON, TX, USA (78%); 

SUBJECT: ELECTION ISSUES; TAXATION; PRESIDENTIAL ELECTION OF 2000; FINANCES; BUDGETS AND BUDGETING BUDGETS (94%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (92%); TAXES & TAXATION (92%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (91%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); TAX LAW (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); GOVERNORS (90%); BUDGET CUTS (89%); ELECTIONS (78%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (78%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (78%); APPROPRIATIONS (78%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (78%); POLITICS (77%); POLITICAL PARTIES (77%); PLATFORMS & ISSUES (76%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (76%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (76%); MEDICAID (73%); MATCHING GIFTS (62%); TEACHING & TEACHERS (60%); TEACHER COMPENSATION (50%); 

PERSON: BUSH, GEORGE W (GOV); GORE, AL (VICE PRES); YARDLEY, JIM AL GORE (90%); GEORGE W BUSH (79%); RICK PERRY (58%); 

LOAD-DATE: July 14, 2000



331 of 757 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: July 15, 2000

SECTION: Section B; Page 9; Column 4; Arts & Ideas/Cultural Desk 

LENGTH: 1174 words

HEADLINE: In the 'Greened' World, It Isn't Easy to Be Human

BYLINE: By ALEXANDER STILLE 

 BODY:
What could be wrong with saving a rain forest? Quite a bit, say a number of anthropologists who have become increasingly critical of what they call "green imperialism." Portraying environmentalists as latter-day missionaries of a new universal truth, many see third-world conservation as a form of neocolonialism, the latest attempt by wealthy Westerners to move into poor tropical countries and tell the local residents what they should and should not do with their land.
"Environmentalists are trying to save landscapes from the people who live in them," said Simone Dreyfus, a French anthropologist who contributed to a recent volume called "Nature Sauvage, Nature Sauvee" ("Wild Nature, Saved Nature"). "Many of them seem to care more about animals and plants than about people. Too often, efforts to save the environment are being imposed from the outside and not from the inside." 
 Though the term "biodiversity" was coined as recently as the 1970's, it caught on so quickly that by the 1980's preserving species had become an important part of American foreign policy. The State Department, the World Bank and other purveyors of aid often made the creation of national parks a condition of receiving it. The policy has paid off: environmentalists have succeeded in protecting an area alogether the size of China, the United States and Canada.
But these efforts have come at considerable human cost, the critical anthropologists say. Approximately 70 percent of the protected areas are inhabited by Homo sapiens as well as other species. Between 1986 and 1996, about three million people were forced to move as a result of both development and conservation projects, according to World Bank statistics.
The brunt has generally been borne by extremely poor indigenous people. "I'd like to see what would happen if a delegation from Madagascar arrived in New Jersey and told people they couldn't use their cars to drive to work," said Maurice Bloch, who teaches at the Ecole Polytechnique in Paris and has worked in Madagascar for more than 30 years.
Although many of the anthropological critics concede that protecting the environment is ultimately in everyone's interest, they feel that Western environmentalism needs to examine some of its deepest assumptions. The idea of wilderness -- of pristine, untouched nature -- is not a universal truth but an idea of Western urban civilization, said Philippe Descola, a leading French anthropologist who has worked among Indian groups in Brazil. Virtually everything Westerners regard as "nature" has been significantly modified by tens of thousands of years of human presence, he said. Indeed, many indigenous peoples do not have a special word for nature and do not see themselves as separate from the environment in which they live.
This seemingly abstract point has had powerful practical consequences for the environmental movement, the anthropologists insist. The world's first national park, Yellowstone, specifically excluded people from living within its borders even though Shoshone Indians were there at the time. In the first years after the creation of the park in 1871, some 300 Shoshone were killed in conflicts with the Army.
The idea of a park that excluded human habitation was then exported to the third world by various colonial administrations, particularly by the British and French in Africa and Asia. The big game parks in Kenya and what is now Tanzania involved mass expulsion of the Masai people. The French in Madagascar created a series of nature preserves, and in the 1940's tried to force the people living in the country's rain forests to leave their villages. When people resisted, some 20,000 were killed in conflicts with the French colonial authorities. Although methods have grown gentler in recent decades, expulsions have continued at some of the big parks in places like Kenya, Botswana, Indonesia and Sri Lanka, said Marcus Colchester of the Rain Forest People's Program in Britain.
Many ecologists feel that this criticism, while valid, is out of date. "I think the conservation movement has become much more sophisticated in the last 20 years," said Don Melnick, a professor of biology at Columbia University and the director of the Center for Environmental Research and Conservation.
Increasingly, Mr. Melnick insisted, environmentalists have come to see that local cooperation is essential to the success of their own work. At Chitwan National Park in Nepal, he said, the government recently reversed its policy of preventing local residents from entering the forest. "They designated a certain number of weeks in which people could come in and collect grasses and plants they use for baskets and as building materials, as long as they use traditional and nonmechanized means for doing so," he said. "It resulted in a kind of festival of harvesting, and those people became the greatest protectors of the resouces of the park. It became theirs, and they were very vigilant about outsiders going into the park."
Mr. Colchester agrees that environmental groups have become better about recognizing the rights of local people. But he said that the problem was that, in many places, "this has yet to translate into change on the ground; national governments have not kept pace with the international guidelines." Recently, he went on, in defiance of the international organizations that financed the project, the government of Guyana extinguished the rights of local residents in extending the boundaries of Kaietur National Park.
Some environmentalists think this kind of pressure smacks of the same neocolonalism that the anthropologists see in others. "If the federal government of Brazil decides it's strategically important to set aside millions of acres for protection, isn't it neocolonial if groups from outside tell them they shouldn't?" asked Mr. Melnick.
Indeed, the question of who has final say about land -- the people who have traditionally lived on it, the regional and national governments in the surrounding area, or international groups who see the environment as a world heritage -- is extremely complex.
Ultimately, both environmentalists and anthropologists agree, at least in theory, that they are working on two sides of the same problem. Conservation groups have estimated that 60 percent of the world's biodiversity is contained in less than 5 percent of the world's land mass. At the same time, the indigenous peoples who generally inhabit those tropical biodiversity "hot spots" account for as much as 60 percent of the world's 6,000 spoken languages, according to the British ethnolinguist Suzanne Romaine of Oxford University.
"The interests of forest people and the interests of the environmental people are similar," says Richard H. Grove, a professor at the Institute of Advanced Studies at the University of Canberra in Australia and the author of "Green Imperialism." He explains: "The same environmental threats that are wiping out species are wiping out indigeneous cultures as well."
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photo: On the Masoala Peninsula in Madagascar, most of the land is a national park. (Roy Toft)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: MADAGASCAR (93%); UNITED STATES (92%); CANADA (79%); BRAZIL (79%); NORTH AMERICA (79%); CHINA (79%); FRANCE (57%); 

STATE: NEW JERSEY, USA (79%); 

CITY: PARIS, FRANCE (57%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: MADAGASCAR (93%); UNITED STATES (92%); CANADA (79%); BRAZIL (79%); NORTH AMERICA (79%); CHINA (79%); FRANCE (57%); NEW JERSEY, USA (79%); PARIS, FRANCE (57%); 

SUBJECT: ENVIRONMENT ENVIRONMENTALISM (93%); ENVIRONMENT & NATURAL RESOURCES (90%); ANTHROPOLOGY & ARCHAEOLOGY (90%); RAIN FORESTS (89%); NATIONAL PARKS (78%); BIODIVERSITY (78%); WILDLIFE CONSERVATION (77%); STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (76%); FOREIGN POLICY (71%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (68%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (53%); 

PERSON: STILLE, ALEXANDER DON MELNICK (55%); 

LOAD-DATE: July 15, 2000



332 of 757 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: July 15, 2000

SECTION: Section C; Page 3; Column 3; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 37 words

HEADLINE: THE MARKETS: CURRENCIES

 BODY:
EURO UNCHANGED. The euro, little changed yesterday, is expected to gain after Germany approved tax cuts to stimulate economic growth. The euro traded at 93.63 cents, down from 93.71 cents the previous day in New York.
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Graph tracks the euro to the dollar, since January 1999. (Source: Bloomberg Financial Markets). It also shows yesterday's closes for the British pound (in U.S. dollars), the Canadian dollar (per U.S. dollar), the German mark (per U.S. dollar), the Japanese yen (per U.S. dollar), the Mexican peso (pers U.S. dollar), and the South Korean won (per U.S. dollar).

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); GERMANY (93%); CANADA (79%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (79%); MEXICO (79%); EUROPE (79%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (92%); 

COMPANY: EUROPEAN UNION EUROPEAN UNION (59%); EUROPEAN UNION (59%); 

ORGANIZATION: EUROPEAN UNION EUROPEAN UNION (59%); EUROPEAN UNION (59%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: GERMANY; UNITED STATES (94%); GERMANY (93%); CANADA (79%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (79%); MEXICO (79%); EUROPE (79%); NEW YORK, USA (92%); 

SUBJECT: CURRENCY; EUROCURRENCY EURO (90%); CURRENCIES (90%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (87%); 

LOAD-DATE: July 15, 2000



333 of 757 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: July 15, 2000

SECTION: Section A; Page 4; Column 1; Foreign Desk

LENGTH: 906 words

HEADLINE: World Briefing

BYLINE: Compiled by Jeanne Moore

 BODY:

AFRICA
 
ZIMBABWE: LAND REDISTRIBUTION -- President Robert Mugabe said his government was to start redistributing land today to war veterans who invaded hundreds of white-owned farms earlier this year in support of his land seizure program. Speaking at the burial of an independence war commander, he said he would not brook domestic opposition or accept foreign criticism. Last month, the government listed 804 farms for seizure for its black resettlement program. (Reuters) 

THE AMERICAS
 
BRAZIL: UPGRADING THE MILITARY -- The government announced a $3.5 billion, eight-year plan to modernize the air force by refurbishing 100 combat jets and buying 76 new supersonic fighters. Pressure has been building for a strengthening of the military's air wing to deal with increased drug-smuggling flights over the Amazon basin and the growing strength of left-wing guerrillas in neighboring Colombia. Larry Rohter (NYT)
 
ECUADOR: FORMER PRESIDENT FACES ARREST -- The Supreme Court ordered the arrest of former President Jamil Mahuad and his finance minister on charges they exceeded their constitutional authority when they declared private bank accounts frozen early last year. Mr. Mahuad took the action to prevent the banking system from collapsing, but was overthrown in January after he announced that the American dollar would replace the sucre as Ecuador's currency. Relatives say he is the United States. Larry Rohter (NYT)
 
EUROPE
 
NORTHERN IRELAND: RALLIES WIND DOWN -- A call by the Orange Order in Portadown for continued provincewide demonstrations against the ban on its march through a Catholic neighborhood went largely ignored, and the Protestant group's leader in Belfast said the protests should end. Northern Ireland has been convulsed by violence for the past two weeks. "People have had enough," said Robert Saulters, grand master of the Grand Orange Lodge. Warren Hoge (NYT)
 
GERMANY: LURE FOR FOREIGN EXPERTS -- Parliament's upper house passed a United States-inspired "green card" program entitling up to 20,000 foreign computer experts to work in Germany to fill a skills gap in computer technology. The experts must have university qualifications or prove they will be paid a minimum income of $48,000 per year to qualify for a visa. The plan was attacked by opposition conservatives as taking jobs from Germans. The bill becomes law on Aug. 1. Victor Homola (NYT)
 
PACIFIC
 
FIJI: SANCTIONS THREATENED -- Rebels who had held the country's leaders hostage for 55 days, demanding the exclusion of Indians from government, handed in their weapons. But Australia and New Zealand threatened sanctions depending on the makeup of the government to be named on Sunday, and India said it would not support a government that included "criminals." (Agence France-Presse)
 
ASIA
 
VIETNAM: PRAISE FOR TRADE DEAL -- Trade Minister Vu Khoan praised a Vietnam-United States trade accord signed Thursday in Washington, calling it "an important step in our integration into the world economy." In the United States, the A.F.L.-C.I.O. vowed to fight the pact's approval in Congress, saying it threatened labor standards and human rights. Seth Mydans (NYT)
 
PHILIPPINES: HOSTAGE LET GO -- Muslim rebels released a second Malaysian hostage after 83 days in captivity on the small southern island of Jolo. The rebels still hold 19 mostly foreign tourists, 3 French journalists who tried to interview the hostages and 13 Philippine evangelical Christians who came to pray over them. A German journalist and three Filipinos are apparently being held in separate kidnappings. Seth Mydans (NYT)
 
KAZAKHSTAN: FORMER LEADER FREED -- Italian authorities released Akezhan Kazhegeldin, Kazakhstan's former prime minister, after holding him for two days in Rome at the request of Kazakhstan's Interpol unit. They said there were no grounds to detain him further. Mr. Kazhegeldin is a political opponent of Kazakhstan's president, Nursultan Nazarbayev, and has been accused of money laundering and tax evasion in his homeland, which he has denied. Sabrina Tavernise (NYT)
 
MALAYSIA: TRIAL NEARING CLOSE -- Prosecutors completed their closing arguments in the sexual misconduct trial of former Deputy Prime Minister Anwar Ibrahim, who is already serving a six-year term for corruption. Defense lawyers now have a chance to rebut the arguments before the judge sets a date for his verdict. Seth Mydans (NYT)
 
MIDDLE EAST
 
LEBANON: PROGRESS SEEN ON BORDER -- The United Nations Middle East envoy, Terje Roed-Larsen, said that most of the remaining nine Israeli violations of the Lebanese border have been rectified and the rest should be resolved soon, which would open the way for the deployment of United Nations peacekeepers in southern Lebanon. Israel ended its 22-year occupation of southern Lebanon on May 24, but disputes over the border have prevented peacekeepers from taking up positions in the area. (Agence France-Presse)
 
SAUDI ARABIA: EXECUTIONS -- Three Yemeni men were executed for engaging in homosexual acts and molesting young boys, the official Saudi Press Agency reported. It quoted an Interior Ministry statement as saying that a court had found the men guilty of "the extreme obscenity of homosexuality and imitating women" in violation of Islamic rules that ban homosexuality. (Reuters)
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photos

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

INDUSTRY: SIC7375 INFORMATION RETRIEVAL SERVICES (50%); 

COUNTRY: ZIMBABWE (94%); UNITED STATES (93%); AUSTRALIA & NEW ZEALAND (92%); AFRICA (92%); ECUADOR (92%); NORTHERN IRELAND (92%); GERMANY (90%); AUSTRALIA (79%); ASIA (79%); BRAZIL (79%); EUROPE (79%); NEW ZEALAND (79%); CENTRAL EUROPE (54%); 

CITY: BELFAST, NORTHERN IRELAND (74%); 

COMPANY: AGENCE FRANCE-PRESSE (50%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ZIMBABWE (94%); UNITED STATES (93%); AUSTRALIA & NEW ZEALAND (92%); AFRICA (92%); ECUADOR (92%); NORTHERN IRELAND (92%); GERMANY (90%); AUSTRALIA (79%); ASIA (79%); BRAZIL (79%); EUROPE (79%); NEW ZEALAND (79%); CENTRAL EUROPE (54%); BELFAST, NORTHERN IRELAND (74%); 

SUBJECT: NO INDEX TERMS FROM NYTIMES PROTESTS & DEMONSTRATIONS (89%); BANKING & FINANCE (87%); EMBARGOES & SANCTIONS (86%); CONSERVATISM (78%); VETERANS (78%); LIBERALISM (78%); AIR FORCES (78%); ARMED FORCES (77%); HOSTAGE TAKING (77%); SMUGGLING (77%); AGRICULTURAL TRADE (77%); SEPARATISM & SECESSION (77%); PASSPORTS & VISAS (76%); MILITARY AIRCRAFT (75%); PUBLIC FINANCE (73%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (72%); ARREST WARRANTS (72%); BANKING & FINANCE AGENCIES (72%); COMMERCE DEPARTMENTS (72%); CONTROLLED SUBSTANCES CRIME (69%); SUPREME COURTS (67%); LEGISLATION (66%); DRUG TRAFFICKING (54%); TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (50%); 

PERSON: ANN LIVERMORE (86%); 

LOAD-DATE: July 15, 2000



334 of 757 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: July 15, 2000

SECTION: Section A; Page 6; Column 1; Foreign Desk 

LENGTH: 1203 words

HEADLINE: In West Bank, Water Is as Touchy as Land

BYLINE: By WILLIAM A. ORME Jr. 

DATELINE: KARMEL, West Bank, July 12

 BODY:
Rafat, a skinny 9-year-old too shy to supply a surname, heads every summer morning to the only swimming hole in this hardscrabble stretch of the Hebron hills. It is a stark stone cistern, about a 100 feet long and 50 feet across, built long ago to store the rains that fall only in winter.
Descending a rickety ladder, Rafat and his pals plunge happily into stagnant water barely three feet deep, its surreal surface an unbroken carpet of brilliant green algae. 
 "These are our children," said Khalil Yunis, mayor of the nearby town of Yatta, shaking his head at the sight of the small boys diving under the undulating scum. "And this is their water."
Rafat's algae-choked swimming pool is the centerpiece of the village water system. The other daily water source for Karmel's 3,500 residents is a tiny spring-fed brook wending its way through a herd of goats into a newly covered concrete cistern.
The villagers carry pails past a hand-lettered sign in English and Arabic extolling this modest public works project, "implemented by Yatta municipality" and financed by the United States Agency for International Development.
"God bless America," Mr. Yunis said with a wry smile.
Mr. Yunis tried to help Karmel further by linking the village to Yatta's municipal water system, but the summer supply in Yatta is so low that water now flows through the three-inch pipe here just two or three days a month, the mayor said.
Like most of the West Bank, Yatta gets its water from Israel's state water company. Dispute over water resources has been a fact of life here since the land was occupied by Israel 33 years ago.
But with Israeli and Palestinian negotiators now trying to resolve the issue of water rights along with all their other hypercharged disputes -- refugees, borders, Jerusalem -- the concern in this parched part of the West Bank is that Israel may end up retaining its hold on the reserves beneath the bedrock here.
About a mile down the dirt road, Mr. Yunis pointed out what is to him a symbol of the conflict that he hopes the Camp David talks can resolve: a pristine pumping terminal, protected by a chain-link and barbed-wire cage, for a large water main supplying a Jewish settlement town, Maon.
A smaller pipe once channeled some of this water to Karmel, but the link was severed by settlers, Mr. Yunis said.
"The water is right here, and we can't touch it," he said.
Within plain view of the fenced-in pumping station, outside another small village, Azam Abugadiah lowered two yellow pails into a 30-foot well dug a year ago in another local government effort to expand water resources.
Four times a day, he expertly tips the buckets into the few remaining inches of standing water, his family's only supply of drinking water. Next to the nearly dry well, a new storage tank stands empty, an electric pump is idle and the year-old water meter shows a long row of zeroes.
In the West Bank, water allocation is a zero-sum game, and Palestinians consider local scarcity a direct and unjust consequence of the resources given to Jewish communities.
With their watered lawns and community pools, the 160,000 Jewish settlers in the West Bank enjoy essentially the same suburban life as Israelis elsewhere.
In the settlements, daily water consumption for households and general urban use is about 74 gallons a person. That is not a lot by American standards, but it is four times the Palestinian usage. And during summer droughts, despite public service calls to conserve water, there is little real reduction in Israeli household use. But among Palestinians, water supplies slow to a trickle.
"The Israelis make all this fuss about a shortage of water to wash their cars, and we do not have enough to wash our bodies," said Muhammad Amro, an official with the Palestinian local government ministry in the Hebron region.
The World Health Organization says 26.5 gallons of potable water per person is needed daily for minimal health and sanitation standards.
In the West Bank and Gaza, where Palestinians control local government but Israel still controls most of the water resources, the average consumption is 18.5 gallons daily. In the summer in towns like Yatta, with water systems connected to Israel's national network, the supply dwindles to half that or less.
The estimated 215,000 Palestinians who live in villages with no running water rely on trucked-in water bought in most cases from Jewish settlements.
Noam Lubell, a spokesman for B'Tselem, an Israeli human rights group that brought European diplomats here for meetings with officials of drought-stricken Palestinian towns, said the settlements were just part of the problem. The drainage of aquifers for Israeli industry and agriculture and the lack of serious water conservation efforts in Israel's affluent suburbs are the real sources of the disparity, he said.
"The water issue is not one of the settlers versus the Palestinians, but of Israel versus the Palestinians," said Mr. Lubell, whose organization issued a study this month urging radical cutbacks in Israel's use of underground fresh water reserves.
In the inch-by-inch negotiating battle for territory here, the lands that are bitterly disputed are precious and finite. But at least they are not contracting. Subterranean water reserves, by contrast, are steadily shrinking as the demands of two fast-growing societies outpace natural replenishment by rivers and rainfall.
As fresh water supplies diminish, brackish water from pools deeper underground is drawn up into the depleted aquifers, rendering the reserves undrinkable.
Even Israeli officials who favor increased allotments to the Palestinians have argued for continued Israeli control of shared aquifers beneath the hills here. Israel's acknowledged expertise in water management can benefit both sides, they contend, and hydraulics and topography make it easier to tap the main reservoir from within Israel's borders.
But the Palestinians point to Israel's recent warnings that it may unilaterally cut water supplies promised to Jordan under the terms of its peace treaty with Israel.
The one point of concurrence between Israeli and Palestinian water experts is that the aquifers do not hold enough water to supply both populations at present consumption rates for many more years.
While Palestinian villagers import Israeli water in tanker trucks, Israel is seriously considering the emergency importation of Turkish water in tanker ships, converted for the purpose from the oil trade.
Some Israeli experts deride that proposal as costly and unsanitary, and say the farms that use most of the country's fresh water should instead be irrigated with brackish and recycled waste water.
The only long-term solution, experts agree, is to create more fresh water.
Israel is seeking bids for gas-powered desalting plants along the Mediterranean. The water-deprived Gaza Strip could be the biggest beneficiary.
But in Karmel and other hamlets in the brown hills here, these projects seem like a distant abstraction.
"They are discussing the problem of water for the next generation," Mr. Amro said. "But if we can't drink the water now, there will be no next generation."
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photos: The stone cistern that is the centerpiece of Karmel's water system is filled only three feet deep with stagnant, algae-covered water. But lacking any better swimming hole in the vicinity, young boys jump in. "These are our children," said the mayor of a nearby town. "And this is their water." (Photographs by Rina Castelnuovo for The New York Times)
 
Map of West Bank shows the location of Karmel: Karmel used to get water from Maon, but the link was severed.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: ISRAEL (94%); PALESTINIAN TERRITORY, OCCUPIED (93%); UNITED STATES (92%); 

CITY: JERUSALEM, ISRAEL (79%); 

COMPANY: US AGENCY FOR INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT (55%); 

ORGANIZATION: US AGENCY FOR INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT (55%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ISRAEL; WEST BANK; YATTA (WEST BANK); ISRAEL (94%); PALESTINIAN TERRITORY, OCCUPIED (93%); UNITED STATES (92%); JERUSALEM, ISRAEL (79%); 

SUBJECT: WATER; PALESTINIANS WATER SUPPLY UTILITIES (90%); NATURAL RESOURCES (89%); WATER QUALITY (88%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (75%); SEAWEED & ALGAE (70%); WATER RIGHTS (68%); REFUGEES (64%); JEWS & JUDAISM (63%); INFRASTRUCTURE (54%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (51%); 

PERSON: ORME, WILLIAM A JR TZIPORA LIVNI (95%); 

LOAD-DATE: July 15, 2000



335 of 757 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: July 15, 2000

SECTION: Section C; Page 1; Column 2; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 1479 words

HEADLINE: INTERNATIONAL BUSINESS: A Dot-Com Revolution in China;
Venture Capital Backs Talented Young Entrepreneurs

BYLINE: By CRAIG S. SMITH 

DATELINE: BEIJING

 BODY:
China's economy is throwing millions of people out of work each year, but an unemployed Internet journalist, Shao Ying, says she can get a job whenever she wants among the hundreds of Internet companies opening offices here.
Her eyes widened when asked how she could be certain to find one that pays if so few Chinese Internet companies have any revenue. The answer, to her, is as obvious as the mole on Mao Zedong's chin. 
 "America," she replies. "Didn't you know?"
Ms. Shao is right: hundreds of millions of American investment dollars have fattened the bank accounts of China's young Internet entrepreneurs over the last year, making dot-com companies the most vibrant part of the country's fledgling but still struggling private sector. And despite the high-technology stock slump in the United States, as much as $1 billion more in venture capital, most of it from America, is hovering overhead waiting to dive into China's fast-developing Internet industry, venture capitalists say.
The torrent of cash into private hands is without parallel here under Communist Party rule. It also is particularly conspicuous given the enormous financing difficulties that many budding Chinese entrepreneurs confront in a society that still officially discourages real capitalism.
The money also could quickly vanish or move elsewhere if foreign venture capitalists decide China is not worth the risk, leaving people like Ms. Shao stranded.
But if the money keeps coming, the impact could be as big as the breakup of the country's Maoist communes 20 years ago. A capital-backed private sector may be the economy's best hope for survival as hundreds of millions of workers spill from sinking state-owned enterprises, and foreign competitors eagerly await China's market opening after it joins the World Trade Organization.
For the first time since a fledgling private sector reappeared in the late 1970's, a group of private businesses here are accumulating capital.
"China is seeing a core entrepreneurship being established that is different from the old one, which never really grew because it didn't have access to capital," says Dong Tao, an economist with Credit Suisse First Boston in Hong Kong.
The new entrepreneurs, many with American educations or American companies on their resumes, are outrunning China's ideologically hobbled bureaucracy not only because of their youth but because they are supported by a powerful constituency abroad: men and women often times not much older who represent millions of dollars in investment capital and are not intimidated by China's authoritarian government or its byzantine rules.
On a sultry night in June, more than 200 young men and women crowded into a fashionable Shanghai restaurant, wearing colored stickers on their lapels identifying them as either someone looking for money (red) or someone with money to give (green). Rapid-fire volleys of industry jargon were part of conversations around the room. One Chinese man told a Silicon Valley banker that his Web site would handle transactions next year worth 1 billion yuan, about $120 million.
"Who here would like Goldman, Sachs to underwrite their Nasdaq I.P.O.?," a young man in a white-collared blue shirt shouted from atop a chair in an effort to get the crowd's attention for the evening's speaker from the American investment bank.
Like their counterparts in the United States, men and women in their 20's have emerged from such evenings to find themselves deploying millions of dollars, in some cases tens of millions of dollars, almost overnight.
The money is not yet sinking very deeply into China's economy. Buses and bus stops in most major cities have been taken over by dot-com advertising. And interior design firms are doing a booming business. At the Internet auctioneer Eachnet.com's sleek offices in a new Shanghai bank building, visitors are greeted by an orange-tiled wall bearing the company's logo -- recently redesigned by a Japanese firm. Against the glass wall of the chief operating officer's office lean presentations from a handful of interior design companies showing various high-tech versions of the company's new offices soon to be built in another building a few doors away.
But as China's old Marxists know, capital is power and if the country's young Internet entrepreneurs can hang onto their assets and make them grow, they could emerge as a potent force shaping the country's economic -- and political -- future.
So far, the big capital formation is limited mostly to Internet companies, though China is exploring ways to make it easier for a business's original investors to cash out when it goes public. China's regulators are considering a second board on the country's stock exchanges that might allow share sales by companies before they are profitable, for example. And Chinese start-ups can, in theory, list their shares on a second board already operating in Hong Kong. Several domestic venture capital funds have even appeared, though they are mostly government controlled.
If that model takes hold, it could fundamentally alter economic life in China, where, despite 20 years of changes that have made the economy more flexible and market-driven, the ever-present state still decides how resources are allocated.
"Many good mechanisms have been introduced to China, such as venture capital and stock options, which will help trigger the restructuring of industries throughout the country," says Wang Zhidong, chief executive of Sina.com, one of the few mainland Chinese Internet companies to list shares on Nasdaq so far. He says the success of those private businesses will also influence the country's attitude toward its educated youth, who remain suspect in the eyes of many Chinese officials.
But China's notoriously slow government must act quickly or the dot-com phenomenon might disappear as quickly as it came without having made much of an impression on the country's economic landscape. Venture capitalists, despairing of any easy exit through which to sell their investments, may move on, leaving China's fledgling Internet industry gasping for cash. The Ministry of Information Industries already estimates that most of the country's 16,000 Web sites will be gone by year-end for lack of financing.
For now, few of China's Internet companies are seriously considering raising capital at home. Current listing requirements make that impossible and the approval to go public is a political favor that private companies rarely win.
And most of the foreign investment in China's Internet sector remains technically illegal under rules barring foreign ownership of value-added telecommunications services. In June, China's stock market regulators issued a new rule requiring companies that want to list abroad to first submit to Beijing documents detailing their ownership structure and showing that the structure adheres to Chinese law.
Even Sina.com had to strip its primary asset -- the mainland China Sina.com Web site -- from its Cayman Islands shell company to get Beijing's approval to list on Nasdaq. Investors in the United States stock own a stake in the shell and its ancillary Chinese-language Web sites in Hong Kong, Taiwan and North America, but not in the Chinese operations.
Rivals angling for a Nasdaq listing are having to do the same, but acknowledge that China's changing rules could make even the restructured operations illegal. Sohu.com, one of the China's most popular Internet portals, stated in a recent Securities and Exchange Commission filing that "relevant P.R.C. authorities could, at any time, assert that any portion or all of our existing or future ownership structure and businesses, or this offering, violate existing or future P.R.C. laws and regulations."
Yet, with China expecting to join the World Trade Organization later this year, a feeling of invincibility -- some say hubris -- has permeated the industry. "The same deference isn't being paid to the ministries and bureaucrats as was paid in the past," says Greg Shea, an American who is working for a venture capital fund sponsored by Siemens A.G. and one of China's own investment companies, the China International Trust and Investment Corporation. The money Mr. Shea's company is investing comes from a telecommunications-equipment-leasing business that was unwound last year after China declared that the structure violated Chinese law.
Even if the current trend does die without transforming China's economy, it has taught a group of bright, ambitious young people the basic tools of capitalism. And not all of those people are likely to go away. Michael Brownrigg of the San Francisco-based Chinavest, one of the first venture capital firms to invest in China, said, "The Internet shows that young people can run businesses here and that will resonate for a long time to come."
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photos: Young entrepreneurs at a restaurant in Shanghai meet with venture capitalists, many of them from the United States, to obtain financing for their companies. But so far, the money is not sinking very deeply into the economy. Much of it is paying for advertising that is dotting the landscape in Chinese cities. (Jin Bo for The New York Times); (Agence France-Presse); (R.S. Photos for The New York Times)
 
Chart: "China.coms"
While most private companies in China cannot raise money easily, a number of Internet companies have attracted foreign investors. Here is how three that have made it onto the Nasdaq have traded.
 
Graph tracks the daily closing price of AsiaInfo Holdings, Sina.com and Netease.com A.D.R.* shares since March.
*A.D.R. = 100 shares
(Source: Bloomberg Financial Markets)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: CSGN (SWX) (57%); CS (NYSE) (57%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (57%); NAICS524126 DIRECT PROPERTY & CASUALTY INSURANCE CARRIERS (57%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (57%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (57%); 

COUNTRY: CHINA (99%); UNITED STATES (96%); HONG KONG (79%); 

STATE: EAST CHINA (92%); NORTH CENTRAL CHINA (79%); 

CITY: SHANGHAI, CHINA (92%); BEIJING, CHINA (74%); 

COMPANY: CREDIT SUISSE GROUP AG (57%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: CHINA; CHINA (99%); UNITED STATES (96%); HONG KONG (79%); EAST CHINA (92%); NORTH CENTRAL CHINA (79%); SHANGHAI, CHINA (92%); BEIJING, CHINA (74%); 

SUBJECT: COMPUTERS AND THE INTERNET; VENTURE CAPITAL; FINANCES; ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS VENTURE CAPITAL (93%); INTERNET & WWW (93%); ENTREPRENEURSHIP (92%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); UNEMPLOYED PERSONS (90%); COMPUTER NETWORKS (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (89%); INTERNET JOURNALISM (78%); RESUMES & CURRICULA VITAE (78%); COMPUTING & IT SECTOR PERFORMANCE (76%); STATE OWNED BUSINESSES (72%); POLITICAL PARTIES (66%); TRENDS (60%); 

PERSON: SMITH, CRAIG S SHAO YING (56%); 

LOAD-DATE: July 15, 2000



336 of 757 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: July 15, 2000

SECTION: Section C; Page 1; Column 2; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 874 words

HEADLINE: Huge Rail Merger Is in Doubt After U.S. Court Upholds Ban

BYLINE: By ANTHONY DePALMA 

 BODY:
The American and Canadian railroads that were planning to combine resources to create a rail system spanning North America lost a court appeal yesterday and will probably end up scuttling their proposed $6 billion merger.
A federal court in Washington upheld a temporary ban on railroad consolidations that was imposed in March by the Surface Transportation Board of the United States. The board had frozen action on all mergers after the Burlington Northern Santa Fe Corporation and the Canadian National Railway Company announced plans to put together a vast freight network that would crisscross the United States and Canada and offer service into Mexico, too. Their merger would have been the largest in railroad history. 
 The railroads argued that the board lacked the authority to impose such a ban and could only approve or reject merger applications. But the United States Court of Appeals for the District of Columbia Circuit, in a 2-to-1 decision released yesterday morning, ruled that the board had not exceeded its statutory authority.
The decision effectively upheld the ban that began on March 17 -- the day the board originally imposed the moratorium -- and runs until June 2001.
In a joint statement, the two railroads expressed disappointment over the court's decision but did not signal their next move.
"Neither B.N.S.F. nor C.N. will speculate about its options," the statement said. "The managements of C.N. and B.N.S.F. will discuss the ruling's implications for their proposed business combination, and each will consult its respective board of directors."
Both companies already have quarterly board meetings scheduled for this month. The Burlington board is to meet next Thursday, and the Canadian National board on July 24. Spokesmen for the railroads refused to say whether the future of the proposed merger or any further legal action, including a request for a rehearing or a filing with the Supreme Court, would be discussed at those meetings.
But analysts are almost certain that the deal will be stopped.
"The deal is dead for the foreseeable future," said James M. Higgins, an analyst at Donaldson, Lufkin & Jenrette. He said that the Burlington Northern board in particular was impatient and unwilling to be held up for more than a year during which anything could happen.
In comments shortly after the ban was imposed in March and the railroads had filed their appeal, Robert D. Krebs, the chairman of Burlington Northern, expressed doubt that the deal would go forward if the moratorium was not overturned. In answer to a question at a luncheon in Washington on March 24, Mr. Krebs said the economic climate in the industry would change so much during the postponement that the proposed merger would probably no longer make sense.
At that same luncheon, Mr. Krebs also expressed concerns about the Surface Transportation Board's announced plans to consider new rules and regulations governing mergers that would be different from those under which the venture had been planned by the two railroads. And he said that the uncertainty generated by such a long delay would hurt investors and further depress the rail lines' stocks.
The board itself acknowledged that financial markets would react negatively to a moratorium, but it found that such danger would be outweighed by the potential consequences of moving forward "without appropriate rules in place at the beginning."
Since the plans were disclosed in December, railroad stock prices have gyrated wildly in reaction to expectations about what federal regulators in Washington would do. Over all, Burlington Northern shares have fallen more than 5 percent this year, while Canadian National declined a bit more than 1 percent. Both were up slightly today as investors responded positively to the court's action because they believed that some of the uncertainty that has dogged the rail lines since the merger was proposed had been lifted. Shares of Burlington Northern rose 68.75 cents, to $26.9375, while Canadian National also jumped 68.75, to $30.75.
From the beginning, the plans of the two large carriers to create a coast-to-coast, cross-border rail network have been both praised and condemned. The new system would include 50,000 miles of track and combined annual revenue of $12.5 billion. Analysts liked the fact that despite their huge dimensions, the two systems overlapped in few places. Railroad executives promised that few jobs or miles of parallel track would be lost.
But the vision of a transcontinental railroad came just as shippers and manufacturers that use the rails were adjusting to a previous round of mergers that had greatly disrupted service and left a large number of rail clients unhappy. Many feared that the Burlington-Canadian National combination would bring on even more mergers and leave North America with just two very large national railroads, a situation that, critics feared, would decrease competition and lower the responsiveness of the railroads to client needs.
Federal regulators in Washington say that more consolidation is likely in the rail industry. They say they imposed the moratorium to review regulations and make sure the industry develops in an orderly way.
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photo: Announcing their proposed merger last December: Robert D. Krebs, foreground, the chairman of Burlington Northern Santa Fe, and Paul M. Tellier, the chief executive of Canadian National Railway. (Associated Press)(pg. C14)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: CNR (TSX) (85%); CNI (NYSE) (85%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS482111 LINE-HAUL RAILROADS (85%); SIC4011 RAILROADS, LINE-HAUL OPERATING (85%); SIC6081 BRANCHES & AGENCIES OF FOREIGN BANKS (52%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (98%); CANADA (96%); NORTH AMERICA (93%); 

STATE: DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: BURLINGTON NORTHERN SANTA FE CORP; CANADIAN NATIONAL RAILWAY CO CANADIAN NATIONAL RAILWAY CO (85%); BURLINGTON NORTHERN SANTA FE CORP (84%); CREDIT SUISSE SECURITIES USA LLC (52%); 

ORGANIZATION: BURLINGTON NORTHERN SANTA FE CORP; CANADIAN NATIONAL RAILWAY CO

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (98%); CANADA (96%); NORTH AMERICA (93%); DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: RAILROADS; MERGERS, ACQUISITIONS AND DIVESTITURES; DECISIONS AND VERDICTS RAIL TRANSPORTATION (92%); APPEALS (90%); MERGERS (90%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (89%); INTERSTATE COMMERCE (89%); RAIL TRANSPORTATION SECTOR PERFORMANCE (89%); APPEALS COURTS (78%); VERDICTS (78%); SUPREME COURTS (78%); DECISIONS & RULINGS (78%); SETTLEMENTS & DECISIONS (78%); APPELLATE DECISIONS (78%); DELAYS & POSTPONEMENTS (78%); JOINT VENTURES MERGERS & ACQUISITIONS LAW (77%); INDUSTRY CONSOLIDATION (77%); TALKS & MEETINGS (76%); BOARDS OF DIRECTORS (76%); SUITS & CLAIMS (73%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (72%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (61%); ECONOMIC NEWS (50%); 

PERSON: DEPALMA, ANTHONY ROBERT D KREBS (56%); 

LOAD-DATE: July 15, 2000



337 of 757 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: July 15, 2000

SECTION: Section C; Page 3; Column 5; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 561 words

HEADLINE: THE MARKETS: STOCKS & BONDS;
Nasdaq Gains on Strong Earnings and Inflation Report

BYLINE: By Reuters 

 BODY:
The Nasdaq market chugged to its highest close in more than three months yesterday as strong earnings and a tame inflation report bolstered hopes that the Federal Reserve will not raise interest rates again this year.
Financial stocks led blue chips higher, despite another battering in the drug sector and a record $145 billion punitive damage award against cigarette makers in a Florida case involving sick smokers. 
 "The friendly inflation number was one of the things that said it was safe to get back in the water again," said Doug Myers, vice president for equity trading at Wachovia Securities in Atlanta. "Earnings did not disappoint. But the most recent tobacco verdict puts a little bit of a damper on things."
Technology stocks clicked into rally mode on a view that June's surprising drop in the core Producer Price Index, which excludes volatile food and energy prices, could take pressure off the Fed to keep fighting inflation.
The Nasdaq composite index jumped 71.32 points, or 1.7 percent, to 4,246.18, as some of its technology heavyweights came back with a vengeance. The index's close was the highest since April 7, when it finished at 4,446.45.
The Nasdaq gained nearly 5.5 percent for the week and is up 4.4 percent for the year.
Cisco Systems, the data networking equipment company, bounced up 3, to 68 1/4, while Amazon.com, the Internet retailer, gained 7 1/2, to 42 1/2. Both companies have been dogged recently by questions about their high valuations.
Salomon Smith Barney said it expected a good third and forth quarter for Amazon.com and reiterated its buy rating on the stock.
The Dow Jones industrial average climbed 24.04 points, or 0.2 percent, to 10,812.75 on the back of J. P. Morgan & Company. The Dow ended up 1.6 percent for the week and is down 6 percent so far this year.
Broader stock indexes also gained ground, with the Standard & Poor's 500-stock index up 14.14 points, or 0.9 percent, to 1,509.98.
The 10-year Treasury note fell 24/32, to a price of 102 29/32. The note's yield, which moves in the opposite direction from the price, rose to 6.09 percent from 5.99 percent on Thursday.
The price of the 30-year Treasury bond fell 29/32, to 105 7/32. The bond's yield rose to 5.88 percent from 5.82 percent on Thursday.
J. P. Morgan's stock shot up 4 3/8, to 128 1/2, after its earnings beat Wall Street estimates. Both Merrill Lynch and CIBC raised their ratings on J. P. Morgan.
The Dow component Philip Morris slipped 5/8, to 24 3/8, after a Miami jury ordered the cigarette maker to pay $73.96 billion for injuring Florida smokers in the landmark Engle sick-smokers trial.
A rival, R. J. Reynolds Tobacco, fell 15/16, to 26 3/16, after it was assessed $36.28 billion in punitive damages out of the total $144.8 billion that five cigarette makers were ordered to pay. Both Philip Morris and R. J. Reynolds said they would appeal.
Earlier, the Labor Department reported that the overall Producer Price Index for June grew by 0.6 percent, while the core Producer Price Index, excluding volatile food and energy prices, declined 0.1 percent.
The core index was forecast to have risen 0.1 percent in June, and the overall index was expected to have risen 0.5 percent, according to economists surveyed by Reuters.
Analysts linked the rise in the overall index to higher oil prices.
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Graph tracks the Dow Jones industrial average over the past year. (Sources: Associated Press; Bloomberg Financial Markets)
 
Tables: "Hot & Cold" provides a look at stocks with large percentage gains and losses; "The Favorites" lists stocks held by largest number of accounts at Merrill Lynch. (Compiled from staff reports, The Associated Press, Bloomberg News, Bridge News, Dow Jones, Reuters)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: JPM (NYSE) (85%); JPM (LSE) (85%); 8634 (TSE) (85%); CSCO (NASDAQ) (56%); AMZN (NASDAQ) (54%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (85%); NAICS523999 MISCELLANEOUS FINANCIAL INVESTMENT ACTIVITIES (85%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (85%); SIC6022 STATE COMMERCIAL BANKS (85%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (58%); NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (58%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (58%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (58%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (58%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (58%); NAICS334210 TELEPHONE APPARATUS MANUFACTURING (56%); SIC3661 TELEPHONE & TELEGRAPH APPARATUS (56%); NAICS454111 ELECTRONIC SHOPPING (54%); SIC5961 CATALOG & MAIL-ORDER HOUSES (54%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); 

STATE: FLORIDA, USA (91%); 

CITY: MIAMI, FL, USA (77%); 

COMPANY: NATIONAL ASSN OF SECURITIES DEALERS AUTOMATED QUOTATIONS; NEW YORK STOCK EXCHANGE; STANDARD & POOR'S CORP JPMORGAN CHASE & CO (85%); MERRILL LYNCH & CO INC (58%); CISCO SYSTEMS INC (56%); AMAZON.COM INC (54%); SMITH BARNEY HOLDINGS INC (54%); FINANCIAL INDUSTRY REGULATORY AUTHORITY (FINRA) (59%); 

ORGANIZATION: NATIONAL ASSN OF SECURITIES DEALERS AUTOMATED QUOTATIONS; NEW YORK STOCK EXCHANGE; STANDARD & POOR'S CORP FINANCIAL INDUSTRY REGULATORY AUTHORITY (FINRA) (59%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES; UNITED STATES (92%); FLORIDA, USA (91%); MIAMI, FL, USA (77%); 

SUBJECT: STOCKS AND BONDS; CREDIT; PRICES (FARES, FEES AND RATES); UNITED STATES ECONOMY; FINANCES; GOVERNMENT BONDS COMPANY EARNINGS (92%); STOCK INDEXES (91%); BONDS (91%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); ECONOMIC POLICY (90%); STOCK EXCHANGES (90%); BOND MARKETS (90%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (89%); TOBACCO MFG (89%); TREASURY SECURITIES (89%); TOBACCO PRODUCTS (89%); GOVERNMENT BONDS (84%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (78%); SECURITIES TRADING (78%); ENERGY & UTILITY SECTOR PERFORMANCE (78%); PUBLIC DEBT (78%); PRODUCER PRICES (78%); PUBLIC FINANCE (78%); PRICE INCREASES (77%); INTEREST RATES (77%); BROKER RECOMMENDATIONS (77%); FINANCIAL RATINGS (77%); VERDICTS (76%); PUNITIVE DAMAGES (76%); BANKING & FINANCE ASSOCIATIONS (72%); DAMAGES (71%); NETWORKING EQUIPMENT (70%); JURY TRIALS (69%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS EQUIPMENT (65%); INTERNET RETAILING (64%); 

LOAD-DATE: July 15, 2000



338 of 757 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: July 15, 2000

SECTION: Section A; Page 10; Column 1; National Desk 

LENGTH: 1894 words

HEADLINE: Security Lapses Signal Unsettling Shift in U.S.-University Nuclear Tie

BYLINE: By JAMES STERNGOLD 

DATELINE: LOS ANGELES, July 14

 BODY:
From the dawn of the nuclear age a half century ago, when J. Robert Oppenheimer moved from Berkeley to the New Mexico desert and led the effort to build the atomic bomb, the University of California has been the government's close partner in running its nuclear laboratories.
Even in the post-cold war era, this historic relationship has endured because of a belief that the university was uniquely suited to nurturing the independent scientific minds needed for creating these complex weapons. 
 But suddenly, and unexpectedly, the partnership is poised for unsettling changes, and not because the threat of nuclear war has all but disappeared and the mission of the laboratories altered. The series of security lapses that have swamped the Los Alamos National Laboratory over the past year have disrupted that bedrock partnership and put the government on an uncertain new course of breaking free, at least partly, from the University of California system.
The arrest last year of a scientist on charges of mishandling vast amounts of secret data, the unexplained disappearance and then reappearance of computer hard drives packed with classified material, and a growing climate of anxiety about further criminal investigations related to misplaced secrets have prompted the government to consider contracting out some duties to private companies.
Energy Secretary Bill Richardson has announced that he will strip the university of its oversight of security at Los Alamos and the other two government labs it manages, as well as some functions like construction management. The university would still manage the most significant tasks, for example research, insuring the reliability of the nuclear stockpile and administration. It is a shift, though, that some people feel could have subtle but profound implications for the scientists at the labs.
In many ways the current tension between the government and the university reflects a wider historic clash present at Los Alamos since it inception. The scientists have long argued that without a free flow of information they cannot accomplish their tasks, while the government has contended that too much openness can harm national security.
The fear is that tightening security now outside of the university's control could undermine the whole rationale for having an academic institution overseeing weapons research -- maintaining a semblance of intellectual freedom, required for scientific innovation, even while following strict secrecy provisions.
The university has long argued that its solid academic reputation and influence traditionally shielded the laboratories' scientists from some potentially stifling government restrictions on communication so that sophisticated scientific research could still be conducted. The question now is, if the university loses its ability to control security will it also lose its ability to protect the laboratories' limited intellectual freedom?
Mr. Richardson insisted that it would not, but said the scientists would simply have to cope because, as he put it, "The status quo isn't working."
"What I want to do," Mr. Richardson said in an interview, "is to use what the University of California does best, and take away what it doesn't do well, to enhance the overall management of the labs and perhaps establish a pattern of joint ventures with the university."
He added: "We're not punishing or scapegoating the University of California. We want to use their strengths and eliminate their weaknesses."
Sidney Drell, a professor emeritus of physics at Stanford University and a member of the presidential commission that criticized security at the government's nuclear labs last year, put it more bluntly.
"It's painful for me to say, because I'm one of those scientists," Dr. Drell said, "but I think the freedoms they had in the past and the open attitude are unacceptable now."
There is an even more basic concern. Many officials at Los Alamos are girding for the possible indictment of some respected, senior laboratory scientists on criminal charges for their mishandling of the disappearance of the hard drives earlier this year. The fear is that this could not only harm the lab's already substantial problems in recruiting young scientists, but could cause an exodus of senior scientists fearful of heavy-handed government prosecutions. Those fears have led some of those in charge at Los Alamos to warn that any reductions in the University of California's role should be prudent, thoughtful and modest.
"I believe that whatever appears to have broken can be fixed," said John C. Browne, the lab's director and a university employee. "The benefits to the country of this relationship far outweigh the problems. To me, if you go too far, it's like you're going to throw away the whole system because of a couple of bad apples."
In principle, Mr. Richardson agreed, saying that dropping the contract with the university and bringing in a private defense contractor to run Los Alamos could be devastating. If a large government defense contractor were to take over, Mr. Richardson said, "then you would have an exodus from our labs."
University officials have expressed a willingness to negotiate a new arrangement with the Department of Energy, but clearly the institution's pride has been wounded.
"It sounds arrogant to say, but we don't need this relationship for the university," said an official, echoing a common view. But others say that, while eager to mend the partnership, they are looking at possibly deeper changes in the future.
"The point when we separate is easy enough to identify," said John Davies, a university regent and until recently the board's chairman. "It's the point when the security becomes so burdensome that it drives the scientists out of the labs. For me, at this point, though, I don't think we're anywhere near that."
Rulon Linford, a former lab scientist who is now the associate vice provost for research and laboratory programs at the university, said: "I think the university gets out of the deal what it has always gotten out of the deal. Its motivation is public service. If the university walked, the national security of this country would be harmed."
The relationship between the University of California system and the government began informally in the early 1940's as the Manhattan Project got under way, and it was first codified in 1943 with the historic contract W-7405-Eng-36, which established the university's management of the previously secret Los Alamos site. Eventually, the number of labs overseen by the university grew to include Lawrence Berkeley as well as Los Alamos and Lawrence Livermore. The Berkeley site is devoted to nonweapons research, while the other two labs do both.
The relationship, however, has traditionally been bumpy. The scientists have always chafed under the government's security restrictions. Also, throughout the 1960's and 1970's, many university faculty members objected to having an academic institution so intimately involved in creating weapons of mass destruction. On several occasions committees explored the relationship and drew up alternatives, including separation.
And in the 1970's, as the research at Los Alamos expanded to include the environment and energy, a consortium of Midwestern universities asked for control of the labs to utilize this new expertise. The proposal was rejected, but it led to other examinations of the partnership and a series of changes throughout the 1980's.
The university says the relationship has created little in the way of financial rewards. Under the current five-year contract, which expires in 2002, the university receives a series of fees, some of which can expand or shrink, depending on performance.
The fee is broken down into several components. There is a payment of $11 million to cover several federal contracts, another payment of $3.5 million to $4 million specifically to cover the costs of a central administration office, and an administration fee, adjusted to reflect performance, of roughly $14 million, but which could go as high as $16 million. About half of those fees are used to operate Los Alamos, with the rest used to pay for the other two labs.
But there are some very substantial benefits to the relationship for the university. The laboratory scientists are not like faculty members at university campuses; they do not have tenure, they do not have complete academic freedom and they must comply with a large body of government rules. Also, none of the university employees at Los Alamos are unionized, although some are at the two California labs.
The relationship, however, is an important recruiting tool. Many young scientists who might not be thrilled at the prospect of working at a government lab devoted to building weapons of mass destruction find the idea of being a University of California researcher far more palatable. The relationship also means that, should a scientist decide to leave the lab, getting a job in academia would be easier.
For instance, Xian Chen, a young biophysicist at Los Alamos involved in nonweapons work, said the fact that he became a university employee was critical. "That's the reason I was attracted," he said. "Los Alamos has a good reputation in the scientific world."
In addition, Los Alamos has some of the fastest computers in the world and other sophisticated research equipment, all paid for by the government. Weapons scientists can use some of these tools for nonmilitary research.
"It's not a one-way street," acknowledged Ronald A. Nelson, the university's director for contract management. "We get some of the scientific results of those labs and that reinforces our reputation for excellence and prestige."
And there are important financial incentives. The university system offers a lucrative retirement package that some believe is perhaps the single most important amenity offered. Also, children of Los Alamos scientists can attend the university at the same rates as California residents, a huge savings.
Hugh Gusterson, a professor of anthropology at the Massachusetts Institute of Technology, who is writing his second book on the weapons labs, said that he believed the supposed intellectual freedoms were a myth. Historically, Mr. Gusterson said, the university has not stood up for scientists who had angered the government, which is certainly the case in the recent series of security lapses. But the economic benefits, he maintained, have been crucial.
"The retirement package is incredibly important," Professor Gusterson said. "But it's my own view that the labs wouldn't be very different without the University of California. They've been sort of an absentee landlord. I think the U.C. element has always been this little carrot the recruiters could dangle."
The reality now is that the priorities are changing, and whatever protections the university could provide for the scientists involved in sensitive research will be diminished.
"The present climate has already cost them young people," Dr. Drell said. "The question is how we stop it and protect the quality of the labs. The university is at its moment of truth in standing up to this, and finding a way to make all this work. I don't think the tensions are unreconcilable, but they are more difficult."
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photo: Energy Secretary Bill Richardson, left, has said he will strip the University of California of its oversight of security at Los Alamos National Laboratory and two other government laboratories it manages. (Stephen Crowley/The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (96%); 

STATE: NEW MEXICO, USA (96%); CALIFORNIA, USA (94%); 

CITY: LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: UNIVERSITY OF CALIFORNIA; LOS ALAMOS NATIONAL LABORATORY; ENERGY DEPARTMENT UNIVERSITY OF CALIFORNIA (94%); UNIVERSITY OF CALIFORNIA (94%); LOS ALAMOS NATIONAL LABORATORY (91%); LOS ALAMOS NATIONAL LABORATORY (91%); 

ORGANIZATION: UNIVERSITY OF CALIFORNIA; LOS ALAMOS NATIONAL LABORATORY; ENERGY DEPARTMENT UNIVERSITY OF CALIFORNIA (94%); UNIVERSITY OF CALIFORNIA (94%); LOS ALAMOS NATIONAL LABORATORY (91%); LOS ALAMOS NATIONAL LABORATORY (91%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: CHINA; UNITED STATES (96%); NEW MEXICO, USA (96%); CALIFORNIA, USA (94%); LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: ATOMIC WEAPONS; ESPIONAGE NUCLEAR WEAPONS (91%); SCIENCE NEWS (89%); SCIENCE & TECHNOLOGY (89%); ENERGY DEPARTMENTS (89%); TEST LABORATORIES (89%); INVESTIGATIONS (87%); COLD WAR (78%); NATIONAL SECURITY (78%); BOMBS & EXPLOSIVE DEVICES (77%); INTERVIEWS (77%); EXPERIMENTATION & RESEARCH (76%); ESPIONAGE (75%); MILITARY WEAPONS (72%); CRIMINAL INVESTIGATIONS (68%); 

PERSON: STERNGOLD, JAMES BILL RICHARDSON (89%); 

LOAD-DATE: July 15, 2000



339 of 757 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: July 15, 2000

SECTION: Section A; Page 7; Column 1; National Desk 

LENGTH: 1000 words

HEADLINE: PUBLIC LIVES;
After Reluctant 'Yes' to Ministry, Confident Climb to Top

BYLINE: By LAURIE GOODSTEIN 

DATELINE: CINCINNATI, July 12

 BODY:
She knelt down in her stiff new robe stitched with purple and gold brocade, surrounded by a tight circle of four bishops and five elders. One by one, they laid their hands on the crown of her head in a mighty stack, consecrating her the first woman bishop in the African Methodist Episcopal Church.
"Pinch me," the Rev. Vashti Murphy McKenzie of Baltimore says she told herself. "It's really happening, but it seems unreal. All I was saying was, 'Let's not cry now. Let's cry later. Don't cry here.' " 
 When she stood, she was dry-eyed, but many of the 5,000 or so church members watching at the convention center here were not. Men and women streamed down the aisles to get close enough to snap pictures of the new bishop, bathing her in a benediction of flashes.
The laying on of hands happened at 1:02 a.m. on Wednesday after seven days of campaigning at the church's quadrennial convention. At 3:15 a.m., she was still in the convention center, meeting with the pastors and lay leaders from the district where she will serve her first four years: the 18th, which covers Mozambique, Lesotho, Botswana and Swaziland.
She plans to move to her district Africa with her husband, Stan McKenzie, a former National Basketball Association player.
Many said the A.M.E. Church could not elect a woman as bishop because the churches in Africa -- home to about a third of the 2.5 million A.M.E. members -- were not ready to accept a woman's leadership. But Bishop McKenzie said that, to the contrary, some African delegates had asked her to come to their districts if she were elected. They told her they could use the experience she had gained in Baltimore developing programs to help the uneducated, unemployed, or those suffering from AIDS.
"Instead of placing my gender in front of me, I'll place who I am and what I do, and who I serve in front of me," she said in an interview. "They know I'm a woman when I walk in the door. So what. I've been one all my life. Get over it."
She is a fitting first. Tall and regal, her bearing recalls the runway modeling she did as a teenager. Professional and prepared, in her campaign for bishop she had the glossiest brochure of any of the 42 candidates, the brightest red T-shirts on her supporters and the slickest video promoting her accomplishments in 10 years as pastor at Payne Memorial A.M.E. in Baltimore.
"She is qualified to be bishop, forget the gender," said the Rev. Richard Greene, a pastor from Maryland who joined a huddle of 20 men in the convention center praying passionately for her victory minutes before the final vote. "She cares about people, and finds the best in people. I am a country boy," and quite traditional, Mr. Greene said, "but I believe in her. She has always been there for me."
As the reality of her purple and gold robe sank in, Bishop McKenzie, who said she is in her 50's, looked back over her life and said she "realized that all of it was the preparation for this moment."
The ministry was not her first career. Initially, she went into journalism, the family business. Her great-grandfather, John H. Murphy Sr., had founded The Afro-American newspaper in 1892, when very few blacks were literate, she said. She honed her writing at The Arizona Republic and The Afro-American, which still publishes in Baltimore and Washington. She cultivated her speaking skills as a broadcaster on gospel radio.
But when the first of her three children was born 25 years ago, she faced a crisis, she said. She had heard the call to ministry. She fasted. She prayed. And she said she resisted.
"It can be a very frightening thing when all of a sudden you realize God is calling you to preach," she said.
There were only one or two women she knew in ministry then, she said, and no books on how to do it. Few mentors. She went ahead and earned her master of divinity degree from Howard University School of Divinity in Washington and her doctorate of ministry from Union Theological Seminary in Dayton, Ohio. The first church she was assigned to had seven members.
When the pastor of Payne Memorial died in 1989, church insiders buzzed about who would fill that prestigious pulpit. At a church gathering, Bishop H.H. Brookins called her aside and told her he wanted to assign her to Payne.
She recalls that he asked her, " 'Can you handle the pressure, because if you are not successful, it will be a long time before a woman will be given a major pulpit again.' I said I could."
Her church was the first in Maryland to join the welfare reform effort by winning a $1.5 million state contract to open a job training center, in 1997. The church's nonprofit affiliate took over a failing public school. It bought a five-story apartment building and an office building to house the church's youth and senior programs, computer classes and a catering service that employs former welfare recipients. The church grew to 1,700 members from 300.
She says she follows the "Ten Commandments for Women Leaders" that she composed in her book "Not Without a Struggle" (United Church Press, 1996). The first commandment is: "Thou shalt not forsake one's femininity for the sake of one's position."
"You see beautiful women stripping themselves of their femininity just to be able to hold a position of power," Bishop McKenzie said. "I believe you don't have to give up your femininity. Esther may have been a good-looking woman and that may have gotten her an interview with the king, but it was her character that earned her the crown, and it was her relationship with God that saved her people."
Her very feminine approach to power was on display at the convention. She was campaigning when she found herself in a too-long embrace with a churchgoer who said he had heard her preach (she has topped Ebony Magazine's "15 Greatest Female Preachers List").
"You came to see us, and I remember you," the man gushed, "because you're so beautiful."
As he planted a sloppy kiss on her cheek, she never lost her composure.
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photo: Bishop Vashti Murphy McKenzie at the A.M.E. Church Convention. (Associated Press)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Biography

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); AFRICA (92%); LESOTHO (79%); SWAZILAND (79%); MOZAMBIQUE (79%); BOTSWANA (79%); 

STATE: MARYLAND, USA (92%); OHIO, USA (56%); 

CITY: BALTIMORE, MD, USA (92%); CINCINNATI, OH, USA (56%); 

COMPANY: AFRICAN METHODIST EPISCOPAL CHURCH NATIONAL BASKETBALL ASSOCIATION (54%); NATIONAL BASKETBALL ASSOCIATION (54%); 

ORGANIZATION: AFRICAN METHODIST EPISCOPAL CHURCH NATIONAL BASKETBALL ASSOCIATION (54%); NATIONAL BASKETBALL ASSOCIATION (54%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%); AFRICA (92%); LESOTHO (79%); SWAZILAND (79%); MOZAMBIQUE (79%); BOTSWANA (79%); MARYLAND, USA (92%); OHIO, USA (56%); BALTIMORE, MD, USA (92%); CINCINNATI, OH, USA (56%); 

SUBJECT: METHODIST CHURCHES; WOMEN CHRISTIANS & CHRISTIANITY (91%); RELIGION (91%); PROTESTANTS & PROTESTANTISM (90%); CLERGY & RELIGIOUS (89%); WOMEN (77%); CONFERENCES & CONVENTIONS (74%); INTERVIEWS (69%); BASKETBALL (64%); 

PERSON: MCKENZIE, VASHTI MURPHY (REV); GOODSTEIN, LAURIE MURPHY MCKENZIE (65%); 

LOAD-DATE: July 15, 2000



340 of 757 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: July 15, 2000

SECTION: Section A; Page 7; Column 5; National Desk 

LENGTH: 1142 words

HEADLINE: Substitute Teachers See a Time to Shine

BYLINE: By JODI WILGOREN 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, July 14

 BODY:
Yvonne Christensen approaches her job like a stand-up comedian. "You've got about 15 seconds to grab 'em," she said.
Walter Fletcher sees it as similar to being a relief pitcher: when you walk onto the mound, players are already on base. 
 And Cindy Manzo sounds as if she's joined the circus. "I'll stand on a chair, I'll dance around, I'll pretend my shoe is a phone," Mrs. Manzo said of her 15 years as a substitute teacher in three states. "Anything to keep their attention."
These three longtime substitutes were among 50 who exchanged horror stories and survival strategies here at the first-ever national conference of substitute teachers today, part of a scattershot effort to raise pay, benefits and working conditions for what is perhaps education's least respected profession.
The nascent effort, organized by far-flung substitutes who met over the Internet, comes at a time of the most severe shortage of substitute teachers in memory. With student enrollment and teacher absenteeism growing, class size shrinking and the unemployment rate near record lows, school districts across the country are scrambling to fill gaps at the front of the classroom.
Many districts have raised wages, but others have lowered requirements: in half the states, all it takes to be a substitute teacher is a high school diploma.
Substitutes have long been disrespected by students, teachers and administrators alike and largely ignored by researchers and politicians. But students, on average, spend a full year of their school lives in classes taught by substitutes, a fact that has fueled a small but growing movement to improve training for these guest workers and take their role more seriously.
"It's like driving a car; it's skill-based," said Geoffrey G. Smith, executive director of the Substitute Teaching Institute at Utah State University, which has made a CD-ROM that provides a self-taught seminar for potential recruits. "There are skills that one can learn."
Mr. Smith said that fewer than 10 percent of school districts provided training for substitutes, but those that did had found it decreased the number of complaints and attracted more applicants.
Expert estimates of the number of substitutes range from 500,000 to 1 million, but nearly everyone agrees there are not enough. In a recent survey by Mr. Smith's institute, 86 percent of school districts reported a substitute shortage, with more than half calling it a "serious problem."
Pay varies widely, from $30 to $185 a day, with an average of about $65. Qualifications also range: Some districts require a full-fledged teaching credential, others simply do a criminal background check.
For decades, the ranks of substitutes were filled with teachers unable to find full-time work, retirees and parents helping out in their children's schools. But now, as the nation faces a teacher shortage of some 2.5 million in the next decade, substitute rosters are threadbare, and districts are turning to flight attendants, firefighters, college students and others.
The full-employment economy, where potential substitute teachers might make better money flipping burgers, is not helping. Nor is the rise in the number of professional development days that pull full-time teachers out of class. Assistant principals and even superintendents are having to fill in in emergencies, and some districts ask cafeteria workers and bus drivers to serve as subs. Last November, the Kelly Services temporary agency began providing substitute teachers nationwide.
In the Atlanta suburbs of DeKalb County, full-time high school teachers can earn an extra $15 for teaching during their planning periods. When Georgia passed a law slashing the number of teachers' aides statewide, the district also decided to turn 600 aides into substitutes this fall rather than fire them.
"The obvious thing to do is to pay more money," said Franklin D. Grant, director of the office of human resources at the 97,000-student DeKalb district, and president of the American Association of School Personnel Administrators. "How do you get a commitment out of anybody for $30 or $40 a day?"
The shortage has provided fertile ground for organizing efforts. The National Education Association and the American Federation of Teachers each represents substitute teachers in a handful of cities and towns; substitutes have also affiliated with other labor groups, including Service Employees International Union and the United Food and Commercial Workers.
In Oregon, legislators recently passed the eighth in a series of bills focused on substitute teachers, setting pay scales at 85 percent of a district's average teacher salary. In Michigan, the state teachers' association has adopted a substitute's "bill of rights" calling for health benefits, a safe environment and "the dignity and respect that, as professional educators, they have earned."
The keynote speaker at today's conference was Shirley Kirsten, founder of the Fresno Area Substitute Teachers Association in California. The group began with five people having coffee in her living room in 1997 and ended up negotiating a contract last year on behalf of hundreds of substitutes that raised substitute salaries to $80 or $90 a day, from $65, depending on the assignment.
"We have been isolated for too long," Ms. Kirsten told attendees, who had come from Nebraska, Florida, New York, Oregon, North Carolina and Virginia. "We now need to get together under one umbrella. That umbrella is respect."
Most of those attending the conference were longtime substitutes with teaching credentials, many of them having chosen the flexibility of daily assignments over the responsibilities of a full-time classroom.
Mrs. Manzo, who is 52, said substituting fit with her military husband's mobility (they have relocated 18 times) and enables her to care more easily for her son and her father, both of whom have medical conditions requiring her attention.
But substituting can mean teaching French and physics and fourth grade -- all in one week. Adaptability is essential.
Mr. Fletcher, who organizes substitutes in Los Angeles, keeps boxes of teaching material in his car, in case someone forgets to leave a lesson plan. He does not know sign language, except the sign for "interpret," so he can direct someone to translate if he is teaching a class of deaf and hearing-impaired students.
Then there was the time he was teaching band, and all the instruments were locked up. He passed out paper and pencils he had brought, and taught the students to write musical notes.
Pamela Routh, a substitute in San Francisco for 25 years, revealed a secret for controlling a rowdy classroom of children she's never met. "You say, 'Kevin, sit down,' " Ms. Routh confided. "There's always a Kevin, so the students think you know everybody's name."
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photo: Substitute teachers attending a national conference yesterday in Washington discussed ways to raise the wages and esteem of the profession. (Paul Hosefros/The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (79%); 

STATE: UTAH, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: SUBSTITUTE TEACHING INSTITUTE (62%); 

ORGANIZATION: SUBSTITUTE TEACHING INSTITUTE (62%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%); UTAH, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: EDUCATION AND SCHOOLS; TEACHERS AND SCHOOL EMPLOYEES; WAGES AND SALARIES TEACHING & TEACHERS (95%); SUBSTITUTE TEACHERS (93%); WAGES & SALARIES (90%); EMPLOYMENT (90%); PRIMARY & SECONDARY SCHOOL TEACHERS (90%); EDUCATIONAL INSTITUTION EMPLOYEES (90%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (89%); SCHOOL DISTRICTS (89%); EDUCATION SYSTEMS & INSTITUTIONS (89%); LABOR SHORTAGES (78%); ARTISTS & PERFORMERS (78%); TEACHER COMPENSATION (75%); TEACHER RECRUITMENT & HIRING (75%); CHILDREN (75%); CONFERENCES & CONVENTIONS (74%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (73%); FOREIGN LABOR (73%); HIGH SCHOOLS (70%); FULL TIME EMPLOYMENT (68%); POLLS & SURVEYS (67%); EMPLOYEE ABSENTEEISM (66%); BACKGROUND CHECKS (66%); EXECUTIVES (64%); 

PERSON: WILGOREN, JODI GEOFFREY G SMITH (67%); CINDY MANZO (58%); 

LOAD-DATE: July 15, 2000



341 of 757 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: July 15, 2000

SECTION: Section A; Page 13; Column 5; Editorial Desk 

LENGTH: 1398 words

HEADLINE: Journal;
Tomorrow Is Another Day

BYLINE: By FRANK RICH 

DATELINE: ALBANY, Ga.

 BODY:
Tom Wolfe set some of his last novel near here but even he couldn't make this scene up:
In the packed, sweltering living room of the tiny house that serves as the Dylan Glenn for Congress headquarters, a Louis Farrakhan acolyte is brandishing The Final Call, the Nation of Islam newspaper, and ranting about a Washington conspiracy to rob Georgia's peanut farmers. Listening to him are a couple of dozen angry and weather-beaten black farmers, lifelong Democrats, as well as Mr. Glenn, who wants their vote. Looking down on them all is a regal poster-size photograph of a starchy Barbara Bush, replete with pearls -- but it's not there as a gag. Mr. Glenn is a 31-year-old black Republican, an unabashed George W. Bush cheerleader, who believes he can be elected to Congress by a white-majority district that has never sent any Republican to Washington. 
 "That's the first Black Muslim I've ever seen in southwest Georgia," the candidate muses after the meeting, in which he seems to win over his audience, Muslim included, just as I'd seen him win over the all-white staff of a small local telecom business a few hours earlier. Such cross-cultural incongruities abound in Mr. Glenn's race: his campaign coordinator, Lizanne Clay, is a white Jewish Democrat gung-ho for Al Gore. The district itself, Georgia's Second, is one big anomaly. Because Mr. Glenn's opponent, the Democratic Congressman Sanford Bishop, is also black, this is that rare white-majority district in the South, let alone the country, that offers no white choice in its House race. "The race card is more or less removed from the table," says Mr. Glenn.
The district is also unusual in having missed out entirely on the New Economy that has showered spectacular growth on Atlanta, 150 miles and a world away. Though Georgia's Second encompasses some of the South's most spectacular old hunting plantations -- the prototypes for the fictional spread owned by the hero of Mr. Wolfe's "A Man in Full" -- it is among the nation's poorest precincts. The poverty level in some of its 31 counties is three times the national average, and unemployment in Albany, the largest town (pop. 80,000), nears 8 percent. Functional illiteracy levels approach 40 percent in some counties -- giving the local chain outlet's midnight party for Harry Potter a special poignancy. While Jimmy Carter may still live in Plains, young people flee faster than such past native sons as Ray Charles and Jackie Robinson.
Dusty, deserted storefronts are common; billboards heralding dot-coms are absent. Ms. Clay, a fourth-generation "Albanian," doubts her own daughter will return after college. "It's like a third world country down here," she says.
So what's an ambitious young black middle-class Republican doing in a place like this?
I first met Dylan Glenn a few months ago and was curious to watch him for a simple reason: If Governor Bush's "compassionate conservatism" is more than a campaign slogan, it must reside in someone like Mr. Glenn, a smart candidate blessed with charisma and a sense of humor who is taking on a seemingly quixotic political mission. No black Republican has ever defeated a black Democrat in a modern Congressional race; his opponent is a formidable incumbent whom Mr. Glenn himself regards as "a decent man." As Mr. Glenn's strategist, Ron Jensen, explains, Mr. Glenn can win only by holding on to the all-white G.O.P. base (with no defections from any racists who might want to abstain altogether), peeling off some conservative white Democrats and, most crucially, winning some 15 percent of the heretofore monolithically black Democratic vote.
If the potential crossover black Democrats I met are any indication, they won't leap easily. One such Glenn enthusiast, a 71-year-old county commissioner and 60's civil-rights veteran named James Mays, regards both George W. Bush and his father as among "the most evil people in the world."
Mr. Glenn, who was a young aide in President Bush's White House, hammers in the George W. message -- the classic Republican mantra of "growth, lower taxes, opportunity, individual responsibility, jobs." In essence, he sands down any ideology beyond a faith in free enterprise. The son of educators, he presents himself as an educational reformer and as an energetic, well-connected rainmaker more likely than Mr. Bishop to attract new businesses to an area in desperate need. Like the Texas governor in his address before the N.A.A.C.P. this week, Mr. Glenn doesn't pretend that his party has a distinguished record with minorities. "There's a perception that the Republican Party is intolerant -- against immigrants, gays, blacks," he says, "and we play into that."
To put it mildly. In primary season, Mr. Bush and John McCain both lacked the courage to take on South Carolina's Confederate flag. Last month Colin Powell, who is a Glenn contributor, went on Fox to say that the G.O.P. is "certainly not seen as the black guy's party" and to dissent strongly from its opposition to affirmative action. This week the Bush campaign made light of a Washington Post reporter who dared bring up the hard-line white supremacist past of its ally Strom Thurmond. Meanwhile, even as Mr. Bush appeared before the N.A.A.C.P., the news media feasted on a 1996 photo of a Republican governor, Christine Todd Whitman, broadly grinning while frisking a black man. Whatever Governor Whitman's intentions, the image was a bizarre echo of antebellum porn.
Unlike the white compassionate conservatives in his party, Mr. Glenn can speak with some moral authority. He is a sharecropper's grandson and the great-grandson of emancipated slaves. When pressed, he can cite instances of experiencing discrimination, and he recalls being the sole black person at a White House meeting a decade ago where he had to speak up to challenge other Bush ites' derisive views of welfare recipients.
In between campaign stops that ranged from a diesel-scented drag strip populated equally by blacks and whites to a watermelon festival parade in Cordele ("Watermelon Capital of the World"), I asked Mr. Glenn if the latent, tentative G.O.P. embrace of minorities is more spin than action, more election-year packaging than substance. He unsurprisingly asserted that Governor Bush is "100 percent sincere" and is intent on moving beyond the "outreach programs and window dressing" that have often constituted the G.O.P.'s attempt to woo minorities. "I know the party isn't seen as motivated by the right reasons," he adds. "It's seen as the party of the rich, white country club and doesn't have a lot of credibility." He argues that if he can bring economic relief to those left behind in Clinton-era prosperity he can help turn the page. As the first black Republican elected to Congress from a Confederate state since 1901, he would certainly be a highly watched test case of whether there can be results to back up his party's compassionate rhetoric.
Whether Mr. Glenn wins or not, there's no doubt he is on the edge of a generational shift. The Albany area was the site of the Rev. Dr. Martin Luther King Jr.'s biggest, and legendary, defeat on the road to Montgomery. It's where a sheriff told the New York Times reporter Claude Sitton, in a famous 1962 front-page story, "We want our colored people to go on living like they have for the last hundred years." But while such events may have helped forge Mr. Glenn's opponent -- who, as Morehouse College student president, sang at King's funeral in 1968 -- they happened before Mr. Glenn was born. Now they are history: the Albany Movement is documented in a new museum at the old Mount Zion Baptist Church, once the site of overflow civil-rights rallies led by the Freedom Singers but today a quiet refuge in a somnolent town segregated in its entirety from the American boom.
"My generation and younger didn't live through the civil-rights movement," says Mr. Glenn. "We know and understand it and respect what it did, but we want to go on to the next step." If the Republican Party is really to be a credible part of that next step, it will not be enough for its presidential candidate to pose incessantly with black schoolchildren and boast about his "heart." It will need someone like Dylan Glenn to make good on his promise to lift up both black and white Americans in a patch of the country as ripe for change as this. 
http://www.nytimes.com

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Op-Ed

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (95%); 

STATE: GEORGIA, USA (95%); 

CITY: ALBANY, GA, USA (92%); ATLANTA, GA, USA (78%); 

COMPANY: HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES (US) NATION OF ISLAM (58%); NATION OF ISLAM (58%); 

ORGANIZATION: HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES (US) NATION OF ISLAM (58%); NATION OF ISLAM (58%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: GEORGIA; UNITED STATES (95%); GEORGIA, USA (95%); ALBANY, GA, USA (92%); ATLANTA, GA, USA (78%); 

SUBJECT: ELECTIONS; PRESIDENTIAL ELECTION OF 2000 ELECTIONS (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); NOVELS & SHORT STORIES (78%); MUSLIM AMERICANS (77%); MUSLIMS & ISLAM (77%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (77%); POLITICAL PARTIES (77%); AFRICAN AMERICANS (77%); POOR POPULATION (76%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (75%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (75%); FARMERS & RANCHERS (72%); RELIGION (72%); PEANUT FARMING (71%); RACE & RACISM (70%); NEW ECONOMY (65%); LITERACY & ILLITERACY (60%); RETAILERS (60%); POVERTY & HOMELESSNESS (60%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS (51%); 

PERSON: BUSH, GEORGE W (GOV); RICH, FRANK GEORGE W BUSH (71%); SANFORD D BISHOP JR (57%); AL GORE (57%); FRANK RICH (56%); JIMMY CARTER (56%); 

LOAD-DATE: July 15, 2000



342 of 757 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: July 15, 2000

SECTION: Section D; Page 2; Column 1; Sports Desk

LENGTH: 1005 words

HEADLINE: BASEBALL;
Plan Would Give Boost To Middle-Class Teams

BYLINE: By MURRAY CHASS

 BODY:
Seeking to correct a mushrooming competitive imbalance because of payroll disparity, baseball's latest economic study committee presented a plan yesterday that would seem to take from the rich and give not to the poor but to the middle class.
George Steinbrenner, the Yankees' principal owner, did not attend the owners meeting, where the 87-page report was presented, but it was primarily his money -- as well as Fred Wilpon and Nelson Doubleday's and that of a few other owners -- that the four-man panel took aim at in one of the major elements of its plan. 
 Following an 18-month study, the panel members recommended that the owners share 40 to 50 percent of their local revenue, levy a 50 percent competitive-balance tax on portions of payrolls above $84 million, encourage clubs to have a minimum payroll of $40 million and withhold central-fund money from clubs that did not reach the minimum.
As ways of enhancing the talent on weaker teams and keeping wealthy teams from gobbling up the best amateur players, the report also advocated a worldwide draft of amateur players, changes in the existing drafts of amateur and minor league players, allowing the trading of draft choices and elimination of compensation picks for lost free agents.
The committee also said financially troubled clubs should be permitted to relocate more readily. No Major League Baseball team has moved since 1972.
The four independent members of the panel were George J. Mitchell, the former Senate majority leader; Paul A. Volcker, the former chairman of the Federal Reserve; Richard C. Levin, the president of Yale University; and the columnist George Will.
Baseball, Will said at a news conference at the Waldorf-Astoria in Manhattan, "can get well by deciding to get well."
"Failure to act promptly will have grave consequences," he added.
Some of the panel's recommendations are enhancements of practices already in place. In negotiations for the last collective bargaining agreement, for example, the clubs increased the amount of revenue they share, with money being transferred from the highest-revenue clubs to the lowest. But the panel cited the so-called local revenue as perhaps the biggest component of the disparity in the teams' economic status.
The committee said that local revenue -- gate receipts, local television and radio contracts and stadium signage -- was really industry revenue and should be shared more liberally with all teams.
In 1999, according to one of the many charts in the report, the Yankees received $175.94 million in local revenue. At the other end were the Montreal Expos, with $11.97 million.
The panel would take 40 to 50 percent of each club's local revenue, put it into a pool and divide the pool evenly among the 30 teams. The existing plan has a two-tiered payout that benefits clubs below the industry's average local revenue. The panel's plan would remove that benefit from the poorer clubs and treat the middle-level teams the same as those below them economically.
A baseball lawyer said at least some baseball officials have wanted to benefit middle-level clubs at the expense of the poorest clubs and at the same time take a huge chunk of money from the wealthiest teams.
Although no panel member acknowledged knowing of any such desire -- Mitchell said the recommendations were exclusively the panel's -- Levin talked about the benefits the middle teams could gain from the revenue-sharing plan.
Asked if he thought a bottom-tier team would sign a free agent passed up by a top-tier team because of the steep tax proposed, he said: "Yeah, or a team in the middle. I actually think it will be a pronounced effect on midrange teams, second- and third-quartile payroll teams, because I think they will now see their playoff chances are going to be better if they invest in players. I think that's where you'll see more bidders in the market for the talented players."
And while most owners chose not to comment on a report they said they had not yet read, Drayton McLane of the midlevel Houston Astros said he was "encouraged very much" by the report.
A person who attended the meeting said some representatives of low-level teams grumbled about the suggestion of a minimum payroll. But that grumbling does not figure to be any louder than the behind-the-scenes outrage certain to be expressed by Steinbrenner. A Yankees official said Steinbrenner would have no comment on the report, but the owner is certain to make his feelings known to Commissioner Bud Selig.
The Yankees are expected to pay about $25 million in revenue sharing this year under the existing formula. That sum would escalate significantly under the proposed plan.
Telephone efforts to reach Wilpon were unsuccessful, but the Mets would be hit hard, too. They were second in local revenue last year with $132.32 million.
The proposed competitive-balance tax would also hit the Yankees. If the proposed 50 percent tax were in effect this year, the Yankees would have to pay about $16 million.
The luxury tax that existed for the previous three years under the 1996 labor agreement used a 35 percent and 34 percent rate and a floating threshold determined by the average of the fifth and sixth highest payrolls. That tax, which is not in effect this year, "failed to moderate the rapid escalation of club payrolls," the report said.
The report said that only the Yankees ($64.5 million), the Cleveland Indians ($45.92 million) and the Colorado Rockies ($12.44 million) were profitable operations over the past five years, 1995 through 1999. The San Francisco Giants, it said, were the biggest losers ($97.02 million).
The panel was appointed by Selig and, unlike the last committee, had no members selected by the players' union. Asked about the report, Donald Fehr, the union head, said, "We always get some report like this before a negotiation."
The union is expected next month to exercise an option in the current labor agreement to extend the contract until the end of the 2001 season.
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photo: Bud Selig is likely to hear complaints about new economic plan. (Frances Roberts for The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (73%); CANADA (50%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (73%); QUEBEC, CANADA (50%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (73%); MONTREAL, QC, CANADA (50%); 

COMPANY: YALE UNIVERSITY PRESS (53%); NEW YORK YANKEES (58%); NEW YORK YANKEES (58%); MAJOR LEAGUE BASEBALL (54%); MAJOR LEAGUE BASEBALL (54%); 

ORGANIZATION: NEW YORK YANKEES (58%); NEW YORK YANKEES (58%); MAJOR LEAGUE BASEBALL (54%); MAJOR LEAGUE BASEBALL (54%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (73%); CANADA (50%); NEW YORK, USA (73%); QUEBEC, CANADA (50%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (73%); MONTREAL, QC, CANADA (50%); 

SUBJECT: Terms not available from NYTimes. BASEBALL (91%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (90%); AMATEUR SPORTS (90%); TALKS & MEETINGS (78%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (78%); STADIUMS & ARENAS (73%); TAXES & TAXATION (73%); COLLECTIVE BARGAINING AGREEMENTS (71%); RELOCATIONS (65%); POLITICAL PARTIES (64%); COLLECTIVE BARGAINING (61%); PRESS CONFERENCES (50%); 

PERSON: GEORGE J MITCHELL (77%); 

LOAD-DATE: July 15, 2000



343 of 757 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: July 15, 2000

SECTION: Section B; Page 7; Column 1; National Desk 

LENGTH: 1078 words

HEADLINE: BELIEFS;
Are those who speak out for evangelicals really conveying what the Christians believe?

BYLINE: By Peter Steinfels 

 BODY:
Count on it: The Religious Right will be back. In about two weeks, the Republican National Convention will anoint George W. Bush's choice of a running mate, and depending on that choice, conservative religious leaders will be featured in the news, either voicing praise and support or expressing disappointment and opposition.
But how closely do those leaders' views, often partisan and sometimes downright inflammatory, correspond to the outlook of the nation's conservative Christians? A considerable body of critical opinion, no less inflammatory itself, has assumed that the correspondence is close. As Pat Robertson or James Dobson goes, so go the evangelicals. 
 Military metaphors abound in commentary on the Religious Right. Not just the prominent leaders and their organized cadres but the mass of conservative believers are often portrayed as an angry army on the march, legions of intolerant zealots eager to use governmental power to impose their favored moral order on the nation.
Christian Smith, a professor of sociology at the University of North Carolina, is blunt about such sweeping portraits. "Most of those who disparage evangelicals in general terms really don't know what they are talking about," he writes in his latest book, "Christian America? What Evangelicals Really Want" (University of California, 2000).
Few critics, Professor Smith says, "have significant personal relationships with enough ordinary evangelicals to inform their views." Typically, the critics' views spring from characterizations in news articles and popular entertainment, from hoary mythology of the Elmer Gantry sort, from the newsletters and fund-raising appeals of organizations engaged in today's cultural wars or, lastly, from the impressions of people just like themselves.
In Professor Smith's previous book, "American Evangelicalism: Embattled and Thriving" (University of Chicago, 1998), his extensive polling and interviews challenged the widespread stereotype that evangelicalism only flourished in intellectual and economic backwaters, isolated enclaves guarded from what Walter Lippmann famously called the "acids of modernity."
Instead, Professor Smith found that by most standards, measuring contact with this elusive thing called modernity -- years of higher education, employment patterns, income levels, urban versus rural residence, age or sex -- people who identified themselves as evangelical Christians scarcely differed from other Americans.
His new book is based on a three-year national study involving more than 200 extended interviews, as well as polling data. He quickly identifies four fallacies that have distorted many descriptions of evangelicals: that their views can be equated with those of a supposedly united evangelical political elite; that their views are accurately represented by the formulations used in public opinion polling; that their views are ideologically consistent, and that they form a monolithic religious bloc rather than a conglomeration of often bickering subgroups.
In his own interviews, Professor Smith did not shy from the hot-button questions. Did evangelicals want to restore a "Christian America?" What did they think of moral and cultural diversity? Did they have a duty to save neighbors of other faiths from hell? What could and could not -- or should not -- be attempted through politics? What should be the content of public education in a pluralist society? What about male leadership in the family and equality between men and women?
On all of these questions he found a range of views, including extreme ones. That, in fact, was his first important discovery: that evangelicals were not united or monolithic.
Still, Professor Smith found the bulk of evangelicals grouped around certain convictions.
They were deeply committed to freedom of religion and speech, not simply as a matter of unavoidable compromise, but as a matter of their religious beliefs.
They believed strongly in individual change, personal conversion of the heart, and consequently they remained wary of social movements, political involvement and institutional reforms.
Far more than politics, they stressed personal example and loving gestures, including prayer, as a means to change.
They frequently disagreed with the positions of their most visible political leaders and often said so quite explicitly.
They were critical of their own failures to live up to the Gospel.
These views were typically conveyed in rambling statements, not particularly eloquent, circling around in second thoughts and near contradictions, statements too long and too loose-jointed to serve reporters in need of the pebble-hard sound-bite, but statements with the authentic ring of ordinary people reflecting and not leaders posturing.
Here is a woman, 54 years old, Midwestern and middle-class, who thinks that gays, the National Organization of Women and the news media are all hostile to Christianity, and who once marched outside an abortion clinic. But she has "mixed feelings," she says, about the "back-and-forth yelling thing" and says "one-on-one evangelism" is "far better than this group stuff where you're so militant and radical."
"I really frown on evangelicals that are kind of hostile themselves," she says. "You don't win people that way. You've got to love them first. We should just stand firm in our beliefs, of course, but try to reach them in a loving way, try to talk to them and befriend them, rather than go and just start yelling things back and forth. What does that accomplish?"
"I don't believe in what you call 'hard-sell' Christianity," she says, with much elaboration. "I don't believe in preaching at people. I invite them to Christian things, and if the conversation can be such that I can talk to them about Jesus, I do that. I never hit anyone over the head with the Bible."
American evangelicals "are neither angels nor demons," Professor Smith concludes. "They are much too diverse, complex, ambivalent and inconsistent for that." Most are not particularly interested in waging the culture wars. They are neither apostles of multicultural diversity nor shock troops of intolerance. They are susceptible to demagogy but also resistant to it, in much the same ways as other Americans.
The oratory surrounding political conventions sometimes leaves the impression of a citizenry divided into alien species. Professor Smith's book argues that it just isn't so. 
http://www.nytimes.com

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: NORTH CAROLINA, USA (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); ILLINOIS, USA (53%); 

CITY: CHICAGO, IL, USA (53%); 

COMPANY: UNIVERSITY OF CALIFORNIA (55%); UNIVERSITY OF NORTH CAROLINA (55%); UNIVERSITY OF CALIFORNIA (55%); UNIVERSITY OF NORTH CAROLINA (55%); 

ORGANIZATION: UNIVERSITY OF CALIFORNIA (55%); UNIVERSITY OF NORTH CAROLINA (55%); UNIVERSITY OF CALIFORNIA (55%); UNIVERSITY OF NORTH CAROLINA (55%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%); NORTH CAROLINA, USA (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); ILLINOIS, USA (53%); CHICAGO, IL, USA (53%); 

SUBJECT: CHRISTIANS AND CHRISTIANITY; UNITED STATES POLITICS AND GOVERNMENT; RESEARCH RELIGION (95%); CHRISTIANS & CHRISTIANITY (92%); CONSERVATISM (90%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (90%); POLITICAL PARTY CONVENTIONS (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); FUNDRAISING (78%); CONFERENCES & CONVENTIONS (78%); POLITICS (78%); SOCIOLOGY (78%); ARMIES (76%); US REPUBLICAN NATIONAL CONVENTIONS (73%); COLLEGES & UNIVERSITIES (72%); EMPLOYMENT TRENDS (50%); 

PERSON: STEINFELS, PETER; SMITH, CHRISTIAN (PROF) GEORGE W BUSH (91%); 

LOAD-DATE: July 15, 2000



344 of 757 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: July 15, 2000

SECTION: Section C; Page 1; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk

LENGTH: 614 words

HEADLINE: BUSINESS DIGEST

 BODY:

A Jury in Florida Awards $144.8 Billion to Smokers
A jury in Florida ordered the tobacco industry to pay $144.8 billion in punitive damages to 500,000 smokers in the largest damage award in United States history. 
 But even as some of the sick smokers and the widows and widowers of others celebrated the verdict as a victory over the industry, tobacco executives called the award ridiculous, and one that would push the companies into bankruptcy if it is paid. They vowed to appeal the verdict, which could take years. Page A1.
 
Senate Repeals Federal Estate Tax
The Senate voted to repeal the federal estate tax, brushing aside a veto threat from President Clinton and giving Republicans a symbolic victory on an issue at the top of their election-year agenda. The vote was 59 to 39. Although Democrats have long said repeal of the tax would be a hugely expensive giveaway to the rich, 9 of 45 Democrats voted for the legislation. Four Republicans voted against. A1.
 
Nasdaq's Highest Close in 3 Months
The Nasdaq market finished with its highest close in three months as strong earnings and a tame inflation report bolstered hopes that the Federal Reserve will not raise interest rates again this year. The Nasdaq composite index jumped 71.32 points, or 1.7 percent, to 4,246.18. The Dow Jones industrial average climbed 24.04 points, or 0.2 percent, to 10,812.75. The Standard & Poor's 500-stock index rose 14.14 points, or 0.9 percent, to 1,509.98. C3.
 
Consumer Spending Stays Strong
The nation's shoppers kept spending through the spring despite an increase in interest rates and gasoline prices, according to government reports. Retail sales climbed 0.5 percent last month, to $269.3 billion. The Labor Department's report on prices paid to producers, which excludes both services and imported goods, showed a 0.6 percent advance for finished goods. C4.
 
New Presence in the Boss's Office
A federal agency's ruling this week that non-union workers summoned into a boss's office can bring along a fellow employee as a witness has won derision from managers and praise from labor activists. But both sides say the decision is unlikely to alter the dynamics of the workplace anytime soon. C2.
 
CBS Checks Past of a Cast Member
CBS said it was "looking into" a report that one of the participants in its new reality series, "Big Brother," was an associate of the militant anti-Semitic black leader Khalid Muhammad, but the network said it saw no reason to remove the man from the program. C3.
 
Impresario Settles Suit With KPMG
The Broadway impresario Garth Drabinsky, a Canadian citizen wanted on criminal charges in the United States related to the collapse of his Livent production company, said he had settled his suit against his former accountants KPMG and KPMG Investigation and Security Inc. KPMG acknowledged that it had breached its fiduciary duty by allowing KPMG Investigation and Security to conduct an inquiry into Livent's financial affairs. C4.
 
Japan Recovery Said to Be on Track
Japan's Finance Minister said the failure of the giant retail chain Sogo would not undercut the country's economic recovery and Standard & Poor's called the Sogo bankruptcy necessary medicine for the Japanese banking system. A bailout of Sogo collapsed after Shinsei Bank, a big Sogo creditor that was recently purchased by foreign investors, balked at forgiving any Sogo debts. C2.
 
PepsiCo Has 21% Gain in Earnings
PepsiCo reported a 21 percent rise in second-quarter earnings this week, soundly beating estimates. The performance was driven by double-digit gains at its salty snacks and juice businesses. C14.
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photo
 
Chart: "YESTERDAY"
Dow industrials -- 10,812.75 up 24.04
Nasdaq composite -- 4,246.18 up 71.32
30-yr. Treasury yield -- 5.88% up 0.06
The euro -- $0.9375 up 0.0003
The dollar -- 107.87 yen down 0.32
 
Graph tracks the daily closing price of the Nasdaq Composite Index since January. (Source: Bloomsberg Financial Market)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Summary

TICKER: DJ (NYSE) (54%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS519110 NEWS SYNDICATES (54%); NAICS516110 INTERNET PUBLISHING AND BROADCASTING (54%); NAICS511110 NEWSPAPER PUBLISHERS (54%); SIC2711 NEWSPAPERS: PUBLISHING, OR PUBLISHING & PRINTING (54%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: FLORIDA, USA (94%); 

COMPANY: DOW JONES & CO INC (54%); DOW JONES & CO INC (54%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%); FLORIDA, USA (94%); 

SUBJECT: NO INDEX TERMS FROM NYTIMES STOCK INDEXES (96%); DAMAGES (91%); VERDICTS (90%); SMOKING (90%); NEWS BRIEFS (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (90%); PUNITIVE DAMAGES (90%); TOBACCO INDUSTRY (90%); ESTATE TAX (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); TOBACCO REGULATION & POLICY (90%); JURY TRIALS (89%); POLITICAL PARTIES (89%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (89%); SALES FIGURES (78%); TOBACCO MFG (78%); TAX RELIEF (75%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (75%); VETO (75%); ECONOMIC NEWS (71%); BUSINESS INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (71%); AGENCY RULEMAKING (69%); GASOLINE MARKETS (67%); LABOR DEPARTMENTS (67%); INTEREST RATES (66%); OIL & GAS PRICES (66%); RETAIL SECTOR PERFORMANCE (66%); COMPANY EARNINGS (66%); IMPORT TRADE (65%); REALITY TELEVISION (64%); GASOLINE PRICES (63%); RETAIL SALES (63%); LABOR UNIONS (62%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (56%); 

PERSON: BILL CLINTON (71%); 

LOAD-DATE: July 15, 2000



345 of 757 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: July 15, 2000

SECTION: Section A; Page 1; Column 4; National Desk 

LENGTH: 1385 words

HEADLINE: CONGRESS CLEARS A BILL TO REPEAL THE ESTATE TAX

BYLINE: By RICHARD W. STEVENSON 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, July 14

 BODY:
The Senate voted today to repeal the federal estate tax, brushing aside a veto threat from President Clinton and giving Republicans at least a symbolic victory on an issue at the top of their election-year agenda.
The vote was 59 to 39. Although Democrats have long said repeal of the tax would be a hugely expensive giveaway to the rich, 9 of 45 Democrats voted in favor of the legislation, reflecting the shifting politics of taxation at a time of widespread prosperity and growing federal budget surpluses. Four Republicans voted against. 
 The House passed identical legislation last month. Republican leaders said they would send the measure to the White House promptly and use Mr. Clinton's promised veto -- which the vote today suggested Senate supporters of the bill would be unable to override -- to support their case that voters will not get tax cuts until a Republican becomes president. Gov. George W. Bush, the apparent Republican presidential nominee, supports elimination of the estate tax. His Democratic rival, Vice President Al Gore, backs a far smaller reduction in it.
Republicans presented the legislation, which would phase out the tax over the next decade, largely as an effort to help families pass farms and small businesses from one generation to another. Heirs are sometimes forced by the tax to sell part or all of the estate to pay the Internal Revenue Service.
But even under current law, the tax is levied on only a tiny proportion of estates, those worth more than $675,000, or $1.3 million in the case of family-owned farms and businesses. And in calling for full repeal of the tax for all types of estates, the bill's supporters had in mind some of their wealthiest constituents as well as the growing ranks of voters who have seen their net worth surge as the strong economy drives up the value of their homes and their holdings of stock and other investments.
Republicans said the tax was inherently unfair, no matter who paid it, arguing that there was no justification for the government to use death to make a claim on wealth amassed over a lifetime. They conjured images of the government's reaching into the grave to seize property and said that nothing less than abolishing the tax was acceptable.
"It's a cancer," Senator Phil Gramm, Republican of Texas, said after the vote. "It's wrong. We want to get rid of it totally."
Democrats said they favored exempting family-owned farms and small businesses from the estate tax, and offered their own plan to do so. But they said the Republican plan, in going much further, amounted to a tax break worth hundreds of billions of dollars in coming decades to a tiny slice of extremely rich people.
Moreover, Democrats said during the three days of debate that led up to today's vote, the money that would go to the estate tax repeal could be better used to address issues of more pressing concern to all Americans. They cited Democratic goals including the addition of prescription drug coverage to Medicare and the enactment of tax breaks for college tuition.
In a statement, Mr. Clinton called the legislation "a budget-busting bill that provides a huge tax cut for the most well-off Americans at the expense of working families."
Charitable contributions are a common way for the wealthy to reduce their projected estate tax liability, and so Mr. Clinton warned that repeal of the tax could also cut charitable donations by $5 billion to $6 billion a year.
"When this bill comes to my desk," he said, "I will veto it."
The bill would phase out the federal estate and gift tax -- what Republicans call the "death tax" -- in small steps over the next 10 years, with most of the tax disappearing only at the end of the decade.
Under current law, the amount of tax exemption for estates in general is already scheduled to rise to $1 million by 2006 from its current level of $675,000; the $1.3 million exemption for family farms and small businesses is already in effect. Above those limits, estates are subject to a graduated tax with a top rate of 55 percent.
The bill would start by eliminating a 5 percent surcharge on some estates next year and by reducing the top rate to 50 percent from 55 percent in 2002. Starting in 2003, it would begin reducing all estate-tax rates by one to two percentage points a year.
The tax would be repealed entirely in 2010, at which point the bill would bring changes in the way taxes are assessed on stocks, real estate and other assets held by an estate.
In simple terms, gains in the value of assets held by the estate would be taxed at capital gains rates starting in 2010 rather than at estate-tax rates. The bill would allow surviving spouses to avoid capital gains taxes on $3 million in assets, and in some cases on up to $4.3 million in assets.
The changes would reduce federal revenue by $104 billion over the first 10 years and by $750 billion in the second 10 years, according to the Treasury Department.
On Thursday, the Senate rejected an alternative offered by Democrats that would have substantially raised the exemption for all estates -- and even more so for family-owned farms and small businesses, effectively freeing nearly all of them from the tax. The vote against the Democratic alternative was 53 to 46.
Some members of both parties said there was a slim possibility of a compromise later this year as part of a bigger bipartisan deal on tax and spending legislation. But Republican leaders showed no public willingness today to consider taking what the Democrats had offered.
They said the Democratic plan would be subject to I.R.S. rules so complex that few family farms and businesses would be able to take advantage of it. And if even a scaled-down version of the tax remained, Republicans said, Democrats would press to broaden its reach again whenever they got a chance.
"The Democrats offered a fig leaf," said Senator Don Nickles of Oklahoma, the Republican whip.
In debating the bill, the Senate had adopted a number of tax-cutting amendments, including a repeal of the 3 percent federal excise tax on telephone service and the permanent extension of a corporate tax credit for research and experimentation costs.
But under orders from the Republican leadership, the Senate voted today to strip out all the amendments, intent on sending Mr. Clinton -- and voters -- an undiluted message about the majority's position on the estate tax.
While the debate today put on display the continuing deep differences between the parties over tax cuts, it also demonstrated that Democrats had become more willing to champion tax cuts of their own, although at substantially lower levels than sought by Republicans.
In addition, it illustrated the breach in the Democratic ranks over the estate tax, an issue that the party long considered of interest only to a tiny sliver of very wealthy people and the tax lawyers and accountants who make a living by developing estate plans that help the rich escape the full brunt of the tax.
The Democrats who voted for the bill were Senators John B. Breaux of Louisiana, Max Cleland of Georgia, Dianne Feinstein of California, Mary L. Landrieu of Louisiana, Blanche Lincoln of Arkansas, Patty Murray of Washington, Charles S. Robb of Virginia, Robert G. Torricelli of New Jersey and Ron Wyden of Oregon.
The Republicans opposed were Lincoln Chafee of Rhode Island, James M. Jeffords of Vermont, Arlen Specter of Pennsylvania and George V. Voinovich of Ohio. Tom Daschle, Democrat of South Dakota, and Tim Hutchinson, Republican of Arkansas, did not vote.
A number of the Democrats who voted for the bill are Southerners regularly to the right of their party. Another of them, Mr. Robb, faces a tough re-election race this year and did not want to give the Republicans ammunition to portray him as against tax cuts. Still others come from states with some combination of high real estate prices, large numbers of successful technology entrepreneurs and significant numbers of family-owned farms.
"The estate tax is a wildly clumsy, inefficient tax that basically is a full-employment program for lawyers and accountants," Mr. Wyden said. "We ought to be phasing out the estate tax, and we should work toward a tax code that is both progressive and entrepreneur-friendly."
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photo: Discussing tax-cut legislation yesterday were, from left, Senators John Ashcroft, Jon Kyl, Rod Grams and Larry E. Craig, all Republicans. (Associated Press)(pg. A9)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); 

STATE: DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA, USA (93%); 

COMPANY: INTERNAL REVENUE SERVICE (54%); INTERNAL REVENUE SERVICE (54%); 

ORGANIZATION: INTERNAL REVENUE SERVICE (54%); INTERNAL REVENUE SERVICE (54%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES; UNITED STATES (92%); DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA, USA (93%); 

SUBJECT: TAXATION; INHERITANCE AND ESTATE TAXES; LAW AND LEGISLATION; ELECTION ISSUES ESTATE TAX (93%); TAXES & TAXATION (92%); TAX RELIEF (91%); LEGISLATION (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); TAX LAW (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); VETO (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (89%); SMALL BUSINESS (87%); FAMILY COMPANIES (87%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (78%); POLITICS (78%); PLATFORMS & ISSUES (78%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (78%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (78%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (78%); BUDGETS (78%); PUBLIC FINANCE (76%); TAX AUTHORITIES (73%); HOME PRICES (70%); 

PERSON: CLINTON, BILL (PRES); STEVENSON, RICHARD W BILL CLINTON (91%); GEORGE W BUSH (73%); AL GORE (58%); JON KYL (58%); LARRY CRAIG (58%); PHIL GRAMM (58%); 

LOAD-DATE: July 15, 2000



346 of 757 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: July 15, 2000

SECTION: Section A; Page 9; Column 1; National Desk 

LENGTH: 993 words

HEADLINE: THE 2000 CAMPAIGN: THE VICE PRESIDENT;
After 8 Years in Office, Unfamiliar in Michigan

BYLINE: By KATHARINE Q. SEELYE 

DATELINE: SAGINAW, Mich., July 13

 BODY:
Sheila Redman, director of the Saginaw Art Museum, put it best. "I feel kind of bad in asking this," she said to the vice president of the United States. "But where have you been for the past eight years?"
This is a solidly Democratic, heavily unionized area, the buckle of Michigan's industrial belt. But as in the rest of this state, and much of the industrial Midwest, voters here are skeptical about Al Gore's presidential candidacy. 
 And tonight, for three and a half hours, Mr. Gore stood under the hot lights in the sweltering gymnasium of Arthur Hill High School here, patiently answering questions from 200 voters -- many of them undecided -- on the economy, jobs, trade and the insurgent campaign of Ralph Nader.
But it was Ms. Redman's questioning that seemed to strike at the heart of the issue. Noting that she was only suddenly aware of his campaign, she told Mr. Gore: "I wasn't sure I would vote for you. I didn't know if you were strong enough to compete."
This is one of the areas where Mr. Nader and his anti-corporate third-party candidacy is siphoning votes from Mr. Gore. It may seem odd that Mr. Nader, author of "Unsafe At Any Speed" and the longtime nemesis of the auto industry, could make a dent in the support of the A.F.L.-C.I.O.-backed Democratic candidate here. But Mr. Gore, who as Republicans like to say, once proposed elimination of the internal-combustion engine, carries a heavily anti-automobile reputation, too.
With Mr. Nader in the race, according to the latest statewide poll by The Detroit Free Press, Mr. Gore trails Gov. George W. Bush of Texas, his likely Republican rival, by 12 percentage points. The poll gave Mr. Bush 46 percent, Mr. Gore 34 and Mr. Nader 8.
In the same poll two months ago, before Mr. Nader became a factor, Mr. Gore was leading Mr. Bush. The Democrats have spent $1.2 million in television commercials here since then to try to raise Mr. Gore's stock, but to little avail.
But Mr. Nader is only part of the problem. Gore backers and analysts say that as the election heats up after Labor Day and Mr. Nader's bare-bones campaign competes for news media attention and on the airwaves, he may become less of a factor.
For voters like Ms. Redman, the main concern is that despite Mr. Gore's nearly eight years as vice president and his yearlong presidential campaign, he is still an unknown quantity.
The Gore campaign is fully aware that the vice president "hasn't broken through" with voters, as one Gore adviser put it. And tonight, he revived one of his favorite campaign venues, the town hall meeting, an open-ended give-and-take with voters that allows Mr. Gore to display his grasp of issues and, more important, to try to convey to voters who he his.
While Ms. Redman did not mention President Clinton, Mr. Gore immediately interpreted her concern as one about his toiling in the shadow as a No. 2. He told her that the job of vice president was a "mixed blessing." The ideal person for the job, he told her, was someone who would not care about receiving press attention and who would help "carry the load when the load gets heavy."
But, he added: "You may not always notice that man. And if you do, he may be just standing there stiffly behind the president, not saying a word."
He pressed on: "Well, is it like the woman behind the man? Well, you know, actually, I've learned a lot about some of those issues because a vice president who does the job correctly is somebody who pitches in and does everything that can help out the country by strengthening the team and moving the ball down the field."
Ed Sarpolus, who is a longtime political analyst in Lansing and who conducted The Free Press polls, said that despite Mr. Bush's lead across the state, Mr. Gore still leads heavily in this region. But he added that Ms. Redman had given voice to the central obstacle that Mr. Gore had to overcome.
"Gore's problem in Michigan is not the China issue, it's not the labor issue," he said of some union concerns. "It's personality and character because it's tied to Bill Clinton."
He added: "When I look at people's angst with Gore, it's not the policies" that give them pause, but Mr. Clinton's "moral turpitude," he said. "They will punish Bill through Al. And until Gore separates himself from Clinton, it's the sins of the father being visited on the son."
Mr. Sarpolus said that Mr. Gore needed eventually to make a clean break with Mr. Clinton, probably after the convention, even though he was relying on the Clinton economy as his biggest selling point.
Mr. Gore seems more comfortable training the national discussion on the economy.
"You put your finger on the problem," he told a man in a tank top who implored the vice president to "get more manufacturing jobs back into Michigan." But even that man, a union worker who said he earned $23,000 a year, shared a more personal reaction to the vice president as he addressed him. "You look a lot like my older brother," he told Mr. Gore, approvingly.
The Gore strategy at this point is to create the chance for the vice president to make these personal connections, which he invariably comes away from successfully, but also to hammer away at his differences with Mr. Bush.
Chris Lehane, Mr. Gore's press secretary, said that Mr. Gore would not be distracted by Mr. Nader, whose name Mr. Gore never uttered during the meeting.
Mr. Sarpolus said that Mr. Gore's reference to being "the woman behind the man" was probably a useful way to convey his role and his sensibilities to women, who make up the majority of Democratic voters -- even if it did not appeal to male voters, who polls show favor Mr. Bush over the vice president.
"I wouldn't change the way he communicates that," Mr. Sarpolus said. "He has to reach women, and this helps him do that, by being a man who is willing to admit that," he said. "And if he doesn't get the women's vote, it doesn't matter what happens with the men."
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photo: Vice President Al Gore on Thursday at a Saginaw, Mich., meeting. (Associated Press)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (96%); 

STATE: MICHIGAN, USA (96%); MIDWEST USA (92%); 

CITY: DETROIT, MI, USA (57%); 

COMPANY: DETROIT FREE PRESS INC (53%); VICE PRESIDENT OF THE UNITED STATES (84%); VICE PRESIDENT OF THE UNITED STATES (84%); AFL-CIO (54%); 

ORGANIZATION: VICE PRESIDENT OF THE UNITED STATES (84%); VICE PRESIDENT OF THE UNITED STATES (84%); AFL-CIO (54%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: MICHIGAN; UNITED STATES (96%); MICHIGAN, USA (96%); MIDWEST USA (92%); DETROIT, MI, USA (57%); 

SUBJECT: PRESIDENTIAL ELECTION OF 2000; THIRD-PARTY MOVES (US) US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (89%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (89%); VOTERS & VOTING (89%); POLITICAL PARTIES (89%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (89%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (89%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (89%); ELECTIONS (78%); MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (78%); LABOR UNIONS (77%); POLLS & SURVEYS (75%); TALKS & MEETINGS (73%); US LABOR DAY (72%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING (69%); 

PERSON: GORE, AL (VICE PRES); NADER, RALPH; SEELYE, KATHARINE Q AL GORE (90%); RALPH NADER (79%); GEORGE W BUSH (77%); 

LOAD-DATE: July 15, 2000



347 of 757 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: July 15, 2000

SECTION: Section C; Page 4; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 651 words

HEADLINE: Economy May Not Be Cooling To the Satisfaction of the Fed

BYLINE: By ROBERT D. HERSHEY Jr. 

 BODY:
The nation's shoppers kept spending through the spring despite an uninspiring stock market and increases in interest rates and gasoline prices, according to government reports issued yesterday.
As a result, analysts said, a superheated American economy may not be cooling to the satisfaction of the Federal Reserve, which over the last year has raised the cost of borrowing money on six occasions as it seeks to keep prices in check. 
 "You've got an economy that's slowing but that may not be slowing enough," said Diane Swonk, chief economist for the Bank One Corporation in Chicago. She said the risks were still very high that the Federal Reserve would decide it needed to raise interest rates again.
The bond market's reaction to yesterday's economic data was swift: prices fell, raising yields, as traders and investors decided that a bigger-than-expected rise in retail sales last month -- on top of a hefty upward revision for May -- outweighed a relatively market-friendly report on June producer prices.
A third survey, on industrial output for June, showed the smallest increase in nine months.
Retail sales, according to the Commerce Department's initial estimate, climbed 0.5 percent last month, to $269.3 billion, with about 70 percent of the gain spent at automotive dealers and about half the rest at gasoline stations.
While the increase was not much more than had been expected, analysts said, it was from a base in May that was considerably higher than first reported as the department's statisticians, using more complete data, transformed what had been a decline of 0.3 percent in retail sales into a gain of 0.3 percent. Retail sales, which account for about half of consumer spending and one-third of all economic activity, are widely watched for clues to current conditions.
The Labor Department's report on prices paid to producers, which excludes both services and imported goods, showed a 0.6 percent advance for finished goods; the rise was largely driven by oil and natural gas. While this matched expectations, economists said they were surprised that the so-called core rate, which excludes energy and food, edged down 0.1 percent after rising 0.2 percent in May, the first drop since January.
James E. Glassman, an economist and a managing director of Chase Securities, went so far as to call it "stunning" that the long run-up in energy prices has spilled over so little into other sectors. "Underlying inflation remains well behaved," he said, adding that an enormous, continuing corporate appetite for high-technology equipment implies further anti-inflation pressure by rising productivity.
Goods at the intermediate stage of production, like a sack of flour, climbed 0.9 percent last month while raw materials jumped 5.8 percent, in both cases reflecting the surge in energy costs. Recently, Ms. Swonk said, gasoline prices have dropped very sharply in the Midwest, where they had risen the most.
The industrial production report, compiled by the Federal Reserve, showed that the nation's factories, mines and utilities raised output 0.2 percent last month, a little less than expected, compared with a 0.5 percent rise in May.
Automobiles, semiconductors and business equipment were the main contributors to the gain, with output slackening for appliances, clothing, steel and electricity.
The next scheduled meeting of Federal Reserve policy makers, who last month found signs of economic slowdown "still tentative and preliminary," is Aug. 22.
In another development yesterday, the National Association for Business Economics published a survey that found one-third of businesses were able to offset higher costs by raising prices during the second quarter, the highest proportion since the first quarter of 1995.
"Pricing power has improved," said Ms. Swonk, who is currently the association's president. "It makes the Fed awfully cautious."
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Graphs track retail sales, industrial production, capacity utilization and producer prices since January 1999. (Sources: Bureau of Labor Statistics; Commerce Department; Federal Reserve Board)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: JPM (NYSE) (83%); JPM (LSE) (83%); 8634 (TSE) (83%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (83%); NAICS523999 MISCELLANEOUS FINANCIAL INVESTMENT ACTIVITIES (83%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (83%); SIC6022 STATE COMMERCIAL BANKS (83%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%); 

CITY: CHICAGO, IL, USA (54%); 

COMPANY: FEDERAL RESERVE BANK JPMORGAN CHASE & CO (83%); US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (82%); US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (82%); BUREAU OF LABOR STATISTICS (59%); BUREAU OF LABOR STATISTICS (59%); 

ORGANIZATION: FEDERAL RESERVE BANK US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (82%); US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (82%); BUREAU OF LABOR STATISTICS (59%); BUREAU OF LABOR STATISTICS (59%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%); CHICAGO, IL, USA (54%); 

SUBJECT: UNITED STATES ECONOMY; PRICES (FARES, FEES AND RATES); SALES; INTEREST RATES; OIL (PETROLEUM) AND GASOLINE US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (91%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); RETAIL SALES (90%); STOCK EXCHANGES (90%); INTEREST RATES (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); OIL & GAS PRICES (90%); GASOLINE PRICES (90%); NATURAL GAS PRICES (89%); INFLATION (89%); BUSINESS FORECASTS (89%); GASOLINE MARKETS (78%); ECONOMIC POLICY (78%); CONSUMER SPENDING (78%); MANUFACTURING OUTPUT (78%); PRICE CHANGES (78%); CONSUMER SPENDING & CREDIT (78%); PRODUCER PRICES (78%); PRODUCTIVITY (78%); NATURAL GAS (78%); CENTRAL BANKS (78%); NATURAL GAS PRODUCTS (78%); GAS STATIONS (78%); BONDS (78%); PETROLEUM PRODUCTS (78%); COMMERCE DEPARTMENTS (77%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (77%); ENERGY & UTILITY SECTOR PERFORMANCE (73%); BOND MARKETS (73%); RETAIL SECTOR PERFORMANCE (73%); IMPORT TRADE (73%); MOTOR VEHICLE & PARTS DEALERS (68%); NEW CAR DEALERS (50%); 

PERSON: HERSHEY, ROBERT D JR DIANE SWONK (70%); 

LOAD-DATE: July 15, 2000



348 of 757 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: July 15, 2000

SECTION: Section A; Page 3; Column 1; Foreign Desk 

LENGTH: 1189 words

HEADLINE: Radical Tax Plan, a Spur for 'Germany Inc.,' Is Approved

BYLINE: By EDMUND L. ANDREWS 

DATELINE: FRANKFURT, July 14

 BODY:
Bowing to the competitive pressures sweeping across Europe, Germany's left-of-center Parliament passed a radical tax program today that will slash rates and should also unleash a wave of restructuring in "Germany Inc."
The vote was a remarkable and unexpected victory for Chancellor Gerhard Schroder, the Social Democratic leader who began his career as a longhaired student protester but whose tax plan made him a hero of the corporate elite. 
 In a role reversal worthy of Lewis Carroll, Mr. Schroder received extensive lobbying support from German corporations, as well as from American businesses here, and overwhelmed the usually pro-business party, the Christian Democratic Union. That party fought the bill for political reasons, and criticized it as too limited.
By 2005, the law will reduce crushing tax rates for individuals and corporations by a total of 50 billion marks, or $24 billion a year. The top tax rates for individuals will drop, to 42 percent, from 51, and the overall corporate burden is expected to decline to 40 percent, from 50.
The most striking change, however, is a provision that will let corporations sell subsidiaries or shares in other companies without paying any tax on their profits. That change is expected to revolutionize the structure of German business, because it clears the way for the big banks and insurance companies to sell more than $100 billion in shares of industrial companies like DaimlerChrysler and Siemens.
Under the old structure of "Germany Inc.," those cross holdings created a web of mutual support that helped finance a spectacular economic recovery after World War II. But now, with companies dependent on satisfying the performance demands set by investors on Wall Street or in London, banks and manufacturers argue that the tangled ownership has become an obstacle to restructuring and a drag on profits.
Selling the stakes has been almost impossible under the law, because selling companies are charged a 50-percent tax on tens of billions of dollars of profit from shares that they may have held for decades.
Economists and corporate executives say the combined effects of the changes will be to transform Germany, Europe's biggest economy but one that has been growing slowly. Some changes will begin next year.
Elga Bartsch, an economist at Morgan Stanley Dean Witter, estimated that the law would increase German growth next year, to 3.1 percent from 2.6. Norbert Walter, chief economist for Deutsche Bank, predicted that growth would exceed that.
"It is a very important signal to investors, because here you have a government of Social Democrats and Greens that has passed a very business-oriented tax reform," Mr. Walter said today. The pro-business political trend is apparent across Europe, he added, even where left-of-center parties control the biggest countries.
"The euro is the catalyst," Mr. Walter said, referring to the single currency that 12 countries have adopted. "It is the catalytic effect of a truly internal market that has now pushed the laggards toward the more advanced countries in terms of modernization."
Mr. Schroder came into office two years ago dependent politically on the left-wing leader of his party, Oskar Lafontaine. But since the two men had a falling out a year ago, Mr. Schroder has steered his party in a more pro-business direction.
As recently as Wednesday, most experts were convinced that Mr. Schroder would be blocked in the upper house of Parliament, the Bundesrat, by the Christian Democrats. But Mr. Schroder steamrollered over both Christian Democrats on the right and disgruntled left-wing traditionalists in his own party, showing a self-assurance and a readiness for conflict that was missing when he came to power.
The Christian Democrats argued that the plan failed to provide enough relief to small and medium-size companies. But their primary goal seemed to be to stymie Mr. Schroder, whose Social Democrats blocked a Christian Democratic tax plan three years ago.
Mr. Schroder lashed back by promising more than $1 billion in sweeteners to small companies, as well as to states where political leaders were wavering. He persuaded the Christian Democratic leader of Berlin to defect to his side, by promising $36 million for additional police officers and $12 million to renovate Museum Island. And he got leaders from Mecklenburg-West Pomerania, the impoverished eastern state, to go along by cutting a deal with state's neo-Communist Party of Democratic Socialism.
That party, successor to the old East German Communist Party, is a minority partner of the state's governing coalition and normally no friend of corporate Germany. But Mr. Schroder received the party's support after he had promised to support building a highly subsidized power plant in the state. Opponents protested fruitlessly that Mr. Schroder was using government money to buy votes.
"I have not experienced this sort of abuse of a constitutional branch of government in 30 years," thundered Gov. Hans Jochen Vogel of Thuringia, a Christian Democrat.
But Angela Merkel, chairwoman of the Christian Democratic Union, seemed cowed. "When it came to the process," Ms. Merkel said today at a news conference, "Mr. Schroder was clearly the winner. Maintaining unity proved to be much thornier and more difficult than many people had thought."
Mr. Schroder, grinning broadly after the vote, brushed aside the criticism as "hypocrisy" and said the plan would be good for business, as well as for individuals, by leaving them additional money in their pockets. "This is truly a good day for Germany," the chancellor said.
Investors generally agreed. The DAX index of blue-chip German stocks jumped 2 percent after the vote, and financial institutions ended considerably higher. Shares of Allianz, the insurance conglomerate that is perhaps at the center of German cross holdings, jumped 7 percent, to 395.65 euros. Shares of Dresdner Bank jumped 5.6 percent and Deutsche Bank rose 3.36.
But economists also said the law's ultimate effects could reach well beyond Germany. Foreign investors, including many corporate buyout funds from the United States, are scouring Germany for companies to buy, spruce up and sell for a profit years later.
Merger and acquisition activity, already torrid, is widely expected to soar as the provision on selling corporate holdings takes effect in 2002.
The Goldman Sachs Group, which has been an adviser in many of Germany's biggest mergers, is hiring hundreds of executives and leasing 11 added floors in one of Frankfurt's biggest skyscrapers.
American companies were unusually active in lobbying for the bill. Representatives of the American Chamber of Commerce in Germany, based in Frankfurt, visited officials from several German states that were wavering in their support.
"The most important thing is the signal we get from Germany," said Norbert Quinkert, executive vice president of the chamber and chairman of Motorola Deutschland. "It wasn't important whether the top tax rate was 42 percent or 43 percent. The issue was whether a tax reform could be passed."
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photo: Chancellor Gerhard Schroder, right, and Finance Minister Hans Eichel as Germany's Parliament debated their proposal to drop a corporate tax. Passage of the measure was an unexpected victory for Mr. Schroder. (Associated Press)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: MS (NYSE) (54%); SIN (SWX) (54%); SIE (LSE) (54%); SIE (FRA) (54%); SIE (BIT) (54%); SI (NYSE) (54%); DEUT (JSE) (54%); DBK (FRA) (54%); DBK (BIT) (54%); DBETN (JSE) (54%); DBA (ASX) (54%); DB (NYSE) (54%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (54%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (54%); NAICS335110 ELECTRIC LAMP BULB & PART MANUFACTURING (54%); NAICS334513 INSTRUMENTS & RELATED PRODUCTS MANUFACTURING FOR MEASURING, DISPLAYING & CONTROLLING INDUSTRIAL PROCESS VARIABLES (54%); NAICS334413 SEMICONDUCTOR & RELATED DEVICE MANUFACTURING (54%); NAICS334210 TELEPHONE APPARATUS MANUFACTURING (54%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (54%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (54%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (54%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (54%); SIC6081 BRANCHES & AGENCIES OF FOREIGN BANKS (54%); 

COUNTRY: GERMANY (96%); EUROPE (94%); UNITED STATES (79%); 

STATE: FRANKFURT AM MAIN, GERMANY (79%); 

CITY: LONDON, ENGLAND (79%); 

COMPANY: MORGAN STANLEY (54%); SIEMENS AG (54%); DEUTSCHE BANK AG (54%); CHRISTIAN DEMOCRATIC UNION (57%); CHRISTIAN DEMOCRATIC UNION (57%); 

ORGANIZATION: CHRISTIAN DEMOCRATIC UNION (57%); CHRISTIAN DEMOCRATIC UNION (57%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: GERMANY; GERMANY (96%); EUROPE (94%); UNITED STATES (79%); FRANKFURT AM MAIN, GERMANY (79%); LONDON, ENGLAND (79%); 

SUBJECT: TAXATION; MERGERS, ACQUISITIONS AND DIVESTITURES; ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS TAXES & TAXATION (93%); TAX LAW (90%); APPROVALS (90%); TAX PREPARATION SOFTWARE (89%); POLITICAL PARTIES (89%); TRENDS (89%); LOBBYING (78%); ECONOMIC RECOVERY (78%); DIVESTITURES (77%); BANKING & FINANCE (74%); TAX REFORM (74%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (72%); PROTESTS & DEMONSTRATIONS (71%); EXECUTIVES (71%); INSURANCE (66%); ECONOMIC NEWS (66%); MONETARY UNIONS (66%); CURRENCIES (61%); WORLD WAR II (50%); 

PERSON: ANDREWS, EDMUND L; SCHRODER, GERHARD (CHANCELLOR) GERHARD SCHRODER (90%); 

LOAD-DATE: July 15, 2000



349 of 757 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: July 15, 2000
Correction Appended

SECTION: Section A;Page 2;Column 3;Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 1299 words

HEADLINE: NEWS SUMMARY

 BODY:

INTERNATIONAL A2-6
 
European Panel Reviewing Human Rights in Austria
A panel of experts has been named to study Austria's human rights record and Jorg Haider's far-right Freedom Party, five months after the European Union imposed sanctions on Austria to protest the inclusion of Freedom Party members in the Austrian government. A1 

Germany Approves Tax Plan
Germany's left-of-center Parliament passed a radical tax program that will slash rates and should also unleash a wave of restructuring. The vote was a remarkable victory for Chancellor Gerhard Schroder. A3
 
Mandela Urges Focus on AIDS
Nelson Mandela, left, closed the 13th International Aids Conference in Durban, South Africa, by urging scientists to move beyond their concerns about South Africa's president, Thabo Mbeki, who has questioned whether H.I.V. causes AIDS. A4
 
Corruption Scandal in Brazil
The publication of what a Brazilian newsmagazine describes as transcripts from 400 hours of wiretapped telephone calls has implicated a former presidential aide, a member of the economic cabinet, a senator and several congressional deputies in an illegal patronage and influence-trafficking network. A5
 
Heat Wave in Southeast Europe
The effects of a prolonged heat wave were still being felt from Romania to southern Turkey, despite a recent easing of temperatures. The heat has claimed at least 50 lives across southeastern Europe. A6
 
Camp David Talks Kept Quiet
Israeli and Palestinian leaders spent their fourth day at Camp David in secluded negotiations. A senior Palestinian official who is not inside Camp David said the Americans have begun to offer proposals to bridge the gaps between Israeli and Palestinian positions. A6
 
Fatal Landslide in Bombay
The death toll from a landslide that buried a shantytown in Bombay rose to 71, but was expected to top 100. Rescuers estimated that 40 missing people could still be buried under mud and boulders. Including those killed in the landslide, 135 people have died in the monsoon storms since Wednesday, the Press Trust of India news agency said. (AP)
 
World Briefing A4
 
NATIONAL A7-11, 14
 
Jury Orders Big Tobacco To Pay $144.8 Billion
A jury in Miami imposed the largest damage award in United States history, ordering the tobacco industry to pay $144.8 billion in punitive damages to 500,000 sick Florida smokers. Tobacco executives called the award ridiculous and said it would push the companies into bankruptcy. A1
 
U.S. Cleared in Waco Deaths
An advisory panel of five jurors found that federal officials were not liable in the deaths of nearly 80 Branch Davidians who were killed in the 1993 raid and standoff at the sect's compound near Waco, Tex. A1
 
Tapes Don't Equal Charges
Videotapes of police beatings made by onlookers are increasingly common, and although the images are powerful, the officers captured on film often face no criminal charges, a review of 18 recent cases shows. A1
 
Vote to Repeal Estate Tax
The Senate voted to repeal the federal estate tax, brushing aside a veto threat from President Clinton and giving Republicans at least a symbolic victory on an issue at the top of their election-year agenda. A1
 
Reluctant to Join Gore
Representative Richard A. Gephardt, left, has emerged high on Al Gore's list of possible running mates, people close to the vice president say. But Mr. Gephardt's advisers insist that he wants his name scratched. A8
 
Bush-Pataki Ticket Explored
George W. Bush met privately with Gov. George E. Pataki of New York to talk about the vice presidency. A8
 
Pilots and F.A.A. End Dispute
Airline pilots and the Federal Aviation Administration ended a safety dispute that had led pilots to sometimes refuse an instruction to land. The airlines said the pilots' refusal added to airport delays. A7
 
Letter Is Called a Forgery
The Florida authorities are investigating a letter that purports to be from Gov. Jeb Bush to a Florida member of Congress that the governor's office says is a forgery. The letter claims to detail Mr. Bush's position on legislation before Congress to ban gambling on the Internet. A9
 
Beliefs B7
 
NEW YORK/REGION B1-7
 
Fears of West Nile Virus Keep Campers Indoors
Children taking part in the 92nd Street Y's summer camp spent their "overnight under the stars" indoors because of parents' fears about disease-carrying mosquitoes. A1
 
Brawley Case Reverberates
Alton H. Maddox Jr., who was found liable for defamation in the Tawana Brawley case two years ago, vowed to reverse the verdict and said he refuses to pay the damage award. B1
 
Bush Gives a Hand to Lazio
George W. Bush offered his support for Representative Rick A. Lazio's Senate bid, belittling Hillary Rodham Clinton with a familiar critique before an audience of Conservative Party donors in Manhattan. B4
 
A Maid's Suit Is Settled
A federal lawsuit in which a domestic worker accused her employer, a diplomat from Bahrain, of keeping her in virtual peonage has been settled out of court, the woman's lawyer said. B2
 
EDUCATION
 
Finding Strength in Unity
Substitute teachers exchanged horror stories and survival strategies in Washington at their first national conference, an effort to raise pay, benefits and working conditions. A7
 
A Move to Lure Teachers
The New York State Board of Regents voted to create an alternative certification program for teachers, hoping to draw people from other professions into the field to alleviate an acute shortage. B1
 
ARTS & IDEAS B9-18
 
SPORTS D1-8
 
OBITUARIES C15-16
 
Jan Karski
A liaison officer of the Polish underground who infiltrated the Warsaw Ghetto and a German concentration camp and carried the first eyewitness accounts of the Holocaust to a mostly disbelieving West, he was 86. C15
 
BUSINESS DAY C1-14
 
Railway Merger Looks Unlikely
The Burlington Northern Santa Fe and Canadian National Railway companies, which were planning to create a rail system spanning North America, lost an appeal and will probably end up scuttling their proposed $6 billion merger. C1
 
Takeover of Reliance Collapses
A planned takeover of Saul Steinberg's Reliance Group Holdings collapsed amid worries that Reliance would be unable to pay debts. Leucadia National, which agreed in May to buy Reliance for $295 million in stock, said it was unwilling to proceed with the transaction. C1
 
Questions for 'Big Brother'
CBS said it was looking into a report that William Collins, one of the participants in "Big Brother," is an associate of the militant anti-Semitic black leader Khalid Muhammad. But CBS said it saw no reason to remove Mr. Collins from the show. C3
 
Pillsbury Purchase Pending
The board of General Mills is meeting Sunday to approve its acquisition of Pillsbury from Diageo P.L.C. for $10.5 billion in cash and stock, according to executives close to the negotiations. If the board approves the deal, the companies will announce it on Monday, the executives said. C1
 
Stocks Rise Across the Board
Nasdaq jumped 71.32 points, or 1.7 percent, to 4,246.18, its highest close in more than three months. The Dow climbed 24.04 points, or 0.2 percent, to 10,812.75, and the S.&P. 500 rose 14.14 points, or 0.9 percent, to 1,509.98. C3
 
Business Digest C1
 
EDITORIAL A12-13
 
Editorials: Cigarette makers under siege; a solid Republican drug plan; cruelty-free diamonds.
Columns: Frank Rich, Anthony Lewis.
 
Bridge B16
Public Lives A7
Crossword B16
Weather B6
TV Listings B18
 
http://www.nytimes.com

CORRECTION-DATE: July 18, 2000, Tuesday

 CORRECTION:
An article yesterday about network television interviews with Vice President Al Gore and Gov. George W. Bush referred incorrectly in some copies to Mr. Gore's position on the death penalty. He is in favor of it, not opposed.

GRAPHIC: Photos

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Summary

COUNTRY: EUROPE (94%); GERMANY (94%); AUSTRIA (93%); PALESTINIAN TERRITORY, OCCUPIED (93%); UNITED STATES (92%); ISRAEL (92%); SOUTH AFRICA (92%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (92%); BRAZIL (92%); INDIA (91%); SOUTHEASTERN EUROPE (91%); ROMANIA (79%); CENTRAL EUROPE (73%); SOUTHERN EUROPE (73%); EASTERN EUROPE (58%); 

STATE: FLORIDA, USA (79%); 

CITY: MUMBAI, INDIA (91%); MIAMI, FL, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: EUROPEAN UNION (58%); EUROPEAN UNION (58%); 

ORGANIZATION: EUROPEAN UNION (58%); EUROPEAN UNION (58%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: EUROPE (94%); GERMANY (94%); AUSTRIA (93%); PALESTINIAN TERRITORY, OCCUPIED (93%); UNITED STATES (92%); ISRAEL (92%); SOUTH AFRICA (92%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (92%); BRAZIL (92%); INDIA (91%); SOUTHEASTERN EUROPE (91%); ROMANIA (79%); CENTRAL EUROPE (73%); SOUTHERN EUROPE (73%); EASTERN EUROPE (58%); FLORIDA, USA (79%); MUMBAI, INDIA (91%); MIAMI, FL, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: NO INDEX TERMS FROM NYTIMES HUMAN RIGHTS (90%); NEWS BRIEFS (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); WEATHER (89%); JURY TRIALS (87%); DAMAGES (86%); CORRUPTION (78%); EUROPEAN UNION (78%); FINES & PENALTIES (77%); TAX LAW (76%); AIDS & HIV (76%); TOBACCO REGULATION & POLICY (76%); TRANSCRIPTS (74%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (73%); TAXES & TAXATION (72%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (70%); BUSINESS INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (70%); WRONGFUL DEATH & SURVIVAL (68%); SCANDALS (68%); WIRETAPPING (67%); CRIMINAL OFFENSES (66%); VERDICTS (65%); PUNITIVE DAMAGES (65%); TOBACCO INDUSTRY (65%); TOBACCO MFG (60%); LANDSLIDES (55%); 

PERSON: THABO MBEKI (56%); GERHARD SCHRODER (56%); 

LOAD-DATE: July 15, 2000



350 of 757 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: July 16, 2000

SECTION: Section 7; Page 32; Column 3; Book Review Desk

LENGTH: 968 words

HEADLINE: PAPERBACK BEST SELLERS: July 16, 2000

 BODY:

	 	 	 	 	 		 	 		Weeks	 		 	 	This	On	 		 	 	Week	List	Fiction		 	 	 	 	 	 1	1	TEARS OF THE MOON, by Nora Roberts. (Jove, $7.99.) An Irish songwriter, shut off from the world, finds hope and happiness with a tomboy.		 	 	 	 	 	 2	17	THE POISONWOOD BIBLE, by Barbara Kingsolver. (Perennial/HarperCollins, $14.) Five female characters narrate a novel set in the Belgian Congo during the fight for independence.		 	 	 	 	 	 3	6	WHILE I WAS GONE, by Sue Miller. (Ballantine, $12.95.) The wife of a minister begins a flirtation.		 	 	 	 	 	 4	1	ASHES TO ASHES, by Tami Hoag. (Bantam, $7.99.) Kate Conlan, a former F.B.I. agent, tracks a serial killer in Minneapolis.		 	 	 	 	 	 5	6	HANNIBAL, by Thomas Harris. (Dell, $7.99.) Hannibal Lecter is still at large.		 	 	 	 	 	 6	3	TOM CLANCY'S OP-CENTER: Divide and Conquer, created by Tom Clancy and Steve Pieczenik; written by Jeff Rovin. (Berkley, $7.99.) Traitors try to oust the president.		 	 	 	 	 	 7	5	IRISH HEARTS, by Nora Roberts. (Silhouette, $7.50.) Two previously published novels, now in one volume, about Irishwomen's lives in America.		 	 	 	 	 	 8	1	LIGHTNING STRIKES, by V. C. Andrews. (Pocket Star, $7.99.) A drama student goes to live with her great-aunt, whose estate is filled with terrors.		 	 	 	 	 	 9	3	ACTS OF MALICE, by Perri O'Shaughnessy. (Island, $7.50.) Nina Reilly defends a man accused of murdering his brother.		 	 	 	 	 	 10	5	IRISH REBEL, by Nora Roberts. (Silhouette, $4.50.) The latest novel in a series about Irish families in America.		 	 	 	 	 	 11	4	ECLIPSE BAY, by Jayne Ann Krentz. (Jove, $7.50.) A man and a woman, whose Oregon families are engaged in a longtime feud, fall in love.		 	 	 	 	 	 12	43	HARRY POTTER AND THE SORCERER'S STONE, by J. K. Rowling. (Scholastic, $5.99.) A British boy attends a school for witchcraft.		 	 	 	 	 	 13	9	THE SAVING GRACES, by Patricia Gaffney. (HarperTorch, $6.99.) The close friendship that binds four women is put to the test.		 	 	 	 	 	 14	1	ROBERT LUDLUM'S THE HADES FACTOR, by Robert Ludlum and Gayle Lynds. (St. Martin's Griffin, $15.95.) Fighting a doomsday virus.		 	 	 	 	 	 15	6	THE GIRLS' GUIDE TO HUNTING AND FISHING, by Melissa Bank. (Penguin, $12.95.) The love life of a young New York woman.		 	 	 	 	 	 16	1	 *FROM THE HEART, by Nora Roberts. (Berkley, $14.95.) Three novels about torrid love affairs.		 	 	 	 	 		 	 		Weeks	 		 	 	This	On	 		 	 	Week	List	Nonfiction		 	 	 	 	 	 1	109	THE PERFECT STORM, by Sebastian Junger. (Perennial/HarperCollins, $14; HarperPaperbacks, $6.99.) The northeaster of 1991.		 	 	 	 	 	 2	87	THE SEAT OF THE SOUL, by Gary Zukav. (Fireside/S&S, $12.) How daily activities can be enhanced by feelings of meaning and purpose. (+)		 	 	 	 	 	 3	4	THE HUNGRY OCEAN, by Linda Greenlaw. (Hyperion, $14.) A sea captain's account of her 30-day swordfishing voyage off the Northeast coast.		 	 	 	 	 	 4	51	GIRL, INTERRUPTED, by Susanna Kaysen. (Vintage, $12.) A young woman's mental illness.		 	 	 	 	 	 5	113	A CHILD CALLED "IT," by Dave Pelzer. (Health Communications, $9.95.) The autobiography of a man who survived his mother's abuse. (+)		 	 	 	 	 	 6	58	 *ANGELA'S ASHES, by Frank McCourt. (Touchstone/S&S, $14 and $7.99.) An Irish-American writer recalls his childhood in Limerick.		 	 	 	 	 	 7	52	 *A WALK IN THE WOODS, by Bill Bryson. (Broadway, $13.) Hiking the Appalachian Trail.		 	 	 	 	 	 8	3	I'M A STRANGER HERE MYSELF, by Bill Bryson. (Broadway, $14.) What it's like to return to the United States after living abroad.		 	 	 	 	 	 9	8	 *THE LEXUS AND THE OLIVE TREE, by Thomas L. Friedman. (Anchor, $15.) A journalist explains the instant electronic global economy.		 	 	 	 	 	 10	64	 *THE LOST BOY, by Dave Pelzer. (Health Communications, $10.95.) The author of "A Child Called 'It' "recalls his life in foster homes. (+)		 	 	 	 	 	 11	18	THE ELEGANT UNIVERSE, by Brian Greene. (Vintage, $15.) A physicist's presentation of superstring theory.		 	 	 	 	 	 12	6	 *THE FIRST WORLD WAR, by John Keegan. (Vintage, $16.) A military historian recounts the 1914-18 conflict.		 	 	 	 	 	 13	65	 *GUNS, GERMS, AND STEEl, by Jared Diamond. (Norton, $14.95.) A physiologist attributes Western dominance to geography. (+)		 	 	 	 	 	 14	8	 *EVERY MAN A TIGER, by Tom Clancy with Chuck Horner. (Berkley, $16.95.) The novelist and a retired Air Force general examine the gulf war.		 	 	 	 	 	 15	15	TRAVELING MERCIES, by Anne Lamott. (Anchor, $13.) A chronicle of the author's journey toward faith and spirituality.		 	 	 	 	 	 16	1	 *I AIN'T GOT TIME TO BLEED, by Jesse Ventura. (Signet, $6.99.) Reflections on politics, professional wrestling and other subjects by the governor of Minnesota.		 	 	 	 	 		 	 		Weeks	 		 	 	This	On	 		 	 	Week	List	Advice, How-to and Miscellaneous		 	 	 	 	 	 1	4	TAKE TIME FOR YOUR LIFE, by Cheryl Richardson. (Broadway, $13.) A seven-step program for enhancing one's social, financial and spiritual well-being. (+)		 	 	 	 	 	 2	196	DR. ATKINS' NEW DIET REVOLUTION, by Robert C. Atkins. (Avon, $14 and $6.99.) Ways to lose weight and achieve a healthy body. (+)		 	 	 	 	 	 3	10	RICH DAD, POOR DAD, by Robert T. Kiyosaki with Sharon L. Lechter. (Warner, $15.95.) Teaching one's children how to get rich and stay rich.		 	 	 	 	 	 4	11	CHICKEN SOUP FOR THE TEENAGE SOUL III, compiled by Jack Canfield, Mark Victor Hansen and Kimberly Kirberger. (Health Communications, $12.95.) Inspirational stories. (+)	
 
Rankings reflect sales, for the week ending July 1, at almost 4,000 bookstores plus wholesalers serving 60,000 other retailers, statistically weighted to represent all such outlets. An asterisk (*) indicates that a book's sales are barely distinguishable from those of the book above. A dagger (+)indicates that some stores received bulk orders. Expanded rankings are available at The New York Times on the Web: www.nytimes.com/books.
 
http://www.nytimes.com

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: List

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (90%); IRELAND (78%); CONGO, THE DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC OF THE (77%); BELGIUM (57%); 

STATE: MINNESOTA, USA (76%); 

CITY: MINNEAPOLIS, MN, USA (52%); 

COMPANY: FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION (54%); 

ORGANIZATION: FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION (54%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (90%); IRELAND (78%); CONGO, THE DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC OF THE (77%); BELGIUM (57%); MINNESOTA, USA (76%); MINNEAPOLIS, MN, USA (52%); 

SUBJECT: NO INDEX TERMS BOOK REVIEWS (91%); NOVELS & SHORT STORIES (90%); BESTSELLERS (78%); SONG WRITING (72%); HOMICIDE (68%); SEPARATISM & SECESSION (55%); 

PERSON: J K ROWLING (58%); 

LOAD-DATE: July 16, 2000



351 of 757 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 16, 2000

SECTION: Section 6; Page 73; Column 1; Magazine Desk

LENGTH: 1544 words

HEADLINE: Food;
Spice Island

BYLINE: By Molly O'Neill

 BODY:
It's hot. It's very hot. It seems way too hot for a slow-cooked meaty meal. But Claudette Eugene is cooking one anyway.
"I cooked yesterday, I cook today, I will cook tomorrow," says the Haitian-born mother of 5 and grandmother of 10. "I cook every day. The food never stays." 
 In Haiti, a cook learns to match the heat of the day with the chilies in a meal, to deploy bitter and sweet flavors against the languor of humidity. And a natural cook, like Eugene, intuits the culinary patois of Haiti, a blend of African, Spanish, French and British influences culled from tropical produce and spices like nutmeg, allspice and anato.
Cook in the morning and people will come. Some will pick. Some will binge. Everyone will eat all evening long.
Maybe it's the layering of flavor and spice that masks the heft of Haitian food. Or perhaps it's the serene purposefulness of a cook like Eugene, who infuses each dish with the joy of survival.
Occupying the western half of the island of Hispaniola (the eastern half is the Dominican Republic), the Haitian landscape moves from mountainous peaks to fertile lowland. The area is as prone to drought as it was, historically, to conquest.
Both conditions breed the sort of frugality that Eugene displays in her cooking, her shopping and her words, even after 31 years in the United States. The ingenuity to turn rough roots and scrawny cattle into tasty meals is another Haitian birthright.
The kind of safety measures crucial in a tropical climate prompt the Haitian cook's habit of rinsing, marinating, rubbing, cooking and recooking. Seasoning is added at each stage, and the flavor of the dish grows incidentally more complex.
"It's the healthy way to cook," Eugene says. In her no-nonsense patois she lists the Haitian way with various foods: all ingredients should be washed. Chicken and turkey should be washed in vinegar and salt and all of the fat removed. Pork should be scrubbed with lemon or sour (Seville) oranges. Beef can be rubbed with these as well as with lime.
And yet something more than health simmers in each of the battered aluminum pots crowding the stove in her Brooklyn brownstone. A spirit that, for all her matter-of-factness, the 60-year-old Haitian cook is not unmindful of.
Oh, she tries to present her economy of motion, her constant cleaning, as a life lesson. "You see how I cook," she says. "I am not sloppy. If you are sloppy, you can't do anything in your life."
Then, pushing her black knit ski cap up on her forehead and fidgeting with the rosary that hangs around her neck under her bright yellow T-shirt, she hints at an animism lurking beneath the practical in Haitian cooking.
It's odd, she muses. "When you cook, you only eat a little and feel satisfied. In a restaurant, you eat a lot and are still hungry."
 
Griot (Spicy Pork Shoulder)
(all recipes adapted from Claudette Eugene)
 
 4 1/2 pounds pork shoulder, cut into 2-inch stew pieces by your butcher
 7 tablespoons distilled white vinegar
 4 tablespoons lemon juice, the squeezed halves of 1 lemon reserved
 4 tablespoons lime juice, the squeezed halves of 1 lime reserved
 3 tablespoons hot sauce
 2 sprigs parsley
 1 scallion
 1/2 small green bell pepper, thinly sliced
 2 tablespoons tomato paste
 Kosher salt and freshly ground black pepper
 1/4 Spanish onion, peeled and thinly sliced
 1/2 small carrot, peeled and thinly sliced.
1. Bring a large pot of salted water to a boil, then lower the heat to a simmer.
2. In a large bowl, combine the pork, 2 tablespoons of the vinegar, the lemon juice and 3 tablespoons of the lime juice and toss until well mixed. Rub the pork all over with the insides of the lemon and lime halves, then put the halves and 4 tablespoons of the vinegar into a pot of simmering water. Place the pork in a colander, rinse well under hot water, then add it to the pot and simmer, uncovered, for 40 minutes.
3. Place the colander in the sink, drain the pork and rinse well with hot water. Clean and dry the pot, return the pork to it and stir in the remaining 1 tablespoon vinegar, remaining 1 tablespoon lime juice, the hot sauce, parsley, scallion, half of the bell pepper, the tomato paste and 2 cups water and season with salt and pepper to taste. Place over medium heat and cook, covered, for 20 minutes, stirring occasionally.
4. Preheat the oven to 350 degrees. Using a slotted spoon, transfer the pork to a roasting pan and bake until well browned and tender, about 40 minutes.
5. Pour the cooking liquid from the pot into a small saucepan and remove the parsley and scallion. Add the remaining bell pepper, the onion, carrot and 1 cup water. Bring to a boil, lower the heat and simmer until vegetables are very tender, about 10 minutes. Season with salt and pepper to taste.
6. Remove the pork from the oven, transfer to a serving platter and pour the cooking liquid over the pork. Serve immediately.
Yield: 4 servings.
 
Riz et Pois
(Rice and Beans)
 
 1/2 pound dried red beans
 8 whole cloves
 1 clove garlic, peeled and chopped
 Leaves from 1 sprig parsley, chopped
 1 scallion, chopped
 1 tablespoon vegetable oil
 1 14-ounce can coconut milk
 1 1/2 teaspoons finely chopped, peeled Spanish onion
 1 teaspoon Goya-brand adobo seasoning
 2 tablespoons Picalese (see recipe)
 1/4 green bell pepper, thinly sliced
 2 cups long-grain rice, rinsed
 Kosher salt and freshly ground pepper.
1. Place the beans and cloves in a medium pot and cover with water by 2 inches. Bring to a boil, lower the heat and simmer until very tender, about 1 hour. Drain the beans, reserving the liquid. Add enough water to the liquid to equal 4 cups total.
2. Meanwhile, with a mortar and pestle, combine the garlic, parsley and scallion and mash into a paste.
3. Heat the oil over high heat in a large kettle with a tight-fitting lid. Add the scallion paste and cook, stirring, until fragrant, about 45 seconds. Add the beans, coconut milk and onion and cook, covered, for 3 minutes, stirring occasionally. Stir in the reserved liquid and the adobo and cook, covered, for 25 minutes. Stir in the Picalese and bell pepper and bring to a boil. Stir in the rice and cook, covered, until tender, about 25 minutes more. Season with salt and pepper to taste. Transfer to a serving bowl and serve immediately.
Yield: 4 servings.
 
Crab, Beef and Okra Stew
 
 1 clove garlic, peeled and chopped
 Leaves from 2 sprigs parsley, chopped
 1 scallion, chopped
 2 pounds London broil, cut into slices 2 inches wide and 1/2inch thick
 Juice of 1 lemon, the squeezed halves reserved
 Juice of 1 lime, the squeezed halves reserved
 1 tablespoon hot sauce
 1 teaspoon Goya-brand adobo seasoning
 Kosher salt and freshly ground black pepper
 3 tablespoons vegetable oil
 2 tablespoons tomato paste
 2 tablespoons Picalese (see recipe)
 4 hard-shelled blue crabs, apron and gills removed
 1 pound okra, ends trimmed
 1/2 Spanish onion, peeled and thinly sliced, plus 1 tablespoon finely chopped
 2 tablespoons butter.
1. With a mortar and pestle, combine the garlic, parsley and scallion and mash into a paste.
2. In a colander in the sink, rub the beef all over with the insides of the lemon and lime halves and rinse with hot water. Transfer the meat to a large bowl and toss with the scallion paste, lemon and lime juices, hot sauce and adobo and season with salt and pepper to taste.
3. Heat the oil in a large Dutch oven over high heat. Add the tomato paste and cook, stirring, until dark red, about 30 seconds. Add the beef mixture and Picalese and cook, covered, stirring occasionally, for 15 minutes. Add the crabs and 1 cup water and continue to cook, covered, stirring occasionally, for 20 minutes. Add the okra, onion, butter and 2 cups water and cook, covered, stirring occasionally, until the okra is tender, about 10 minutes more.
4. Season with salt and pepper to taste. Transfer to a serving platter and serve immediately.
Yield: 4 servings.
 
Banana Pese
(Fried Green Plantains)
 
 Vegetable oil for frying
 3 green plantains, peeled, lightly scored and cut into 2-inch slices on the diagonal, peels reserved
 Kosher salt.
1. In a medium saucepan, add oil to a depth of 2 inches and place over high heat. When the oil is very hot (a bread cube dropped into the oil will turn golden brown in 30 seconds), add the plantains and fry, stirring occasionally, until soft, about 10 minutes. Using a slotted spoon, transfer the plantains to a plate. Flatten one at a time between the plantain peels until about 1/4inch thick, then return to the oil and fry, turning occasionally, until golden brown, about 1 minute.
2. Using a slotted spoon, transfer the plantains to a paper-towel-lined plate and season with salt to taste. Serve immediately.
Yield: 4 servings.
 
Picalese
(Pickled Chilies)
 
 12 habanero or Scotch bonnet chili peppers, thinly sliced
 1/2 small Spanish onion, peeled and thinly sliced
 1 small carrot, peeled and thinly sliced
 Distilled white vinegar.
In a jar with a tight-fitting lid, add the chilies, onion and carrot and enough vinegar to cover. Store in the refrigerator up to 2 weeks. Use to spice up soups, stews and rice dishes.
Yield: 1 jar.
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photo: Pickled chilies give a kick to Haitian soups and stews. (Maria Robledo)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: HAITI (97%); CARIBBEAN ISLANDS (79%); DOMINICAN REPUBLIC (79%); UNITED STATES (79%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (79%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: HAITI (97%); CARIBBEAN ISLANDS (79%); DOMINICAN REPUBLIC (79%); UNITED STATES (79%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: Terms not available from NYTimes. MOUNTAINS (71%); CLIMATOLOGY (65%); SKIING (60%); 

PERSON: CLAUDETTE EUGENE (91%); 

LOAD-DATE: July 16, 2000



352 of 757 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: July 16, 2000

SECTION: Section 6; Page 11; Column 2; Magazine Desk 

LENGTH: 4136 words

HEADLINE: The Way We Live Now: 7-16-00: Round Table;
Writing About Race (And Trying to Talk About It)

BYLINE: By Sam Roberts 

 BODY:
The Times Magazine asked eight New York Times editors and reporters to talk about working on the paper's "How Race Is Lived in America" project. Specifically, we wanted to know how their own attitudes about race were affected by the experience. The conversation, held at The Times on June 19, was moderated by Sam Roberts, a Times editor and host of "New York Close-Up" on NY 1. The panel consisted of two editors, Gerald Boyd and Soma Golden Behr, and six reporters: Steven Holmes (whose article dealt with race relations in the Army), Dana Canedy (race at a newspaper), Ginger Thompson (a former plantation), Janny Scott (the making of an HBO movie), Mirta Ojito (two Cuban friends now living in Miami) and Michael Winerip (New York City police officers). Holmes, Canedy and Winerip also acted as editors on the project. 
 The following are excerpts from the conversation.
Roberts: Why is race a more sensitive subject than sex or sexual orientation or ethnicity?
Holmes: Labels get affixed to people for saying "the wrong thing." It may be unfair but it's true. If a guy says something about women he can jokingly say, "Well, I'm just a chauvinist, I'm just a chauvinist pig," and make a joke out of it. I don't think you run across anybody who would jokingly refer to himself as a racist. It's such a radioactive subject because these labels are so explosive. I mean, you know -- bigot, Uncle Tom, sell out -- you name it.
Roberts: A number of the people who worked on this series, particularly some of the white reporters and editors, said that they felt a certain inadequacy in dealing with race.
Boyd: The dirty little secret is that a lot of the black reporters and editors felt inadequate as well.
Canedy: Plus, ordinarily if you feel inadequate about a story, within two days of reporting you no longer do. It's not the same with race. With race, you can report month after month after month and come to no final conclusion. I can do a business story or a science story or a legal story and figure out right from wrong, up from down. With a race story it's tougher because there are no absolute rights and wrongs.
Scott: What was different for me was that these stories called for a degree of nakedness that you don't normally experience as a reporter -- it started at the very beginning, when we met all day at Soma's house and we were asked to reveal ourselves in a way that's not normally asked of us. And to reveal ourselves on this incredibly rocky terrain.
Thompson: Most times when we go into stories, even stories about race, we are able to identify good guy/bad guy, good agency/bad agency. With these stories, there wasn't a conclusion. There wasn't an "aha moment."
Canedy: Or a villain or a hero.
 
The Difficulty of Talking About Race
Ojito: I was having lunch, as I often did, with the black subject in my story, Joel, and I was trying to understand exactly what it was that he felt about white Cuban-Americans. And he said, "I just wish they were all like you Ojito is a white Cuban-American , that they could be here having lunch with me normally, like you are." That was very nice, but I immediately thought, I'm here having lunch with you because I'm writing about you. The truth is that living in Miami I probably would have never met Joel. But after I met him, I liked him.
Boyd: But that sounds like what people would say about race 30 years ago. That -
Roberts: What do you mean?
Boyd: That whites would say, "Boy, I don't know any blacks." But then if they really met a black for some reason, they would say, "Hey, that black is pretty nice, you know." "One of my best friends is a black boy." "John Doe is a nice black. He is a good man." And "If only -- I didn't know that because I'd never come in contact with him."
Thompson: My landlord said that to me just two weeks ago. So don't think. . . . It's not just 30 years ago.
Boyd: But the difference today is that any well-meaning white or any well-meaning black who wants to be involved, exposed, who wants to deal with somebody of the other race has opportunities.
Ojito: But I wasn't really referring to the fact that he was black. It's the fact that his world is so different from mine. It's differences in socioeconomic status more than anything else. I mean we wouldn't have met. I wouldn't go to Liberty City normally. That's not where my friends live in Miami. So our worlds would not have come together.
Scott: These reporting experiences are not like real life. Because in these situations you have the license -- because of what you're doing -- to go like some superconducting supercollider immediately to the heart of the matter. And all of a sudden you can ask the kinds of questions that you would never normally be able to ask. There's this instant intimacy about it. That to me was the most exhilarating thing. You could ask all these taboo questions.
Holmes: It was exhilarating to try and get people to talk about it. And it makes you wonder, or yearn -- doesn't it make you wonder why more people don't? It makes me yearn for more people to be able to do this.
Boyd: I don't know why it takes a yearlong New York Times project on how race is lived in America to get a white reporter or a black reporter to have serious conversations with a person of the other race about race.
Canedy: Well, one of the things our series showed us is that people still live in very segregated worlds.
Golden Behr: But why don't we even talk to the people at work? What about just turning to the person near you who's of a different race and saying: "Why are you reacting that way? Why are you so angry?"
Holmes: Soma, I think you're being nave. I think most of the time when people allow themselves to do that the person either calls them a racist or something else or withdraws.
Golden Behr: You have to be willing to slip up every once in a while.
Boyd: I don't understand why it is such an overpowering, difficult, awkward, impossible situation. That day in and day out whites will go home and talk about situations that they disagree with or don't understand but can't confront blacks about. And blacks will go home and basically have the same conversation with their loved ones. I don't understand what it is about race that makes this so -- I mean, I understand people want to be P.C., I understand people don't want to be misconstrued. I understand all those things. But I don't understand what it is about race that makes people unwilling to try, especially given what has gone on in this country over the last 10 years or 15 years.
Roberts: Has anyone found the answer in the past year?
Golden Behr: Well, Steve offered an answer. That you get labeled fast. You've got to be careful or somebody will take it wrong. And you have to know somebody pretty well before you take that risk.
 
Whose Issue Is It?
Holmes: For better or worse, race is seen as a black thing. Mike, did you find that there was a sense among the white cops that you were dealing with a black subject here?
Winerip: Yeah, I think the cops, the black cops and the dark-skinned cops, the Latino cops were much more comfortable talking about race than the white cops. The white cops kept feeling that they would be misconstrued, taken out of context. That they were going to sound as if they belonged on the Abner Louima case or the Diallo case.
Boyd: But there's talking and there's talking. I mean, I think if you played back our conversation here today you'd probably find that blacks, myself included, have been doing the most talking. I don't think we've been saying anything, frankly. And I think that's often the case, myself included. I think, Sure, you can get blacks to talk about race because it is certainly our world and we live in it and we see it constantly every day. But to what degree do we really allow blacks to say what is truly on their minds, what race does to them, what race means to them, how race makes it impossible for them or how race drives them crazy one way or another. Blacks don't have that conversation. That's not the conversation.
Roberts: With whites.
Boyd: With whites. And many of them don't have it with other blacks.
Holmes: Oh, I think we do.
Ojito: Isn't part of the problem that whites don't have many black people to have that conversation with? Soma asked why we don't have this conversation in the newsroom. Turn around and talk to your colleague. Well, I don't have a lot of black people to do that with in the newsroom. I have no idea what it was like 15 years ago.
Boyd: Well, we've got a few more.
Ojito: But you know what I'm saying. You have to go out of your way to have that conversation.
 
Race or Something Else?
Roberts: Mike, you've said that you and Gerald disagreed about the hip-hop piece. How much of that was race and how much of it was Gerald's own perspective or lack of interest or sense of humor or whatever?
Boyd: I'm very interested in hip-hop.
Winerip: Gerald is very interested in hip-hop. It's just that he didn't know it was funny. That's what we argued about.
Roberts: O.K., but in arguing about that with a black editor, how did that affect the argument?
Winerip: Sonny Kleinfield another reporter on the series had this white hip-hop character who was essentially, I thought, hilarious. One of the phenomena of hip-hop is that white young people sort of adopt this black urban culture. And this guy was that to the ten-thousandth degree. He was so extreme, he was a cartoon.
I found it funny but Gerald kept saying, "I don't get this guy." It was one of the few times when we were doing this that I really felt as if race might be in the room. Gerald and I screamed at each other the whole series. But a lot of it was about how you do narrative journalism: Is this story too edgy? Is this story mainstream enough? But this was a moment when I felt, I trust my sense of humor. I think it's funny. He doesn't think it's funny. Is it that he doesn't have a sense of humor? Is it that he's black and I'm white?
Roberts: Gerald, did you see race in that conversation?
Boyd: To be honest, no. I thought it was his lack of judgment, faulty judgment. But I think the larger issue, which hip-hop certainly represented, was, to what degree is race funny? You're dealing with an issue that has enormous economic, social and even political costs to younger blacks and middle-aged blacks, as well as younger whites. And you're trying to explain it to an audience that is not so young, to make sense out of it. Is it funny? I don't think it is.
Holmes: What happens when race is involved is that there's always this thought in the back of your mind, as there was in this case. How much does it have to do with taste? And how much does it have to do with race?
Scott: We have no facility for addressing the subject. We have the facility to say, "You're from St. Louis. I know it's why you have this St. Louis bias." But we're just not comfortable with saying, "Along with the fact that you're from St. Louis and you're a girl, you're also black."
Holmes: Right. I think comfort is the operative word.
Scott: Getting back to this question of why it's so hard to actually have these conversations, we're just out of practice. Or we've never been in practice. Everybody backs off. I hope in the future I will be less inclined to back off.
Roberts: Would the stories themselves have come out different if they were written by a white reporter instead of a black, or a black instead of a white?
Thompson: I certainly think that there would have been different things considered if Mike had written my story.
Winerip: But if you had 10 white males all doing Ginger's story at The New York Times, you would have had 10 different stories.
Canedy: Or if you had 10 black reporters, you know, or if Ginger had done my story or if Mike had done my story, the same dynamics would have played out. I mean it has to do with class issues, socioeconomic backgrounds, all those things.
Thompson: But that doesn't mean race isn't an issue.
Roberts: So race is one prism but not the only prism.
 
The Questionnaire
Scott: I saw that questionnaire a list of race-related questions that some reporters asked their subjects and that some also answered themselves and I thought, Ugh, how much do I want to reveal? Then we also had to ask the same questions of our subjects, and I called up Charles Dutton one of the subjects of her article , and I went through the questionnaire with him, and it was fun. When I came to the point, "Did you have white friends as a child?" he said: "No, of course I had no white friends. You know I grew up in a black public housing project. There were a couple of white people there, and I played with them maybe in the daytime. But no white person ever came to my house." And he was completely frank about it.
I hung up the phone and I thought, If he can do it, I ought to, too. I should say, Of course there were no black people in my childhood. And then I thought, You can't, as a white person, do that as easily. Even though as a child it's not your decision that you're living in a totally white suburb and going to a totally white school. But that's where the issue of the moral failing comes in. You feel as if it's a failing.
Roberts: So what did you say on the questionnaire?
Scott: Well, I didn't answer that question accurately, actually. The question was: Who was the first person of another race who left a meaningful impression upon you?
What happened was the honest answer was one thing, which I'll tell you. And I went to my husband and I said, "Should I give this answer, because I know it's embarrassing." And he said: "It will be used against you. It will be used to judge the quality of your story." So I gave an answer that was not untrue, but it happened later on.
The answer that I didn't give was: I grew up in a totally white suburb; I went to very white schools until I was 14. I lived in a very white world. And the first black person to leave a meaningful impression upon me was a woman who sat on a stool at the entrance to the farmers' market where my mother would shop every Saturday -- with a tambourine in her lap, in a long dress, raising money for her church in a part of the town where I lived that we never saw. And every Saturday when we would go to the farmers' market, we were told to go over and give a quarter to Sister Jackson. Now, that was the first person.
And that's a terribly painfully revealing fact about my past, and I didn't put it in the questionnaire.
Holmes: Excuse me. What's so painful?
Scott: Because it shows how benighted my childhood was. And, obviously, Charles Dutton was perfectly comfortable saying the same thing about his own childhood. But he could be comfortable with it, and you tell me why I'm not.
Holmes: But it wasn't. . . . As you said before, it wasn't your fault.
Scott: Mike, you seem to understand what I'm saying even though Steve and Dana profess not to. Do you think that they're being honest in saying that it wouldn't be held against me?
Winerip: I know what you mean. I mean, it's kind of you're less experienced, you're more protected, you grew up in an ivory tower, those kinds of things. And I think we all like to think of ourselves as worldly and urban and having this variety of experiences.
Holmes: But if you were to say that you didn't know any plumbers or carpenters, nobody would hold that against you. You wouldn't think that would be held against you. But if you didn't know any black people, that would be -
Scott: Plumbers are not subject to persistent discrimination.
 
You Have to Figure Out
How Whites Want You to Be
Boyd: What is major to me, because I've seen it time and time again, is the weight blacks give to race. Blacks give race so much weight that you can't be yourself, you have to try to figure out how whites want you to be. And it doesn't change based on how much success you have. That was one of the things that came through in some of our stories. Race is out there, time and time again. And if you're not careful, it's going to reach out and slap you and knock you down in some way and you'll never be able to get up from it. Now, there's some truth in that. I'm not minimizing that. But to give whites and race so much power is to me incredibly destructive and counterproductive and hurts. And yet it happened and it still happens.
Golden Behr: In our editing discussions we shocked reporters by what we asked them to reflect on and come back at us with. And sometimes we got some fights with reporters who didn't want to go there. There were tears, there was emotion. But there were breakthroughs afterward.
Holmes: Yeah, but Soma, I'm curious: Did you feel that the race was the reason, that they were afraid of a particular racial aspect of -
Golden Behr: I think sometimes it was and sometimes it wasn't. I think sometimes people are being protective of something that they didn't want to really write about.
 
Looking at Ourselves
Roberts: Dana, you looked at another newsroom. You looked at Akron. What did looking at that -- the experience of looking at that newsroom -- teach you about our newsroom?
Canedy: Well, I think one of the things it taught us is that whether you're talking about The New York Times or a bank or a factory or a retail store, institutions struggle with the same kinds of issues of diversity.
Roberts: Gerald is looking skeptical.
Boyd: Oh, no, no, no. I think everybody struggles with diversity. What this taught me about The Times and race are a couple of things: that I think it is out there in the thick of our newsroom; it is all over the place; and that we seldom engage it, for whatever reason.
Holmes: Another thought, which is less about the institution. Dana, you were dealing with this white columnist, who I considered an absolute jerk. I was curious about how you were able to deal with this guy who reveled in his ability to say things that would put black people on edge.
Roberts: As a black reporter?
Holmes: As a black reporter.
Canedy: I don't think he sees himself that way, No. 1. Also, I think the beauty of having time to do these stories is you see people as full, complex characters and not one-dimensional figures. And so in spending a lot of time with him I got to see him as a father, I got to see him as a journalist, I got to see him as a friend, I got to see him in his role as a husband, as someone involved in that community. So it was easier for me to see him not just as someone who'd written some columns that black people used to label him as racist. I had, I think, as tough a time understanding the black columnist just because he, for example, is very shy and was a very reserved person.
 
What We Talk About When We Go Home
Boyd: When I started out in the early 70's, it was very popular to be black. Every white had to have one. And so you'd go to dinner parties and you'd sit around the table and you could tell lies for days and nobody would challenge you. And the assumption was if you were a black professional you could speak for 12, 14 million black people: all black people think this.
And then something happened in this country as more and more blacks got into the workplace and became professional; it became clear blacks disagreed and we didn't see things all the time alike. But that was 15, 20 years ago. What has happened since then, I think, can basically be described as racial fatigue. I think whites have, in their view, tried to reach out and accept and understand and they feel, for the most part, that blacks have not been responsive. I think blacks feel they have tried to be heard and understood and that whites haven't heard them, haven't been responsive. And so what you have is just indifference.
And what I've always wondered is how much whites and blacks actually do talk about race in the privacy of their own bedrooms.
Golden Behr: Whites don't have to think about race very much. I've just grown convinced that blacks think about race all the time because they're the minority in the room all the time and that that just raises a lot of issues for them. And that whites have the luxury, if that's what it is, of cruising along.
Boyd: We struggled with race, we struggled with -isms a lot in the late 60's and early 70's, whether it was racism or sexism or -- this was the generation that was going to change the world. We were trying to deal with them as well as we could, day in and day out and week in and week out.
Golden Behr: So do you have racial fatigue?
Boyd: Oh, yes. Especially after this project.
Winerip: Well, as a white person I got racial fatigue from this project. I found myself mad sometimes having to think about all this stuff. I didn't want to. It's like what you say, Gerald, I don't think whites have to think about it as much. And this project made me fatigued. I was angry about how much I had to think about it. And I was tired of thinking about it.
Holmes: What angered you about it?
Winerip: Trying to get to the bottom of it. Was this moment racial or wasn't it racial?
Roberts: Janny, that's something you had with Charles Dutton. Is he just kind of a bombastic, aggressive, larger-than-life character or was he acting this way, on some level, because he's black?
Scott: This is a person who is intensely conscious of race, says he sees race in absolutely every interaction. Months into the process I emboldened myself to ask the question, "So if race is a factor in everything, how is it a factor in our conversations?" And he, with characteristic bluntness, said it's a factor in that I distrust you.
And he said, "I'm going to say a lot of things to you that you just won't understand." At the time, you know, it was painful to hear. In retrospect, it was absolutely true.
Roberts: Why did he talk to you?
Scott: I asked him that question and he said, "Well, I haven't seen any black reporters around here."
 
Is This Race?
Thompson: Well, I guess what I was thinking is that blacks all the time are thinking: Is this race? Am I being perceived some way because I'm black? I think that black people are constantly filtering race in the way that we are thinking about how we are being perceived in a conversation.
Canedy: I wanted to give an example of that. As a black business reporter at The New York Times, I have to interview C.E.O.'s of Fortune 500 companies all the time. Sources I've made over the phone and have talked to for months and have never met, a lot of times they really don't know that I'm black. I can't tell you the number of times I've shown up at companies. I mean, I could be the only one in the lobby, and the executive assistant for the C.E.O. will walk right past me two or three times, just not even seeing me because they weren't expecting a black person. There have been plenty of times when I'm going to an interview with a source who has given me good information but has never met me. And I have to think, Oh, boy, when this person discovers I'm black -- what I call black surprise -- is the dynamic of the relationship going to change?
 
The Takeaway
Roberts: What did you want readers to come away with? What do you want them to walk away with that they didn't have before?
Canedy: I hope they don't walk away at all. I mean really, I hope that conversations are going on now and that there's a momentum that continues for a while.
Boyd: I think people assume an awful lot when it comes to race. That if they explored it or put it out there or challenged it or threw it up, it would probably not hold up. Maybe truth is a bit more complicated than they believe.
Roberts: Has working on this series changed you?
Golden Behr: It has changed how I think of some of my friends. A couple of them admitted that they didn't see, they didn't understand, the drama of this. Which really shocks me. We showed what's going on in a silent world where people don't go, and I thought that was an enormous contribution. I hope people will understand that there is a lot of unfinished work to do to understand each other. I found it pretty shocking to find people who said, "Well, isn't that just another story about race?"
Thompson: It's what race is in America. It's not Diallo. It's working in the same office every day. Someone described it as a low-grade fever. Something you go home with every day and it gnaws at you, it nags at you and you're irritable over it.
Scott: It just gets down to what we've been talking about, that everything seems to be seen differently by different people. You can never get your hands around what exactly it is that you're talking about. And then to be entrusted with so much of two people's lives and to try to get within that at this elusive thing. . . . I feel humbled by it.
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photos: Gerald Boyd; Dana Canedy; Soma Golden Behr; Steven Holmes; Mirta Ojito; Sam Roberts; Janny Scott; Ginger Thompson; Michael Winerip (Mark Peterson/Saba; for The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (93%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (78%); 

COMPANY: NEW YORK TIMES NEW YORK TIMES ELECTRONIC MEDIA CO (91%); NEW YORK TIMES / MAGAZINE GROUP (91%); NEW YORK TIMES CORP (91%); NEW YORK TIMES BROADCASTING SERVICE INC (91%); NEW YORK TIMES SALES INC (91%); NEW YORK TIMES DISTRIBUTION CORP (91%); NEW YORK TIMES SYNDICATION SALES CORP (91%); 

ORGANIZATION: NEW YORK TIMES

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%); NEW YORK, USA (93%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (78%); 

SUBJECT: BLACKS RACE & RACISM (75%); POLICE FORCES (68%); ETHNICITY (67%); GAYS & LESBIANS (67%); 

PERSON: WINERIP, MICHAEL; ROBERTS, SAM; BOYD, GERALD; CANEDY, DANA; BEHR, SOMA GOLDEN; HOLMES, STEVEN A; OJITO, MIRTA; SCOTT, JANNY; THOMPSON, GINGER MIKE THOMPSON (79%); 

LOAD-DATE: July 16, 2000



353 of 757 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: July 16, 2000

SECTION: Section 2; Page 7; Column 1; Arts and Leisure Desk

LENGTH: 2211 words

HEADLINE: FILM;
A Noir Classic Makes It Back From the Blacklist

BYLINE: By MICHAEL SRAGOW; Michael Sragow writes about film for Salon.com and is working on a biography of the director Victor Fleming.

 BODY:
IN 1954, Francois Truffaut, then a critic, wrote that it was "the best film 'noir' I have ever seen." But in more ways than one, "Du Rififi Chez les Hommes" -- released in the United States as "Rififi" -- came out of left field. Its writer and director, Jules Dassin, was a blacklisted American expatriate, unemployed since 1950. Furthermore, when he worked in Hollywood, Mr. Dassin had never been the sort of well-adjusted studio hand that Truffaut and his fellow auteur critics typically admired.
Mr. Dassin had regarded MGM, where he had worked for much of the 40's, as the plushest purgatory. He felt he had begun to grow as a director only when he quit to make socially conscious melodramas for Mark Hellinger ("The Naked City") and Darryl F. Zanuck ("Thieves Highway"). 
 Still, Truffaut knew masterly moviemaking when he saw it. In the panegryic to "Rififi" reprinted in his book "The Films in My Life," he used Mr. Dassin's low-budget caper film to argue that "a film's success depends more on its director than on massive production resources or the participation of world-renowned actors." And when "Rififi" opened in New York a year after Mr. Dassin won the best-director prize at the Cannes International Film Festival, Bosley Crowther echoed Truffaut in The New York Times. He followed an initial rave with a Sunday piece positioning "Rififi" as the antidote to big-star extravaganzas. The movie ran for 20 weeks in Manhattan at the Fine Arts with subtitles before opening dubbed throughout the metropolitan area.
Despite the film's success in big cities, Mr. Dassin says, no national distributor would pick it up because of the blacklist unless he took his name off the film or renounced his youthful radicalism. Yet "Rififi" became, here and abroad, a benchmark for adventures centering on a group of criminals or agents plotting and executing a big score. Although "Rififi" is lowdown and realistic, its influence can be felt both in star-laden escapism from "Ocean's Eleven" to "Mission: Impossible" (not to mention Mr. Dassin's own 1964 film, "Topkapi") and in pungent neo-noir fables like "The Usual Suspects."
For decades, outside of museums or archives, "Rififi" has been seen in the United States only in pirated, squint-inducing video editions. That will change on Friday, when Rialto Pictures (the company behind the theatrical rerelease of "Nights of Cabiria" and "Grand Illusion") brings it back to the Film Forum in Manhattan with a fresh print and newly translated subtitles. The movie has aged superbly. It may not be Mr. Dassin's masterpiece -- that is, I think, the original (1950) "Night and the City," a hard-boiled fable about warped imagination and ambition that he made in London for Zanuck and 20th Century Fox. But on its own terms "Rififi" is just about flawless: a genre movie brought off so keenly that it defines that genre's strengths and limits.
It introduces the characters as quickly as a police lineup. Jean Servais is Tony, an ailing, weathered ex-con who has just finished a five-year term in prison. Carl Mohner is his best friend, Jo, a young married crook Tony refused to give up to the cops. Jo and his pal Mario (Robert Manuel) have hatched a get-rich-quick scheme to knock off a jewelry store on the Rue de Rivoli. Jo and Mario want to break into the shop window in broad daylight and make off with the gems on display. But hard time and bad luck have made Tony tough and maybe desperate. He decides he'll be part of the theft only if his comrades go all the way and crack the jewelry shop's safe. That requires a criminal virtuoso named Cesar: a girl-crazy Italian who speaks little French. He is played by Perlo Vita, a pseudonym for Mr. Dassin.
As a writer, Mr. Dassin gets his momentum going even before the suspense kicks in, so that you pay attention to the details, not just of fact but of character. Jo's jolly family life with his wife and towheaded son, and the sensual bond Mario shares with his spouse, are as vivid as the way a rival kingpin and nightclub owner controls his kid brother with dope. As a director, Mr. Dassin has perfect pitch. When anything disrupts the film's dry yet convivial tone -- like Tony beating his ex-lover (Marie Sabouret) for taking up with that nightclub owner in his absence -- it registers as a troubling portent, not a dramatic miscue. The movie has been criticized for its astringency: no spontaneous emotion, no tender or playful impulse, goes unpunished. But that's what gives the film its hardscrabble integrity. Mr. Dassin seduces you into thinking that you're joining four underworld musketeers. Then he shows you there's no room in this band for carefree camaraderie.
THE planning of the grand theft goes on for 10 or 15 minutes; the robbery fills half an hour and unrolls without dialogue. From the gangsters' mapping the neighborhood and casing the joint to their using props as mundane as an ordinary umbrella to keep from setting off a sensitive alarm, this is galvanic cinema. The sequence isn't shot in real time: the robbers do their job from the prime of night straight until morning. But Mr. Dassin calmly details the action so the audience can get into their mind set as Jo and Cesar hammer away at their obstacles and as Tony watches deliverymen, street cleaners and gendarmes make their rounds. The most mundane moment -- like a watchman studying a litterbug's tossed cigarette box -- carries ominous overtones. And the ingenuity of the filmmaking doesn't stop with the robbery: it culminates in the grueling road trip a wounded Tony takes from his enemies' chateau back to Paris, which Mr. Dassin renders with subjective angles and jagged elisions in the editing.
As the film critic Manny Farber once wrote of John Huston, "Few directors project so well the special Robinson Crusoe effect of man confronted by a job whose problems must be dealt with, point by point, with the combination of personal ingenuity and scientific know-how characterizing the man of action." And few avant-garde films have demonstrated as skillfully as this movie how time and pace affect perception. In "Rififi," static qualities like wariness and patience become almost unbearably dynamic.
"Rififi" is often compared to Huston's "Asphalt Jungle" (1950), a minor classic in its own right. But the jewel heist in that film goes on for 13 or 14 minutes, tops, and its preamble consists of the mastermind saying he has a plan and then hiring the right men and the wrong fence. Mr. Dassin told me recently on the phone from his home in Athens, "Please believe me that I saw 'The Asphalt Jungle' after I made 'Rififi,' because a number of people compared these two films."
Mr. Dassin, who was born on Dec. 18, 1911, says there was "no precedent" for making a caper whose preparation takes up a full third of a film and whose execution is rendered without dialogue or music. But homing in on criminal process was the one way he could think of to handle Auguste le Breton's novel, which he loathed. Truffaut called this source book "the worst crime novel" he'd ever read; the only chapter that snagged Mr. Dassin's interest hinged on a minor robbery.
Once Mr. Dassin decided to focus on the theft, he followed a simple rule of thumb: "The enemy is noise!" He continued: "What I loved and really enjoyed was to see the film in public in Paris. All the nice bourgeois people who go to the movies were rooting for these guys to succeed. I had one of the gang hit a single piano key and the audience jumped. When I was writing it, I knew you had to have that rooting interest; the film would work only if I made people want them to succeed. First I introduced the element of friendship, because if you're going to care for the people who are going to be crooks, you have to have some sympathy for them as people. But part of it is also thinking that these guys are real professionals and work well together. It's like wanting a great star to come up to bat and hit a homer."
BY the time Mr. Dassin made "Rififi," he was anything but a star himself. Making "Brute Force" (1947), "The Naked City" (1948) and "Thieves' Highway" (1949), he took enormous leaps as a director, most noticeably in his pioneering use of real locations but also in his skill at shaping real yet heightened performances and at getting audiences to identify with morally mixed characters. But Mr. Dassin had started out as a stage director in the revolutionary New York theaters of the 30's, and had joined the Communist Party after seeing the opening night of "Waiting for Lefty." In 1949 the blacklist put him out of business. Mr. Dassin recalled that the 20th Century Fox chief Darryl F. Zanuck, who hated the blacklist, had urged him to start shooting the London-based "Night and the City" with "the most expensive sequences first -- that way no one would force him to fire me." Working with an English crew and an Anglo-American cast, Mr. Dassin made a film unlike any other. He brought London's back alleys and clip joints and arenas alive in an electric, phantasmagoric way, and he coaxed a career-high performance out of Richard Widmark as Harry Fabian, a hustler turned wrestling promoter whom one character describes as "an artist without an art."
Mr. Dassin had his art taken away from him. When he returned to America, the one job he could get was directing Bette Davis in a Broadway revue. "She was the only one who said, 'They don't tell me what to do.' It was sketches, silly stuff -- and then zero." He initially went to Paris to prepare a film with Fernandel. But the producers backed down under the threat of their films' being barred from American release. Mr. Dassin lived through these "dark days" with his family in a village outside Paris, forging bonds with fellow blacklisted expatriates like Joseph Losey and John Berry. When the chance to do "Rififi" came up, he said, "it meant a lot to me, because I was unemployable."
"I wrote it, directed it and acted in it, and my fee was $8,000," he said. "And I was glad to have it."
Mr. Dassin said he landed "Rififi" because the producer who had bought the book realized that it had a problem: "All the bad guys were North Africans." With Frenchmen raging over their government's behavior in Algeria, the producer hoped to avoid controversy. "He told me, 'If we hire you, you can make all the bad guys Americans.' I said, 'Why can't we make them French?' He had never considered it. I was halting in French, but this was written in an argot that many French people didn't know anyway. He gave me the book on a Friday and said I had to tell him on Monday whether I'd do it or not. I asked an agent and friend of mine to come and read the book to me. 'Please don't ask me this,' he said, 'I've been courting this girl for years, and this is the only time she's going to see me.' But he came.
"The truth is the book shocked me; it was all about Arab bad behavior, including necrophilia. But there was a little chapter in which the men decided to hold something up -- I don't remember if it was a jewelry shop -- in order to do a big job. I made their little job into my big job. On the line to meet a schedule because of bad weather, I wrote the screenplay in 10 days."
Truffaut wrote, "Dassin shot the film on the street during high winds and rain, and he reveals Paris to us Frenchmen as he revealed London to the English ('Night and the City') and New York to the Americans ('The Naked City')." Indeed, Mr. Dassin remembers traipsing through Paris and dictating much of the script, telling the woman who was taking it down, "We'll do this scene here and that scene there." In general, he said, "The only way you really prepare locations is to walk." Maybe that's why city streets in his films have such bustling vitality.
Mr. Dassin hired Servais to play the central role of Tony because his bitterness had genuine tang: the actor was then known as a washed-up juvenile. Although the director had planned to use a solid Italian actor to play Cesar, he said, "The producers were too slow in signing contracts: that's why I had to put on the mustache and play him myself." (Abashed at his own acting, he refers to his performing as "agony, agony.") For his creative team he signed up Philippe Agostini as his cinematographer (he had shot Marcel Carne's "Daybreak") and the legendary Alexandre Trauner and Georges Auric as, respectively, his designer and his composer. "Auric was a wonderful composer," Mr. Dassin recalled, "and he said, 'I can't wait to do the music for the holdup.' I told him I didn't want any music. He said: 'What do you mean you don't want music? I'll protect you; I'll write the music.' Afterward, I invited him to a screening and said: 'I will show you the scene with the music and without it. You tell me.' He said, 'Take out the music.' "
"Rififi Means Trouble," said the American ads. But as Mr. Dassin explained: "The Riff or Riffis were Morocco Berbers, tough fighters. The title of Auguste le Breton's book was 'Du Rififi Chez les Hommes,' translated 'Clashes Between the Men' (in the macho sense). I think that the word Rififi was Breton's invention. The closest translation would be 'pitched battle.' "
For lovers of tough-guy moviemaking, "Rififi" really means perfection.
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photos: Jean Servais, portraying a weathered ex-convict, tangles with his former lover (played by Marie Sabouret) in Jules Dassin's "Rififi." (Rialto Pictures)(pg. 14); Jean Servais, left, and Jules Dassin in "Rififi," directed by Mr. Dassin, a blacklisted American expatriate. (Rialto Pictures)(pg. 7)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (95%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (86%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (86%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (95%); NEW YORK, USA (86%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (86%); 

SUBJECT: Terms not available from NYTimes. MOVIE INDUSTRY (90%); FILM (90%); ACTORS & ACTRESSES (78%); FILM DIRECTORS (78%); WRITERS (73%); ARTS FESTIVALS & EXHIBITIONS (73%); CITIES (68%); MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (63%); 

PERSON: JULES DASSIN (92%); 

LOAD-DATE: July 16, 2000



354 of 757 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 16, 2000

SECTION: Section 2; Page 20; Column 1; Arts and Leisure Desk

LENGTH: 1212 words

HEADLINE: FILM;
A Captivating Wit, Drawling His Way Toward Death

BYLINE: By LUC SANTE; Luc Sante is the author of "Low Life," "Evidence" and "The Factory of Facts."

 BODY:
IT is a melancholy experience to make someone's acquaintance, become increasingly enthralled by his wit and passion, become aware that you're watching him waste away, and then have him die on you, all in the space of 80 minutes. That's what happens in Jem Cohen and Peter Sillen's documentary, "Benjamin Smoke," opening on Friday. Benjamin, who went by just the one name (legally he was Robert Dickerson), was the singer and lyricist for a band called Smoke, hence the title. They were a local sensation in Atlanta and recorded two CD's ("Another Reason to Fast" and "Heaven on a Popsicle Stick") for a local label, but they weren't well known elsewhere.
Benjamin, a native of Jonesboro, Ga., was a speed freak and a pill-head and a drag queen, as well as a considerable stream-of-consciousness poet and an inspired singer whose deep growl of a voice could slide from rumination to peaks of intensity that bring to mind flamenco vocalists. The film is not, however, primarily a musical document, and its makers were certainly not aware when they began how the story would end. "We just wanted to capture something that we knew was remarkable," Mr. Cohen said. "And even before we knew that Benjamin was sick, we knew that it might not last." 
 It's clear within five minutes that one reason Mr. Cohen and Mr. Sillen started the movie was that they wanted to record Benjamin talking. The mode is queer Southern, dry humor and languorous drawl, nonstop legato chatter with laugh lines that crest slowly and break somewhere offshore. The talk emerges from a wide, straight mouth set in a cadaverous face topped with bangs that make Benjamin look a bit like a medieval monk. By way of punctuation he smokes constantly and pulls almost as constantly on a container of soda pop.
He is comfortable in his skin; he talks about his life without regret or inflation. He started fooling around with drag when he was 9, found his destiny as a teenager when he heard Patti Smith's album "Horses," went to New York in 1978 only to spend his time there sweeping up broken glass at CBGB, returned to Georgia and got involved in dozens of bands, from ephemeral punk confrontation to something much harder to pin down.
The story involves tiny audiences, lowdown venues and police raids. There are photographs of Benjamin in drag, looking sleek. Other pictures, ravaged by dampness, have patches of emulsion missing and look contaminated.
Benjamin lived in a part of Atlanta called Cabbagetown, formerly a mill town inhabited by immigrants from Appalachia. The mill closed in the 1970's and the place became a slum. The camera frequently darts outside to the desolate frame houses scattered at what look like random angles around the landscape, and to the young people, "who go to jail early and whose parents use inhalants," in Benjamin's words, as they work on their Go Karts outside his window.
The place feels lost in time, an outcropping of the 20th century that came unglued somewhere between the Truman and Johnson administrations and now rattles around like dice in a cup. You get the occasional glimpse of faceless high-rise downtown Atlanta in the distance, looking like another planet. The atmosphere of Cabbagetown seems a logical extension of Benjamin's presence and the look of his room, with its aleatory flea-market panache. It's a scavenger's aesthetic, the unfakeable sort reserved exclusively for people with imagination and no money, whose only choice is to extract beauty from discards.
By the time we see Smoke play together, in rehearsal, the music, not reminiscent of much else, fits right into the prevailing tone of unpremeditated originality, as if it were the only sort of music possible. The lineup consists of cello, banjo doubling on trumpet, guitar and drums. There are certain rock elements, to be sure, and a sort of blues, and something about it related to ancient hill ballads, but nothing you could put your finger on. Like certain kinds of Middle Eastern music, it is dominated by a fluid drone that rises occasionally to frantic peaks that are then reabsorbed by the unhurried flow.
Benjamin can sound as if he is making the words up on the spot, even when it is clear that he isn't, as he growls, sometimes talk-sings, sometimes wanders away from the key without doing much damage. The volume is never high, but there is an intensity at hand that emerges from pure emotional concentration -- the band members are always seated, as if they need to be.
Gradually we become aware that Benjamin is in nearly constant pain. He never says so, but every time he makes a move the cost is apparent. He has AIDS, a matter about which, by his own admission, he is uncharacteristically quiet, because he doesn't want others' impressions of him to be overwhelmed and distorted by his disease. The first two-thirds of the picture, which seem to exist in an elastically stretched present tense, give way to urgency and imminence. Cabbagetown itself is changing -- you see the signs of doom: the loft conversions, the antique shops. And then Benjamin moves, at his mother's behest, to government-sponsored housing downtown, where he'll be more generally accessible. He shows the camera his pill box, a plastic grid that looks like an ice-cube tray, filled with his dozens of daily doses. He still manages to perform, even fulfilling a dream by opening for Patti Smith in Atlanta.
Mr. Cohen learned of Benjamin from Michael Stipe of R.E.M., for whom he had made five music videos; Mr. Sillen is best known for documenting another eccentric Southern singer-songwriter, Vic Chesnutt. The scavenger aesthetic guides their filmmaking here, as they use bits of film left over from other jobs as well as video and Super-8 to assemble a patchwork that resembles its subject. Mr. Cohen's films are all collages to one degree or another: "Lost Book Found," his dreamlike evocation of vanishing New York; "Buried in Light," his harshly lyrical Eastern European travelogue; and "Instrument," his document of the band Fugazi, all layer contrasts of stock, of color, and of lighting to move back and forth between the objective and the subjective. He will, for example, cut from grainy Super-8 close-up indoor talk to a majestic landscape shot in 35-millimeter but deliberately underexposed in a way that suggests it may or may not be real. You've seen that sort of mix-and-match approach before (Oliver Stone's "Natural Born Killers" comes to mind), but Mr. Cohen's use of it is singularly personal, and very different from one film to the next.
Despite its subject's illness and death (a day after his 39th birthday), the movie is anything but grim. Benjamin's matter-of-fact humor and incredible resilience won't permit the tone to slide toward solemnity or any sort of preaching. He is a trouper who went down fighting. In the stills of his last performance, weeks before his death, he looks as though he weighs maybe 60 pounds, some of them accounted for by the slightly askew wig on his head, but his eyes don't look the least bit ready to check out. It is Patti Smith who, sometime later, eulogized Benjamin in a poem:
With a throat smooth as a lamb
yet dry as a branch not snapping
He throws back his head
yet he does not sing a thing mournful.
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photo: Benjamin, from the film "Benjamin Smoke" by Jem Cohen and Peter Sillen. Living in poverty in Atlanta, Benjamin was the singer and lyricist for a band called Smoke. (Michael Ackerman/Cowboy Booking International)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (90%); 

STATE: GEORGIA, USA (90%); 

CITY: ATLANTA, GA, USA (90%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (90%); GEORGIA, USA (90%); ATLANTA, GA, USA (90%); 

SUBJECT: Terms not available from NYTimes. SINGERS & MUSICIANS (90%); DOCUMENTARY FILMS (71%); SONG WRITING (70%); WRITERS (67%); SLUM DWELLINGS (61%); 

PERSON: BENJAMIN SMOKE (95%); 

LOAD-DATE: July 16, 2000



355 of 757 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: July 16, 2000

SECTION: Section 11; Page 7; Column 1; Real Estate Desk 

LENGTH: 1293 words

HEADLINE: Near Chicago's Downtown, a New Gold Coast

BYLINE: By ROBERT SHAROFF 

DATELINE: CHICAGO

 BODY:
IN a throwback to the early years of the 20th century when wealthy Chicago families tended to live in such close-in neighborhoods as Prairie Avenue and the Gold Coast, the city's Lincoln Park area is experiencing a boom in mansion construction.
In the last five years, the neighborhood, about a mile and a half north of the Loop, has seen construction of dozens of examples of the kind of house that had not been built in any great number in the inner city in many years. They are palatial residences of at least 6,000 square feet w that start at around $2.5 million and go much higher. 
 The number of such houses, like the official definition of what constitutes a mansion, is difficult to ascertain. Most people seem to know one when they see one, however. And the evidence of a dramatic change in the neighborhood's fortunes is clear from a walk down any of the long blocks of Howe or Mohawk or Burling Streets just north of Old Town.
Looming over the remaining original housing -- mainly modestly scaled clapboard cottages and brick three-flats that date from just after the Chicago fire in 1871 -- are the elaborate limestone facades of dozens of new three- and four-story houses.
Who is buying them? Real estate agents and builders say the main clients are couples and families in their mid-30's and early 40's who have struck it rich in the booming economy of the last decade and are choosing to stay in the city rather than move to the suburbs.
"This is the new wave," said Sean Conlon, director of sales and marketing for Sussex & Reilly, a leading North Side residential brokerage firm. "The last people to build houses this big downtown were the great industrialists and robber barons of the 1890's. But they built over on the Gold Coast. A new neighborhood is emerging here."
Mr. Conlon, 31, recently moved into a new four-story, 6,000-square-foot house on Mohawk Street with a slate mansard roof, arched windows and lavish detailing. "They had homes like this in Paris and London in the 1700's and 1800's," he said. "It's an exquisite, timeless style."
Mr. Conlon's house is typical of the prevailing look of the new houses. The style, which leans heavily toward limestone columns, balustrades and elaborate fruit and flower friezework, is usually described as Georgian or Classical or Beaux-Arts.
In some ways, it is an unlikely look for Chicago area, the birthplace of modern architecture and the home of such modernist giants as Frank Lloyd Wright and Mies van der Rohe.
"They look like banks," said one top real estate agent. who requested anonymity.
John Vinci of Vinci/Hamp Architects, a firm much noted locally for historic renovation work, calls them fantasy houses. "They're emulations of turn-of-the-century Parisian or Belgian grand houses," he said. "It's just fantasy to build these houses now."
Mr. Vinci is also the architect -- along with the late Max Gordon, a British architect -- of the house that many say was the beginning of the whole downtown mansion trend. Nine years ago, Lewis Manilow, a local investor and chairman of President Clinton's Illinois fund-raising committee, went looking for what he called "a country house in the city." When he could not find one, he decided to build a new house on four adjoining lots he had acquired on Howe Street.
Howe Street at that time, Mr. Vinci said, was "a street of small houses" in a neighborhood that had been steadily gentrifying since the 1970's but that had yet to see much new construction.
The house Mr. Vinci designed is a modern, 10,000-square-foot tan brick structure with a sizable garden.
"I wanted to consolidate my life," Mr. Manilow said. "I used to have a condo as well as a loft where I had my office and part of my art collection. Now everything is in one place."
Why Lincoln Park? "It's very urban," Mr. Manilow said. "You can walk downtown, to the lake, the park. There's lots of people on the street. It's just a very friendly neighborhood."
Another consideration is the availability of land for construction, free of landmark-district constraints. Traditionally, the wealthy in Chicago have lived on the Gold Coast, a roughly 12-square-block area that includes Lake Shore Drive and Astor Street and is just south and east of Lincoln Park.
DEVELOPED around the turn of the century, the housing is a mix of mainly co-op apartment buildings and historic mansions and row houses, many of which are official landmarks.
"There's only 80-some single-family houses on the Gold Coast," said James M. Kinney, president of Rubloff Residential Properties, a leading downtown residential brokerage. "And you have to get neighborhood approval to tear anything down. Lincoln Park, however, aside from a few areas, isn't landmarked. You can build what you want."
Which is exactly what is happening. "I get calls every day from people who are looking to build in the neighborhood," said Elizabeth Ballis, a saleswoman with Coldwell Banker's Lincoln Park office.
The new houses are a mix of build-to-suits and speculative ventures by half a dozen custom builders. The two most influential are the Metzler Hull Development Corporation and the BGD&C Corporation. Both are local companies that build four or five houses a year. The houses generally take 12 to 14 months to complete.
According to Jay Metzler, one of the principals of Metzler Hull, the process begins with finding land, something that has become more difficult in the last few years. Single 25-foot-by-125-foot lots now sell for up to $700,000 or $800,000 and the ideal is two or more contiguous lots.
"We're building a $2.8 million spec house right now on a single lot and the land is a quarter of the price," Mr. Metzler said. "We like doing specs. They give us a chance to exercise our creativity. We've done 12 to 15 of them over the last few years and all but one sold well before they were finished."
BOTH companies stress that what sells are luxurious details and craftsmanship. "We spend a lot of time in Europe researching moldings, door designs and other features that people seem to have gotten away from over here," said Charles Grode, vice president of BGD&C. He added that the company recently built an 8,500-square-foot Venetian-style home on a double lot on Burling Street that is authentic "right down to the chimney caps." The roof, he added, is made of "100-year-old clay tiles from a building in Philadelphia."
His customers "want the details to be rich," Mr. Metzler said. This means, as a matter of course, mahogany paneling and window frames throughout, marble and oak floors, grand curving staircases and -- in some houses -- 20- and 25-foot-high ceilings.
How do they differ from the grand houses of the past? "They don't have ballrooms," said Mr. Vinci, the architect.
What they do have, however, are children. Both companies say that children's rooms and activities have a new prominence in most of their houses. Mr. Metzler said he was building a roller-hockey rink in the basement of one house and was planning a basketball court in the basement of another. The basketball court alone, he said, will add more than $200,000 to the cost of the house.
"This is an absolute dream house," said Elizabeth Saltzman, who along with her husband, Richard, the owner of Banner Wholesale Grocers, recently bought a Metzler Hull house. "We looked at some older houses, but we have four kids and it can be tough to find that many bedrooms in an older house.
"There's a very welcoming feeling here. People sit on their porches and stoops. The kids have a certain freedom that they probably wouldn't have in other neighborhoods. They can walk to the park and do things by themselves."
Her verdict? "As long as we can afford it, we're staying."
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photo: An 8,500-square-foot Venetian-style home on a double lot on Burling Street in Chicago. (Steve Kagan for The New York Times)
 
Map of Chicago shows the location of the Gold Coast.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); FRANCE (69%); 

STATE: ILLINOIS, USA (94%); 

CITY: CHICAGO, IL, USA (94%); PARIS, FRANCE (68%); LONDON, ENGLAND (52%); 

COMPANY: OLD TOWN MILL (55%); OLD TOWN COPYWORKS (55%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: CHICAGO (ILL); UNITED STATES (94%); FRANCE (69%); ILLINOIS, USA (94%); CHICAGO, IL, USA (94%); PARIS, FRANCE (68%); LONDON, ENGLAND (52%); 

SUBJECT: HOUSING; GEOGRAPHIC PROFILES REAL ESTATE (90%); REAL ESTATE AGENTS (88%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (78%); RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (78%); CITY LIFE (77%); RESIDENTIAL CONSTRUCTION (77%); SUBURBS (73%); 

PERSON: SHAROFF, ROBERT JOHN VINCI (67%); LEWIS MANILOW (59%); SEAN CONLON (59%); 

LOAD-DATE: July 16, 2000



356 of 757 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: July 16, 2000

SECTION: Section 14LI; Page 11; Column 1; Long Island Weekly Desk

LENGTH: 994 words

HEADLINE: Nassau Needs Space, but Needs Money First

BYLINE: By JOHN RATHER

 BODY:
IN the worst of financial times for a government struggling to stay afloat on a sea of surrounding wealth, Nassau County is advancing its first comprehensive plan to protect environmentally sensitive lands and scenic open spaces.
The plan could be a blueprint for the preservation of properties that include Greentree, the 450-acre Whitney family estate in Manhasset, the 81-acre Underhill property in Jericho and parcels as small as two acres in the densely populated Town of Hempstead. 
 But with severe budget strictures dimming prospects for county financing of land programs that advanced little even in better days, the fiscally more robust towns in Nassau appear likely to take the lead. North Hempstead is close to formally proposing a $15 million Environmental Legacy Fund and Oyster Bay is discussing a similar program for up to twice that amount.
County and town officials said the open-space plans, which place high priority on protecting groundwater, were responses to strong public support for preservation. "This should have been done 20 years ago," said May W. Newburger, the North Hempstead supervisor.
Still to be tested is the public's willingness to pay for such programs. In North Hempstead, the town board is to vote in September on whether to place the $15 million proposal on the ballot in November. The town said the cost would be less than $9 a year for homeowners.
The officials also see an opportunity to attract funds from the state and federal governments during the current economic expansion. For example, a bill approved in the House and now before the Senate would take some of the $900 million a year paid by companies drilling oil offshore and divide it among the states for preservation.
In its land preservation efforts, Nassau lags far behind Suffolk, where voter-supported programs began in the 1970's. Suffolk is more than three times the size of Nassau, which covers 183,488 acres. But Suffolk has 37,000 acres of county parks and preserves, more than five times more than in Nassau, with 6,520 acres.
Six of Suffolk's 10 towns have financed open-space programs, including a $15 million program overwhelmingly approved two years ago by voters in Huntington.
While North Hempstead and Oyster Bay move to follow the financing examples of the Suffolk towns, Hempstead will rely on available funds for open space and park programs, said Supervisor Richard V. Guardino Jr., who oversees a $50 million budget surplus.
Mr. Guardino cited one example: a partnership with the state Department of Environmental Conservation under which the department bought more than 70 acres of wetlands in Lido Beach that the town will manage and maintain.
The newly released Nassau County plan, intended to be the opening phase of a master plan the county adopted in 1998, includes the first inventory of all open spaces. These range from the 3,606 acres of county parks and 2,914 acres of county nature preserves to 6,011 acres of road rights-of-way, 1,050 acres of recharge basins and 714 acres of cemeteries, and include 4,741 acres of estate lands and vacant properties that are available or may become available for development.
The county plan lays out options for keeping land open: outright purchase, purchase of development rights only, conservation easements and preservation by private groups and businesses.
Paul F. Ponessa, the director of the Nassau County Planning Commission, said the county would rank properties to place key ones first while assuring protection efforts were extended to all parts of the county. He emphasized that only willing owners would be approached, but neither he nor other officials would discuss specific properties.
Nor are the owners forthcoming. While the Greentree Foundation, which owns the old Whitney estate, has never publicly expressed interest in selling, the estate -- currently zoned for one house every five acres -- is in a state-designated groundwater protection area that makes its preservation a high priority.
The Underhill property in Oyster Bay is also in a watershed area. Last week the Appellate Division upheld a ruling that the town had violated state law by relying on a 10-year-old environmental impact statement in approving housing proposed by Tilles Investment, the land's owner.
Officials and environmental groups supporting the Nassau plan said the county's current financial problems should not detract from preservation plans that are intended to unfold over many years.
Paul P. Rabinovitch, executive director of the Long Island chapter of the Nature Conservancy, which has played a major role in preservation, said his group had pledged to assist Nassau and saw no reasons to be discouraged by the county's financial situation.
"Funding is obviously important, but as important is intent," he said. "If the intent is there, preservation will happen, and there are other options for preserving land rather than just to buy it."
Joseph H. Lorintz, a lawyer and president of the Society to Preserve Underhill, said the need to protect that property and others was too urgent to be delayed by Nassau's financial malaise. "Even with the county's miserable financial condition, you can't just ignore the environment," he said.
Others said the county could finance a program by reallocating some or all of the sales tax revenues that the county currently divides among Nassau's three towns and two cities. The revenues, initially provided for landfill closures and solid-waste management, are projected at more than $45 million this year.
"What you need is a dedicated, earmarked fund, and it should come out of a small portion of the county sales tax," said Neal Lewis, executive director of the Long Island Neighborhood Network.
But town governments would be likely to resist any reduction in their shares. "Why take money away if we are already doing something?" Supervisor Newburger asked, a reference to the proposed environmental fund.
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photo: Nassau has made its first inventory of open spaces. Among them is the 450-acre Whitney estate in Manhasset. (Vic DeLucia/The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (93%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%); NEW YORK, USA (93%); 

SUBJECT: Terms not available from NYTimes. LAND USE PLANNING (91%); ENVIRONMENT & NATURAL RESOURCES (90%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (90%); COUNTY GOVERNMENT (89%); BUDGETS (89%); PARKS & PLAYGROUNDS (89%); THREATENED & SENSITIVE SPECIES (89%); COUNTIES (78%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (78%); ENVIRONMENTAL DEPARTMENTS (78%); POPULATION DENSITY (77%); CITY GOVERNMENT (76%); APPROVALS (75%); WETLANDS (72%); CITIES (71%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (68%); REFERENDUMS (66%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (50%); 

LOAD-DATE: July 16, 2000



357 of 757 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: July 16, 2000

SECTION: Section 14CN; Page 14; Column 3; Connecticut Weekly Desk

LENGTH: 817 words

HEADLINE: THEATER;
In New London, a Garde Audience Is Growing

BYLINE: By ALVIN KLEIN

 BODY:
THE attention-grabbing summer news in New London may have been all about tall ships, but yesterday, they sailed away. Now, how can a town of 28,000 follow that act? With professional summer theater, that's how.
For the grandly restored Garde Arts Center, Operation Sail was a stopover for millions, but a first-ever Summer On Stage season -- it opened Thursday and goes on through Sept. 1 -- is here to stay. And it is the newest chapter in the evolution of a town and of its theater. 
 After last year's splashy reopening of the Garde, a movie palace and a vaudeville house in its glory days more than 70 years ago, the necessity for an emerging artistic vision became abundantly clear to Steve Sigel, the 1,488-seat showplace's managing director.
Although Patti LuPone was a top draw in her opening-night concert, star quality of that caliber was not to be an every-night affair. Bus and truck tours of musicals -- "Annie," "1776," "Camelot," "Victor/Victoria" and "Show Boat" -- followed, each for two performances. "A large house in a small community cannot do a big Broadway show for a full week," Mr. Sigel said. But the Garde audience grows. For the fall-winter season, which already shows a 50-percent increase in ticket sales, Mr. Sigel said, "Godspell" is scheduled for three shows. And there will be four for the "Phantom" by Maury Yeston and Arthur Kopit.
Other successes also tell a growth story. One scheduled appearance by the jazz singer and musician, Diana Krall, was increased to two. Then there's the word-of-mouth popularity of "Late Nite Catechism," an Off Broadway sendup in the manner of Sister Mary Ignatius and all those "Nunsenses." After eight performances in a reconfigured space, seating 350 in January, it is to play a seven-performance encore Aug. 8 through 13, the fourth show in the new summer series.
Summer On Stage opened with "Grease." "Forbidden Hollywood" is to play Tuesday through next Sunday. On Aug. l5, "If You Ever Leave Me . . . I'm Going With You," written by and starring Renee Taylor and Joe Bologna, will give the first of seven performances. "Five Guys Named Moe" and "Tony and Tina's Wedding" finish the season, six performances each.
The summer part of the Garde's theater programming reflects the cultural awareness of a gritty little town, to rephrase the words of the arts center's publicity representative Patty Freedman, who went on to say that attention to substance is the Garde's new thrust, now that its spectacular $15.75 million renovation, is proven. "The economics are still being attended to," Ms. Freedman said. "But it's time to look at what's going on artistically."
And don't forget acoustical preservation; it was Ms. LuPone who gave testament to that and thanks during her first-night concert last October. Mr. Sigel loves to talk about the seats. "Great personal comfort when you're sitting for two and a half hours matters as much as architecture and marketing," he said. "Going to the theater should not be a back-breaking experience."
Not that he deflects queries about that artistic vision. That takes time, he concedes, and the Garde is in a formative phase, learning from process and exploring possibility. Three months ago, the peerless Savion Glover and his troupe took over the theater, the studios and rehearsal spaces for one week to work on his new show, now on tour. Before leaving, Mr. Glover held the world premiere performance of "Footnotes" at the Garde.
As for the summer series, with weeklong shows scheduled for the first time, Mr. Sigel talked about attracting audiences "we don't normally get, especially the people who live here, but go to Florida in October."
"We want to do shows with an intimate feeling," he went on. "With the Garde's lighting, you don't notice the disappearance of a full proscenium." Mr. Sigel is eager to find new ways of producing, or presenting, new or old material for new audiences. "We want to interest other producers in coming here. The blockbuster type show is on the way out, and more theaters" -- he mentioned Goodspeed in East Haddam and the Bushnell in Hartford -- are planning smaller stages. "There is a paucity of product to command a large stage," he added, looking to alliances with regional theaters and expressing interest in extending the life of Off Broadway plays and musicals.
As the art part evolves, the Garde has real estate to spare and to accommodate it. The Garde owns six buildings -- 187,000 square feet in all -- some now used for office rentals, some for its Institute for Creativity classes in performing arts. Thinking back on the movie palace of old, Mr. Sigel mentioned a modern-day homage to Hollywood classics.
"Casablanca" was screened in March "and 1,100 people came," Mr. Sigel recalled. Don't think he is not thinking of a small cinema. "Now the Garde is listening to the community," Ms. Freedman added. 
http://www.nytimes.com

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (90%); 

STATE: CONNECTICUT, USA (90%); 

CITY: NEW LONDON, CT, USA (90%); 

COMPANY: GARDE ARTS CENTER (97%); 

ORGANIZATION: GARDE ARTS CENTER (97%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (90%); CONNECTICUT, USA (90%); NEW LONDON, CT, USA (90%); 

SUBJECT: Terms not available from NYTimes. SAILING (90%); MARINE VESSELS (90%); VISUAL & PERFORMING ARTS (89%); THEATER & DRAMA (89%); SINGERS & MUSICIANS (88%); BUILDING RENOVATION (77%); JAZZ & BLUES (77%); THEATER (77%); ARTISTS & PERFORMERS (77%); FILM (77%); MUSIC (73%); TICKET SALES (69%); 

PERSON: STEVE SIGEL (91%); 

LOAD-DATE: July 16, 2000



358 of 757 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: July 16, 2000

SECTION: Section 14NJ; Page 11; Column 1; New Jersey Weekly Desk

LENGTH: 924 words

HEADLINE: NEW JERSEY & CO.;
'Cowches' To Graze At Home

BYLINE: By LISA SUHAY

DATELINE: RHODESTOWN

 BODY:
If you're in the market for a cow, Helga Tacreiter can be of some help.
She doesn't use cloning or gene therapy, but rather a combination of sewing and vegetarianism to create what she calls a "cowch." 
 These creations are life-size animal floor pillows, each named and individually patterned after the cattle tended by Ms. Tancreiter. The herd is an odd mix of cows and bulls that includes Jersey, Mexican, Scottish Highland and Black Angus breeds she has taken in over the years. So far, more than 1,000 cowches graze people's homes.
One of her higher-profile customers is Gateway, the computer maker based in San Diego, whose company logo is a black-and-white cow printed on its shipping boxes.
The 48-year-old Ms. Tacreiter lives on an 80-acre farm just south of Shilo, in Hopewell Township, where she has spent the past 10 years raising what she calls "companion cattle" -- 15 bovine pets. She is, it should be noted, a vegetarian.
While she started with a herd of six calves, other cattle have been brought to her farm for fostering from animal lovers from around the state as well as the group called Farm Sanctuary in Watkins Glen, N.Y., PETA (People for the Ethical Treatment of Amimals) and individuals from Pennsylvania and Maryland
Sometimes she keeps the animals, and sometimes they move on to Farm Sanctuary. "It depends on how the animal fits in with the herd," Ms. Tacreiter said.
Born in Gdansk, Poland, Ms. Tacreiter moved several times after her parents -- her mother was a chemist and her father a psychiatrist -- divorced when she was a toddler. Her mother moved to Nova Scotia, and her father raised her.
Helga and her father moved to England when she was 5, then to Ontario at the age of 7, and finally settled in Maryland when she was 12. She attended California State University, where she majored in English literature.
"If I didn't go to some college somewhere," she said, "my father would have been heart-broken.'
While at the university she met a young man who lived in Shilo and decided to follow him here. Last year, after 23 years, their relationship ended.
"He's a neat freak and I'm a slob and it became unbearable on both sides," she said.
During their time together she did odd jobs at local farms and crafted tiny replicas of homes that she sold. She wrote "Possum Huts" -- a photo book of the intricately detailed miniature homes with stained-glass windows and hand-dipped taper candles that she made herself -- which was published in 1984.
She said she decided to become a vegetarian after reading Upton Sinclair's "The Jungle" in high school. "Everyone else saw the animals representing people, but I also saw the slaughter of the animals and that stuck with me," she said.
Ten years ago, while working for a local horse ranch that also had a small herd of cattle, Ms. Tacreiter first began rescuing livestock.
"It started out when I was taking care of this really sick calf, Harvey," she said. "The herd I was caring for was struck by lightning one night and the 15 adults were killed. Six calves survived and Harvey was in shock and very ill."
Ms. Tacreiter took Harvey home and spent weeks tending him.
"I would snuggle with him," she said. "I had this teddy bear when I was 2 that was as big as I was and this reminded me of those days. One day I woke up and realized that here I was spending all this time healing this animal that we're going to slaughter."
Ms. Tacreiter convinced the farmer to give her the calves, which she determined to save from human consumption.
"I was thinking about it one day and I thought that if people had stuffed cows instead of teddy bears they would relate to them and not want to eat them," she went on. "Then I thought I really wanted to reach adults, too, so I thought having the animal be big enough for an adult to cuddle would be ideal.".
With that, she was off to the fabric shop to gather materials and try her hand at creating a life-size stuffed cow. Returning to the farm with several bolts of faux fur material, she found Harvey was keenly interested in her project and followed her around.
"I decided to try modeling the fabric and pinning it on Harvey," she said. "He stood still for five hours while I made the first pattern right on him."
The first effort was a minor disaster. "I had home economics in eigth grade and that's about the extent of my sewing training," she said. "It looked like an alien cow. I keep it in the attic."
Subsequent attempts improved her results, and today Ms. Tacreiter turns out about 100 cowches a year on her own, and more if she hires help.
The creations range in price from $300 for a calf to $500 for a yearling and $800 for an adult-sized cowch. She also does horses. The sale of the cowches and her book -- along with donations -- keep home and herd together.
Two years ago, at Gateway's request, Ms. Tacreiter created a cowch with a black world map instead of spots, for which she was rewarded with a computer. "The World Cow," she said, sits today in the office of the company's chief executive, Ted Waitt.
On the whole, Ms. Tacreiter prefers transactions to be cash cows rather than items for barter since it costs about $1,000 a year to feed each cow and about the same amount for each of the two horses. Ms. Tacreiter raises her own hay top help keep costs down.
"Let's just say that my life has always run on miracles," Ms. Tacreiter said. "Just when I'm sure I can't make the mortgage, like now, something happens to pull us through. I'm waiting for the next one."
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photo: Helga Tacreiter lives on an 80-acre farm just south of Shilo, in Hopewell Township, where she has spent the past 10 years raising what she calls "companion cattle" -- 15 bovine pets. (David Hunsinger for The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); SCOTLAND (57%); POLAND (54%); ENGLAND (53%); 

STATE: MARYLAND, USA (92%); NEW JERSEY, USA (90%); CALIFORNIA, USA (90%); PENNSYLVANIA, USA (79%); 

CITY: SAN DIEGO, CA, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: PEOPLE FOR THE ETHICAL TREATMENT OF ANIMALS (PETA) (54%); 

ORGANIZATION: PEOPLE FOR THE ETHICAL TREATMENT OF ANIMALS (PETA) (54%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%); SCOTLAND (57%); POLAND (54%); ENGLAND (53%); MARYLAND, USA (92%); NEW JERSEY, USA (90%); CALIFORNIA, USA (90%); PENNSYLVANIA, USA (79%); SAN DIEGO, CA, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: Terms not available from NYTimes. CLONING (90%); MAMMALS (90%); BIOETHICS (90%); ANIMALS (90%); BIOTECHNOLOGY & GENETIC SCIENCE (73%); COMPUTER MAKERS (70%); LITERATURE (66%); PHYSICIANS & SURGEONS (66%); INFANTS & TODDLERS (64%); MEAT FREE DIETS (57%); 

PERSON: HELGA TACREITER (96%); 

LOAD-DATE: July 16, 2000



359 of 757 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: July 16, 2000

SECTION: Section 14CN; Page 1; Column 2; Connecticut Weekly Desk

LENGTH: 2016 words

HEADLINE: A Fight Over, of All Things, an Insurance Office

BYLINE: By STACEY STOWE

 BODY:
IN 1957, the Connecticut General Insurance Company abandoned Hartford, the insurance capital of the world, for suburban Bloomfield. The company's president, Frazer B. Wilde, commissioned a mammoth company headquarters, designed by a world-renowned architect and sculptor to be set amid hundreds of pastoral acres.
Forty-three years later, the company, now known as the Cigna Corporation, is planning to reduce its ownership of the land to less than 30 acres. The rest will be sold to developers. The flagship building and one other will make way for a golf course, hotel and houses. Its proposal to sell the property has already passed one round of town approvals and has the support of Bloomfield's mayor. 
 The architectural community, however, is outraged. Although the buildings are deep in the suburbs and are, after all, just the offices of another insurance company in a region that has plenty, many architects say the buildings and their grounds are historically significant.
"Frazer Wilde's plan redefined the American workplace," said Tyler Smith of Smith Edwards Architects, a Hartford firm that is leading the effort to save the buildings. "The Wilde building is as cultural significant as Samuel Colt's factory 100 years ago."
Mr. Smith and the other principal of the firm, Jared Edwards, are enlisting the aid of their high-profile colleagues, architects like Robert A. M. Stern, the dean of the Yale University School of Architecture, and David M. Childs, chief architect for Skidmore, Owings & Merrill, the firm chosen by Mr. Wilde more than 40 years ago to build his dream corporate campus, as well as directors from the Museum of Modern Art and both the National and the Connecticut Trust for Historic Preservation.
At stake is the fate of two Modern corporate buildings: the 827,000-square-foot Wilde building as well as the 570,000-square-foot North Building, once the headquarters of the Emhart Corporation, a hardware company. Both buildings were designed by Gordon Bunshaft, a leading proponent of International Style , which is characterized by pure geometric shapes, an absence of ornamentation and a reliance on engineering principles to convey structure. Among Mr. Bunshaft's designs are Lever House in New York City and the Beinecke Rare Book and Manuscript Library at Yale University.
The Wilde Building features four interior courtyards and sculpture by Isamu Noguchi, a sculptor and landscape designer whose work is featured in the Unesco building in Paris and the sunken sculpture garden at the Beinecke Library. Cigna executives said Mr. Noguchi's work "The Family," an exterior sculpture on its Bloomfield campus, will be sold to developers along with the rest of the property, a subject of concern, along with the proposed destruction of the courtyards, to directors of the Isamu Noguchi Foundation and Museum, said Amy Hau, administrative director of foundation in New York.
The North building, across the street from the Wilde complex, was Gordon Bunshaft's first poured-concrete building. Its cantilevered design gives it the effect of floating.
Executives for Cigna have dismissed the outcry from the architectural community as the inflated opinion of impractical elitists.
"Cigna's history and tradition is not a building," said Kenneth J. Ferraro, director of public relations for the company. "It's providing competitively superior value and service from its employees to its customers and shareholders. This development proposal allows us to continue to do this."
The existing buildings, Cigna executives said, are too big, too costly to operate and outmoded for today's technology. While the Bloomfield campus houses more than 4,500 employees, the company headquarters moved to Philadelphia in 1982, shortly after Connecticut General merged with Insurance Company of North America.
The architects said Frazer Wilde was among the first to change where corporate America worked in the 1950's, by moving to the suburbs and commissioning cutting edge architects and artists as well as the designer Florence Knoll, who designed the streamlined furnishings in the building and went on to form Knoll Furniture.
Mr. Wilde also influenced how corporate America worked. The open-floored, three-story Wilde building featured 360-degree views of ponds, gentle hills and wildflowers. It also included a bowling alley, a hair salon and a boutique-sized Lord & Taylor department store. Yet Cigna executives said the needs of its work force have changed.
"Employees today are less interested in making work their whole world," said Anthony J. Paticchio, assistant general counsel in investment law for Cigna. "They're more concerned about a diverse work force, competitive salaries and things like parking."
When it was unveiled, the Wilde building was the new thing, earning accolades from magazines like Time and Fortune and awards from the architectural community. The building was a departure from its peers, buildings that were more typically stone and ornately designed. By contrast, the enormous yet sleek Wilde building sheathes its steel skeleton in a green-hued glass skin. The building is one large rectangle attached to smaller rectangles on the south, west and north sides. The rectangularity of its exterior is echoed in the multi-sized rectangular windows; from inside, the rolling acreage appears through the windows as a series of framed landscapes. The ceilings soar and the corridors are enormous and often open to courtyards, whose doors are locked but the space features a bench or two. The sheer size of the space makes an airport terminal seem cozy. It is the dream work place of a claustrophobe.
Yet it is the very size of the building and its horizontal layout that is most bothersome to the Cigna executives.
"If you look the company archives, the building was designed along the lines of a light manufacturing model," said Mr. Ferraro. "People moved paper around like a human conveyer belt. We don't work that way anymore." Both he and Mr. Paticchio commended the building's usefulness in Wilde's time.
Mr. Smith and Mr. Edwards describe the Wilde building as a model of meritocracy, designed so the company president was spotted in the building as easily as a filing clerk. The horizontal design was a physical reaction against the hierarchy of corporate America.
Cigna's response?
"It was never about the romantic notion of creating a meritocracy," Mr. Ferraro said. "That notion was applied to justify it as an architectural monument. In its day, 2,000 people were on a schedule and a whistle was used to call them to lunch."
Company executives estimated that to merely maintain the building's mechanicals and increase the wiring necessary for merely adequate -- never mind state of the art -- computer technology will cost $40 million over the next seven years.
But Mr. Childs, whose firm, Skidmore, Owings & Merrill, is restoring the exterior of the Bunshaft-designed Lever House in New York, said adaptation of the Wilde building is indeed possible if the idea that the building is a cultural landmark is adopted. Much older buildings with significant challenges to modern adaptation have been restored and renovated.
"The property is the prototype for the suburban corporate park," Mr. Childs said. "Too often in America when something becomes outmoded, we just throw it away when it could be adapted and treasured as part of our cultural history."
His colleague, Mr. Stern, said that the kind of architectural patronage of the 1940's and 50's, as evidenced by the Seagram, I.B.M. and Connecticut General buildings, is not seen today. Instead, corporate architecture tends to be anonymous, built by developers to be leased to corporations, Mr. Stern said.
Another hurdle is the preservation movement itself. The cherishing of Modern buildings is a relatively nascent concept outside the architectural community. Modern buildings are held to a much higher standard than their antecedents, Mr. Stern said.
"The preservation movement grew up in protest to the destruction of some buildings of the 19th and 20th century to make way for International Style buildings," he said. "This movement tends to be skeptical about the merit of these buildings."
Unlike New York City, where buildings can be made landmarks for preservation, organizations seeking protective status for Connecticut buildings cannot do so without the permission of the building owner. Although the State Historical Commission and State Historic Preservation Office have said that the Connecticut General campus merits preservation, these organizations cannot halt demolition. The campus will be proposed by Smith Edwards Architects for listing on the state and national registers of historic places.
Nor can the Connecticut Trust for Historic Preservation prevent demolitions of historic properties in the state. Christopher Wigren, assistant director for the group, said his organization has no regulatory powers. At the moment, Mr. Wigren said the group is collecting information on buildings similar in style and period to Bunshaft's that were successfully adapted to new uses, such as the Reynolds Metal building in Virginia and the General Motors headquarters in Michigan.
The next challenge for the Cigna proposal is a town planning and zoning meeting on Wednesday. Several zone changes for the property will be reviewed.
With the raging real estate market, Cigna plans to sell almost all of its 650 acres to developers. They have worked out a master plan with the assistance of Elkus/Manfredi, a Boston architectural firm. It includes an 18-hole Arnold Palmer-designed golf course, a 275-room hotel and conference center where the Wilde building now stands.
The residential component of the plan includes 158 single family houses priced at about $275,000 and 240 "luxury" apartments. The 4,600 employees will move to the company's remaining 30-odd acres on the southern part of the campus where the South building now stands. Two new buildings will be added by developers and Cigna will lease space from the owners. As of yet, no developers have been hired.
Both Connecticut General and Cigna have kept the 650-acre site open to the public. Anyone can meander the property. Bikers and joggers are a common sight as are soccer and tennis players on the company's fields and courts.Tom Hooper, the town planner, said many Bloomfield parents have taught their children to drive on the quiet roads of the campus. Although plans for the new site will feature a public golf course, the development proposal will certainly change the public's use of the property, yet officials said very few people are complaining.
"There's tremendous support for the proposal everywhere I go," said Faith McMahon, who has been Bloomfield's mayor since 1993. Cigna is far and away the town's biggest taxpayer. In 1999, the corporation paid $198,376,324 in taxes; the second highest tax revenue was $23,120,338 paid by the Kaman Corporation.
The proposal seems to have quelled an uncertainty about the corporation's commitment to the town since the company moved its headquarters from Bloomfield to Philadelphia in 1983.
"One thing we've always worried about with regard to Cigna is the diversity issue," Ms. McMahon said, referring to the town being so dependent on one company for tax revenue and jobs. "This plan offers diversity and the golf course still keeps some open space."
Diversifying the site is something Mr. Smith and Mr. Edwards said they could agree upon with Cigna. Both men have said they do not question the corporation's right to develop the property, but claim the proposal is "so transparently a scheme to maximize a one-time return on this real estate." The architects have promoted the economic benefits of a 20 percent historic tax credit for companies who chose to restore rather than tear down historic buildings, but said their discussions with Cigna thus far have been "fragile, at best."
"We just know there is a better way to develop this property and maintain it as a cultural landmark," Mr. Edwards said.
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photos: The main building on the campus of the Cigna Corporation. The company wants to sell most of the grounds to developers. (C. M. Glover for The New York Times)(pg. 11); Jared Edwards, left, and Tyler Smith of Smith Edwards Architects, Hartford, stand near a Noguchi sculpture on the Cigna Corporation grounds in Bloomfield. The buildings and grounds are regarded as historically significant by many architects. (C.M. Glover for The New York Times)(pg. 1)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: CI (NYSE) (85%); 

INDUSTRY: SIC6311 LIFE INSURANCE (91%); NAICS524114 DIRECT HEALTH & MEDICAL INSURANCE CARRIERS (85%); NAICS524113 DIRECT LIFE INSURANCE CARRIERS (85%); SIC6321 ACCIDENT & HEALTH INSURANCE (85%); NAICS339993 FASTENER, BUTTON, NEEDLE & PIN MANUFACTURING (81%); NAICS332722 BOLT, NUT, SCREW, RIVET & WASHER MANUFACTURING (81%); SIC3965 FASTENERS, BUTTONS, NEEDLES, & PINS (81%); SIC3452 BOLTS, NUTS, SCREWS, RIVETS & WASHERS (81%); NAICS541310 ARCHITECTURAL SERVICES (54%); SIC8712 ARCHITECTURAL SERVICES (54%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (92%); CONNECTICUT, USA (92%); 

CITY: HARTFORD, CT, USA (92%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: GENERAL INSURANCE CO LTD (91%); CIGNA CORP (85%); EMHART TEKNOLOGIES INC (81%); SKIDMORE OWINGS & MERRILL LLP (54%); YALE UNIVERSITY (54%); YALE UNIVERSITY (54%); 

ORGANIZATION: YALE UNIVERSITY (54%); YALE UNIVERSITY (54%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%); NEW YORK, USA (92%); CONNECTICUT, USA (92%); HARTFORD, CT, USA (92%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: Terms not available from NYTimes. ARCHITECTURAL SERVICES (90%); SCULPTURE (89%); VISUAL ARTISTS (89%); MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (88%); UNIVERSITY ADMINISTRATION (78%); MANUFACTURING FACILITIES (78%); COMPANY NAME CHANGES (77%); LANDSCAPE ARCHITECTURE SERVICES (77%); MAYORS (75%); ENGINEERING (75%); SUBURBS (73%); HISTORY (72%); SCHOOL PRINCIPALS (70%); ACADEMIC LIBRARIES (69%); LIBRARIES (64%); 

PERSON: ANDREW SMITH (69%); 

LOAD-DATE: July 16, 2000



360 of 757 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: July 16, 2000

SECTION: Section 14LI; Page 9; Column 1; Long Island Weekly Desk

LENGTH: 1545 words

HEADLINE: Home Health Care Aides Are in Demand, but in Short Supply

BYLINE: By JOY ALTER HUBEL

 BODY:
WHEN he was diagnosed with multiple sclerosis six years ago, Keith Fields, an avid boater and fisherman, was living with his girlfriend in Ronkonkoma and working as an alarm installation technician. Today, at age 33, he can't even move his arms.
His mother, Dianne Davis, who oversees his care while working full-time as a hairdresser, said that when his symptoms worsened about three years ago, she hired home health aides through certified agencies. But when the aides repeatedly failed to show up, Mr. Fields's girlfriend persuaded him to go into a nursing home. 
 "A year ago, I took him out of there. That was no place for him," Ms. Davis said. "He should be at home as long as he can be. He is still very mentally aware, and should be allowed to feel as independent as he can be made to feel."
For the present, Mr. Fields is back in his own apartment in Ronkonkoma with a 24-hour live-in home health aide who, for little more than minimum wage, feeds, bathes, cooks and cleans house for him. He relies on the aide, supplied through a home health agency that is reimbursed by his Medicaid benefits, to protect what is left of his independence and keep him from landing back in a nursing home.
It is a struggle. Recently, Ms. Davis discovered that her son had not been changed and cleaned for a six-hour stretch. "I nearly went ballistic," she said, "but people tell me not to complain."
She knows how hard it is to find well-trained and reliable home health care on Long Island.
The region's healthy economy, with the lowest unemployment rate in New York State, has not been so healthy for many of Long Island's sick, disabled and elderly. Nowadays, the home health aides that they rely on for the tasks associated with daily living can easily find less demanding, better-paying jobs. And they do.
"When the economy was in the slumps there would be people lined up around the corner willing to train for certification in home health aide," said Mary Lou Boyle, director for public health nursing for the Suffolk County Public Health Department.
"Today, someone can get a job at Stern's or Macy's for the salary equivalent to what a home health or personal aide can expect -- about $7 to $10 per hour -- and not have to worry about changing adult diapers or hoisting heavy bodies into bathrooms," Ms. Boyle said. "It is also a very lonely job. It's not like working at a store where you can be with fellow employees."
Many home health aides are women from poor or minority backgrounds and are sometimes looked upon by elderly clients not so much as trained paraprofessionals but as maids. "It is not unusual to have a client expect a health care aide to wash their windows," Ms. Boyle said.
Dr. Mary Ann Wilner, director of health policy for Paraprofessional Health Care Institute in the Bronx, a nonprofit affiliate that oversees a group of five employee-owned home health care agencies, said it is demographics rather than the healthy economy that is creating the crisis in home health care.
"Even if there were to be a downturn in the economy, the problem will still not go away," Dr. Wilner said. "Compared with the stagnant caregiver population, a cohort group that tends to be women in the 25-to-50-year age range, the elderly population is growing in leaps and bounds." She said that the only way to correct the problem is to transform the profession into something more appealing and reduce the annual turnover rate, which, on a national basis, is 40 to 60 percent.
"There is very little concern for worker benefits, training and health," Dr. Wilner said. "But what we try to do is focus on the fact that it can be a good job. Many people love the work and care about caring for people. We need to figure out how to make this job more attractive. We need to extend training, improve wages, and provide full benefits, opportunities for advancement, support and supervision."
Susan Hechtman, vice president of Aides at Home Inc. in Hicksville, said the problem is money. "We get constant calls requesting home health aides all day," she said. "And out of 15 of these patients we may be able to service only five. The root of the problem is money. Agencies get reimbursed $10 per hour from insurance, which also has to include profit and overhead."
Karen Dargo, downstate market manager for Norrell Health Care, which provides nurses and paraprofessionals to health consumers, said that her employee roster has declined 25 percent to 30 percent in two years..
"Based on what we can pay our staff, we can't compete with food service and retail," she said. "These jobs can guarantee workers one job at one location for a full eight-hour day. Home health aides often have to travel between two and three clients within an eight-hour day."
Fione Ferrier, a 33-year-old home health care aide for the North Shore-Long Island Jewish Health System, visits four patients within her eight-hour shift. She helps her clients get out of bed, helps them shower, changes their linens, and possibly provides a meal, all within 90 minutes. Added to her duties is travel time, which, depending on traffic can be 15 to 30 minutes between visits.
"I have one patient with Parkinson's disease, and it takes him a half hour just to get out of the bed," she said. "By the time you get him into the shower, it's almost time to go."
She has worked for a variety of agencies in the past, but they were only able to provide her with part-time work, which had not included benefits. She says that at North Shore, she gets full-time work, benefits, gas reimbursement, training seminars and thus feels less isolated. Eventually, she hopes to go to school to become a registered nurse.
For many entry-level workers like the Jamaican-born Ms. Ferrier, a position as a home health care or personal aide assistant can provide a pathway to better-paying jobs in the health industry.
Home health care agencies on Long Island have been trying to compete more aggressively in the employment market by providing work incentives in the form of sign-on bonuses, health benefits, college tuition and gas allowances.
Steven Sternbach, chief executive officer of Star Multi Care in Huntington Station, which runs 15 home health agencies in five northeastern states, offers his employees a choice of packages.
"Do you want $8 per hour and no benefits or $7 and full insurance?" Mr. Sternbach said. "Maybe you have a working spouse and don't need the insurance. We also provide 401K plans and try to educate them about benefits."
He said that despite his efforts, his four Long Island offices are filling only about 75 percent to 80 percent of customer demand. There are approximately 6,020 home health aides and 4,360 personal home care aides on Long Island, according to 1997 state statistics. But the agency estimates that there will be an additional 2,400 annual openings per year through 2006.
Home health care agencies are not optimistic that these openings can be filled, given the rate at which the population is aging and insurance reimbursement rates are falling. Nationwide, Medicare spending on home health care has dropped by 45 percent, from $17.5 billion in 1997 to $9.7 billion in 1999, based on data complied by the Congressional Budget Office. Furthermore, additional cuts of up to 15 percent are threatened when a new Medicare reimbursement system begins in October 2000.
This system, as well as other recent cuts in health care benefits, underscores what amounts to a baffling medical paradox for health care providers.
"I think that economic pressures of health care dictate that more and more patients are cared for at home," said Dr. Charles Robbins, associate dean of social welfare at the State University of New York at Stony Brook. "And most patients do heal better in familiar surroundings. Families are increasingly being called upon to provide the services that were once performed by the hospitals and health care workers, yet the psycho-social supports are not in place to help them."
If it has become financially and psychologically healthier -- for both the patient and the economy -- to manage health care at home, then why aren't health care benefits being realigned?
"What it will take is a legislator's mother who is not able to get home care," Dr. Robbins said.
He also said that the shortage in home health aides is forcing patients to languish in hospitals after their medical care is completed.
"The inability of home care agencies to attract the staff needed to provide services to patients results in our inability to move patients through the system as soon as they are ready," he said.
Dr. Robbins also worries that agencies, though not saying so outright, will hesitate to take on the more complicated cases if they think they can't provide care within Medicare's prescribed dollar amount.
"The reality is that we trust people who are the most vulnerable in our society to be cared for by home care staff," Dr. Robbins said. "Their adult children have families and careers. But we, as a society, don't value the care well enough to pay livable wages and benefits. The consequence of a good economy is that people are not willing to do these jobs. It is very hard work. We need to rethink some of our values."
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photo: Demand is outpacing supply in home care. Fione Ferrier, a home health aide, helping Ruth Bakey to bed. (Kevin P. Coughlin for The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (79%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: HOME INC (58%); MEDICAID (55%); 

ORGANIZATION: MEDICAID (55%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: Terms not available from NYTimes. NURSING & RESIDENTIAL CARE FACILITIES (90%); HOME HEALTH CARE (90%); VISITING NURSES (89%); HEALTH DEPARTMENTS (89%); NURSING HOMES (89%); MULTIPLE SCLEROSIS (78%); DISABLED PERSONS (78%); MEDICAID (76%); PUBLIC HEALTH ADMINISTRATION (76%); LONG TERM HEALTH CARE (75%); FULL TIME EMPLOYMENT (73%); IMMUNE SYSTEM DISORDERS (73%); WAGES & SALARIES (72%); MINIMUM WAGE (72%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (68%); 

PERSON: KEITH FIELDS (66%); MARY LOU BOYLE (65%); DIANNE DAVIS (65%); MARY ANN WILNER (65%); 

LOAD-DATE: July 16, 2000



361 of 757 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: July 16, 2000

SECTION: Section 14LI; Page 6; Column 2; Long Island Weekly Desk

LENGTH: 1179 words

HEADLINE: L.I.@WORK;
Business Comes a-Courtin' to Cold Spring Harbor

BYLINE: By WARREN STRUGATCH

 BODY:
ONE night two months ago, James Watson -- Nobel laureate, president of Cold Spring Harbor Laboratory and inspiration to several generations of scientists -- rose from his seat to accept a Lifetime Achievement Award from the Long Island Association, the region's largest business group. Although the scientist lives and works just minutes from the posh country club the group favors for major events, most of the black-tie attendees were meeting Dr. Watson, discoverer of the structure of DNA, for the first time.
No slight was intended. It's just that the lab's international focus, and the continuous pursuit of financing, keep Dr. Watson, 72, on the road. 
 But even when he's home, he moves in different circles. While the lab is host to thousands of visitors a year at its scientific meetings and conferences, guests are more likely to hail from Australia than Amityville. The lab remains enigmatic, if not unknown, to the local business community.
"We don't usually turn to Long Island to meet our needs," Dr. Watson said. "In terms of fund-raising, in terms of grantsmanship, in terms of research funding, our scope is entirely national. In our role as a teaching place and a research place, we are small and focused, but very international."
In recent years, the lab has come under pressure to be a bit more, well, neighborly. Business, government and academic leaders hope to foster a biotechnology industry here, and are pressuring the lab to play a leadership role. They point to burgeoning biotech corridors in Cambridge, Mass., San Francisco, San Diego and Austin, Tex., where prestigious research institutions galvanize intensely cerebral and collaborative communities known as clusters.
That has not happened here. During the 1990's the lab spun off 14 companies based on its patents, siting all but four elsewhere in the country. According to Bruce Stillman, the lab's director and Dr. Watson's chosen successor, the choices were driven by business realities: each company was sited where it seemed most likely to prosper.
"It isn't easy for small biotech companies to grow on Long Island," Dr. Stillman said. "Just getting appropriate commercial space can be very, very difficult."
The L.I.A. and other business and government leaders acknowledge his point, but rue the exodus of jobs and capital. According to the group's chief economist, Pearl Kamer, the 14 spinoff companies have hired 1,722 people, all but 226 of them employed off Long Island. Only OSI Pharmaceuticals in Uniondale, with nearly 200 employees, raises a blip on the local economic radar. Most of the aggregate financial benefits, including $357 million in annual expenditures, accrue off-Island.
"I would like for the lab to take a pro-Long Island view in terms of siting spin-off companies here," Mr. Crosson said. "I would like their stance to be: Let's build up a Long Island genetics corridor. It's regrettable and avoidable that those companies were spun off elsewhere."
Signs are the lab is prepared to play a more active local role. Construction is nearly complete on the $15 million Biosciences Park, a collaboration between the lab and the State University of New York at Farmingdale. The original plan was to build an incubator. When OSI Pharmaceuticals, which had outgrown its Uniondale building, began looking elsewhere for space, the plan was hurriedly revised. The new plan cedes most of the building to OSI, positioning it as an anchor for the expected cluster.
When the project is complete, supporters say Long Island will finally have the infrastructure it has been lacking: brainy scientists, trained students looking for part-time work and entry-level positions, incubator space near permanent space for expansion, all of it centralized. Advocates hope the new park stems the biotech exodus.
It has been tried before. The Island's original high-tech incubator is in Stony Brook, and there are three others: two, in Bethpage and Stony Brook, for computer software; and one, also in Farmingdale, for manufacturing. Another biotech incubator, operated by the North Shore-Long Island Jewish Health System in Manhasset, is nearing completion.
Does the profusion of incubators undercut their chances of achieving critical mass?
"Absolutely not," said Peter Goldsmith, chairman of Listnet, a Great River software and technology co-op. "Demand for tech centers is so great on the Island."
John Cleary, a Farrell Fritz lawyer who is chairman of the Farmingdale incubator, said the formula has worked elsewhere. "You want to bring together different companies having the same discipline in a geographically defined area," he said. "As you develop synergistic relationships, the cluster draws other companies."
The dynamic of such clusters is more interactive, and social, than is the case in most industries.
"It isn't just coming to work, going into the office and leaving at 5 o'clock," Mr. Cleary said. "It's a question of interacting with people of like mind dealing with similar issues in a congenial environment."
But tradition and the lab's culture are not on their side. According to Dr. Watson, the lab's mission is to focus on pure scientific research, untainted by commercialism.
"Maybe 2 percent of our revenues come from commercial applications," he said. "Transferring technology to business is nice, especially if it's something our scientists want to do. We like to help make that happen. But it isn't our mission. Our mission is to do pure, bleeding-edge science."
Dr. Stillman, who became director in 1994, offered a similar emphasis on separating research from commerce. He agreed, however, that the development of a biotech corridor would allow the lab to transfer technology to local companies more easily.
"It's rather a Catch-22," Dr. Stillman said. "You can't attract biotech companies until you have established a cluster. But you don't have a cluster until you attract the companies."
For biotech executives and investors, a cluster assures enough trained employees to provide adequate staffing. For employees, clusters mean competition, and competition means higher wages and career mobility. That, in turn, attracts better employees, or so goes the theory.
Mr. Crosson sees the lab's role in developing the Biosciences Park as an indication it expects to play a bigger role in the local economy.
"Dr. Watson is indeed very familiar with the Long Island economy, despite the fact that he is on the road so much of the time," Mr. Crosson said. "And I think that Dr. Stillman will prove to be even more involved with Long Island."
Invited recently to address a luncheon in Hauppauge held by another business group, Dr. Stillman encountered an audience eager to learn more about the lab and the opportunities in genomics and biotechnology.
"Afterwards, so many people approached asking to come visit the lab that we are organizing a tour specifically for that group," he said. "I was delighted to see so much enthusiasm. However, I was a bit surprised that some of the business people seem never to have heard of us."
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photo: The Cold Spring Harbor Laboratory has been encouraged to foster a biotechnology industry. Bruce Stillman, left, is the laboratory's director and James Watson its president. (Maxine Hicks for The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: OSIP (NASDAQ) (51%); 

INDUSTRY: SIC8731 COMMERCIAL PHYSICAL & BIOLOGICAL RESEARCH (91%); NAICS325412 PHARMACEUTICAL PREPARATION MANUFACTURING (51%); SIC2834 PHARMACEUTICAL PREPARATIONS (51%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (79%); 

STATE: TEXAS, USA (79%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%); 

CITY: AUSTIN, TX, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: COLD SPRING HARBOR LABORATORY (91%); OSI PHARMACEUTICALS INC (51%); LONG ISLAND ASSOCIATION (58%); LONG ISLAND ASSOCIATION (58%); 

ORGANIZATION: LONG ISLAND ASSOCIATION (58%); LONG ISLAND ASSOCIATION (58%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%); TEXAS, USA (79%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%); AUSTIN, TX, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: Terms not available from NYTimes. SCIENCE NEWS (90%); SCIENCE & TECHNOLOGY (90%); AWARDS & PRIZES (90%); CONFERENCES & CONVENTIONS (90%); BIOTECHNOLOGY INDUSTRY (89%); NOBEL PRIZES (89%); SCIENCE FUNDING (78%); RESEARCH INSTITUTES (78%); BIOTECHNOLOGY & GENETIC SCIENCE (78%); REAL ESTATE (76%); FUNDRAISING (71%); DEMERGERS & SPINOFFS (67%); 

PERSON: JOSEPH C PAPA (51%); 

LOAD-DATE: July 16, 2000



362 of 757 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: July 16, 2000

SECTION: Section 2; Page 2; Column 5; Arts and Leisure Desk

LENGTH: 190 words

HEADLINE: AMERICAN SINGERS;
A Place to Be Heard

 BODY:

To the Editor:
In regard to the July 2 article "For Singers, a New American Way" by Anne Midgette, there is no doubt that the situation in German theaters has changed from the 1960's -- but so has the economic situation around the world. In every industry today, American businesses have to compete with cheaper products produced in other parts of the world and changing market needs. The opera business in not unique. 
 Having worked the last three years as a consultant for the Deutsche Oper am Rhein in Dusseldorf/Duisburg, I can attest to the great interest still shown for American talent in Germany. The training, discipline and motivation of American opera singers are still highly desired and greatly valued. The Deutsche Oper am Rhein intendent, Tobias Richter, and his new American music director, John Fiore, have successfully engaged many gifted American singers.
Singers still recognize the valuable experience to be obtained from a contract at a German theater. After all, who wouldn't want to sing 12 performances of "Aida" in Dusseldorf rather than be unemployed in New York?
 
MICHAEL PRESSER
Manhattan
 
http://www.nytimes.com

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Letter

TICKER: 002235 (SZSE) (58%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS322121 PAPER (EXCEPT NEWSPRINT) MILLS (58%); SIC2621 PAPER MILLS (58%); 

COUNTRY: GERMANY (93%); UNITED STATES (79%); CENTRAL EUROPE (57%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (79%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: XIAMEN ANNE CORP LTD (58%); XIAMEN ANNE CORP LTD (58%); DEUTSCHE OPER (79%); 

ORGANIZATION: DEUTSCHE OPER (79%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: GERMANY (93%); UNITED STATES (79%); CENTRAL EUROPE (57%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: Terms not available from NYTimes. SINGERS & MUSICIANS (91%); LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); OPERA (90%); MUSIC (73%); 

LOAD-DATE: July 16, 2000



363 of 757 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: July 16, 2000

SECTION: Section 11; Page 9; Column 1; Real Estate Desk 

LENGTH: 1336 words

HEADLINE: Commercial Property/430 West 14th Street;
A Developer Puts a Bet on the Meatpacking District

BYLINE: By JOHN HOLUSHA 

 BODY:
THE building certainly does not look very glamorous. A couple of bars and meatpacking tenants occupy most of the ground floor space at 430 West 14th Street, which has a broad corrugated metal canopy mounted on it to shield workers from the weather as they load and unload trucks in the early morning hours.
Nevertheless, the Washington-based Starwood Urban Investments has paid $10.2 million for the five-story brick building with blocklong frontage on Washington Street, between 13th and 14th Streets. 
 The investment is the first in New York for Starwood Urban, which is a joint venture by the Starwood Capital Group of Greenwich, Conn., and Wennett Urban Retail of Washington. Starwood Urban officials say they are prepared to invest as much as $250 million over the next 12 months in retail, loft and manufacturing properties in what they describe as "emerging chic" areas in Manhattan like the meatpacking district, west Chelsea, Union Square, the garment district and Clinton.
The far western end of 14th Street is clearly in the midst of change, even if it may not fit traditional definitions of chic. The fashionable clothing store Jeffrey shares space in a building with Moishe's Mini Storage. Art galleries like Long Fine Art and Katzen-Stein have moved into the area, but the sidewalks are still often blocked by forklifts moving foodstuffs, and the cobblestone street is obstructed by delivery trucks.
Nevertheless, Robert S. Wennett, the president of Starwood Urban, said he sees 430 West 14th Street as a prime retail opportunity. He said the building's 200-foot frontage on Washington Street, plus 50 more feet each on 13th and 14th Streets, are ideal for restaurants or stores.
"Retailers like exposure without great depth, so this is a fabulous retail building," Mr. Wennett said. He said the 15,800 square feet on the first floor and in the basement would be offered to tenants with high profiles and original concepts.
Most of the leases of the current tenants will expire in the short term, or the tenants are already renting on a month-to-month basis, making it easy to recapture the space for new uses. "That was part of the opportunity," he said.
He said luring upscale retail tenants to what were formerly marginal neighborhoods was part of the formula for Starwood Urban, which has previously invested in Washington, South Miami Beach, Coral Gables, Fla., and Norwalk, Conn. "We do not buy buildings in neighborhoods without retail opportunities," he said.
Starwood Urban was formed two years ago to make investments in city neighborhoods that appear to be changing for the better. "We go into emerging areas and focus on retail and offices," Mr. Wennett said. "We target areas earlier than institutional capital."
The meatpacking district of Manhattan is just such an emerging area, he said, adding that many people like working in areas that are industrial by day but filled with urban sophisticates by night, drawn by new restaurants and exotic bars. He said the area is making the transition from industrial to residential and retail in the same way that SoHo and TriBeCa developed.
He noted that Starwood Urban has an all-the-time casual dress policy and said the properties the company invests in are being developed to appeal to new-economy ventures. The company plans to spend about $1 million at 430 West 14th Street, to repair the brick facade, improve the heating and air-conditioning and to upgrade the elevators and lobby.
Mr. Wennett said he planned to market the 46,000 square feet on the building's upper floors to full-floor tenants or to a single large tenant.
Mr. Wennett said many new media and Internet workers are more concerned about lifestyle than location. "They don't want to be in Class A office space," he said.
Constance Collins Davis, the general counsel of Starwood Urban, said: "Young people are coming back to cities. They want to mix art and entertainment with the work experience. We look for places where we would like to work."
The Starwood officials noted that restaurants like Markt, Pastis and Lotus have opened in the area, that a hotel is scheduled to be built a block or so away and that the Chelsea Market has become a tourist attraction nearby at Ninth Avenue and 15th Street.
T HE area is moving, no doubt about it," said David Gmach, the executive director of the Union Square-14th Street Business Improvement District, whose western boundary is the Avenue of the Americas. "The question is how quickly." He said the possibility of the area's being designated a landmark or special zoning district might influence the way it develops.
He noted that some people think enough of the area to spend as much as $2 million for a condominium in a converted bank building at 14th Street and Eighth Avenue.
Some retail specialists say the lack of a local population base and the distance from transportation make it likely that the West 14th Street area will take a long time to emulate SoHo, if it ever does.
"It took SoHo a long time to become SoHo," said Richard A. Seligman, the president of Retail Development Partners, a brokerage firm. "And SoHo is bounded by two well-established retail corridors, Broadway and West Broadway." He said he had not received any inquiries from retailers seeking locations on or near West 14th Street. Nevertheless, Starwood officials are predicting that once renovations are complete, 430 West 14th Street will command retail rents of $80 to $100 a square foot.
Robert K. Futterman of RKF Associates, another retail brokerage firm, said retail rents in the area were unlikely to exceed $50 a foot and that the most likely tenants would be restaurants and bars, rather than stores.
"There is a lot of buzz about the area, but it is mostly about restaurants and saloons," he said. "You are not likely to see many traditional retailers in that area."
He said retail tenants seeking locations in a city look for a critical mass of population, good transportation and other stores so shoppers will be drawn to the area, all of which the West 14th Street area lacks. "We just expanded Banana Republic at 111 Eighth Avenue," he said, referring to the building that runs from 15th to 16th Streets. "That's where the traditional retailers want to be."
Mr. Seligman said that for $80 to $100 a square foot, a retailer can rent space in an established shopping area and not have to wonder whether West 14th Street will develop as a daytime shopping destination, as it has as an evening eating and partying location. "For $125 a foot a retailer can go to lower Fifth Avenue and not worry if the area is going to happen," he said.
Although some art galleries have moved to 14th Street, it does not have the concentration of galleries that were present in SoHo before rising rents paid by retailers drove them to other parts of the city. "SoHo always was a cool place to walk around, but it still took 10 years for it to be transformed from an artsy New York neighborhood to an international shopping center," Mr. Seligman said.
He added that by locating in an established retail area, "you know who your neighbors will be, which is important when you are paying $3 million to $4 million a year in rent -- it is well known that retailers travel in packs."
Mr. Wennett of Starwood Urban said he was convinced that long-term trends were working in his favor, even if the short term may be uncertain. "New York and San Francisco are the centers of the new economy," he said, "and that trend is not likely to die even if Wall Street takes a dive."
He said the West 14th Street area may come to resemble European cities, where the meat and fish shops operate during the day and then give way to cafes and restaurants at night. "That is an attractive urban fabric," he said, "and we like investing in these types of neighborhoods."
He also hopes some of the industrial character of the area can be preserved. "We are not interested in turning this into a mall," he said. "SoHo is a mall."
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photo: Constance Collins Davis and Robert S. Wennett of Starwood Urban at 430 West 14th Street. (Jack Manning/The New York Times)
 
Map of New York City shows the location of 430 West 14th Street.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

INDUSTRY: SIC6798 REAL ESTATE INVESTMENT TRUSTS (57%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (94%); CONNECTICUT, USA (90%); FLORIDA, USA (79%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%); MIAMI, FL, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: STARWOOD URBAN (CO) STARWOOD CAPITAL GROUP LLC (57%); 

ORGANIZATION: STARWOOD URBAN (CO)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK CITY; UNITED STATES (94%); NEW YORK, USA (94%); CONNECTICUT, USA (90%); FLORIDA, USA (79%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%); MIAMI, FL, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: AREA PLANNING AND RENEWAL; HOUSING; RETAIL STORES AND TRADE; GEOGRAPHIC PROFILES; MEAT; RESTORATION AND REHABILITATION COMMERCIAL RENTAL PROPERTY (90%); REAL ESTATE (90%); FOOD INDUSTRY (90%); COMMERCIAL PROPERTY (90%); ANIMAL SLAUGHTERING & PROCESSING (90%); RETAIL PROPERTY (88%); RETAILERS (88%); RESTAURANTS (78%); INDUSTRIAL PROPERTY (73%); SELF STORAGE (73%); CLOTHING & ACCESSORIES STORES (69%); MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (66%); 

PERSON: HOLUSHA, JOHN HILLARY RODHAM CLINTON (55%); HILLARY RODHAM CLINTON (55%); 

LOAD-DATE: July 16, 2000



364 of 757 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: July 16, 2000

SECTION: Section 11; Page 9; Column 1; Real Estate Desk 

LENGTH: 1457 words

HEADLINE: In the Region/New Jersey;
As Doors Close for Developers, New Ones Open

BYLINE: By RACHELLE GARBARINE 

 BODY:
DIVERSIFICATION is much on the minds of home builders these days as market conditions, demographic trends and regulatory constraints are nudging them to branch out into different segments of the housing market.
Three developers moving in new directions are cases in point: 
 *The Kushner Companies of Florham Park, best known as an owner of garden-style rental apartments, are planning to convert a motel in West Long Branch in Monmouth County to the companies' first assisted-living center, offering housing along with meals and personal care to elderly residents.
*Pinnacle Communities of Millburn, which for the last decade has built luxury single-family attached and detached homes, is entering the market for residential retirement communities, with 120 homes for buyers age 55 and over in Washington Township in Warren County.
*The Matzel & Mumford Organization of Hazlet, a developer of upscale single-family homes, is returning to the town-house market after a nine-year absence with a 262-unit project in Montgomery Township in Somerset County.
"When sites are available, developers will move into areas they have not traditionally been in if the market is there and they can make money," said Joanne Harkins, the director of land-use and planning at the New Jersey Builders Association in Robbinsville.
Constraining factors that developers are facing include the dwindling supply of land in New Jersey and more restrictive zoning. In the next decade the state plans to buy up a million acres of open space, and in the last several years, it has been encouraging development in urban areas, where utilities, roads and mass transit are in place, and discouraging it in rural areas.
Some developers, Ms. Harkins said, have responded by redeveloping former industrial sites in cities or recycling abandoned buildings in older suburbs. Others, she added, are entering the housing market for the elderly with assisted-living or "55 and over" projects, a nod to the state's aging population.
David Schoner, a vice president in the new homes and land division of Coldwell Banker, the residential brokerage company with headquarters in Short Hills, said developers also favor housing for the elderly because many municipalities view it favorably, since it has less impact on municipal services, especially schools, than other high-density projects.
Dr. James W. Hughes, the dean of the Edward J. Bloustein School of Planning and Public Policy at Rutgers University, said, "With the tidal wave of maturing baby boomers entering the market, developers basically will be life-cycle riding." Dr. Hughes noted that next year the first baby boomers will turn 55, a milestone that successive waves of boomers -- by definition those people born between 1946 and 1964 -- will hit during the next 18 years.
FROM here forward, Dr. Hughes said, empty nesters will determine the course of new construction. In turn, he said, housing that offers a maintenance-free living, like condominium town houses, makes sense, as do projects that offer entertainment and recreational amenities.
These shifts are occurring when the state's residential market is slowing a bit in response to rising interest rates and a turbulent stock market. Jeffrey Otteau, the president of the Otteau Appraisal Group in East Brunswick, said that prices have risen 10 to 25 percent for all types of housing in the last year and as a result, "buyers are stepping out of the market." Sales activity is down, the supply of homes, particularly resales, is up and houses that a few months ago sold in hours or days are taking weeks to sell, he added.
Though Mr. Otteau said he expected the slowdown to last at least until October, "it is still a strong real estate market." His advice to developers: "Know your market."
That is an exercise the Kushner Companies went through before deciding to convert a 100-room motel on Route 36, next to Monmouth Raceway in West Long Branch, into an assisted-living residence. Though the growth of such projects has leveled off, "we think there is a niche we can fill," said Jeffrey Freireich, a managing director. "Unlike most of the high-end projects that have been built. this will be more economical for tenants," he added, because Kushner will save money by converting an existing structure.
"In just 10 years," Mr. Freireich said, "the number of Monmouth County residents 75 and older -- the age group we're targeting -- increased by 22 percent."
The $8 million project, which will begin this fall and will be called the Esplanade at West Long Branch, is being developed with the Scharf family, which runs similar residences for the elderly in New York, New Jersey and Connecticut, and FBE Limited, a real estate partnership in Manhattan.
The conversion will include the renovation of all the rooms, which average 325 square feet. A new front entrance will be added and the grounds of the four-acre site will be landscaped. Rents, including all meals and services, will be $2,500 to $2,900 a month.
Mr. Freireich said his company planned to develop similar projects "on a selective basis" until the assisted-living market strengthens, because this housing segment "makes sense for us."
Over the last two years, a Kushner company, Westminster Communities, has gained a foothold in "55 and over" housing, known as the "active adult" market. It has seven such projects in New Jersey, totaling 1,441 residences, in various stages of the development. Among them is Sea Oaks, with 376 single-family homes, under way in Little Egg Harbor.
That is the market Pinnacle Communities is also pursuing. It is advancing plans for the Village at Hawk Pointe, with 120 detached houses on 31 acres adjacent to an 18-hole golf course on Route 31, not far from Interstate 78 in Washington Township.
Having built upscale housing with no age restrictions, "we want to bring that edge to the 'active adult' market where there is an unmet demand for larger, more expensive homes," said Paul Schneier, the vice president for operations at Pinnacle. Other factors in Pinnacle's decision, he said, are that many towns are more receptive to such projects, shortening the approval process; demographics support them; and Warren County is not saturated with "55 and over" housing.
Pinnacle is under contract to buy the site contingent upon receiving local approvals, he said. If approved, the project will be part of a 317-acre development that will include the golf course and up to 340,000 square feet of commercial space, which Pinnacle will build with the developers of the golf course.
As now envisioned, the 120 houses, each with 2,000 to 3,000 square feet, will sit on lots of about a quarter acre. The initial prices are expected to be $300,000 to $350,000. Amenities planned include a clubhouse and pool. Construction of the houses, a $40 million project, is to start early next year.
Mr. Schneier said that Pinnacle was planning two other such communities in New Jersey, each with 100 to 200 homes. "It's an opportunity," he said.
That is also the way Roger Mumford, the president of the Matzel & Mumford Organization, described his company's purchase of 76 acres with approvals in place for 262 town houses on Blue Spring Road, off Route 206 in Montgomery. "Given our desire to diversify and the lack of large suitably zoned land, we jumped on it," Mr. Mumford said.
Montgomery Hills, as the project will be known, is the undeveloped portion of an earlier project that began in the 1980's. The site was rezoned for town houses to help the township meet its obligation under the state's Mount Laurel doctrine, which requires municipalities to provide zoning for low- and moderate-income housing. The previous developer built just the first 84 of the 346 town houses originally planned. Matzel & Mumford will build the remaining town houses, along with 60 rental apartments for people 55 and older with low to moderate incomes and 35 condo apartments with income, but not age, restrictions.
"There is a solid market for town houses," said Mr. Mumford, whose company became an affiliate of K. Hovnanian Enterprises of Red Bank last year.
Mr. Schoner of Coldwell Banker said, "Town houses will be the first step out of single-family homes for many baby boomers." Mr. Otteau, the appraiser, agreed, and added that because the prices for detached houses have risen faster than those for town houses, entry-level buyers are choosing them as starter homes for the first time in 15 years.
The town houses at Montgomery Hills, with 1,661 to 2,220 square feet, will cater to both markets, Mr. Mumford said. Construction and sales are expected to begin next month, and prices are expected to start at $230,000.
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photos: A rendering of the Montgomery Hills town houses, above left, and the assisted-living residence at West Long Branch, above right. (Carl Mink); (Dennis Wise)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

INDUSTRY: SIC1522 GENERAL CONTRACTORS - RESIDENTIAL BUILDINGS OTHER THAN SINGLE-FAMILY (69%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: NEW JERSEY, USA (94%); 

COMPANY: MATZEL & MUMFORD (69%); MONMOUTH UNIVERSITY (57%); MONMOUTH UNIVERSITY (57%); 

ORGANIZATION: MONMOUTH UNIVERSITY (57%); MONMOUTH UNIVERSITY (57%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW JERSEY; UNITED STATES (94%); NEW JERSEY, USA (94%); 

SUBJECT: HOUSING; RETIREMENT COMMUNITIES AND ASSISTED LIVING REAL ESTATE (90%); MARKET DEMOGRAPHICS (90%); HOUSING MARKET (90%); RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (90%); RETIREMENT & RETIREES (90%); RESIDENTIAL CONSTRUCTION (90%); CONSTRUCTION (89%); AGING (89%); ASSISTED LIVING SERVICES (89%); BABY BOOMERS (89%); DEMOGRAPHIC GROUPS (89%); SENIOR CITIZENS (89%); CITY LIFE (88%); AGING TRENDS (78%); PUBLIC POLICY (78%); TRENDS (78%); POPULATION & DEMOGRAPHICS (78%); LAND USE PLANNING (78%); EMPTY NESTERS (78%); REAL ESTATE AGENTS (74%); PROPERTY VACANCIES (73%); CITIES (73%); RESIDENTIAL RENTAL PROPERTY (72%); RURAL COMMUNITIES (70%); URBAN TRANSIT SYSTEMS (64%); 

PERSON: GARBARINE, RACHELLE JAMES W HUGHES (66%); JEFFREY OTTEAU (56%); JOANNE HARKINS (56%); 

LOAD-DATE: July 16, 2000



365 of 757 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: July 16, 2000

SECTION: Section 14WC; Page 8; Column 2; Westchester Weekly Desk

LENGTH: 998 words

HEADLINE: IN BUSINESS;
Putting in Your Own Backyard

BYLINE: By KATE STONE LOMBARDI

DATELINE: CROSS RIVER

 BODY:
LESLIE and SUSAN SIMON are both golf enthusiasts, so on their lunch hour they decided to practice their putting.
But Dr. Simon, a dentist, and Mrs. Simon, a lawyer, who maintain professional offices in their handsome white home here, did not have to travel to a club or public course to work on their game. Instead, they simply headed out to the yard and their new home putting green. 
 "I keep golf shoes in my office," Dr. Simon said, as he lined up a putt. "If I can go out at lunch time and practice 20 minutes or half an hour every day, it's got to make you better. Putting is half the game."
Mrs. Simon, still dressed to meet with clients and fretting that her high heels might mar the new green, also had a putter in hand. "You don't know the pressure I'm under since he got this," she said, looking over at her husband. "He told me it was for me, but I think it was for him. But if I could save one putt a hole, I could shave 18 strokes off my game."
The putting green makes the Simons part of a growing trend in the region. The latest must-have for homeowners is a personal set of golf holes, complete with green and -- in elaborate setups -- multiple holes, sand traps, irrigation, waterfalls and lighting for evening play.
Blame Tiger (Woods) Mania. Since 1986, the number of golfers in the United States has increased 33 percent. There are 26.4 million golfers age 12 and older, according to the National Golf Foundation, an industry market research and trade group in Jupiter, Fla. And they're willing to pay to play. Golfers spend $30.5 billion annually on equipment, related merchandise and playing fees. In a strong economy, the business of home putting greens is taking off.
It was a market that Michael Lehrer foresaw five years ago when he began his Armonk-based business Home Green Advantage.
Since then Mr. Lehrer has installed more than 130 putting greens, which range from about $3,000 for a basic setup of three to five putting holes to up to $75,000 for greens that include nine holes, rock walls, water hazards, sand traps and other enrichments. The average job costs between $10,000 and $15,000, Mr. Lehrer said.
"When I started in this business, no one else was around," Mr. Lehrer said. "Now everyone and his cousin is into it. People who were doing aluminum siding last week are putting in greens."
Most home putting greens are made of synthetic turf, which is generally maintenance free. The technology of synthetic greens has improved greatly since the earliest days of AstroTurf.
Today, the speed of the green can be controlled by altering the amount of fill used between the blades and by changing the length of the blades themselves.
Mr. Lehrer considers himself the grandfather of the home putting green business in the region. Not only has he installed greens in many private homes but he has also put one on a rooftop of a building at Chelsea Piers, and he recently installed a putting green indoors at the headquarters of Fox News in Manhattan.
The growing appeal to homeowners goes beyond the exploding popularity of the sport, Mr. Lehrer said. The average home putting green is still considerably less expensive than installing a tennis court or a swimming pool. Also, installing a green does not usually require much in the way of permits. Putting greens are generally considered landscaping, and short of problems with wetland areas, they do not require the approval of zoning authorities.
In addition, golf is being increasingly promoted as a family sport, and for many there is great appeal in a project that cannot only enhance property but also provide an activity for both children and parents.
"It is a wonderful, beautiful piece of scenery," said Bob Lewis, for whom Mr. Lehrer recently built a green with several holes, sand traps and dramatic landscaping in Mount Kisco. "I haven't exactly been to the Masters. But I did want something I could share with my children. Golf is really a time-commitment sport, and having it right here will bring the family together instead of dividing it."
For fanatical golfers, having a putting green at home offers an opportunity to practice without leaving a golf widow or widower behind.
"Most of the calls I get are from housewives looking to put in the green for their husbands," said Michael Ratki, who owns Home Putting Greens, based in Croton-on-Hudson. (His Web site is www.homeput .com.) "Maybe they want them to stay at home. Otherwise, on Sunday morning the husband says, 'I got to go,' and guys usually like to make it an event. They go in the morning, they have lunch and maybe a couple of beers."
Mr. Ratki, who said he had installed about 30 putting greens, described them as "a big boy's playground." His greens tend to be more modest than Mr. Lehrer's -- averaging 12 by 24 feet -- and cost $2,900 to $3,500. Mr. Ratki had one client from Harrison, who had recently moved from India. The customer, who had no interest in golf, wanted not a putting green but a cricket court.
Mr. Lehrer said he has installed putting greens for people who do not themselves even play golf but who just want the look, entertainment value -- or the status -- of having a home green. He maintains a Web site (homegreenadvantage.com) but gets most of his business through referrals.
"I just built a green in Orienta," Mr. Lehrer said. "The neighbor came over and said, 'When you're done with this, you can start mine.' They can link up if they're not adversaries -- you play over my hole, I'll play over yours."
Bonnie Shyer, of Westport, had a putting green installed in her backyard as a surprise wedding gift for her husband five years ago. Mrs. Shyer described her husband as a pretty devoted player, and said her stepgrandchildren, ages 6 and 9, play in tournaments. Now the Shyers' 3-year-old daughter, Samantha, is starting to visit the putting green.
"Right now, it's just a game for her," Mrs. Shyer said, "not like the rest of us, for whom it's a religion."
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photo: Dr. Leslie Simon can go out to his yard in Cross River to work on his putting instead of having to travel to a club or a public course to practice. (Chris Maynard for The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (79%); 

STATE: FLORIDA, USA (79%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%); FLORIDA, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: Terms not available from NYTimes. GOLF (90%); SPORTS FANS (78%); HOMEOWNERS (77%); TRENDS (75%); MARKET RESEARCH (70%); 

PERSON: MICHAEL LEHRER (93%); SUSAN SIMON (76%); 

LOAD-DATE: July 16, 2000



366 of 757 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: July 16, 2000

SECTION: Section 14NJ; Page 1; Column 1; New Jersey Weekly Desk

LENGTH: 2449 words

HEADLINE: They Think It Can;
Is the Light-Rail Line an Affirmation of a Long-Awaited Rebirth Or a Misguided Way to Deal With Jammed Roads and Tainted Air?

BYLINE: By ANDREW JACOBS

DATELINE: JERSEY CITY

 BODY:
WITH a gentle whoosh, the 11:05 a.m. pulled out of Exchange Place here and began its 7.5-mile run through a landscape of crisp new office towers, overgrown scrap yards and century-old row houses. The two-car tram to Bayonne was empty, save for a wistful-looking man gazing out of the oversized windows. 
 It was Stephen Sosinski's first ride on the three-month-old Hudson-Bergen Light Rail, and the journey was carrying the 48-year-old horse trainer back to his childhood, when he and his mother would ride the clattering Jersey Central to the ferries bound for New York.
By the time Mr. Sosinski left home 25 years ago, the Jersey Central had gone under, as had most of the factories, shipyards and refineries that sustained Hudson County's waterfront. All the years he lived in Florida, Mr. Sosinski rarely admitted he was from this dying corner of New Jersey. "It was a sinking ship, a depressing place," he said. "I vowed never to return. And I never did."
But this 23-minute trolley ride, he said, was shaking up his senses -- dizzying construction at every turn, the reawakened riverfront, and most of all, the electrified trains that have helped reconnect his former hometown to New York and the rest of the world. "Believe it or not, I'd consider moving back," he said as the sleek black and white cars eased into 34th Street, a few blocks from where his sister still lives. "Suddenly, this place feels like the center of the universe again."
Boosters of the Hudson-Bergen line would be heartened by Mr. Sosinski's sentiments, especially since ridership, a third below projections, has been so disappointing. While the $1.1 billion system has been championed as a salve for congestion and air pollution and a spark for urban renewal, light rail is having other salubrious, if somewhat intangible, effects on the people and places it serves.
For Jersey City and Bayonne, these modern-day streetcars reaffirm a long-awaited rebirth. Egalitarian and exhaust-free, the trains are a curious sight on local streets, and they inspire nostalgia and civic pride in a way that buses do not.
While such abstractions are never included in transportation planning studies, America's romance with trolleys is helping spur a veritable boom in light rail around the state, making New Jersey the second most active place for new construction after California.
Less expensive than commuter trains and far easier to build, light rail runs on low-voltage electric lines and can move along local streets with minimal disruption. Manufactured in Japan and assembled in Harrison, the system's 29 cars can climb hills with ease, quickly reach 55 miles an hour and brake faster than buses. And unlike heavy rail, the trains are entered at street level, making them easily accessible to the disabled and the elderly.
Yet as the love affair with light rail blooms, there is an insistent group of transit experts who see these modern-day trolleys as wasteful and misguided attempts to grapple with overcrowded roads and tainted air. Most light rail systems, they say, have failed to make a noticeable dent in congestion, and ridership has consistently fallen short of projections.
Nonetheless, in addition to the Hudson-Bergen route, which is expected to reach Ridgefield by 2010, New Jersey Transit broke ground last month on a 34-mile system connecting Trenton to Camden. Work on another line, linking Elizabeth and Newark, is expected to get under way in the next few years. The Newark City Subway, essentially a trolley that runs partly underground, will soon receive the same cars that run on the Hudson-Bergen line, and transportation officials hope to extend those tracks to the Meadowlands and Paterson before the end of the decade. From Cape May to northern Bergen County, there is talk of another half-dozen projects.
"The future of New Jersey is filled with light rail," said Jeff Warsh, executive director of New Jersey Transit. "It's not bravado, it's not spin. It's the plan."
That future partly depends on federal largesse, which has been responsible for up to 80 percent of all light rail construction costs nationwide. But as dozens of cities jump on the light rail bandwagon, the pool of money is shrinking. When the Hudson-Bergen line broke ground in 1996, there were 20 projects angling for $5.8 billion in federal dollars. This year there are nearly 200 vying for $6.3 billion. "The competition," Mr. Warsh said, "has become severe."
BUT Gary Brosch, editor of The Journal of Public Transportation, said there is a growing debate among planners about whether light rail is a cost-effective alternative to buses, which are cheaper and more flexible than fixed rail lines. Both sides, he said, have been known to engage in hyperbole.
"The advocates feel so passionately about its needs that they overstate the benefits," Mr. Brosch said. "The result is that once a system is built, there is bound to be disappointment."
In selling its first light rail project, New Jersey Transit predicted 14,400 daily riders on the first leg of the line, which includes 12 stations between Bayonne and Jersey City. As of last week, that number was 4,633.
Still, light rail enthusiasts have been heartened by a healthy rise from the system's first weeks, when an average of 2,781 passengers rode the trains each day. "It's creeping up slowly and steadily," said Douglas J. Bowen, president of the New Jersey Association of Railroad Passengers, an advocacy group. "People don't change their travel patterns overnight."
And some people do, among them 22-year-old Ian MacDonald, who was taking the train to Jersey City's West Side Avenue station one recent afternoon. Until the line was inaugurated in April, Mr. MacDonald rode a bus to his job at the Hudson Mall, leaving him with a 20-minute walk. With light rail, he is five minutes from work. Mr. MacDonald said everyone he knows is excited about the train, which includes a spur through his battered neighborhood here. "It's quiet, quick and it gets me there on time," he said as he stepped on to the platform.
Cynics of light rail may hold up Mr. MacDonald as an example of why its benefits are illusory. Light rail, they say, siphons riders from bus lines, creating the semblance of demand. "Rail tends to be sexier than buses, so as long as the trains are shiny and clean, people call it a success," said Wendell Cox, an Illinois-based transportation consultant. "They just doesn't serve modern America's transportation needs."
Because light rail travels on a fixed route, it will only appeal to a tiny segment of travelers, Mr. Cox said, and die-hard drivers will never trade in their cars for the train. "Light rail has no transportation function at all," he said.
On a recent afternoon, Brett Caracciolo was proving the naysayers wrong. A systems analyst from Millstone, Mr. Caracciolo, 37, was on his way to a meeting in Jersey City, having driven to a Park-and-Ride lot at the Liberty Science Center. In the past he would have driven to Exchange Place, but downtown traffic and $22 parking lured him from his car. Including parking, the round trip costs $5.
"This is fantastic," Mr. Caracciolo said, taking in the pristine upholstery and that new-car smell. "There's no way I would drive now."
So far, most of New Jersey Transit's 2,400 Park-and-Ride spaces remain empty most weekdays. But transit officials say they expect the number of users to rise in the coming months as workers install pedestrian bridges linking platforms to parking lots.
For his part, Martin Robins, a transportation expert at Rutgers, said it was premature to judge the Hudson-Bergen line. Mr. Robins pointed out that two-thirds of the route remained unfinished, including the leg to Hoboken terminal, used by more than 40,000 commuters a day. That segment, and another to the Newport Mall, will be completed in 2002. And with a score of office and apartment buildings in Jersey City quickly rising, the number of potential riders customers is expected to mount.
"You have to remember, some very important ingredients are missing," he said. "This is just the beginning."
More than 75 percent of light rail riders are from Bayonne, something that has surprised many officials. In response, New Jersey Transit added a handful of express trains from Bayonne to Exchange Place, cutting the 23-minute journey to 15 minutes.
When the light rail system was proposed two decades ago, some experts argued against extending the line to Bayonne. "They said, 'No one from Bayonne commutes to New York,' " recalled Mr. Bowen of the New Jersey Railroad Passengers Association. "I said, 'Well maybe one day they will.' "
When the line is extended to the foot of the Bayonne Bridge, officials said it will provide commuters from Staten Island a quicker way to reach Manhattan.
After years of job losses, Bayonne is giddy about light rail, saying it is the best thing to happen to this working-class city in decades. The mayor, Joseph Doria, credits the train with lifting real-estate values by 25 percent. Residents gripe about parking lost to commuters, but they are also thrilled by the notion, heard up and down Broadway, that Bayonne is the next Hoboken.
"It's going to give Bayonne a big boost," said Lynn Edelman, who owns a dress shop a block from the station. "We're so close to Manhattan now. It makes perfect sense."
Ann Smith, a payroll company executive, says the easy commute to her Manhattan office is the reason she recently bought a house in Bayonne. "The buses are old, cruddy and they stop at every other block," Ms. Smith said. "If there was no train, I don't think I would have bought."
Ms. Smith said that almost every week, someone knocked on her door to ask if she might sell her house, across from the 34th Street station. "I feel like I'm sitting on a pile of gold," she said.
In a pioneering private-public arrangement aimed at controlling costs and speeding up construction, New Jersey Transit hired Twenty-First Century Rail, a consortium of companies to design, build and operate the system's first segment.
Like most public transportation systems in America, the Hudson-Bergen light rail does not pay for itself, although officially, it is supposed to break even by 2010, when 100,000 daily riders are expected. One-way tickets cost $1.50 and are sold from machines on station platforms. Because there are no people working in ticket booths, some older passengers have complained, saying the vending machines make travel a bit daunting. In addition, fare collection is honor-based, although ticket agents occasionally hand out $71 fines to scofflaws.
Most people encountered during a full day of riding the rail were enthusiastic about the trains, although there was some grumbling: platform signs were insufficient; fares were too high; the trains move too slowly around Jersey City's curves. "At some spots, I could walk faster than the train," said Atef Mikhael, 28, a medical resident. "And why do they have to stop at every traffic light?"
Many light rail experts agree with the criticism, saying that an efficient system should turn red lights to green, something known as signal pre-emption. Vic Simmons, a light rail consultant from England who was making a study tour of the Hudson-Bergen line recently, agreed.
"They should be given the right of way," Mr. Simmons said. "It doesn't make sense that 100 people are being held for two cars."
Dan Censullo, a light rail specialist for New Jersey Transit, said the system was not designed to change traffic lights immediately; however, it does speed up signals to favor trains. As the system matures, Mr. Censullo said, travel time may be reduced by adding more trains and cutting back how long they wait on the platforms. In the end, however, the system is limited by traffic rules, which in Jersey City prevent street-level trains from moving faster than 25 miles per hour.
While the trains nearly fill with commuters during rush hours, they are often sparsely used at other times. But compared with the first few weeks, when some trains ran empty, use is clearly on the rise. One recent afternoon, Krystle Bransky, 16, and Vinnie Fonti, 15, were taking the train to Liberty State Park from Bayonne "just for the heck of it," Krystle said. There were plenty of other joy riders, including 3-year-old Nicholas Stallone, who was taking his first ride. "Every day we go out, he makes me drive by the train," said his mother, Sharon. "If we don't see the train, he cries."
THEN there was the couple from Bayonne on their way to meet friends at a Jersey City bar. "We could have driven," said the man. "But then we wouldn't have been able to drink as much."
Tourists have also been venturing on the train. Gerry McNamara, 61, a teacher from Dublin who was headed to Liberty Science Center, was mesmerized by the haze-shrouded silhouette of lower Manhattan. "I prefer this to driving," Mr. McNamara said. "I would not have been happy in a car, not with the way my sister drives."
Although it remains to be seen whether more commuters will give up their cars, many of them will eventually be forced to do so by the reality of the new Hudson River waterfront. The parking lots that once accommodated their cars are giving way to new construction, and the density of development is making driving increasingly untenable. Mayor Bret Schundler said that without light rail here, congestion would have choked off new investment. "Our roads can only take so much," Mr. Schundler said.
Ultimately, he and other officials hope the line will carry some of that prosperity to other parts of the city. This year, a shopping center opened alongside the Martin Luther King Drive Station, the first for a neighborhood that has seen little redevelopment in decades. Mr. Schundler said he envisions suburbanites, swayed by an easy commute, moving to homes adjacent to the line.
There is a sad irony in light rail's return, more than 40 years after the last streetcar line was torn up in Jersey City.
"Trolleys were once so ubiquitous in American cities, you couldn't go a few blocks without hitting one," said Stephen Goddard, who wrote "Getting There: The Epic Struggle Roads and Rail in American Century" (Basic Books, 1994).
Killed by the ascendant automobile, the very success of the private car is fueling the trolley's return, often on the very same abandoned track beds. Most of the Hudson-Bergen line, for example, occupies the right-of-way used by defunct rail companies.
"People talk about light rail as if it's a futuristic thing," said Mr. Warsh of New Jersey Transit. "It's really a return to the past. We're putting back what was once there."
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photos: A veritable boom in light rail, like the Bergen-Hudson line, is making New Jersey the second most active place for new construction after California. In the inset, the last of the Jersey City trolley cars after they were taken out of service in 1949. (Thomas Dallal for The New York Times and, inset, The Dan McNulty Collection); (Photographs by Thomas Dallal for The New York Times)(pg. 1); With the first section of the Bergen-Hudon Light Rail Line in place, work goes on north of Exchange Place, above. Tom Garcia, left, operates one of New Jersey Transit's new two-car trams. But some people, like Dorcy Winant, shown standing near the track on Essex Street in Jersey City, is enamored of the new system. To them it is a charmless irritant punctuated by screeching wheels and a constant hum. (pg. 8)
 
Map/Chart: "Rail and Imagined"
"The future of New Jersey is filled with light rail," says Jeff Warsh, executive director of New Jersey Transit. "It's not bravado, it's not spin. It's the plan." But that future partly depends on federal largesse, which has been responsible for up to 80 percent of all light rail construction costs nationwide. And rail bandwagon, the pool of money is shrinking. (pg. 8)
 
Map of New Jersey shows location of light rail lines. (pg. 8)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (95%); JAPAN (79%); 

STATE: NEW JERSEY, USA (95%); CALIFORNIA, USA (91%); FLORIDA, USA (79%); 

CITY: JERSEY CITY, NJ, USA (67%); 

COMPANY: HUDSON-BERGEN LIGHT RAIL (79%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (95%); JAPAN (79%); NEW JERSEY, USA (95%); CALIFORNIA, USA (91%); FLORIDA, USA (79%); JERSEY CITY, NJ, USA (67%); 

SUBJECT: Terms not available from NYTimes. RUNNING (89%); URBAN RAIL SYSTEMS (89%); RAIL TRANSPORTATION (89%); TRAINS (89%); URBAN TRANSIT SYSTEMS (77%); SHIPBUILDING (77%); CITY LIFE (75%); CONSTRUCTION (66%); TRANSPORTATION PLANNING (64%); AIR POLLUTION (62%); CITIES (61%); URBAN DEVELOPMENT (51%); ECONOMIC NEWS (51%); 

PERSON: STEPHEN SOSINSKI (65%); 

LOAD-DATE: July 16, 2000



367 of 757 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: July 16, 2000

SECTION: Section 11; Page 1; Column 2; Real Estate Desk 

LENGTH: 3113 words

HEADLINE: Breathing Life Into City's Barren Plazas

BYLINE: By DAVID W. DUNLAP 

 BODY:
AT first blush, it seems unfair that a city without an Olmsted Park should have a Balsley Park. Frederick Law Olmsted (1822-1903), designer of Central Park and Prospect Park, transformed whole swaths of New York. The landscape architect Thomas Balsley (b. 1943) transforms far smaller plots, like the third of an acre on Ninth Avenue, between 56th and 57th Streets, once known as Sheffield Plaza, that now bears his name.
But consider this: Sheffield Plaza was a notorious failure as a privately owned public space. Not just hard-edged, it could be downright dangerous. A resident of the Parc Vendome condominium next door was stabbed there. By contrast, Balsley Park -- a greensward, playground and alfresco cafe -- is so welcoming that an official of the Clinton community board and a member of the Parc Vendome board have actually sent thank-you letters to Mr. Balsley and the landlord, Adam R. Rose, who undertook the $1 million renovation. 
 Olmsted, look to your laurels.
The reopening of Sheffield Plaza two weeks ago shows that even the most arid space can be redeemed, given an owner's commitment, public pressure and enough time, money and creativity.
The changes to this and other neglected plazas underscore the enduring influence of Jane Jacobs and the late William H. Whyte, who discerned the relation between safety, vitality and variety in urban spaces. But the changes also raise the question of whether the term "public" -- as in, "We want the public to feel comfortable" -- is sometimes shorthand for "anyone but the homeless."
The transformation of Sheffield Plaza also illustrates a paradox: the improvement of privately owned public space often comes at the price of some diminution in public access. Either the area is closed at night, or a portion of it is given over to a commercial operation. Or both.
"The goal is to make sure the public is getting something worthwhile in exchange," said Joseph B. Rose, the chairman of the City Planning Commission. "Most spaces require several efforts to get them functioning optimally."
Over the last four decades, bonus plazas and arcades have generated enormous benefits for their builders, roughly 20 million square feet in extra floor area. (Think of it as five World Trade Center towers.)
They are supposed to reward the public commensurately. When they work, they offer lovely oases in the city's thicket of skyscrapers. When they do not work, however, the developer still gets the use of the bonus floor area while the public is left with a barren patch of pavement. So many spaces have failed to live up to their promise that they are now viewed suspiciously.
Even the City Planning Department is wary. It has recommended the elimination in the future of all plazas at residential buildings, saying that they "tend to become privatized" and are "frequently inconsistent" with the physical character of existing neighborhoods. The recommendation is part of a larger rezoning proposal that is now under review.
Plazas and arcades will come under closer scrutiny this fall with the publication of "Privately Owned Public Space: The New York City Experience" (John Wiley & Sons). Written by Jerold S. Kayden of the Harvard University Graduate School of Design, in collaboration with the City Planning Department and Municipal Art Society, it is the first comprehensive analysis of 503 spaces at 320 buildings.
Typically the most troublesome spaces were built in the 1960's and early 70's, before design standards were imposed.
Cohen Brothers Realty Corporation inherited such a space two years ago when it bought the Blue Cross Building, 622 Third Avenue, between 40th and 41st Streets. The extra floor area attributable to the public space amounts to 137,310 square feet; that is, five of the 39 floors. But a pedestrian coming across the tunnel-like arcade on Third Avenue could have been forgiven for not recognizing it as a benefit.
"This was a dark and forbidding place," said Charles Steven Cohen, president and chief executive of Cohen Brothers, which renamed the tower Grand Central Plaza. Under a $10 million renovation, designed by Thomas Balsley Associates and Moed de Armas & Shannon, the lid has been taken off the arcade, bringing daylight to the 100-foot-long passageway for the first time since its construction 27 years ago.
Another early plaza now under reconstructive surgery by Mr. Balsley is the sunken courtyard in front of the General Motors Building at Trump International Plaza, 767 Fifth Avenue, between 58th and 59th Streets. It is being raised 11 feet and turned into a podium with a sculpture garden, above a 22,000-square-foot retail space.
"I've always said that courtyard hurt the building," said Donald J. Trump, who owns the property with Conseco, an insurance company based in Carmel, Ind. The plaza did not hurt the size of the building, however. It added 252,969 square feet of space, or eight of the 50 floors. The plaza renovation will completed by October, Mr. Trump said.
Some early plazas that have already been renovated are now in need of a second round. Marsh & McLennan Companies are facing that challenge with the space behind their headquarters, 1166 Avenue of the Americas, between 45th and 46th Streets. It was successfully redesigned in 1983 by Hideo Sasaki as International Paper Plaza and remains verdant and popular.
There is a big problem, however. The plaza is actually a roof deck over the basement. And it leaks. That has prevented the use of the fountain, the meandering waterway and even the sprinklers. It has also occasioned a redesign by William Fellows Architects that would, Mr. Fellows said, "make a good park better."
Seating and plantings would be increased substantially. The fountain would be moved, keeping its centerpiece sculpture, "Throwback," by Tony Smith. The waterway would be eliminated but five dawn redwoods at the north end would remain. This little grove was added as a signature of the International Paper Company, whose headquarters were once in the building.
The redwood grove also marks the location of a five-story building, 56 West 46th Street, whose owners held out when the Tishman Realty and Construction Corporation was assembling the site for 1166 Avenue of the Americas. Without the midblock property, Tishman could not set its new tower back from the avenue. Instead, it flipped the customary arrangement and put the plaza on the inside. The public space at the base of the building generated a bonus of 242,195 square feet, or six of the 44 floors.
Four years after the tower was completed in 1974, the holdout was acquired and demolished. Because no basement had been excavated underneath its site, there was room for very large redwood root balls.
Marsh & McLennan, whose business includes risk and insurance services, investment management and consulting, owns a 70 percent share in the building and occupies roughly that much space. Pending city approval, the renovation would begin next year and be completed by the spring of 2002. The space would be known as MMC Plaza. Marsh & McLennan executives would not put a price tag on the project.
Mr. Fellows, who is working on the project with Hoffmann Architects and H. M. White, said the original design of the plaza by Skidmore, Owings & Merrill was "pretty brutal" -- basically a swath of travertine.
CONCERNED about the lack of amenities in public plazas, city planners began introducing design standards in the mid-70's. But Mr. Rose, the planning chief, acknowledged that standards do not necessarily guarantee a good plaza, "if you have an owner that's not committed to making the space work."
The city gave itself further leverage five years ago with provisions that allow owners to add kiosks or fences in exchange for improving their plazas. "Putting a cafe into a space, as long as it's done with the agreement of the public sector, is perfectly legitimate," Mr. Rose said. So are nighttime closings, he said, for plazas that have become "dumping grounds and campsites."
The Municipal Art Society supported the idea of nighttime closings, said Ellen P. Ryan, the director of planning issues, since the rationale for the plazas was to ease daytime crowding. "But there's no question that there's a price to pay," she said. "Has it been worth it? It's too early to tell."
Community Board 5 in mid-Manhattan is concerned that such provisions have "incentivized hardship," said its chairman, Kyle Merker. In other words, an owner may let a plaza go to seed and then appeal to the city to save the space by permitting a nighttime closing. "We don't want to reward bad management of a plaza by giving them the right to take something back from the community, such as hours," Mr. Merker said.
One of the spaces authorized to close at night is currently a bleak cul-de-sac alongside the Ritz Plaza apartment tower, 235 West 48th Street. The 7,173-square-foot space, which generated a 40,143-square-foot bonus, has planters with benches front and back. The back benches make good bunks since they are invisible from the street. Last Monday evening, a shoeless man lay under a cardboard blanket on one bench. Another man claimed a second bench nearby for a nap after growling at a visitor.
"It's an encampment for the homeless and it's unsafe," Mr. Merker said. "The idea is not to keep homeless out. The idea is to make sure all users of a plaza are using it in the manner for which it was intended. Sit there. Eat lunch. Relax. But if you're living there, it's a problem."
Mr. Balsley has drawn up a plan that would replace the planters with a fountain, add gates and turn the deepest recess into an extension of the adjoining restaurant.
He said his redesigns are intended to include the "broadest constituency" because "anyone is well behaved in a space that has a balance, a good cross-section."
Some of the more intractable plaza problems arise at apartment towers that have been converted to condominium or co-op ownership. "The developer builds a bonus plaza, sells out and moves on to the next building," Mr. Balsley said. "Now the residents have this bonus plaza. But it's no bonus to them. What they see is a hardship."
That was the case at the Harmony co-op, 61 West 62nd Street, whose developer obtained a 95,314-square-foot bonus for what turned out to be a dismal public atrium.
"The situation is something we inherited, not something we negotiated," said Neil S. Goldstein, president of the co-op board. "Anybody who knew that space had to know it wasn't working." In 1996, the storefronts in the atrium were vacant or covered over.
Then came the ExtraVertical Climbing Center, operated by Ralph Erenzo, with climbing walls up to 50 feet high. Crowds gathered inside and outside to watch the human mountain goats at play. Mr. Goldstein said ExtraVertical had "added a point of interest, attraction and attention."
What would seem on the face of it to be an upbeat ending, however, is clouded by a legal battle. Mr. Erenzo said the failure by the co-op to heat the atrium for three winters in a row seriously damaged his business and hurt his investors, who have not recouped their money. He is seeking damages or an extension of the very favorable initial term of his lease, which called for a rent of merely $100 a year.
Mr. Erenzo blames the co-op for not acting except under legal threat and the planning and buildings agencies for not enforcing the terms under which public spaces are managed. "Planning writes the contracts but nobody is checking to see if the owner is doing it," he said. "Buildings doesn't even know what they're supposed to enforce."
Despite their dispute, Mr. Goldstein and Mr. Erenzo agreed in separate interviews that the Harmony Atrium seemed finally to be coming to life in its 20th year, thanks to the recent addition of the Rosa Mexicana restaurant and Breadsoul Cafe.
"We have good, hard-working neighbors now," Mr. Erenzo said, "and the atrium looks like it will be a success."
Mr. Goldstein said the co-op board was "committed to making it work" and had spent hundreds of thousands of dollars toward that end. "We're on the right track at this point," he said. "We're very optimistic. And I say that notwithstanding the present difficulties with ExtraVertical."
Five blocks south, another long-running saga seems to be nearing an end.
In retrospect, it appears that Sheffield Plaza, at Ninth Avenue and 57th Street, was flawed from the outset. For one thing, the public space does not adjoin the development for which it created a bonus. The 48-story Sheffield apartment tower, 322 West 57th Street, is separated from the Ninth Avenue plaza by the Parc Vendome.
There is a second plaza at the base of the Sheffield. These two public spaces together yielded a bonus of 183,183 square feet.
The original developer in the 1970's, Hyman Shapiro, planned to link the Ninth Avenue plaza to the midblock plaza through the central courtyard of the Parc Vendome. But that approach was scrapped by the time the unfinished project was taken over by Rose Associates.
As designed in 1980 by Abel & Bainson, the Ninth Avenue plaza complied with existing seating, planting and access guidelines. It had a waterfall, planters with flower beds and a small stage surrounded by amphitheater-style seating, where programming was to be staged by WNET-TV, Channel 13, which was then across 57th Street. "People genuinely believed these were good solutions," said Adam Rose, the president of Rose Associates.
By the mid-80's, the amphitheater was largely unused except as a latrine and dormitory. The waterfall was shut off. The planters, long since empty of flowers, were filled with concrete in an attempt -- not altogether successful -- to discourage rats.
Jeanne McArthur, a member of the board of managers of the Parc Vendome, said the husband of another board member was stabbed in the plaza early one evening a few years ago. She also recalled a homeless encampment whose residents had gone so far as to hook up a television set.
"I've never pretended that it was a successful green space that attracted the right kind of people," Mr. Rose said. "But I've been equally insistent that the initial design was done in direct response to specific organizations' and city agencies' requests. The amphitheater was to be filled with cultural programming provided by Channel 13. Never happened. The security function was to be volunteers from John Jay College of Criminal Justice. Never happened."
The only bright note at Sheffield Plaza was the farmers' market operated every Wednesday and Saturday by the Council on the Environment of New York City, through its Greenmarket program. Rose Associates charges no rent to the market.
Efforts to renovate the plaza hit an impasse in the 1980's over how, even whether, the plaza could be closed at night and what sort of fence ought to be used. Mr. Rose said the process -- already complicated by the involvement of the Greenmarket, Parc Vendome, block association, community board, borough president, Buildings and Parks Departments -- was further frustrated in the previous administration by city planners who "kept redesigning the redesign."
Enter Mr. Balsley. "The biggest move I made was a no-brainer," he said. "Put in a cafe at an important corner. You need to anchor the space with a real amenity that will be open all the hours the park is open, managing the tables and chairs, someone you can count on no matter what time of day." The operator of the cafe pays no rent.
The next step was creating a transverse route through the park as a shortcut to lure pedestrians. "With a large amount of positive traffic walking through," Mr. Rose said, "it deters loiterers of all types." To draw even more users, Mr. Balsley added a small, enclosed play area at the south end.
Perhaps his most audacious move was to replace the sunken amphitheater with a grassy hillock. "People have an attraction to lawns," Mr. Balsley said. "The idea of a carpet of grass -- there's something magical about it. You don't expect it when you round the corner. The lawn says, 'Come up and lie on me.' " (It says something else to neighborhood dogs, which is a problem.)
Mr. Rose knows the turf will have to be replaced every couple of years. "I'm willing to bear that cost to have such a beautiful feature," he said. "To be in an urban plaza and see a swath of green is relief in itself."
THE plaza has something else it never had before: six-foot-high fences. They retract during the day but are an imposing barrier when they are drawn shut. In winter and fall, the park will be open from 7 a.m. to 7 p.m. In spring and summer, it will stay open two hours later. The nighttime closing was approved by the City Planning Commission without the participation of its chairman, Joseph Rose, who is Adam Rose's cousin.
As far as Ms. McArthur is concerned, "it's wonderful that it can be closed at night but what I most admire is that the design has brought in children and families."
"A place nobody wanted to go is suddenly full of people," she said.
Simone Sindin, the chairwoman of the Clinton land-use and zoning committee of Community Board 4, thinks the new park is lovely. "It's been a lure," she said. "It's been marvelous. People love sitting down there and having a cool drink."
Not every review is a rave. The farmers' market lost its space on 57th Street and did not get its wish for a design that would accommodate trucks on the plaza. Moreover, it had to close from September to March because of the construction. "For us, the verdict is still out in terms of whether it will bring more clientele," said Tony Mannetta, the director of Greenmarket.
One neighbor is Richard Barth, director of the Manhattan office of the City Planning Department, who walks by the space every day and noted with pleasure how quickly it filled with people after reopening.
He said the redesign incorporates many lessons learned in the last 40 years: provide constant "eyes on the street," eliminate sharp changes in grade level, offer a variety of seating and create some distinctive feature like the lawn. "I think it really does function as a park," Mr. Barth said.
To reward Mr. Balsley for his accomplishment and to make up for the many occasions in which the landscape architect received no credit, Adam Rose proposed naming the new park after him, calling him an "unsung hero" of public spaces.
The dutifully modest honoree accepted on behalf of his profession. "The running joke was that the naming of the park was in lieu of payment of the last invoice," Mr. Balsley said. Well, then, did Mr. Rose also pay up? "Of course he did."
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photos: At 1166 Avenue of the Americas, the fountain has been shut off because of leaks and will be replaced. But Tony Smith's "Throwback" sculpture and the redwood grove beyond, along 46th Street, will remain. (Don Hogan Charles/The New York Times); As part of the renovation of the lobby and public spaces at 622 Third Avenue, a tunnel-like arcade (shown at left in 1998) has been turned into an open-air passageway, at right, which is still under construction. The stairs lead to a terrace overlooking 40th Street that will be open to the public. (Barbara Alper for The New York Times, left; Don Hogan Charles/The New York Times); Adam R. Rose, left, the president of Rose Associates, at the new Balsley Park, which he named after its designer, Thomas Balsley, right. (Don Hogan Charles/The New York Times)(pg. 6); The rounded edges of the new Balsley Park on Ninth Avenue, between 56th and 57th Streets, at top, replace the angular expanses of Sheffield Plaza, pictured above. A comparison of plans, at right, shows that the amphitheater and stage have been supplanted by a lawn. A cafe has been added at one end and a play area at the other. (Thomas Dallal for The New York Times); (Fred R. Conrad/The New York Times); (Thomas Balsley Associates)(pg. 1)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (93%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%); 

COMPANY: CITY PLANNING COMMISSION (NYC) SHEFFIELD PLAZA (73%); 

ORGANIZATION: CITY PLANNING COMMISSION (NYC)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK CITY; UNITED STATES (93%); NEW YORK, USA (93%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%); 

SUBJECT: AREA PLANNING AND RENEWAL; ZONING; HOUSING; PARKS AND OTHER RECREATION AREAS; OFFICE BUILDINGS AND COMMERCIAL PROPERTIES REAL ESTATE (90%); URBAN DEVELOPMENT (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); PARKS & PLAYGROUNDS (90%); CITY LIFE (89%); CITIES (89%); CITY GOVERNMENT (89%); COMMERCIAL RENTAL PROPERTY (88%); LANDSCAPE ARCHITECTURE SERVICES (78%); RESIDENTIAL CO-OWNERSHIP (74%); CONDOMINIUMS (74%); BUILDING RENOVATION (72%); COMMERCIAL PROPERTY (67%); LAND USE PLANNING (66%); OFFICE PROPERTY (64%); 

PERSON: DUNLAP, DAVID W HILLARY RODHAM CLINTON (56%); HILLARY RODHAM CLINTON (56%); 

LOAD-DATE: July 16, 2000



368 of 757 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: July 16, 2000

SECTION: Section 14NJ; Page 6; Column 2; New Jersey Weekly Desk

LENGTH: 1268 words

HEADLINE: THE CENSUS;
The Age of Affluence

BYLINE: By LAURA MANSNERUS

DATELINE: TRENTON

 BODY:
In a broad demographic profile that anticipates the findings of the 2000 census, researchers from Rutgers University have portrayed the New Jersey that everyone suspected was out there: an aging, affluent population sustained by immigration, employed at record levels and creating a new exurban landscape. In this picture, the state's population is moving ever outward, and while its cities are finally stanching losses, they have been overtaken by burgeoning, sprawling suburban townships like Woodbridge and Edison. And these are populated largely by baby boomers who are entering peak earning years and "producing an era of demographically driven affluence."
But the report, made public today, says that while New Jersey may feel more congested than ever -- and it is -- the census will find that the state is growing only half as fast as the rest of the nation. 
 In sum, the census will confirm that "New Jersey survived the economic trauma of the early 1990's," James W. Hughes, the report's main author, said in an interview. "It's a confirmation of a vibrant diversity, because of all that immigration, a thriving economy, and always a maturing baby boom generation lurking beneath everything."
The report was meant to "set the stage so people are aware of the trends and can evaluate the raw numbers that are going to be spewed out over time," said Mr. Hughes, who is the dean of the Edward J. Bloustein School of Planning and Public Policy at Rutgers. He prepared the report with Joseph J. Seneca, an economist at the university, and Connie O. Hughes, an assistant commissioner of the state labor department.
"There is a hunger for information on Census 2000," Mr. Hughes said, "and we're on a diet until late 2001."
The report calls New Jersey a "population laggard." Using the most recent census estimates and data on long-term trends, the researchers projected that the census would find a population increase of 5.8 percent for New Jersey and a 10.4 percent increase for the nation.
But the report says the state has been "a growth dynamo in its own region," with a 5.3 percent population gain through 1999, compared with 1.1 percent in New York and 0.9 percent in Pennsylvania. Connecticut lost 0.2 percent of its population during the decade.
Thus the nation's most suburban and most densely populated state became more so. Still, for the third consecutive decade, New Jerseyans left in sizable numbers. The net loss to other states was 378,495, according to Census Bureau estimates as of the end of December, while the state gained 377,830 immigrants.
And those immigrants have changed the state's racial and ethnic composition, the report says. In a reflection of nationwide trends, New Jersey is a little more African-American than it was in 1990 (15.2 percent of the population, up from 13.9 percent) and considerably more Hispanic (12.8 percent, up from 9.7 percent) and Asian (5.8 percent, up from 3.6 percent).
"In 2000 New Jersey will be somewhat more diverse than the nation as a whole -- but not dramatically so," the researchers wrote.
They said this year's racial and ethnic data are hard to anticipate, because the census allowed people for the first time to check more than one racial classification. When results are anaylzed, Mr. Hughes said, "we'll have a good feeling for what our communities are in this high-immigration era."
The report says the census should also document a continuation of the relentless suburbanization that Mr. Hughes, an urban planner who began his career as a specialist in housing trends, has detailed over several decades.
The waves from New York and Philadelphia spread ever farther, the report says, with two decades of suburban office construction along freeway corridors. The six counties in the state's midsection (Hunterdon, Mercer, Middlesex, Monmouth, Morris and Somerset) led the growth. "It is here that the new information-age economy positioned itself, and where maturing baby boom housing choices are oriented," the researchers wrote.
In their share of the state's population, these "wealth belt" counties should approach parity with the "mature core metropolis" (Essex, Bergen, Hudson, Passaic and Union counties) in the 2000 census, the report says, and should surpass it soon after.
The older cities lost population overall in the 1990's, but at a slower pace than they had in the previous four decades. The researchers said that in the next decade the "big six" cities (Camden, Elizabeth, Jersey City, Newark, Paterson and Trenton) as a group might register their first increase since the 1940's.
The interim census figures made public last year showed tiny population increases from 1990 to 1998 in Jersey City and Elizabeth. And in all the big six except Camden, investment has risen sharply in the last few years. According to state figures made public this month, spending on building rehabilitation in the five biggest cities was almost twice as high last year as it was in 1996, with only Newark suffering a decline from 1998.
While urban centers struggled through the decade to reverse losses, the townships identifed in the Rutgers report as the "big six suburbs" (Brick, Dover, Woodbridge, Edison, Hamilton and Cherry Hill) kept growing. Four of them -- Brick, Dover, Woodbridge and Edison -- had already surpassed both Camden and Trenton in the 1998 census estimates.
And New Jersey is still rich -- "an extraordinary consumer market," the report says -- and will likely rank only behind Connecticut in income.
But the rest of the nation is catching up, apparently: the report projects that the census will find New Jersey's median household income 31 percent higher than the national median, while in 1990 it was 36 percent higher. (In 1980, the state's advantage was only 18 percent.)
The gap shrank in the early 1990's, when the recession took an especially high toll in New Jersey, and then widened again with the economic expansion in the second half of the decade.
And New Jerseyans are employed as never before. The report said Census 2000 should find record low unemployment rates -- the natural result of a surging economy and a modest increase in the work force. While the state's population grew 5.3 percent, the number of 20 to 34 year olds declined as the baby bust generation came of working age, and the labor force grew just 3.5 percent.
In the meantime, the baby boomers were swelling the ranks of middle-aged, which the report says is "the most powerful age-structure shift that will be revealed by Census 2000." Almost one in three New Jerseyans is a boomer, now 36 to 54 years old.
"Never before in history," the researchers wrote, "has America and New Jersey had such a coincidence and concentration of its population in the stage of the life cycle when individual economic productivity and income peak."
The data on household makeup will show fewer married couples with children under 18, the report says: in a pattern of drastic change from the era when the boomers' parents were suburbanizing, only one-quarter of households consist of a married couple with children under 18, while about the same percentage is single people living alone.
In a centurylong perspective, the researchers noted that after explosive population increases in the pre-Depression decades and the postwar boom, growth slowed drastically, to a rate of 2.7 percent in the 1970's. It rose to 5 percent in the 1980's.
The report, "Anticipating Census 2000: New Jersey's Emerging Demographic Profile," is the 18th in a series tracking demographic changes in the state and region.
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photo: James W. Hughes, dean of the Edward J. Bloustein School of Planning and Public Policy at Rutgers, is the main author of an analysis of the census data for the state. (Joyce Dopkeen The New York Times)
 
Chart: "DEMOGRAPHICS: Around the Region"
New Jersey became more crowded and led in population growth compared with neighboring states. Below are population growth estimates as of April 1 taken from a report conducted by researchers at Rutgers University.
(Sources: U.S. Bureau of the Census, Population)
 
Chart: "DEMOGRAPHICS: Still Sprawling"
While the older cities lost population, though at a slower pace, the "big six suburbs" continued to grow.
 
Township: Brick
Population: 75,565
Percent of total population: 0.9%
 
Township: Dover
Population: 86,700
Percent of total population: 1.1
 
Township: Woodbridge
Population: 95,695
Percent of total population: 1.2
 
Township: Edison
Population: 95,705
Percent of total population: 1.2
 
Township: Hamilton
Population: 86,023
Percent of total population: 1.1
 
Township: Cherry Hill
Population: 69,117
Percent of total population: 0.9
 
Township: New Jersey
Population: 8,095,542
(Sources: U.S. Bureau of the Census, Population Division, June 30 1999)
 
Chart: "STATUS REPORT: Changing Faces"
Immigrants have changed the racial and ethnic profile of New Jersey in the last decade. Estimates show that New Jersey has become more diverse than the nation as a whole.
 
Note: 1990 estimates as of April1; 2000 estimates as of July1. Hispanics are of any race; White, Black and Asian and Pacific Islander category includes Hispanics.
(Sources: U.S. Bureau of the Census, Population Division,1990, 2000)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (95%); 

STATE: NEW JERSEY, USA (95%); CONNECTICUT, USA (79%); PENNSYLVANIA, USA (79%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); 

CITY: CHERRY HILL, NJ, USA (79%); TRENTON, NJ, USA (58%); 

COMPANY: RUTGERS UNIVERSITY (93%); RUTGERS UNIVERSITY (93%); 

ORGANIZATION: RUTGERS UNIVERSITY (93%); RUTGERS UNIVERSITY (93%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (95%); NEW JERSEY, USA (95%); CONNECTICUT, USA (79%); PENNSYLVANIA, USA (79%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); CHERRY HILL, NJ, USA (79%); TRENTON, NJ, USA (58%); 

SUBJECT: Terms not available from NYTimes. CENSUS (93%); POPULATION & DEMOGRAPHICS (92%); AFFLUENT MARKET (90%); AGING TRENDS (90%); POPULATION ESTIMATES & PROJECTIONS (90%); DEMOGRAPHIC GROUPS (90%); POPULATION GROWTH (89%); RACE & RACISM (89%); TRENDS (89%); IMMIGRATION (89%); COLLEGES & UNIVERSITIES (78%); ETHNICITY (78%); EXPERIMENTATION & RESEARCH (78%); POPULATION DENSITY (78%); POPULATION SIZE (78%); BABY BOOMERS (78%); INTERVIEWS (72%); PUBLIC POLICY (72%); SUBURBS (72%); AFRICAN AMERICANS (64%); LABOR DEPARTMENTS (63%); 

PERSON: CONNIE O HUGHES (68%); 

LOAD-DATE: July 16, 2000



369 of 757 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: July 16, 2000

SECTION: Section 3; Page 10; Column 4; Money and Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 730 words

HEADLINE: PERSONAL BUSINESS: PRELUDES;
Of Perks and (Tupperware) Parties

BYLINE: By ABBY ELLIN; Abby Ellin is a Manhattan writer. Her column on starting out in the world of money appears the third Sunday of each month. E-mail: preludes@nytimes.com.

 BODY:
TUPPERWARE, not software. Maybe that should be my new motto as I consider joining the ranks of those who sell polyethylene fridgeware for a living.
Think about it. Selling Tupperware has an awful lot in common with the new-economy jobs that young adults crave. You can work any time you want and as much as you want. The biggest rewards go to those who are the most immersed, the most passionate, the most relentless. No soul-deadening shirt-and-tie office environment here: your workplace is the friendliest, funkiest available -- your own home. No health insurance, pension plans or other young-people-don't-need-'em benefits to bite into the paycheck -- just plenty of incentive-based compensation, plus perks like free cars (a Jeep Cherokee! a Dodge Caravan!) and vacations (Myrtle Beach! Las Vegas!) for hitting goals. They could call it www.tupperware.com. 
 In fact, they do. A year-old Web site by that name supplies the company's million-strong worldwide army of consultants with product information and stories of sales success. American customers can shop on the site, or, with a consultant's referral, at www.my.tupperware.com, a newer site that lets consultants customize their own home pages. Customers order online, and the consultant gets a commission.
Forget hausfraus in housecoats. Tupperware, Avon, Amway and other direct marketers have figured out that the way to cater to younger, Web-savvy consumers is to recruit younger, Web-savvy sales reps.
Clearly, a lot has changed in the 55 years since the first Tupperware snap-top container appeared. These days, more and more of the company's 75,000 American consultants are college-educated, said Christine Hanneman, a vice president of the Tupperware Corporation in Orlando, Fla. "We're looking for people to work their way up," she said.
Colleen Layne, 24, has been selling Tupperware for nearly five years and says she now earns more than $5,000 a month working 20-hour weeks. Ms. Layne got started as a high school senior in Garden City, Mich., while her friends were baby-sitting or shoveling French fries. Cool it wasn't -- "no one was into it," she remembered -- but she stuck with it, even throwing Tupperware parties in her college dorm room. She is now a senior executive manager overseeing 20 consultants, driving the Dodge minivan that she earned as an incentive.
"I don't plan on ever leaving," she said by cell phone while on a vacation. "It's too much fun."
THE story is similar at Avon Products, the doorbell-ringing cosmetics concern. Those doorbells have gone through considerable modifications since 1886, when a few pioneers sold their first lip rouge.
The company has been online since 1997 and in September plans to revamp the site to give sales representatives their own Web addresses. Reps who need them can lease a computer and get Internet access cheaply through the company. At the end of this month, Avon will be starting a "'beauty advisor" training program for the women -- and some, but not many, men -- who want to become certified experts in loveliness.
"We're offering career opportunities that attract young people," said Laura Castellano, a spokeswoman for Avon in Manhattan.
If that's not enough to make you quit your day job, the DeVos and Van Andel families, who brought Amway into the world, created quixtar.com last fall. It is intended to attract young entrepreneurs who want to sell Amway and other products online instead of door to door.
"Most Web e-tailers are trying to establish their brand and get customers, as we watch a lot of them struggle," said John Parker, vice president for sales and marketing at Quixtar, which like Amway is based in Grand Rapids, Mich. "We're not a typical dot-com because of the entrepreneurial opportunities, and we're not a typical direct-selling company because we have the dot-com piece. We're creating a new niche."
Is it working? A Quixtar spokesman said the half-million or so people who have signed up so far are, on average, about 10 years younger than those joining Amway lately.
It's too soon to know if newfangled multilevel marketing systems will have staying power, or if their young recruits will become jaded with the rah-rah tactics and move on to other businesses or their own start-ups.
If they do get fed up with Avon or Amway, I have a tip for them. It's just one word: plastics.
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photo (Marilyn Janovitz)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: TUP (NYSE) (64%); AVP (NYSE) (54%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS454390 OTHER DIRECT SELLING ESTABLISHMENTS (64%); NAICS326199 ALL OTHER PLASTICS PRODUCT MANUFACTURING (64%); NAICS325620 TOILET PREPARATION MANUFACTURING (54%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (79%); 

STATE: FLORIDA, USA (79%); 

CITY: ORLANDO, FLORIDA, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: TUPPERWARE CORP TUPPERWARE BRANDS CORP (64%); AVON PRODUCTS INC (54%); 

ORGANIZATION: TUPPERWARE CORP

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%); FLORIDA, USA (79%); ORLANDO, FLORIDA, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: LABOR SALES & SELLING (89%); SALES FORCE (78%); COMPUTER SOFTWARE (78%); WAGES & SALARIES (77%); COSMETICS & TOILETRIES (75%); MINIVANS (74%); COSMETICS (73%); MOTOR VEHICLES (73%); NEW ECONOMY (72%); INTERNET RETAILING (72%); EXECUTIVES (69%); STUDENT HOUSING (67%); DIRECT MARKETING (66%); DIRECT TO HOME RETAILING (59%); HEALTH INSURANCE (55%); MOBILE & CELLULAR TELEPHONES (50%); 

PERSON: ELLIN, ABBY

LOAD-DATE: July 16, 2000



370 of 757 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: July 16, 2000

SECTION: Section 3; Page 4; Column 1; Money and Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 1278 words

HEADLINE: THE BUSINESS WORLD;
In Japan: Outsourcing Without A Capital 'O'

BYLINE: By STEPHANIE STROM 

DATELINE: TOKYO

 BODY:
IT'S treated as a dirty little secret here, but Japan Inc. is embracing, gingerly, one of America's most hard-knuckled business tactics.
Pressed by a need to streamline their balance sheets, cut costs and drastically upgrade their information technology to regain competitiveness, Japanese companies are farming out chunks of their computer operations to companies like IBM Japan, Fujitsu and NTT Data. 
 Japan Inc. is often choosing, however, to forgo one of the most lucrative side effects of such outsourcing -- the shrinking of the corporate work force and the resulting cost savings.
As American as outsourcing may be, in Japan it reflects a business culture stubbornly resistant to practices that sacrifice employee well-being for the sake of efficiency. Japan's version suggests, more broadly, why technologies and management practices that are propelling the American economic boom have had less impact here.
When IBM Japan and Daiwa Bank put themselves on the map in 1997 with what was billed as Japan's first real outsourcing deal, the treatment of the people involved was a bigger issue than the business and financial ramifications. "Given the unique character of the Japanese employment system, there was some initial resistance at the bank and perhaps within society itself," said Yoshinobu Ishigaki, general manager of IBM Japan's service business development division. "Even the government showed some concern about it."
Still, the Daiwa deal spawned business that more than tripled IBM Japan's outsourcing revenue. This year alone, IBM Japan, a wholly owned subsidiary of International Business Machines, has scored contracts worth more than $3 billion.
"We saw a turning point in 1997 -- and it was a sharp one," Mr. Ishigaki said. "Japanese companies realized they needed to demonstrate their ability to change, and maybe more importantly, Japanese society began accepting outsourcing."
GIANTS like Fujitsu and NEC are also using outsourcing -- both as providers and as clients -- to meet the new challenges of a global business world that is increasingly reliant on computers and the Internet. Many businesses, particularly those in financial services, realize that they can no longer afford to invest in sophisticated information technology themselves.
"Banks in Chiba, Ehime, Hokkaido and lots of other places are looking to outsourcing as a way to survive," said Fumio Ohue, the partner who until recently headed the outsourcing business of Andersen Consulting and is now chief operating officer of the Netyear Group, a Japanese company that is devoted to providing strategic consulting services online. "It's hard for them to try to catch up with new products, networks and business management services on their own."
Outsourcing is a radical departure for most Japanese companies, which have long taken pride in doing everything themselves, or at least within their cluster of affiliated businesses.
"There was a sort of all-by-ourselves-ism that developed," said Sachio Nishiyama, chief manager of the systems administration division at the Mitsubishi Trust and Banking Corporation. "Now we're casting off that attitude, because we understand that there are areas where other companies can simply do it better."
After a year of discussions among senior executives, Mitsubishi Trust handed over to IBM Japan the operation of its data centers and the management of networks linking its sales offices; the deal is worth more than $350 million over the next decade. The bank expects to cut the cost of systems administration by 10 percent.
The costs would have fallen further if Mitsubishi Trust had sent the 50 employees associated with those activities to IBM Japan. But all were offered jobs elsewhere in the bank, according to Masahumi Abe, manager of the systems administration division.
"In the U.S. and Europe, this is probably hard to understand, since there, outsourcing is not just IBM Japan taking over the work but also taking over the people," he said. "But in Japan, outsourcing hasn't reached such an extent."
Not nearly. In fact, only a few Japanese companies are advertising their move toward outsourcing various aspects of their business, including accounting and human resources. In this land of lifetime employment, outsourcing conjures up an image of job-cutting, which is still in many ways taboo. So most companies would rather not talk about it.
"Excuse me, but why is The New York Times interested in our outsourcing efforts?" asked Fumiaki Ito, senior vice president of the Meiji Seika Company, a candy, dairy and pharmaceuticals company that hired IBM Japan in February to manage many of its computer systems. "We are not the only company adopting outsourcing, you know. It's not such a big deal, is it?"
Katsuhiko Minami, director of Meiji Seika's information systems department and manager of the 70 employees affected by the deal, was quick to point out that only nine jobs were lost -- and that those workers were given other posts or allowed to retire. "There are always new needs within the company," he said.
Retaining workers would seem to defeat the purpose of outsourcing. But Mr. Minami appeared happy with the 100 million yen, or $943,000, that Meiji Seika would save each year for the five years of its contract with IBM Japan.
"It's not a lot on a percentage basis," he said, "but it's a lot of money saved nonetheless."
At some companies, however, such sensitivities are fading fast. A recent television documentary about NEC's efforts to overhaul itself showed four workers wrestling computers into shipping boxes, tears streaming down their faces. They were part of a group of 300 white-collar employees, all formerly parked behind desks, who were dispatched to a packaging and warehousing company affiliated with NEC.
A spokesman for NEC made no effort to explain away the scene.
"We regard the case shown on TV as outsourcing," he said, bluntly declining to use more euphemistic terms for the longstanding practice of sending unnecessary workers to affiliates.
Others work harder to make outsourcing difficult to distinguish from more traditional business practices here. Mr. Ohue classifies many recently created joint ventures as outsourcing in disguise.
CONSIDER the case of Toyo Information Systems, an affiliate of Sanwa Bank, and Komatsu, the struggling general building contractor. As part of a reorganization, Komatsu sold 65 percent of its software subsidiary, Komatsu Soft, to Toyo. Komatsu can continue to rely on its former subsidiary and, as a major shareholder, still be treated as a special customer. Yet it shed responsibility for some 700 employees.
"This is win-win outsourcing done in a very Japanese way," Mr. Ohue said. "I think we'll see more of that kind of outsourcing because it allows everyone to save face and is not as harsh as outsourcing U.S. style."
Outsourcing still faces opposition here, no matter how soft the touch. NCR Japan has been one of the biggest outsourcers, moving 1,200 people off its payroll and fighting at least one bitter battle with labor. In 1994, the company temporarily transferred 700 employees to a new, partly owned affiliate to handle maintenance work. Four years later, when NCR tried to make those transfers permanent, some union members took the company to court. The case is still pending.
That has not discouraged Isao Aoki, head of NCR Japan's human resources operations. "I introduced outsourcing to this company because I believe it will strengthen the whole company," he said. "It was the only effective way to restructure in Japan, where simply cutting jobs is considered unjustifiable."
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photo: An NHK TV documentary showed an effect of outsourcing in Japan: A former NEC executive was dispatched to a warehouse.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: ACN (NYSE) (84%); 3622 (TSE) (62%); FUJ (LSE) (59%); 6702 (TSE) (59%); IBMC (BRU) (54%); IBM (NYSE) (54%); IBM (LSE) (54%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS334111 ELECTRONIC COMPUTER MANUFACTURING (90%); SIC3571 ELECTRONIC COMPUTERS (90%); NAICS541611 ADMINISTRATIVE MANAGEMENT & GENERAL MANAGEMENT CONSULTING SERVICES (84%); SIC8742 MANAGEMENT CONSULTING SERVICES (84%); SIC7375 INFORMATION RETRIEVAL SERVICES (62%); NAICS334118 COMPUTER TERMINAL & OTHER COMPUTER PERIPHERAL EQUIPMENT MANUFACTURING (59%); NAICS334112 COMPUTER STORAGE DEVICE MANUFACTURING (54%); 

COUNTRY: JAPAN (99%); UNITED STATES (93%); 

STATE: HOKKAIDO, JAPAN (73%); 

CITY: TOKYO, JAPAN (73%); 

COMPANY: IBM JAPAN LTD (90%); ACCENTURE PLC (84%); NETYEAR GROUP CORP (62%); FUJITSU LTD (59%); INTERNATIONAL BUSINESS MACHINES CORP (54%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: JAPAN; JAPAN (99%); UNITED STATES (93%); HOKKAIDO, JAPAN (73%); TOKYO, JAPAN (73%); 

SUBJECT: LABOR; LAYOFFS AND JOB REDUCTIONS LAYOFFS (90%); OUTSOURCING (90%); COMPUTING & INFORMATION TECHNOLOGY (89%); ANNUAL FINANCIAL RESULTS (89%); INFORMATION MANAGEMENT (89%); INTERNET & WWW (77%); COMPUTER EQUIPMENT (76%); LABOR FORCE (75%); EXECUTIVES (75%); BANKING & FINANCE (73%); CONSULTING SERVICES (73%); BUSINESS DEVELOPMENT (70%); ACCOUNTING & AUDITING FIRMS (65%); 

PERSON: STROM, STEPHANIE

LOAD-DATE: July 16, 2000



371 of 757 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: July 16, 2000

SECTION: Section 3; Page 7; Column 2; Money and Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 674 words

HEADLINE: PORTFOLIOS, ETC.;
Is a Harder Landing in the Works?

BYLINE: By JONATHAN FUERBRINGER 

 BODY:
REMEMBER stagflation? That's when the economy slows and inflation rises -- the worst of both worlds. It was the curse of the mid-1970's, as the economy fell into recession and the Consumer Price Index rose 12.3 percent in a single year, 1974. And it returned in 1980, when the C.P.I. jumped 12.5 percent while the economy ground to a halt.
Inflation has come way down since then, and the economy is now in the longest period of continuous growth on record. So who's talking about stagflation? Not many people -- and that may be a problem. 
 Now, the few who are talking are not predicting anything like the stagflation of yore. But they are saying that investors could face a period of slowing economic growth, which they equate loosely with stagnation, and of rising prices, which is inflation. They warn that increases in unit labor costs associated with this more benign stagflation will also cut into corporate earnings. But the stock and bond markets have not yet factored this in; instead, Wall Street forecasters still expect earnings to grow this year at the quickest annual pace since 1993.
At the worst, this small group of worried economists and strategists adds, the Federal Reserve could raise short-term interest rates higher than is now expected, in response to reports of a climbing C.P.I. That extra tightening could push the the economy into a recession.
How could this happen, especially when many Wall Street strategists think that the Fed is guiding the economy to a soft landing, slowing it down to a manageable but still positive pace?
To begin with, a slowdown in economic growth would set off a decline in the growth rate of worker productivity, measured by the value of output for each hour worked. In the last two quarters of 1999, productivity surged, rising an annual rate of 5 and 6.9 percent, respectively. Unit labor costs declined during those quarters, by 0.3 and 2.9 percent. Corporate earnings, meanwhile surged 22.7 and 21.4 percent.
But with economic growth slowing, productivity gains will shrink, said Paul A. McCulley, a portfolio manager at the Pacific Investment Management Company, a bond powerhouse in Newport Beach, Calif. That would happen because companies do not shed workers quickly as demand for products slackens. Indeed, with workers so difficult to find these days, few employers would be willing to consider layoffs at the first sign of a slowdown. So the same number of workers would be producing fewer goods, and that works out to lower productivity.
Smaller productivity gains mean that unit labor costs, which equal total worker compensation minus productivity, would rise. In the first quarter of this year, productivity gains slowed to 2.4 percent while unit labor costs rose 1.6 percent, according to the Bureau of Labor Statistics. While corporate profits remained strong, the C.P.I., not counting prices for food and energy, jumped at a compound annual rate of 3.2 percent in the first quarter.
FACED with rising unit labor costs, companies have two choices. They can pass them on to consumers in higher prices, which adds to inflationary pressures, or they can absorb them -- because of competitive fears -- and reduce their profits.
It is also likely that workers will be pushing for wage increases to compensate them for the high productivity gains of the last few years. Pay raises are usually backward-looking, because they are based on profits the company has already made.
Mr. McCulley says the period -- or "interregnum" -- of rising prices and slowing growth should not last long, provided that the Fed does not raise interest rates too much and cause a recession. On the far side, an economy with inflation again in check and the Fed on hold will be good for stocks.
But, he said, "the equity market has not embraced an interregnum of stagflation." Equities, he said, are already overpriced for the shock of rising inflation and slowing growth; if the Fed tightens too much in response to an inflationary spurt, he sees stocks headed for disaster.
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Chart: "Economic Crossroads"
The pace of productivity growth slowed in the first quarter of this year, pushing unit labor costs higher.
 
Chart shows the change in productivity and change in unit labor costs.

(Source: Bureau of Labor Statistics)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

INDUSTRY: SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (63%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (79%); 

STATE: CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM PACIFIC INVESTMENT MANAGEMENT CO (PIMCO) (63%); BUREAU OF LABOR STATISTICS (59%); FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM (59%); BUREAU OF LABOR STATISTICS (59%); FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM (59%); 

ORGANIZATION: FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM BUREAU OF LABOR STATISTICS (59%); FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM (59%); BUREAU OF LABOR STATISTICS (59%); FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM (59%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: UNITED STATES ECONOMY; PRICES (FARES, FEES AND RATES) ECONOMIC DECLINE (91%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); RECESSION (90%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (90%); PRODUCTIVITY (89%); LABOR SECTOR PERFORMANCE (89%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (89%); BONDS (89%); COMPANY EARNINGS (89%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (88%); FINANCIAL RESULTS (87%); CENTRAL BANKS (78%); CONSUMER PRICE INDEX (78%); PRICE INCREASES (77%); STATISTICS (77%); INVESTMENT MANAGEMENT (74%); FOOD PRICES (73%); LABOR DEPARTMENTS (72%); COMPANY PROFITS (72%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (70%); LAYOFFS (68%); BOND MARKETS (67%); INTEREST RATES (65%); 

PERSON: FUERBRINGER, JONATHAN PAUL A MCCULLEY (55%); 

LOAD-DATE: July 16, 2000



372 of 757 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: July 16, 2000

SECTION: Section 12; Page 1; Column 1; Automobiles 

LENGTH: 1335 words

HEADLINE: BEHIND THE WHEEL: Subaru Outback;
New All Over, and Down Under

BYLINE: By BOB KNOLL 

 BODY:
ANYONE who has watched network television in the last few years has seen Crocodile Dundee (a k a Paul Hogan) tearing through desert and swamp in the "world's first sport utility wagon," the all-wheel-drive Subaru Outback. But those with an interest in auto history will recall a few other wagons that also offered all-wheel drive and could have made a case for an S.U.W. label: the 1988-91 Dodge Colt Vista, the 1992-94 Mitsubishi Expo LRV, the 1988 Nissan Stanza and the 1990 Nissan Axxess.
None of those are around today, perhaps because they failed to capitalize on the rising trend, perhaps because they were not very good. Automotive history is dotted with successes and failures, of cars that caught fads on the rise and others that arrived as trends turned south. 
 There is no doubt that Subaru had the timing right with its Outback, which began as a trim package for the 1995 Legacy station wagon. Since then, the Outback gained higher ground clearance and a raised roofline to set it apart from the Legacy, and it spawned a whole range of models, including an Outback sedan and a fancy Outback Limited. Last year, Outbacks -- which are nearly identical, mechanically, to other, less expensive models -- accounted for 39 percent of all Subaru sales and 69 percent of Legacy production. Subaru's full line of wagons has been first in wagon sales in the United States for three years.
The Legacy/Outback wagons, which are assembled in Indiana, were little changed from 1996 to 1999. But for 2000, Subaru performed major surgery on the Legacy and the Outback, which is now a separate, distinct series.
The new body is smoother, rounder and about 3 inches longer, with a slightly longer wheelbase. But those familiar with the previous model will have no trouble recognizing the Outback wagon, since most of its visual cues have been kept, including the slightly raised roof and large fog lamps.
The engine remains a flat four cylinder -- called a "boxer," for the way its pistons flail outward, rather than move up and down -- but it has been redesigned for more low-end torque and better fuel economy. Cars with automatic transmissions have a slightly different all-wheel-drive system from those with stick shifts, but drivers will not notice any difference in their smooth function.
The front suspension is largely unchanged, but the rear suspension is a new multilink design that intrudes less into the cargo area. The change results not only in a smoother ride and better handling, but also in a cargo floor that is 5.2 inches wider and significantly more useful. There are disk brakes on all four wheels and an antilock system.
Safety improvements include three-point belts for all five occupants and child-safety-seat anchors for all three rear-seat positions. The Outback (except for the Limited, which comes with leather upholstery) offers as a $200 option a folding, integrated child seat in the center rear position.
The front safety belts incorporate pretensioners to better position the occupant during a crash and force limiters that work in conjunction with the front air bags to help protect one's chest. The Outback Limited has front seat side-impact air bags in the upper portion of the front seatbacks. The body structure has been designed to dissipate energy better in front, side and rear crashes.
This new design seems to have paid off. The Insurance Institute for Highway Safety has given the Legacy wagon a good rating and calls it a "best pick" for its performance in an offset-front crash test at 40 miles an hour -- a severe test of the body structure. Few automobiles in this class have received such a high rating.
In front-impact tests by the National Highway Traffic Safety Administration, a Legacy sedan received four stars for the driver and passenger. In side-crash tests, the Legacy got four stars for driver safety and five, the top rating, for rear passengers. The tested car did not have side air bags, which might have improved the driver rating.
In these days of extreme popularity for truck-based sport utilities, it is worth noting that the Outback is certified as a passenger car. Other manufacturers are classifying car-based S.U.V.'s as trucks to take advantage of less stringent regulations governing the safety and emissions of light trucks. This means that the Outback has complied with the full set of Federal safety and emissions regulations, in contrast to vehicles like the Lexus RX 300, the Honda CR-V and the BMW X5, to name a few.
Compared with previous Outbacks I have driven, and a 1996 model that my wife owns, the 2000 model is a step up in ride quality, noise reduction, and steering and handling. The wagon feels more European in its control over challenging roads and in its precise, nicely weighted steering. Braking is smooth and sure, although there is a bit more free play in the pedal than I would like. The annoying throbbing sound of the 2.5-liter engine has been all but eliminated, and wind noise is fairly low.
Powerful engine response has never been a Subaru virtue. It still is not, but the new engine has more low- and medium-range torque so that at less than full throttle it feels fairly strong. One unfortunate result: the wagon moves out almost too abruptly on takeoff from a stop.
In October, there will be two additional 2001-model Outbacks: the H6-VDC and the H6-3.0 L. L. Bean Edition. These cars will have an all-new 3-liter six-cylinder engine -- the only six that Subaru has offered in this country since the sporty SVX coupe was discontinued in 1996. The L. L. Bean model will wear the logo of the mail-order company inside and out.
As one who has driven many thousands of miles in Subarus, I am always impressed by the completely seamless action of their all-wheel drive. Many manufacturers claim that their S.U.V.'s have all-wheel drive that reacts instantly when a wheel loses grip, but in reality many delay, stutter and bump as they compensate for a loss of traction.
Drivers who venture into challenging four-wheel-drive territory will find that the Outback is hindered by its lack of special low-range gearing and its relatively soft suspension. Yet Subaru says the Outback is capable of recreational off-roading, and with its large tires and generous 7.3 inches of ground clearance, that claim seems fair. But the main advantages of a seamless all-wheel-drive system are smooth response on dry pavement and increased security in heavy rain or moderate snow.
Inside the Outback, consumers looking for a user-friendly instrument panel and control layout will like what they see. Owners of previous Legacys who have cursed the awkward cup holder will feel much better about the new one. The window and lock switches are simple and easy to use, as are the wiper and light stalks. The Limited has heated front seats and two power moonroofs, one over the front seat and one forward of the rear seat. Their operation is rather strange in that the front moonroof doesn't slide; it only tilts. And although the rear one slides open, it can't be operated unless the front one is tilted. One wonders what the advantage of this curious arrangement may be.
Buyers looking for the safety and security of all-wheel drive, and who would not be happy with a cruder truck-based sport utility, have a number of very good station wagons to choose from. Subaru has the lowest-priced wagons in this category, including Legacys that start around $19,000 and the $20,000 Outback Sport -- which is based on the smaller Impreza, not on the Legacy. But in size and comfort, the Sport cannot match wagons in the $25,000 to $30,000 range.
There, the regular Legacy-based Outback, the Volkswagen Passat 4Motion and the Audi A4 Avant Quattro are attractive, strong-performing wagons. The Audi A6 Avant and the Volvo Cross Country are competitive in the $40,000 range. Another $10,000 puts you into Mercedes territory.
 
INSIDE TRACK: Safety on boulevard or back roads without the aggressiveness of a truck.
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photos: Subaru has turned its Outbacks, which now include a sedan, left, as well as wagons, into a line of models distinct from the Legacy on which they are based.
 
Chart: "The Small Universe of All-Wheel-Drive Wagons" lists features and specifications for selected Subaru automobiles.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (91%); 

STATE: INDIANA, USA (74%); 

COMPANY: SUBARU OF AMERICA INC OUTBACK LTD (95%); 

ORGANIZATION: SUBARU OF AMERICA INC

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (91%); INDIANA, USA (74%); 

SUBJECT: AUTOMOBILES; REVIEWS TRENDS (90%); MOTOR VEHICLES (90%); SPORT UTILITY VEHICLES (90%); NETWORK TELEVISION (78%); TELEVISION INDUSTRY (78%); AUTOMOTIVE SAFETY (77%); SEDANS (77%); CHILD CAR SEATS (76%); SURGERY & TRANSPLANTATION (50%); 

PERSON: KNOLL, BOB

LOAD-DATE: July 16, 2000



373 of 757 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: July 16, 2000

SECTION: Section 3; Page 6; Column 1; Money and Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 1288 words

HEADLINE: GRASS-ROOTS BUSINESS JOEL KOTKIN;
A Gusher of Technology In Downtown Tulsa

BYLINE: Joel Kotkin is a senior fellow at the Davenport Institute for Public Policy at Pepperdine University. His column on the Main Street economy appears the third Sunday of each month. E-mail may be sent to grassrts@nytimes.com

DATELINE: TULSA, Okla.

 BODY:
A DECADE ago, Tulsa was a played-out oil-and-gas town.
Today, the town's boosters have recast it in the role of telecommunications superpower. The area has more than 54,000 high-technology jobs, which account for roughly 8 percent of local employment, a share that matches well-known technology centers like Raleigh-Durham, N.C.; Dallas; and Stamford, Conn. In the next three years, a recent survey of area employers showed, the region is expected to add up to 6,000 positions in telecommunications alone. 
 The area's emergence as a high-technology center seems all the more impressive because it is occurring in a state not widely known for its high-technology infrastructure or its educational system, said Craig Knutson, chief Oklahoma economist for Southwestern Bell. According to the American Electronics Association, Oklahoma ranks 28th in high-technology jobs among the 50 states and has a per capita income below the national average. The Tulsa area, with roughly a quarter of the state's population, accounts for 60 to 70 percent of Oklahoma's high-technology employees and revenues.
That such an unlikely place has become a new-economy hotbed is, in fact, largely a legacy of its previous boom, Mr. Knutson said. For one thing, the explosive growth of the city in the 1920's bequeathed it a magnificent array of impressive Art Deco buildings, many of which are now attracting Internet and other information-oriented companies. The oil boom also left the city with elegant close-in urban neighborhoods that are ideal for skilled professionals and managers.
And philanthropy fueled by oil wealth has given Tulsa, which has a metropolitan population of 800,000, an attractive civic infrastructure that includes a respected ballet and orchestra, and art museums.
But perhaps more important, the energy legacy -- specifically its management information systems component -- gave Tulsa many employees with high-technology skills. This labor pool, plus a relatively low cost of living, has attracted a host of large information businesses, including Sabre Holdings, the travel-reservation company; WorldCom, the communications giant; and aerospace companies like Aeromet.
ANOTHER key factor has been the makeover of the Williams Companies, which was founded in 1908 and grew up as essentially an oil pipeline business. Since the early 1990's, the company, long an anchor of the old energy economy, has been using the rights of way from its extensive gas pipelines to create one of the nation's primary fiber optic networks; it has become a leading provider of broadband services for telecommunications companies like SBC Communications. (Two SBC rivals, Sprint and Qwest Communications, were spawned by the Southern Pacific Railroad, which also used its right of way to find a place in the new economy.)
The Williams Communications unit, which had roughly 200 employees in Tulsa in 1996, now has more than 2,000. The number is expected to double by the end of next year.
That surge in employment, including thousands more temporary jobs at Williams itself and others created by its subcontractors, is helping to transform Tulsa's once-sleepy downtown. The symbolic center of the new activity is Williams's new 15-story, 45,000-square-foot stacked urban campus, which is being designed to serve as the nerve center of the company's national fiber optic network. Over all, downtown office vacancy rates, which stood in the 20 to 30 percent range in the mid-1980's, have fallen into the single digits.
Tulsa's emergence parallels the rise of several other "second tier" cities -- places like Albuquerque and Cedar Rapids, Iowa -- that are finding new niches in the information economy. In many cases, these cities offer lower living costs, equally good business climates and a more family-friendly atmosphere than places like Silicon Valley, Boston's Route 128 or Dallas-Fort Worth.
The resurgence of such cities also often parallels -- and is spurred by -- the reinvention of many of its residents' careers. A decade ago, for example, Carol Mersch and Tony Bacher were among the last to leave the sinking ship that was Tulsa's old energy economy. Co-workers in the information systems division at Reading & Bates, a local drilling company, they hung around to process the pink slips of their fellow workers before ultimately issuing their own.
"It seemed like half of Tulsa was being terminated," Ms. Mersch said.
The two technologists decided to start their own firm, Mersch-Bacher Associates, to develop business software products for I.B.M.'s new AS-400 computer platform. The company was a big success. Seven years later, in 1996, the two began another venture, an Internet service provider called Webzone, which by 1999 had more than 12,000 subscribers. The partners sold both companies last year for more than $6.5 million.
"We started because we didn't have jobs and no prospect of getting one," Ms. Mersch said. "When the oil bust came, it forced a lot of people to rethink their careers."
Reading & Bates moved to Houston in 1989 as part of a major restructuring and has since merged into the R & B Falcon Corporation. Ms. Mersch and Mr. Bacher are now vice presidents at Pinnacle Business Systems, the computer development and services company that bought Mersch-Bacher Associates.
Not even Tulsa's most ardent boosters, however, are ready to sell the city's downtown as a rival to creative Internet centers like Boston's Cyber District, Lower Manhattan or San Francisco's South of Market. As a city with a modest nightlife, lacking both a highly recognized research university and convenient air connections, Tulsa is unlikely to emerge as a full-fledged information-age capital, Mr. Knutson said.
Indeed, most of the growth, whether at giants like WorldCom and Williams or at smaller companies, continues to stick largely to the telecommunications and enabling-software side of the information boom.
Still, in many ways, such infrastructure concerns -- those that provide the roads or software for the information superhighway -- may prove stronger and more impervious to market fluctuations than the Internet content companies, largely unprofitable so far, that have prompted the revivals in other cities.
Typical of Tulsa's new arrivals are companies like SecureAgent.com, which provides encryption software for major corporations. The company's founder, Brent Johnson, spent much of his life in the Bay Area before coming to Tulsa to work as a consultant for American Airlines. In 1992, he founded SecureAgent, not in Silicon Valley but here, in a place that offered an expanding telecommunications network in a lower-cost business environment.
"Tulsa is a little-known secret," said Mr. Johnson, whose company employs 24 people and plans to hire 40 more in the next 18 months.
He sees the costs for engineers, who are paid, on average, roughly 40 percent less than their Bay Area peers, as a major plus for his company, and he likes the relatively low prices for housing and his company's office space in a refurbished downtown structure. "This building has a lot of character," he said, and "costs me less than it would have cost me in California 10 years ago."
Mr. Johnson said that because his company was in a technical niche, it had an easier time flourishing in a city like Tulsa, which lacks the high numbers of fine restaurants and other accouterments of centers like New York or San Francisco. Unlike a media or content firm, he explained, a company like SecureAgent.com does not depend on regular face-to-face contact with prime customers.
"Our customers are all over the world," he said. "We are not going out to lunch with them. We can do just fine where we are."
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photos: The Williams Companies are among the growing businesses behind a resurgence in Tulsa.; Carol Mersch, vice president at Pinnacle Business Systems, with Brad Anderson, chief of SolArc Inc., another high-tech company in Tulsa. (Photographs by Jerry Laizure for The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: T (NYSE) (85%); WMB (NYSE) (63%); CTL (NYSE) (58%); VZC (LSE) (58%); VZ (NYSE) (58%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS517210 WIRELESS TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (EXCEPT SATELLITE) (85%); NAICS517110 WIRED TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (85%); NAICS511140 DIRECTORY & MAILING LIST PUBLISHERS (85%); NAICS486210 PIPELINE TRANSPORTATION OF NATURAL GAS (63%); NAICS221210 NATURAL GAS DISTRIBUTION (63%); NAICS211111 CRUDE PETROLEUM & NATURAL GAS EXTRACTION (63%); SIC4922 NATURAL GAS TRANSMISSION (63%); SIC1321 NATURAL GAS LIQUIDS (63%); SIC4813 TELEPHONE COMMUNICATIONS, EXCEPT RADIOTELEPHONE (58%); NAICS522130 CREDIT UNIONS (56%); SIC6062 CREDIT UNIONS, NOT FEDERALLY CHARTERED (56%); NAICS561599 ALL OTHER TRAVEL ARRANGEMENT & RESERVATION SERVICES (52%); NAICS561510 TRAVEL AGENCIES (52%); NAICS519130 INTERNET PUBLISHING & BROADCASTING & WEB SEARCH PORTALS (52%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (96%); 

STATE: OKLAHOMA, USA (96%); NORTH CAROLINA, USA (92%); CONNECTICUT, USA (92%); 

CITY: TULSA, OK, USA (95%); DURHAM, NC, USA (72%); RALEIGH, NC, USA (72%); 

COMPANY: AT&T INC (85%); WILLIAMS COS INC (63%); CENTURYLINK INC (58%); VERIZON COMMUNICATIONS INC (58%); AMERICAN ELECTRONIC ASSOCIATION CREDIT UNION (56%); SABRE HOLDINGS CORP (52%); AMERICAN ELECTRONICS ASSOCIATION (56%); AMERICAN ELECTRONICS ASSOCIATION (56%); 

ORGANIZATION: AMERICAN ELECTRONICS ASSOCIATION (56%); AMERICAN ELECTRONICS ASSOCIATION (56%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: TULSA (OKLA); UNITED STATES (96%); OKLAHOMA, USA (96%); NORTH CAROLINA, USA (92%); CONNECTICUT, USA (92%); TULSA, OK, USA (95%); DURHAM, NC, USA (72%); RALEIGH, NC, USA (72%); 

SUBJECT: COMPUTERS AND THE INTERNET; LABOR; TELEPHONES AND TELECOMMUNICATIONS NEW ECONOMY (89%); OIL & GAS PIPELINES (89%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS (89%); OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (89%); CITY LIFE (78%); CITIES (78%); NATURAL GAS PRODUCTS (78%); POPULATION SIZE (78%); PIPELINE TRANSPORTATION (78%); ELECTRONICS (77%); COMPUTING & INFORMATION TECHNOLOGY (77%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS SECTOR PERFORMANCE (77%); INTERNET & WWW (77%); LABOR FORCE (77%); POPULATION & DEMOGRAPHICS (77%); COST OF LIVING (77%); CRUDE OIL PIPELINES (73%); BROADBAND (72%); FIBER OPTICS (72%); POLLS & SURVEYS (72%); EDUCATION SYSTEMS & INSTITUTIONS (72%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS SERVICES (71%); HOLDING COMPANIES (69%); MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (64%); WIRED TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (62%); 

PERSON: KOTKIN, JOEL BRADBURY H ANDERSON (52%); 

LOAD-DATE: July 16, 2000



374 of 757 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: July 16, 2000

SECTION: Section 3; Page 4; Column 6; Money and Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 789 words

HEADLINE: ECONOMIC VIEW;
Greenspan's Way of Pulling His Punches

BYLINE: By LOUIS UCHITELLE 

 BODY:
ALAN GREENSPAN gave two speeches last week. He was unusually talkative. He declaimed at length about financial crises, productivity, job training, education. But in all those hundreds of words, not one dealt with the current condition of the long economic expansion.
That is understandable. Talking about the expansion at this particular moment could get him or the economy, or both, into trouble. Wall Street hangs on his words, ready to send stock prices soaring if he signals that the Federal Reserve no longer needs to raise interest rates; the bubble that had seemed to subside would balloon again. Or he could warn about inflation, suggesting that it might accelerate because scarce workers are demanding, and getting, higher pay. The implicit solution: Let unemployment rise -- in an election year -- to tame the workers. 
 No wonder his speeches dwell on easier themes. He puts off assessing the economy until he can put it off no longer. That moment will come on Thursday when, as Fed chairman, he testifies before Congress on the state of the economy. The trick will be to explain what is happening without having the explanation change what is happening.
Mr. Greenspan will almost certainly note that the economy slowed in the second quarter from its blistering winter pace. He has no choice: the statistics are fairly convincing. The argument that saw the Fed through six interest-rate increases over the past year is temporarily unavailable. The economy no longer appears to be growing so rapidly that the demand for goods and services exceeds the supply, threatening faster inflation.
But does that mean that the Fed is done raising rates? Is further slowing no longer necessary? Mr. Greenspan certainly does not want to leave that impression.
Just as rate increases or the threat of them tend to inhibit stock market investors -- for myriad reasons, not all of them rational -- the suggestion that rates won't rise tends to produce exuberance. Stock prices could climb after months of moving sideways. Demand and spending would then grow as stock portfolios fattened and consumers felt flush again -- a sequence called the wealth effect. And the economy's growth rate would rebound to what the Fed considers an inflationary level.
Maybe things have changed, and the old exuberance can no longer be summoned so easily. "The tone of the marketplace is a lot more subdued than it was six months ago," said Albert Wojnilower, a Wall Street economist. But soaring stock prices and a revived wealth effect remain dangers that are likely to prevent Mr. Greenspan from declaring that the economy has slowed enough.
SO he will almost certainly lace his assessment with caveats and ambiguity. After all, the growth rate cooled in the second quarter of 1999, only to turn torrid over the next nine months.
Moreover, not all of today's statistics portray a slowdown. Some, including the retail sales report on Friday, suggest unexpected strength. Loan rates still encourage borrowing. And the data is still coming in for June, not to mention July. Who knows what those numbers will tell the Fed before its next policy meeting, on Aug. 22?
"The sensible thing for Mr. Greenspan to say is that there have been scattered signs that economic growth is moderating, but they are far from convincing," said Chris Varvares, a partner at Macroeconomic Advisers in St. Louis. "That is our view, and that leaves the door wide open for him to do what he wants."
Mr. Wojnilower adds a note: "He could mention that the stock market has stopped adding wealth, and in that way give the message that if the stock market adds to wealth again, the slowdown might not continue."
There is a second aspect of inflation that Mr. Greenspan will almost certainly address. Apart from the oil shock, prices have been gradually rising this year, and some at the Fed think that inflation could continue to edge upward even if a slowdown persists. The concern is that low unemployment drives up wages and, in turn, prices.
That has not happened yet, despite many months of low unemployment. Some economists now declare the wage-price linkage broken, or effective only at an unemployment rate below today's 4 percent.
Mr. Greenspan himself is a doubter. He speaks much more often about improvements in productivity, in effect giving employers more revenue to pay for raises without raising prices. But in deference to a Fed tradition of linking wage increases and price increases, he is likely to mention the potential inflationary danger of a prolonged labor shortage.
Not that he will suggest a higher unemployment rate, or a crackdown on raises. Not in a Senate hearing room full of politicians three months before the election.
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photo: Alan Greenspan

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (79%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (92%); 

COMPANY: FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM (59%); FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM (59%); 

ORGANIZATION: FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM (59%); FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM (59%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%); NEW YORK, USA (92%); 

SUBJECT: UNITED STATES ECONOMY ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (90%); PRODUCTIVITY (90%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (90%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (90%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (89%); ECONOMIC POLICY (77%); PRICE INCREASES (76%); SALES FIGURES (76%); CENTRAL BANKS (76%); INTEREST RATES (75%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (74%); RETAIL SECTOR PERFORMANCE (60%); RETAIL SALES (50%); 

PERSON: UCHITELLE, LOUIS; GREENSPAN, ALAN (CHMN) ALAN GREENSPAN (92%); 

LOAD-DATE: July 16, 2000



375 of 757 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: July 16, 2000

SECTION: Section 3; Page 8; Column 1; Money and Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 872 words

HEADLINE: INVESTING WITH: Robert L. Friedman;
Mutual European Fund

BYLINE: By CAROLE GOULD 

 BODY:
AFTER years in the wilderness, value investing is staging a comeback, and Robert L. Friedman, who runs the $926.7 million Mutual European fund, is basking in it.
"These are good days for value investors," Mr. Friedman said from his office in Short Hills, N.J. "Europeans are running good companies with solid, often global businesses at a time when boards of directors are willing to restructure companies that need it. The confluence makes this better than any other time in European business history." 
 His investors are having good days, too. The fund returned 21.6 percent a year, on average, for the three years through June 30, compared with 14.9 percent for all Europe stock funds, according to Morningstar Inc.
Mr. Friedman, 41, takes a bottom-up approach to picking stocks, seeking good but out-of-favor companies that are selling at cheap prices. Ideally, he wants to buy shares at less than 60 percent of what he thinks they are worth today.
He looks for evidence of a catalyst that will push up a stock price toward a company's intrinsic worth, like aggressive new management or good prospects for merger, consolidation or a major revamping.
"Europe is in its infancy in the reorganization of companies," Mr. Friedman said. "Capital markets are opening up, and governments are more willing to let companies restructure. Even Western European countries with strong histories of socialism now recognize the need for corporate access to capital markets and the importance of company shares being properly valued."
While the fund has no geographic mandates, most of the companies it holds are in Western Europe. About a quarter of the portfolio is in British stocks, 20 percent in Scandinavia and 15 percent in France; there are smaller concentrations elsewhere. The fund is always at least 80 percent hedged against currency fluctuations, he said.
By Mr. Friedman's reckoning, large-capitalization stocks are becoming overvalued in Europe, though less so than in the United States. So he is now focusing on companies with market caps of $400 million to $40 billion.
In evaluating a company's finances, Mr. Friedman is less concerned about revenue growth than profitability. "If a company has good margin improvement on stagnant sales growth," he said, "management is doing serious cost-cutting or restructuring."
Mr. Friedman brings an American-style activist approach, a hallmark of the Mutual Series funds, to the fund's relationship with companies in the portfolio. "Shareholder activism will be very important in European markets going forward, because of the growing awareness on the part of institutional investors that management works for shareholders," he said, adding that Continental Europe was lagging behind Britain in adapting to the idea.
He sells stocks when discounts begin to shrink. When shares reach 60 to 90 percent of what he believes they are worth, "it's time to take money off the table," he said. And when they reach their full value, "we are largely gone."
 MR. FRIEDMAN sees bargains among European financial and engineering companies.
One of them, he says, is Irish Life and Permanent, an insurer with a small presence in the United States. "Ireland has been the tiger economy of Western Europe because of low tax rates, business-friendly government, economic growth in the upper single digits and inflation of less than 3 percent," he said, adding that demand for insurance is growing. For this company, he said, the catalyst is a potential rebound of the country's financial services sector, which was hurt earlier this year by rising interest rates.
Mr. Friedman bought Irish Life, which trades in London, at prices between 4.70 and 5.70 and figures its true worth at about 10; it closed on Friday at 5.36.
Another favorite is Powell Duffryn, a British conglomerate with specialty engineering and port services businesses. Mr. Friedman said it ought to be worth more than 7 a share; it now trades at 4.68.
He took a small initial position at 6 in early 1999, but rising interest rates depressed port revenue early this year, and the stock price slumped, letting Mr. Friedman scoop up more shares at prices of 3.50 to 4. He forecasts earnings growth of 12 to 15 percent a year, he said, because "management has really restructured the business."
Mr. Friedman also likes Internatio-Muller N.V., a Dutch engineering company specializing in plant design and construction that has agreed to merge with a local rival, Stork N.V., and sell off much of its business. Mr. Friedman opposes the timing of the merger; he wants Internatio-Muller to divest its assets first, pay a dividend to shareholders with the proceeds and then complete the merger. Dutch law provides little recourse to block the merger, he said, so he is trying to win over company management to his approach instead.
Whatever the outcome, he said, the fund will profit. "There's too much hidden value not to make money here," he said, "but not as much as if they postpone the merger until after the sale." He got in at about 20 euros a share in May, and puts the company's intrinsic worth at 18 to 25 euros before the sale and at 30 euros after. It closed on Friday at 18.4 euros.
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photo: The fund manager Robert L. Friedman with his wife, Christine, and 20-month-old son, Thomas, in their rooftop garden in Manhattan. (Nicole Bengiveno/The New York Times)
 
Chart: "Mutual European fund"
Category: Europe stock
Net assets: $926.7 million
Inception: November 1996
Manager: Robert L. Friedman since inception
Minimum purchase: $1,000 ($250 I.R.A.)
Portfolio turnover: 127%
3-year annualized return through May: 3122.9%
Category average: 15.9%
 
Sector breakdown
Financials: 21%
Health: 6%
Consumer durables: 7%
Other: 9%
Industrial cyclicals: 26%
Services: 31%
 
Fees
Front-end load: 5.75%
Deferred load: None
12b-1 fee: 0.35%
Expense ratio: 1.39%
(Sources: Morningstar Inc.; company reports)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: MORN (NASDAQ) (70%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS511120 PERIODICAL PUBLISHERS (70%); SIC7375 INFORMATION RETRIEVAL SERVICES (70%); SIC2721 PERIODICALS: PUBLISHING, OR PUBLISHING & PRINTING (70%); 

COUNTRY: EUROPE (98%); UNITED STATES (92%); WESTERN EUROPE (92%); FRANCE (79%); UNITED KINGDOM (79%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (74%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (74%); 

COMPANY: MUTUAL EUROPEAN FUND MORNINGSTAR INC (70%); 

ORGANIZATION: MUTUAL EUROPEAN FUND

GEOGRAPHIC: EUROPE (98%); UNITED STATES (92%); WESTERN EUROPE (92%); FRANCE (79%); UNITED KINGDOM (79%); NEW YORK, USA (74%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (74%); 

SUBJECT: STOCKS AND BONDS; MUTUAL FUNDS MUTUAL FUNDS (90%); MARKET CAPITALIZATION (89%); SHAREHOLDERS (88%); SALES FIGURES (78%); BONDS (78%); CORPORATE RESTRUCTURING (76%); MERGERS (74%); BOARDS OF DIRECTORS (71%); CURRENCIES (68%); COMPANY PROFITS (68%); 

PERSON: GOULD, CAROLE; FRIEDMAN, ROBERT L ROBERT L FRIEDMAN (96%); 

LOAD-DATE: July 16, 2000



376 of 757 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: July 16, 2000

SECTION: Section 3; Page 7; Column 2; Money and Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 1050 words

HEADLINE: INVESTING;
Headhunters Turn a Few On Wall Street

BYLINE: By REED ABELSON 

 BODY:
INVESTORS have been bidding up more than dot-coms into the stratosphere.
In a labor market squeezed tightly by the demands of a robust economy and the Internet, stocks of executive search firms have been spectacular performers of late. The stock of Korn/Ferry International has more than doubled since the company went public in February of last year, while Heidrick & Struggles International, which made its debut two months later, has nearly quintupled. TMP Worldwide, which went public in 1996, has since increased more than fivefold, more than doubling in the last year alone. 
 "The competition for talent is incredible," said Mitchell Rubin, a portfolio manager for Baron Capital, which owns these stocks. He credits the strong economy and a fundamental shift toward information-based businesses. "Right now is nirvana," he said.
By combining traditional search businesses with the promise of the Internet through online recruiting ventures, these companies appear to be making good on the promise of "bricks into clicks," said Mary Lisanti, the chief investment officer for equities at Pilgrim Advisors, which owns both Korn/Ferry and Heidrick.
But while these firms are benefiting tremendously from boom times, and their close but not too-close proximity to the technology sector, some analysts and investors worry about the impact when the economy slows down. These companies have been in an "upward spiral," said Kenneth Broad, a portfolio manager for Franklin Templeton Investments, who has passed on these stocks. "If and when they trip, there's a downward spiral," he said.
The climb has surpassed expectations and shows no sign of ending anytime soon. Revenue of the 25 largest firms nearly doubled since 1996, to about $1.3 billion at the end of 1999, according to Hunt-Scanlon Advisors, a Stamford, Conn., firm that tracks the recruiting industry. Hunt-Scanlon predicts that industry revenue will grow at least 15 to 20 percent in 2000 and that online recruiting will become an $8 billion industry by 2005, up from only $250 million last year.
Just last week, Heidrick & Struggles, the world's largest executive recruiter, said it expected to report in early August a gain of more than 40 percent in quarterly revenue -- as well as higher-than-expected earnings.
The search business, already expanding overseas, could see explosive global growth as the Internet catches on. Recruiting in Latin America, Europe and Asia "is going to be the next big phenomenon," said Brian P. Lee, chief marketing strategist at Hunt-Scanlon. As if to underscore the point, last week Vicente Fox Quesada, the Mexican president-elect, hired Korn/Ferry to help him fill key government positions.
Investors have already been impressed with the online efforts of some companies. Heidrick offers LeadersOnline.com, which combines traditional search techniques with online tools; Korn/Ferry's Futurestep.com is aimed at middle managers.
TMP Worldwide's claim to fame online is its popular Monster.com job board, for anyone seeking a job. The company has teamed with America Online to offer help-wanted ads and provides an inexpensive way to recruit, said Ann Miletti, an associate portfolio manager at Strong Capital, which owns TMP shares. "As a firm, we use the Monster board, too," Ms. Miletti said. The site says it has 15.2 million unique visits a month.
While some investors feel that the search companies' stocks are not yet priced to an extreme, the market has certainly been kind. Heidrick now trades at $68.46875, a 52-week high and nearly 46 times its estimated earnings per share for this year. Korn/ Ferry closed at $34, for a comparable multiple of 31. TMP, which represents more of a bet on its ability to remain the dominant Web site, trades at $77.0625, or a comparable multiple of 87.
But not everyone is convinced that search firms make for good public companies. Competitors like Spencer Stuart and Russell Reynolds Associates have chosen to remain private -- at least for now. "The market is very fickle," said Joseph E. Griesedieck, the chief executive of Spencer Stuart.
While the current business environment puts a high value on these companies' services, investors have not always been so generous. If the search business slows, they could be quick to punish the stocks.
Indeed, search firms have had trouble navigating public waters when times were not so good. Korn/Ferry, for example, was a public company briefly in the early 1970's before choosing to go private again. LAI Worldwide, formerly Lamalie Associates, which was the only public search firm for a time, was a dismal stock market performer that was bought last year by TMP.
Investors also make huge demands of public companies. "As a public firm, there is a tremendous amount of pressure to grow your revenues," said Mr. Lee. By contrast, the private firms "can be a lot more selective in the assignments they take on," he said. Russell Reynolds and Spencer Stuart, for example, boast higher revenues per consultant than the public companies, he said.
Another issue for the search industry is the general prohibition against raiding one client company to find an executive for another. That makes it difficult to become too large a player, because too many places are off-limits, Mr. Broad said. "It's a natural catch-22 for growth," he said.
AND what happens if the Internet frenzy or the overall economy comes to a screeching halt? While few people predict a major slowdown anytime soon, these companies would be affected if fewer people were hopping from job to job. The level of vulnerability, however, is unclear.
"They are cyclical stocks in the sense that the labor market is tight," said Ms. Miletti of Strong Capital. But she and the other proponents of these stocks argue that these companies would prove fairly resilient in any downturn, especially given their online activities. "The costs are so much less, it's compelling," she said.
But Mr. Broad of Franklin Templeton is not sure. Some companies, like Korn/Ferry and Heidrick, are sometimes paid in stock warrants by start-up clients. While that has benefited them as many stocks have soared, a downturn could act "like a magnifying glass on the stocks," he said. All of which might make for a pretty hard landing.
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Drawing (Christophe Vorlet)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: KFY (NYSE) (85%); MWW (NYSE) (57%); BEN (NYSE) (54%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS541612 HUMAN RESOURCES CONSULTING SERVICES (85%); SIC7361 EMPLOYMENT AGENCIES (85%); NAICS561320 TEMPORARY HELP SERVICES (57%); NAICS541810 ADVERTISING AGENCIES (57%); NAICS523999 MISCELLANEOUS FINANCIAL INVESTMENT ACTIVITIES (54%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (54%); 

COUNTRY: LATIN AMERICA (79%); MEXICO (79%); EUROPE (79%); UNITED STATES (79%); ASIA (66%); 

STATE: CONNECTICUT, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: KORN/FERRY INTERNATIONAL (85%); MONSTER WORLDWIDE INC (57%); FRANKLIN RESOURCES INC (54%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: LATIN AMERICA (79%); MEXICO (79%); EUROPE (79%); UNITED STATES (79%); ASIA (66%); CONNECTICUT, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: EXECUTIVES AND MANAGEMENT; COMPUTERS AND THE INTERNET EMPLOYMENT SERVICES (90%); INTERNET & WWW (90%); INITIAL PUBLIC OFFERINGS (79%); BUSINESS FORECASTS (79%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (78%); EXECUTIVES (77%); INTERIM FINANCIAL RESULTS (76%); MARKETING STRATEGY (73%); COMPANY REVENUES (70%); COMPANY EARNINGS (70%); 

PERSON: ABELSON, REED VICENTE FOX QUESADA (50%); 

LOAD-DATE: July 16, 2000



377 of 757 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: July 16, 2000

SECTION: Section 4; Page 15; Column 1; Editorial Desk 

LENGTH: 719 words

HEADLINE: Reckonings;
Who's Acquiring Whom?

BYLINE: By PAUL KRUGMAN 

 BODY:
For those of us who remember the great wave of foreign investment in the United States between 1986 and 1990, it's starting to feel like deja vu all over again. Lately hardly a week goes by without news that yet another American business icon has become part of a foreign-based corporate empire. Some of the acquirees are the very companies that in the past tried to use their all-American identity as a marketing tool. For example, in the days of Lee Iacocca, Chrysler tried to convince people that there was something patriotic about buying mediocre cars festooned with chrome and simulated wood paneling. But now the minivan has married the Mercedes: Chrysler has become the junior partner in DaimlerChrysler. Seagram (strictly speaking a Canadian company, but with its center of gravity well south of the border) is being absorbed by the French firm Vivendi. And most recently, Union Bank of Switzerland has announced that it is acquiring PaineWebber -- that symbol of America's belief that it is both possible and good to become rich.
Yet history is not quite repeating itself. In the 1980's we reacted badly to the prospect of large-scale foreign ownership of American companies -- a reaction that was all the sillier because America had always ridiculed foreigners who expressed similar concerns about our multinationals. This time, the American public seems to be taking foreign investment rather calmly. 
 One reason for the difference may be that Americans just don't find today's European acquirers as sinister as the Japanese investors of the 80's. Is this racism? No doubt. But Japan a decade ago did seem to be playing by its own rules, in a way that the Europeans don't. (Actually, you do hear occasional complaints about France that echo what we used to say about Japan -- that while French companies are free to buy up competitors in Britain or America, when it comes to things like telecommunications the French government makes sure that the national team has a home advantage. But somehow "France S.A." doesn't sound as scary as "Japan Inc.")
Probably more important is that whereas in the 1980's America seemed to be selling itself to foreign companies out of weakness, this time foreigners seem to be buying into America because of its strength. The last foreign investment boom began after the dollar plunged against the yen and Europe's currencies in 1985-86; this made American investments look cheap, especially to Japanese companies whose stocks sold at the time at multiples worthy of a millennial dot-com. (Only later would the Japanese realize that this was the era of the "bubble economy.") Now, of course, the dollar is strong and so are U.S. stocks -- though the Europeans seem to be buying mainly companies whose valuations are not that far out of line with tradition.
So why are the Europeans buying? Partly because America, with its amazing "new economy," is where the growth prospects are. And partly also because the foreign buyers hope that they are buying not just bricks and mortar but also knowhow, that they can take a bit of that new economy back to headquarters.
And that is surely the really big difference between today and the late 1980's. It's hard to believe now, but a decade ago America was afflicted with severe self-doubt. These days we are so self-confident that, like Chinese conquered by barbarians in centuries past, we tend to assume that in a very short time our new rulers will be assimilated -- that a foreign firm that acquires a big chunk of corporate America will soon be an American firm in all but name. After all, hasn't DaimlerChrysler decided to adopt English as its corporate language? (And Vivendi -- sacre bleu! -- intends to do the same.)
So it's possible that the public acceptance of this new wave of foreign investment is mainly just a matter of complacency -- that we are currently so full of ourselves that we feel that in effect we are acquiring them, not the other way around.
But I'd like to think that there's more going on here than good old-fashioned American arrogance. We are a more sophisticated nation than we used to be -- better traveled and more aware of the world outside. And maybe, just maybe, we are even sophisticated enough to understand and accept the idea that globalization is a two-way street. 
http://www.nytimes.com

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Op-Ed

TICKER: UBSN (SWX) (69%); UBS (NYSE) (69%); VIV (PAR) (58%); VIV (BIT) (58%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (69%); SIC6029 COMMERCIAL BANKS, NEC (69%); NAICS517210 WIRELESS TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (EXCEPT SATELLITE) (58%); NAICS515120 TELEVISION BROADCASTING (58%); NAICS512110 MOTION PICTURE & VIDEO PRODUCTION (58%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (99%); JAPAN (94%); EUROPE (93%); FRANCE (91%); SWITZERLAND (79%); SOUTHERN EUROPE (54%); 

COMPANY: UBS AG (69%); VIVENDI (58%); UNION BANK OF SWITZERLAND (56%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (99%); JAPAN (94%); EUROPE (93%); FRANCE (91%); SWITZERLAND (79%); SOUTHERN EUROPE (54%); 

SUBJECT: UNITED STATES ECONOMY; MERGERS, ACQUISITIONS AND DIVESTITURES; FOREIGN INVESTMENTS FOREIGN INVESTMENT (91%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); ECONOMIC BUBBLE (78%); MOTOR VEHICLES (75%); MULTINATIONAL CORPORATIONS (73%); MILLENNIUM (60%); 

PERSON: KRUGMAN, PAUL PAUL KRUGMAN (50%); 

LOAD-DATE: July 16, 2000



378 of 757 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: July 16, 2000

SECTION: Section 4; Page 5; Column 1; Week in Review Desk 

LENGTH: 935 words

HEADLINE: Ideas & Trends;
Soaking the Rich Isn't What It Used To Be

BYLINE: By STEVEN GREENHOUSE 

 BODY:
THE belief that anyone can grow rich in America took root even before the colonies decided to become a nation. This faith has outlasted innumerable depressions, recessions, inflations and deflations, and today, with somewhere between 4 million and 5 million millionaires in the country, more than 4 percent of all households, it seems stronger than ever.
It's wise to keep this fiscal theology in mind when trying to understand the push Congressional Republicans are making to repeal the estate tax -- and the unexpectedly wide support they've garnered, both in Congress and among many Americans. The Senate voted 59 to 39 on Friday to repeal the tax over 10 years, at an estimated cost of $104 billion in lost revenue over the next decade, and $750 billion the decade after. In June, the House, including 63 Democrats, voted 279 to 136 for repeal. 
 President Woodrow Wilson signed the estate tax into law in 1916 to help finance World War I and, to some degree, soak the rich. Its supporters extended from Theodore Roosevelt to Franklin Delano Roosevelt to Lyndon B. Johnson, who believed the tax would narrow the chasm between rich and poor.
In this tradition, President Clinton has vowed to veto a repeal as a handout to the rich, money he says could be better used to pay for prescriptions for the elderly. But the Republicans are betting that the days are over for class warfare over taxes, and they may be right. Attitudes have changed as the investor class has swelled and ordinary Americans play the stock market.
Even though only the wealthiest 2 percent of Americans who die each year would benefit if the tax were repealed, a remarkable 60 percent of Americans support repeal, according to a June Gallup poll. In another example of optimism outrunning reality, 17 percent of those polled thought the tax would apply to them.
"A lot of people who do not have estates large enough to be taxed are worrying that someday down the road they will," said Bruce Bartlett, a senior fellow at the National Center for Policy Analysis, a conservative research group. The ranks of the worried are swelling along with real estate prices in prosperous suburbs and urban neighborhoods from Florida to Boston to Chicago.
Representative Nydia M. Velazquez, a liberal New York Democrat who might have been expected to oppose repeal, instead embraces it. " Maybe 5 and 10 years ago it didn't make sense, but it does make sense today given the reality of the real estate market and the fast-growing values of small business," she said. "This represents a real financial burden on a lot of people."
It is another measure of just how popular the issue has become that the Democrats felt compelled to offer a compromise, which would have reduced the tax, not abolished it. That was voted down on Thursday.
Under current law, estates are generally exempt from federal taxation up to $675,000, an amount scheduled to climb to $1 million by 2006. Family-owned businesses and farms are exempt up to $1.3 million. The tax, which hit 47,596 estates in 1997 (out of the 2.3 million Americans who died), starts at 37 percent and climbs to a maximum of 55 percent.
Defenders of the tax see it as a tool for raising revenues and, more fundamentally, for narrowing the nation's economic inequities. To hear them talk, the only people who pay it are billionaires like Warren Buffet and Bill Gates.
Lobbyists for repeal, however, condemn what they see as a death tax that socks mostly farmers and small businesses, hard-working people who have pulled themselves up, creating wealth and jobs.
"I thought government was supposed to protect our property, not confiscate it, not penalize someone because they've been successful," said Senator Don Nickles, an Oklahoma Republican.
Supporters of the tax point out that estate tax payments by farmers represent only 1 percent of the taxes paid.
"The other side has done a pretty good job of selling it, in pretending that it's the little guys who pay it," said Robert McIntyre, executive director of Citizens for Tax Justice, a Washington-based advocacy group that wants to retain the tax.
Charles Davenport, a tax expert at Rutgers University in Newark, said repealing the tax would mean a $7 million tax cut for the top one-tenth of one percent of families. "Why is it that the people who have enjoyed the greatest run-up in wealth in the last decade deserve a tax break now of this amount?" he said. "There's no compelling argument."
Supporters of repeal make their own arguments about fairness. They charge unfair double taxation, noting that much of the wealth hit by the inheritance tax has already been subject to income and capital gains taxes. More ingeniously, repealers make what might be called a stupidity argument. They claim the tax is unfair because as the economists Henry Aaron and Alicia Munnell once wrote, it is "imposed on those who neglect to plan ahead or retain unskilled estate planners." Mr. Bartlett, the tax expert, said, "It's a tax on ignorance."
Finally, according to many analysts, it is no coincidence that the push to abolish the tax has picked up steam at the same time that millionaires are playing an increasingly dominant role in financing campaigns.
Edward McCaffery, a law professor at the University of Southern California who favors eliminating the tax, said that the mere threat of repeal is good for Republican and Democrat alike.
"It keeps the campaign contributions coming in," he said. "You don't need a lot of people who care about this issue because the people who care about it have a lot of money."
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photo: Will the tax man still follow the Grim Reaper? (Suzanne DeChillo/The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: MASSACHUSETTS, USA (78%); 

CITY: BOSTON, MA, USA (78%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (78%); BOSTON, MA, USA (78%); 

SUBJECT: TAXATION; INHERITANCE AND ESTATE TAXES TAXES & TAXATION (90%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (90%); ESTATE TAX (90%); TRENDS (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); DEFLATION (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); VOTERS & VOTING (89%); POLITICAL PARTIES (89%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (89%); REAL ESTATE (89%); CONSERVATISM (78%); LIBERALISM (78%); PUBLIC POLICY (78%); ECONOMIC DEPRESSION (78%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); POLLS & SURVEYS (77%); TAX RELIEF (76%); TAX LAW (76%); VETO (76%); TAX EXEMPTIONS (75%); NEWS BRIEFS (74%); HOME PRICES (73%); HOUSING MARKET (73%); US PRESIDENTS (73%); REAL ESTATE VALUATIONS (73%); WORLD WAR I (73%); RELIGION (73%); HOUSEHOLD NUMBERS (72%); REAL ESTATE MARKET (69%); CITY LIFE (50%); CITIES (50%); 

PERSON: GREENHOUSE, STEVEN BILL CLINTON (57%); NYDIA VELAZQUEZ (55%); 

LOAD-DATE: July 16, 2000



379 of 757 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: July 16, 2000

SECTION: Section 4; Page 1; Column 1; Week in Review Desk 

LENGTH: 1347 words

HEADLINE: Ideas & Trends: Taking Stock;
The Perils and Profits of Lawmakers in the Market

BYLINE: By DON VAN NATTA Jr. 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON

 BODY:
IT is the new risk for the politician in this new economy: lawmakers who actively invest are discovering that their stock portfolios have become yet another area of their personal lives that is vulnerable to attack.
In years past, scandals were fueled by a public official's indiscretions, either sexual (like adultery) or financial (like bribery), and the consequences were rarely in doubt. Today, a scandal can be set off by vaguer questions about the propriety of a politician's use of complex financial transactions. 
 The public cannot always agree on what the consequences should be for politicians who used their position to get a taste of a particularly sweet I.P.O. Often, it is almost impossible to determine whether their market moves have crossed an ethical or legal line. Yet on the national stage there is a growing crowd of investor-politicians.
Senator Robert G. Torricelli, behaving at times like a day trader, bought and sold stocks more than 100 times last year. During one frenzied week, Mr. Torricelli, a New Jersey Democrat, dipped in and out of a basketful of high-technology stocks, owning shares of DrKoop.com and Novell for a matter of hours. Critics have accused Mr. Torricelli of parlaying his connections to corporate leaders to make investments that have paid off handsomely.
Representative Rick A. Lazio, the New York Republican now running for the Senate, purchased stock options in the Quick & Reilly brokerage firm in August 1997. Days later, the company announced it was seeking a buyer, its stock price soared and Mr. Lazio's first-ever options investment netted him a 600 percent profit. The Securities and Exchange Commission is investigating whether he violated insider trader laws.
Both Mr. Torricelli and Mr. Lazio say they have done nothing wrong, and there is no evidence either man did anything illegal, or violated any Congressional ethics rules.
Last month, Ralph Nader, who is the Green Party presidential nominee, disclosed that he owns $1.2 million worth of stock in Cisco Systems, one of many technology companies in his portfolio.
Members of Congress -- and even Mr. Nader, an outspoken critic of corporate wealth and power -- are pursuing personal fortunes in the market with as much zeal as many of their constituents. The question is whether those successes are the product of good timing, savvy or something else.
Government scholars and former lawmakers are increasingly questioning whether aggressive investing by elected officials is appropriate behavior since politicians are often privy to corporate secrets. And a politician's own action or inaction on legislation can easily move individual stocks and even whole markets.
Paul Simon, the former Illinois senator, said lawmakers have so much access to inside information that only their own "self-restraint" guards against any urge to use the information when making personal investment decisions. "I suspected that it was happening while I was in the Senate," said Mr. Simon, who left the Senate in 1997. "I think this is going to be a growing abuse if we don't put up some safeguards."
THE safeguard mentioned most often is a blind trust, in which a professional manages stocks, shielding their identity from the holder.
"I'm a real purist, and I believe that when people move into the Senate or the House, they ought to put everything they own in a blind trust," said Kathleen Hall Jamieson, dean of the Annenberg School for Communication at the University of Pennsylvania.
President Clinton and past presidents have used blind trusts, as have some senators and House members. But in recent years, a greater number of members of Congress have actively bought and sold individual stocks. Some enter the Senate already rich, but scholars wonder how many become millionaires while serving there.
"Our elected officials are in a position to influence stock prices and get special access to information that is potentially useful to their personal interests," said Ms. Jamieson, who wrote "Everything You Think You Know About Politics -- And Why You're Wrong" (Basic Books, 2000). "And you don't want them to make public policy decisions about something they have a self-interest in."
Mr. Torricelli, one of the Senate's most active stock traders, has not been accused of that, but he has taken advantage of opportunities not generally available to the investing public, which has raised issues about whether the favor givers will want something in return. For example, the senator invested $5,000 last year in an Internet startup named e.Volve and the value of his stock skyrocketed to $225,000 within a few months.
In Mr. Lazio's case, he bought stock and options in Quick & Reilly, whose top executives were major contributors to his past campaigns. Some of them also served as executives of the Securities Industry Association, which actively lobbies the House Subcommittee on Finance, on which Mr. Lazio serves; the Congressional group has jurisdiction over many issues directly affecting the brokerage industry.
Self-enrichment is not a new trend in politics. But the recent explosion in stock trading has provided many more opportunities for it. Pork is an old tradition, with legislators delivering rich contracts to their districts. In rare cases, some make money in the process.
Lawmakers are steeped in inside information. If they don't hear stock tips in the executive session of a committee meeting, they can pick them up after hours at fund-raising events, where wealthy corporate leaders often speak freely about their businesses.
BUT it is one thing to hear the tips and quite another to act on them.
"We first noticed this during the health care debate in 1994," said Charles Lewis, the executive director of the Center for Public Integrity. "Forty members of the five key committees all had health care stocks, and some were selling and buying stocks during the markup session." The best safeguard to such behavior, Mr. Lewis argued, is public outrage and the vigilance of watchdogs and journalists.
Members of Congress are required to file annual financial disclosure forms listing their assets and debts. The forms, though, provide the haziest of pictures because lawmakers need only list their assets according to very wide ranges, from $2,001 to $15,000, for example. When the information is released each June, journalists write brief reports summarizing the net worths of the wealthiest senators.
"The average American does have a right to know that their lawmaker is basically a day trader," Mr. Lewis said. "Most people who watch the Hill closely believe this happens, and I'm one of those people. I think lawmakers have made money from their inside knowledge of the inner workings of government. But I can't prove it."
Another problem with such matters is their complexity. The Clintons' Whitewater land deal, for example, was so complicated that very few Americans understood it; most Americans' response was probably shaped by the fact that the Clintons lost money. The real estate deal seems quaint when compared with politicians' participation today in highly intricate transactions. Hillary Rodham Clinton's $100,000 profit in the commodities market was easier to grasp, but failed to enrage most Americans.
"Everyone seems to be doing well in the market, and everyone hears stock tips," said Joel Silbey, a professor of history at Cornell University. "In this atmosphere, why should any of the elected officials who are doing it really worry that their actions might affect them adversely on election day?"
James Carville, the Democratic consultant, said there is only way to curb the potential for legislators to use inside information to enhance their investment portfolios. "But the public will never agree with it," Mr. Carville cautioned.
"The answer is to pay them more salary, pay them $300,000 a year," he said. "And make it mandatory that all their investments go in a blind trust. The cheapest thing is to pay them some real money, and take away the temptation to do something wrong."
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Drawing (Nancy Carpenter)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: CSCO (NASDAQ) (55%); VITC (NASDAQ) (55%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS541512 COMPUTER SYSTEMS DESIGN SERVICES (55%); NAICS511210 SOFTWARE PUBLISHERS (55%); SIC7379 COMPUTER RELATED SERVICES, NEC (55%); SIC7373 COMPUTER INTEGRATED SYSTEMS DESIGN (55%); SIC7372 PREPACKAGED SOFTWARE (55%); NAICS334210 TELEPHONE APPARATUS MANUFACTURING (55%); SIC3661 TELEPHONE & TELEGRAPH APPARATUS (55%); NAICS446191 FOOD (HEALTH) SUPPLEMENT STORES (55%); SIC5961 CATALOG & MAIL-ORDER HOUSES (55%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); 

STATE: ILLINOIS, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: NOVELL INC (55%); CISCO SYSTEMS INC (55%); VITACOST.COM INC (55%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%); ILLINOIS, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: UNITED STATES POLITICS AND GOVERNMENT; ETHICS; STOCKS AND BONDS POLITICS (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); WEALTH MANAGEMENT (89%); STOCK OPTIONS (89%); ETHICS (89%); SCANDALS (89%); INVESTIGATIONS (89%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (78%); INSIDER TRADING (78%); POLITICAL CORRUPTION (78%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (78%); SECURITIES TRADING (74%); NEWS BRIEFS (74%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (73%); BONDS (73%); BRIBERY (73%); POLITICAL PARTIES (72%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (72%); US GREEN PARTY (72%); SECURITIES LAW (70%); LEGISLATION (69%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (66%); PRICE INCREASES (50%); 

PERSON: VAN NATTA, DON JR RALPH NADER (79%); 

LOAD-DATE: July 16, 2000



380 of 757 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: July 16, 2000

SECTION: Section 4; Page 15; Column 6; Editorial Desk 

LENGTH: 741 words

HEADLINE: Liberties;
The $7 Million Man

BYLINE: By MAUREEN DOWD 

 BODY:
I ask Jack Welch what could possibly make his book worth $7.1 million.
Is there any sex in it? 
 "Very little," he says, laughing.
Authors used to be lavished with money for writing scintillating love scenes. But the Valley of the Dolls has been replaced by the Silicon Valley of the dot-coms. The sexiest thing in America is no longer sex. It's money.
Last week, Harry Potter had to make room for some adult fantasies: not about conjuring up pin cushions from hedgehogs, but about conjuring up cash -- lots and lots of cash.
Call it the literature of lucre, the Bildungsroman of the bottom line. First Random House gave Robert Rubin, the investment banker and former treasury secretary who masterminded the new culture of wealth, $3.3 million for his story. Then Time Warner ponied up $7.1 million to Mr. Welch, the chairman of G.E., who has been described by Fortune Magazine as "the leading management revolutionary of the century."
Mr. Welch's book auction broke the record for a nonfiction book. It was $4 million more than Paula Barbieri got for describing life with O.J., and half a million or so more than either Colin Powell got for his heroic saga or the pope got for writing about spirituality.
Mr. Welch, raised in a good Irish Catholic family in Salem, Mass., was a little embarrassed that he trumped the pope.
Calling Friday night from the locker room after a golf tournament, he confided: "I got an e-mail from a friend about the bidding that said, 'You should have cut it short at the pope. Now you're dead. Didn't your altar boy days teach you that?' "
Then again, Mr. Welch -- who says he will give all the earnings from his book to charity -- did have the same agent as the pope. His literary agent was Mark Reiter at Mark McCormack's International Management Group. Mr. McCormack, a prominent sports agent, handled the promotion of some of the pope's trips abroad.
We may have a numbing presidential contest between a couple of beta males, two pampered scions of famous families whose paths were laid out for them.
But "Neutron Jack" is ready to spill all his alpha secrets. "This guy is the Vince Lombardi of business," says John Huey, the Fortune editor. The stock price of G.E. from the time the 64-year-old took over the company 20 years ago is a vertiginous vertical line that has made him the most widely aped and studied executive in the land.
Publishers, who see the pilots of the new turbo-charged economy as the hot celebrities, are clearly hoping for another Iacocca.
Mr. Welch says he hopes his Scout's-oath style of advice will be uplifting -- "Be true to yourself, be honest with others, say what you think, go with your instincts, teach people that you can stretch and grow in ways you never thought possible.
"It's like a dinner party with 12 people. You bring as many intellects together as you can and then take the best ideas out of each. The leader who gets the most ideas from the most sources will have the most success."
Just as Bob Rubin has been mentioned as a Democratic vice-presidential prospect, Donald Trump used to say he might have chosen Jack Welch.
But Mr. Welch, who says he is "a Republican fiscally but a Democrat on many social issues," demurs. "I don't touch politics," he says.
"In government, the best ideas don't always win. The president has to deal with Congress. In government, you're always compromising. You sell out on some principle and get something else for it. In business, you're not. You can be totally free. In a company, we have the luxury of being able to remove values we don't like."
He's not worried about the dot-com bubble bursting. "I think we've handled the shakeout quite well," he says. "There's no new economy. It's the same old economy with new technology. We get rid of some of the numbing, boring jobs and make society better and more creative."
He rejects the notion that our national fixation on money and easy millions is unhealthy. He thinks America has grown more like the earnest 50's -- when housewives were snapping up G.E.'s new-fangled appliances -- than the greed-is-good 80's.
"The young kids we're hiring today are focused and excited," he says. "They believe in hard work and giving back to the community and in having balanced lives. I don't see more greed or less greed now. A lot of people have participated in this market. It's not confined to a narrow group of fat cats. The boats have risen everywhere." 
http://www.nytimes.com

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Op-Ed

TICKER: TWX (NYSE) (90%); 

INDUSTRY: SIC7941 PROFESSIONAL SPORTS CLUBS & PROMOTERS (52%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (90%); 

STATE: MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: GENERAL ELECTRIC CORP; TIME WARNER INC INTERNATIONAL MANAGEMENT GROUP (52%); 

ORGANIZATION: GENERAL ELECTRIC CORP; TIME WARNER INC

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (90%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: Terms not available from NYTimes. WRITERS (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); CATHOLICS & CATHOLICISM (90%); CHRISTIANS & CHRISTIANITY (87%); PUBLISHING (78%); LITERATURE (78%); LITERARY AGENTS (78%); CELEBRITIES (77%); FAMILY (74%); NON FICTION LITERATURE (73%); AUCTIONS (72%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (69%); SPORTS AGENTS & PROMOTERS (69%); SPORTS & RECREATION EVENTS (64%); INTERNATIONAL TOURISM (61%); GOLF (50%); GOLF TOURNAMENTS (50%); 

PERSON: DOWD, MAUREEN; WELCH, JOHN F JR JACK WELCH (90%); 

LOAD-DATE: July 16, 2000



381 of 757 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: July 16, 2000

SECTION: Section 3; Page 19; Column 3; Money and Business/Financial Desk

LENGTH: 191 words

HEADLINE: DATABANK: JULY 10-14;
Technology Regains Some of Its Allure

BYLINE: By VIVIAN MARINO

 BODY:
Gold-plated corporate earnings and a tame inflation report gave Wall Street something to cheer about last week -- especially those investors with a hankering for technology.
The Nasdaq composite index, which includes many beaten-down Internet and computer companies, jumped 222.98, to 4,246.18, its highest finish in more than three months. The Dow Jones industrial average was up 176.77, at 10,812.75.
 
 Technology represents the most dynamic potential growth area in this economy, said Alfred E. Goldman, chief market strategist for A. G. Edwards & Company in St. Louis. By buying tech, investors are showing renewed confidence in the outlook for the economy.
 Analysts believe the Federal Reserve is finished with raising interest rates for the time being, as the economy has shown signs of slowing and wholesale inflation appeared to be under control in June, according to government data.
 Among last week's winners were technology companies that reported strong quarterly earnings, like Motorola and Altera.Financial stocks also fared well, including J. P. Morgan, which reported strong quarterly profits. VIVIAN MARINO
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Chart: "STOCKS IN THE NEWS"
PaineWebber
NYSE: PWJ
The Swiss banking group UBS agreed to buy PaineWebber, the fourth-biggest brokerage firm in the United States, for about $12 billion, or $73.50 a share, in cash and stock.
Friday's Close -- $69.00
Week's Change -- +53.33%
EST. '00 P/E -- 16.95
 
Krispy Kreme Doughnuts
NNM: KREM
The chief executive of the doughnut store chain, Scott Livengood, said the temporary closing of stores for remodeling would slow sales growth to the mid-single digits for the rest of the year.
Friday's Close -- $65.50
Week's Change -- -17.61%
EST. '00 P/E -- 77.06
 
Yahoo
NNM: YHOO
The Internet-navigation company reported second-quarter earnings of $65.5 million, or 11 cents a share, exceeding analysts' projections of 10 cents a share. Revenue was $270 million, beating forecasts of $240 million.
Friday's Close -- $128.00
Week's Change -- +9.87%
EST. '00 P/E -- 270.04
 
Pentair
NYSE: PNR
The tools and equipment maker said it expected second-quarter earnings of 75 cents a share and full-year earnings of $3.25 a share. Analysts expected Pentair to earn 90 cents in the quarter and $3.66 for the year.
Friday's Close -- $29.4375
Week's Change -- -17.22%
EST. '00 P/E -- 9.08
 
Quantum Effect Devices
NNM: QEDI
The Canadian chip maker PMC-Sierra agreed to acquire Quantum for $2.3 billion in stock. Quantum makes microprocessors for consumer electronics products, computers and networking equipment.
Friday's Close -- $82.5625
Week's Change -- +28.25%
EST. '00 P/E -- --
 
International Speedway
NNM: ISCA
The company said its fiscal third-quarter earnings would be 2 to 3 cents below analysts' estimates of 27 cents a share because of lower-than-expected Nascar race attendance.
Friday's Close -- $34.125
Week's Change -- -22.33%
EST. '00 P/E -- 32.32
 
SDL
NNM: SDLI
JDS Uniphase agreed to buy the rival maker of parts for fiber optic equipment for about $41 billion. SDL shareholders would receive 3.8 JDS shares for each SDL share, or about $441.51.
Friday's Close -- $369.50
Week's Change -- +25.12%
EST. '00 P/E -- 304.37
 
Whitehall Jewellers
NYSE: JWL
The jewelry retailer said it expected a profit of 2 to 5 cents a share in its second fiscal quarter, well below the 18-cent average estimate of analysts.
Friday's Close -- $8.00
Week's Change -- -56.01%
EST. '00 P/E -- 7.62
(Source: Bloomberg Financial Markets)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: MSI (NYSE) (56%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS334220 RADIO & TELEVISION BROADCASTING & WIRELESS COMMUNICATIONS EQUIPMENT MANUFACTURING (56%); SIC3663 RADIO & TELEVISION BROADCASTING & COMMUNICATIONS EQUIPMENT (56%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (79%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (92%); 

COMPANY: MOTOROLA SOLUTIONS INC (56%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%); NEW YORK, USA (92%); 

SUBJECT: Terms not available from NYTimes. STOCK INDEXES (92%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); FINANCIAL RESULTS (90%); COMPANY EARNINGS (90%); INTERIM FINANCIAL RESULTS (88%); NETWORKING EQUIPMENT (88%); WHOLESALE PRICES (88%); COMPANY PROFITS (88%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (88%); INTEREST RATES (53%); 

PERSON: VIVIAN MARINO (56%); ALFRED E GOLDMAN (56%); 

LOAD-DATE: July 16, 2000



382 of 757 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: July 16, 2000

SECTION: Section 3; Page 1; Column 3; Money and Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 336 words

HEADLINE: Red Dot, Meet Green: If It's Tuesday, Network!

BYLINE: By ANDREW ROSS SORKIN 

 BODY:
IT is July 4 in London, around 7 p.m., and Helen Sinclair, director of a British venture capital fund called Matrix Private Equity, is surveying the buzzing bar from a corner of the room where, at least for the moment, she can relax. "As a red dot, I get swamped," Ms. Sinclair says, looking somewhat exhausted. "I meet green dots for only three minutes each and can usually get in around 40 green dots in an evening."
Ms. Sinclair is referring to a surreal new social order that springs up in more than 80 cities around the world on the first Tuesday of every month. In fashionable watering holes, entrepreneurs identified by the green dots on their name tags seek out investors, identified by red dots, while a third subculture, identified by yellow dots, simply hobnobs, in case its members ever want to become red or green dots. 
 What began as an informal networking party on Oct. 2, 1998, at the Alphabet bar in London's Soho for 80 people working in the new economy has grown into something of a worldwide phenomenon. A bevy of imitators have sprung up, too. And those who created the first gathering in London have incorporated as a start-up business called First Tuesday, which a company founder, Julie Meyer, acknowledges is a bit of a fluke.
"We're an accidental company," she said. "It was totally the right place at the right time." Nonetheless, she is intent on expanding the concept around the globe to "democratize the process of getting venture capital."
With one small catch. Eyeing the more than $100 million its gatherings have helped entrepreneurs raise, First Tuesday plans to make money by taking a cut of the deals that emerge from its events.
As dot-com mania expands far beyond its Silicon Valley origins, entrepreneurs and investors worldwide face many issues -- some global and some distinctly domestic. Money & Business sent reporters to First Tuesday gatherings in seven cities this month to see what was on the minds and the lips of members of the dot-com economy.
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photos: Serious mingling was the order of the day at the First Tuesday meeting at Ohm, a New York disco.; As a venture capitalist, Helen Sinclair manages to fit in 40 quick meetings with green dots -- entrepreneurs -- at a First Tuesday in London. (Photographs by Barbara Alper for The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

INDUSTRY: SIC3357 DRAWING & INSULATING OF NONFERROUS WIRE (68%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (79%); UNITED KINGDOM (58%); 

STATE: CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); 

CITY: LONDON, ENGLAND (91%); SILICON VALLEY, CA, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: FIRST TUESDAY (CO) HAVE INC (68%); 

ORGANIZATION: FIRST TUESDAY (CO)

GEOGRAPHIC: GREAT BRITAIN; LONDON (ENG); UNITED STATES (79%); UNITED KINGDOM (58%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); LONDON, ENGLAND (91%); SILICON VALLEY, CA, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: SMALL BUSINESS; COMPUTERS AND THE INTERNET; ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS; VENTURE CAPITAL VENTURE CAPITAL (90%); PRIVATE EQUITY (90%); ENTREPRENEURSHIP (89%); VENTURE CAPITAL APPLICANTS & RECIPIENTS (78%); STARTUPS (78%); SMALL BUSINESS (74%); ECONOMIC NEWS (72%); DRINKING PLACES (72%); NEW ECONOMY (72%); TRENDS (70%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (67%); 

PERSON: SORKIN, ANDREW ROSS HELEN SINCLAIR (90%); 

LOAD-DATE: July 16, 2000



383 of 757 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: July 16, 2000

SECTION: Section 3; Page 12; Column 3; Money and Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 372 words

HEADLINE: Red Dot, Meet Green: If It's Tuesday, Network!: London;
Where Options Are No Advantage

BYLINE: By ANDREW ROSS SORKIN 

 BODY:
Talking about money has always been considered crass in Britain. So three floors full of 500 people not only talking about money, but asking for it, pleading for it and in at least one case begging for it, might normally be considered downright gauche.
But not tonight. "If you put all these people in a pub, they would never talk to each other," said Mike Boston, head of executive search at Citadel, a British recruitment company, who came armed with a box of business cards. "This event breaks down that British reserve." 
 Mr. Boston asserted that Britain was going through a fundamental shift in culture, driven by the new economy. In London, American business values and a combination of cultures from around the world have steadily infiltrated the traditionally staid British mind-set.
Jonathan Stratford, a 24-year-old entrepreneur, is prowling for start-up financing. He needs about $750,000 for what he will describe only as a transport business. "You could easily bum the idea," he said. His name tag, which identified him as being from a company called Equido.com, bore an Internet address he had not even bought yet. He does not have a business plan, either.
While green dots clearly outnumbered the red dots, the money still seems to be pouring in here. Andrea Marshall, an American working in London as a consultant for Roland Berger & Partners, said she used to believe that Britain's new economy lagged behind that of the United States by two years. But she recently revised her opinion. "The stereotype that the Europeans are less entrepreneurial is no longer true," she said.
One factor that continues to annoy people in the high-technology industry is Britain's tax treatment of employee stock options. In contrast to practice in the United States, employees must pay capital gains tax on stock options in Britain, making the incentive less attractive than a substantial salary. That puts pressure on companies to find loopholes and other ways to compensate employees.
"It's so bloody complicated that you spend hundreds of thousands of pounds and lots of management time trying to find work-arounds," said Azzeem Azhar, chief executive of Esouk, an incubator company. ANDREW ROSS SORKIN
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photos: In London, the networking started as investors and entrepreneurs waited outside the Sadlers Wells Theater, in whose bar the event was held. (Jonathan Player for The New York Times); Discussing money, normally considered a bit declasse in Britain, is the point at the First Tuesday meetings. (Jonathan Player for The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

INDUSTRY: NAICS541611 ADMINISTRATIVE MANAGEMENT & GENERAL MANAGEMENT CONSULTING SERVICES (54%); NAICS541512 COMPUTER SYSTEMS DESIGN SERVICES (54%); SIC8742 MANAGEMENT CONSULTING SERVICES (54%); SIC7373 COMPUTER INTEGRATED SYSTEMS DESIGN (54%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED KINGDOM (94%); UNITED STATES (92%); 

CITY: LONDON, ENGLAND (91%); 

COMPANY: FIRST TUESDAY (CO) ROLAND BERGER STRATEGY CONSULTANTS GMBH (54%); 

ORGANIZATION: FIRST TUESDAY (CO)

GEOGRAPHIC: GREAT BRITAIN; LONDON (ENG); UNITED KINGDOM (94%); UNITED STATES (92%); LONDON, ENGLAND (91%); 

SUBJECT: SMALL BUSINESS; COMPUTERS AND THE INTERNET ENTREPRENEURSHIP (89%); EMPLOYMENT SERVICES (89%); STOCK OPTIONS (86%); SMALL BUSINESS (76%); EXECUTIVES (76%); NEW ECONOMY (74%); STARTUPS (73%); INTERNET & WWW (71%); BUSINESS PLANS (71%); WAGES & SALARIES (67%); EMPLOYEE STOCK OWNERSHIP PLANS (67%); TAXES & TAXATION (65%); CAPITAL GAINS TAX (63%); 

PERSON: SORKIN, ANDREW ROSS MIKE BOSTON (61%); 

LOAD-DATE: July 16, 2000



384 of 757 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: July 16, 2000

SECTION: Section 3; Page 12; Column 6; Money and Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 415 words

HEADLINE: Red Dot, Meet Green: If It's Tuesday, Network!: Madrid;
How to Play a Game Of Internet Catch-Up

BYLINE: By BENJAMIN JONES 

 BODY:
Standing beneath a glass case holding an elaborate black mask from the movie "Zorro," Bruno Mazzilli is checking out the action in Planet Hollywood. But it is not the svelte young women circulating around the oblong bar that interest him -- unless they are wearing green dots.
Mr. Mazzilli works for Unin Fenosa, a Spanish utility that has bought big stakes in telecommunications operators and is now looking to do the same in Internet start-ups. It is the old economy seeking opportunities in the new. 
 "We've already invested in two Internet companies and want to invest in more because it's definitely the future, but things aren't moving as fast here in the sector as they were six months ago," complained Mr. Mazzilli, 28, a corporate development executive. Behind the slowdown is nervousness from the sharp downturn in American technology stocks during the spring.
But the Internet sector in Spain still lags behind other countries, he added. According to industry analysts, just one of every 10 Spaniards use the Internet regularly, much lower than the percentages in the United States or some other European countries.
Others who gathered here expressed similar concerns: timidity among potential investors and Spain's need to catch up with the remainder of the wired world.
"Now there's less euphoria," said Jaime Ventura, 24, managing director of Universidadweb.com, a Web site aimed at Spanish university students. "But there is still incredible potential for growth in Spain, because the Internet is so underdeveloped in this country."
People here, ranging from older executives in business suits to those barely out of their teens and in sandals and T-shirts, said Spaniards would gladly surf the Web for information, but were reluctant to use it to buy goods, mainly because they are not comfortable sending their credit card numbers over the Internet.
"Everyone is afraid of fraud," explained Cesar Canas, 28, who is trying to drum up business for Construdia, a company that he and two partners started last year to provide business-to-business services for small to midsize construction companies.
But there is some confidence that people will get used to the Internet. "The government is taking an active role in the sector and telling everyone that the new technology and the Internet are the future," Mr. Canas said. "I hope it comes soon, because our company is operating now for seven months and we're still looking for customers." BENJAMIN JONES 
http://www.nytimes.com

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: GAS (MCE) (58%); 

INDUSTRY: SIC5812 EATING PLACES (58%); NAICS221122 ELECTRIC POWER DISTRIBUTION (58%); NAICS221112 FOSSIL FUEL ELECTRIC POWER GENERATION (58%); SIC4932 GAS & OTHER SERVICES COMBINED (58%); SIC4931 ELECTRIC & OTHER SERVICES COMBINED (58%); SIC4923 NATURAL GAS TRANSMISSION & DISTRIBUTION (58%); 

COUNTRY: SPAIN (96%); UNITED STATES (91%); EUROPE (79%); 

CITY: MADRID, SPAIN (92%); 

COMPANY: FIRST TUESDAY (CO) PLANET HOLLYWOOD INTERNATIONAL INC (58%); GAS NATURAL SDG SA (58%); 

ORGANIZATION: FIRST TUESDAY (CO)

GEOGRAPHIC: SPAIN; MADRID (SPAIN); SPAIN (96%); UNITED STATES (91%); EUROPE (79%); MADRID, SPAIN (92%); 

SUBJECT: SMALL BUSINESS; COMPUTERS AND THE INTERNET INTERNET & WWW (92%); THEME RESTAURANTS (90%); ADOLESCENTS (77%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS SERVICES (76%); STARTUPS (76%); B2B ELECTRONIC COMMERCE (76%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS (76%); SMALL BUSINESS (75%); EXECUTIVES (73%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (69%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (64%); WEB SITES (64%); 

PERSON: JONES, BENJAMIN BRUNO MAZZILLI (76%); CESAR CANAS (61%); 

LOAD-DATE: July 16, 2000



385 of 757 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: July 16, 2000

SECTION: Section 3; Page 13; Column 1; Money and Business/Financial Desk

LENGTH: 585 words

HEADLINE: Red Dot, Meet Green: If It's Tuesday, Network!: Prague;
Bells Are Ringing For 'M-Commerce'

BYLINE: By PETER GREEN

 BODY:
In a polo shirt and jeans, Richard Seewald, a lawyer, stands on the terrace of the Fromin discotheque overlooking the church spires of Prague, scouting for places to invest $50 million for his Internet venture capital fund, Redstars.com.
He sees potential pots of gold here. The Czech economy has begun to stabilize after two years of recession, and prospects look good for Internet business, particularly in "m-commerce," the new tag for buying and selling over the mobile telephones that are ubiquitous in Central Europe. 
 "The Internet here has taken off in the past six to eight months, so there is a need for what we do," Mr. Seewald said. "The buzz up to now has been ex-pat companies; now we are getting more and more local business plans" -- not just those of Americans with an idea that was too late for Silicon Valley.
"Wireless is totally the buzz," agreed Adam Healey, a 25-year old New Yorker, as the constant ringing of mobile phones filled the room. Mr. Healey's Samba Digital Media, an Internet services company based in Prague, just pulled in $2.5 million of venture capital. Mr. Healey had just finished briefing 200-odd entrepreneurs who filled the disco. "Ask yourself which investor you can hang out and have a beer with," he said. "You're going to be spending a lot of time with them, so you'd better like them."
Mr. Healey's company produces Web pages and e-commerce solutions for companies around the world. Like many local ventures, he combined the entrepreneurial skills of the young Americans who have flocked to Prague with the technical knowledge of Czech software engineers. Now he is moving a step further -- to m-commerce -- and he has come to First Tuesday to spread the gospel.
"The Czechs have one of the highest penetrations of mobile phones in the world," he said. "It's a lot easier for someone to buy a mobile than a PC." And because of the lack of credit card use and consumer credit, the firms that operate digital mobile phone networks take the credit risk. With only about 6 percent of Czechs having regular Internet access at their homes or offices, m-commerce is likely to outstrip the PC-based internet for most consumer use.
Jan Krasnan, 21, a student at the prestigious Prague School of Economics, also has big plans. He does not have a business card yet; his nameplate has just an e-mail address. With fellow students, he is perfecting a secret mobile phone application as part of a national student contest to join an Internet incubator.
"Ideas I have, but I am keeping them for myself," Mr. Krasnan said. "Of course we want to be rich, but we really want to create something that isn't here. We want to change the world."
Martin Vedej will settle for changing the way that Czechs think about the Internet. "Companies here are still investing in traditional marketing tools such as printed stuff," complained Mr. Vedej, 25, managing director of Frontline Management, another e-solution provider for the Czech market. "They don't appreciate the potential of the Internet. They are just waiting." The first time Mr. Vedej came to a First Tuesday, earlier this year, he didn't even know what venture capital was. Now he has a business plan and is looking for investors.
Karel Kosman, another red-dot wearer, fears that Prague's Internet boom may have gathered speed too quickly. "The situation is a little like the Wild West here. People are snapping up any deals at all. It's not healthy. People are going to lose money." PETER GREEN 
http://www.nytimes.com

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: CZECH REPUBLIC (94%); UNITED STATES (92%); EUROPE (79%); CENTRAL EUROPE (73%); 

STATE: CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); 

CITY: PRAGUE, CZECH REPUBLIC (90%); SILICON VALLEY, CA, USA (79%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: CZECH REPUBLIC (94%); UNITED STATES (92%); EUROPE (79%); CENTRAL EUROPE (73%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); PRAGUE, CZECH REPUBLIC (90%); SILICON VALLEY, CA, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: Terms not available from NYTimes. ENTREPRENEURSHIP (90%); DRINKING PLACES (90%); VENTURE CAPITAL (90%); INTERNET & WWW (90%); MOBILE & CELLULAR COMMUNICATIONS (90%); MOBILE COMMERCE (90%); COMPUTER NETWORKS (89%); MOBILE & CELLULAR TELEPHONES (89%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS EQUIPMENT (89%); WIRELESS NETWORKS (77%); RECESSION (77%); ECONOMIC NEWS (77%); COMPUTER SOFTWARE (77%); BUSINESS PLANS (76%); BUSINESS EDUCATION (76%); MOBILE APPLICATIONS (75%); ELECTRONIC COMMERCE (72%); CONSUMER LENDING (65%); WEB DEVELOPMENT (64%); ENGINEERING (63%); COMPUTER ENGINEERING (63%); SOFTWARE DEVELOPMENT & ENGINEERING (50%); 

PERSON: ADAM HEALEY (72%); MARTIN VEDEJ (67%); RICHARD SEEWALD (62%); JAN KRASNAN (57%); 

LOAD-DATE: July 16, 2000



386 of 757 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: July 16, 2000

SECTION: Section 3; Page 13; Column 2; Money and Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 439 words

HEADLINE: Red Dot, Meet Green: If It's Tuesday, Network!: New York;
A Little Optimism At the Fashion Show

BYLINE: By LAURA M. HOLSON 

 BODY:
New Yorkers love a party they can't get invited to. Or so you would guess watching the long line outside Ohm, a discotheque on West 22nd Street in Manhattan. There, 600 fashionable men and women, whittled from a list of 1,400 who wanted to attend, sipped flavored martinis and angled for face time before a roving news camera.
Despite the technology stock meltdown in April, new-economy soirees still attract a lot of media. There were so many reporters there it was nearly impossible to miss them, or the legions of entrepreneurs trying to woo them. 
 "This is a bad time for a lot of people," said Michael Petersohn, the vice president for sales at Clickfinger.com, a yet-to-be launched Web site that helps users bookmark their favorite sites. "But things are getting better." Clickfinger started developing its site three months before the technology plunge and has had trouble attracting money. But in recent days, potential investors have been more willing to listen to Clickfinger's pitch, though the commitments are slow in coming. "Individuals are saying, 'we didn't lose our Hamptons house,' so they are more open," he said. "But it's still hard."
And not just for Web builders. Near the front bar, Etyan A. Bar-Chama, 30, a partner at Carpediem Technology Ventures, said investors have balked on the millions of dollars they first promised, leaving the five-month-old fund with only $5 million. "They are taking down their investments," he said. "We see more competition."
Investors, he said, are becoming more selective about what venture capitalists they want to give money to. One way his firm is addressing that is by bringing in other, more established venture capitalists to lead a deal. The fledgling fund has been trying to forge strategic alliances with established corporations that have a history of acquiring venture-backed concerns.
It was clear, as the First Tuesday festivities drew to a close, that the Internet party that attracted khaki-clad Jeff Bezos clones and sleek women in Manolo Blahnik heels was, in a larger sense, past its prime.
Seth J. Price, vice president of business development for the Web site USLaw.com, said he used to go to "three or four parties a night and walk away with martini glasses and stuff like that." But those days are gone. "Now you have the concept of profitability and people are looking at the cost," he said.
That did not dampen the spirits of Walter Joyce, vice president for strategic planning at Inculab, a Manhattan-based incubator for Internet ideas. "I came to try and gauge the pulse," he said. "I'm still optimistic." LAURA M. HOLSON
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Chart: "Global Connections"
Regular Internet users as a percentage of total population.
 
United States: 36%
Britain: 24%
Singapore: 20%
Spain: 10%
Czech Republic: 4%
Russia: 3%
Mexico: 1%
(Source: Jupiter Communications)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%); CZECH REPUBLIC (79%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (93%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (91%); 

COMPANY: FIRST TUESDAY (CO)

ORGANIZATION: FIRST TUESDAY (CO)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK CITY; UNITED STATES (93%); CZECH REPUBLIC (79%); NEW YORK, USA (93%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (91%); 

SUBJECT: SMALL BUSINESS; COMPUTERS AND THE INTERNET DRINKING PLACES (89%); VENTURE CAPITAL (89%); INTERNET & WWW (89%); FASHION SHOWS (77%); FASHION & APPAREL (77%); ENTREPRENEURSHIP (75%); SMALL BUSINESS (75%); VENTURE CAPITAL APPLICANTS & RECIPIENTS (75%); BUSINESS DEVELOPMENT (74%); WEB SITES (74%); COMPANY STRATEGY (74%); ALLIANCES & PARTNERSHIPS (74%); NEW ECONOMY (71%); EXECUTIVES (69%); STRATEGIC PLANNING (63%); 

PERSON: HOLSON, LAURA M JEFFREY P BEZOS (53%); 

LOAD-DATE: July 16, 2000



387 of 757 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: July 16, 2000

SECTION: Section 1; Page 12; Column 1; National Desk 

LENGTH: 1258 words

HEADLINE: Nevada City Journal;
Internet's Wealth Jolts Rural Towns

BYLINE: By EVELYN NIEVES 

DATELINE: NEVADA CITY, Calif., July 11

 BODY:
The regulars at Moore's Cafe are holding court at the counter, nursing refills of coffee. Cars amble down Broad Street beside the horse-drawn carriages. Tourists browse the pottery and jewelry stores. Hunch-shouldered teenaged boys stand on random corners, looking a little bored.
These are the good old days, fading fast. Change is in the air in this Gold Rush-era town (population: 2,900) 150 miles northeast of San Francisco. Rush hour on Broad Street has become a bear. Housing prices have jumped higher in a year than almost anywhere else in California. McMansions are springing up near old hippie cabins in the woods. Next door in Grass Valley, a Starbucks has opened in the historic district. 
 The old Gold Rush has met the new Gold Rush, and they are not exactly hitting it off. The high-tekkies have arrived here with a splash, jolting the pretty country towns along the Sierra Nevada foothills like ice-water in the face. "Some people just don't get it," said Mayor Kerry Arnett of Nevada City, who runs a video store. "They choose to come here because of the unique ambience, then they start asking for a 7-Eleven."
The Gold Rush towns, 200 miles away from San Jose and the center of the dot-com universe, are witnessing firsthand the infinite reach of the new technology. Companies and individuals are branching away from the congested, hyper-expensive burgs of Silicon Valley in recent years, inexorably altering life in towns that have worn the label "sleepy" with pride and joy. The Route 101 corridor of Sonoma County, wine and farm country two hours north of Silicon Valley, is now known as "Telecom Alley." Technology has surpassed grape growing as the No. 1 industry.
Salinas, an old working-class farm town an hour's drive south of Silicon Valley, is growing at twice the statewide pace, with 20 percent of new house buyers moving in from Silicon Valley. Near Salinas, Gilroy, the self-proclaimed "garlic capital of the world," has become a prime bedroom community for high-tech commuters from San Jose, 35 miles (but an hour in traffic) away.
Some change is welcome. Real estate brokers, of course, are giddy. And the tax bases are expanding faster than the towns can estimate. But along with the new wealth comes a new fear among longtime residents that their bucolic landscape and easy pace will be eaten alive by development and traffic.
"In one of our census tracts," said Mayor Anna Caballero of Salinas, "we have the density of Manhattan."
Limiting growth has become the No. 1 issue in towns through northern and central California experiencing an influx of Silicon Valley refugees. And as locals tell it, getting along with new people who usually have more money and bigger cars and more demands is a close second.
Longtime residents say it was probably inevitable that Nevada County would be discovered by dot-com escapees. Long a mecca for small electronics manufacturers, the county is now home to 66 high-tech companies, says its Economic Resource Council, and real estate brokers say at least 30 percent of new house buyers are high-tech employees or telecommuters.
As home not only to picturesque Nevada City but also the wild and scenic Yuba River, an eye feast of falls and swimming holes that evoke both Mark Twain and Club Med, this is a place where people aspire to live. A generation ago, the county began seeing a flood of artists and writers and hippies, who were eyed suspiciously by the loggers and working folks until the newcomers proved their mettle as good citizens.
Tom Bridwell, who restores antique cars, moved to the woods in the San Juan Ridge, just outside of Nevada City, and was one of those newcomers when he moved here 20 years ago. At the time, he said, he was looking around the state for a place where he and his wife could raise their 4-year-old daughter, Skye, and live in peace.
"We knew as soon as we saw it that this was the place," said Mr. Bridwell, now 60. He and his wife built a solar-heated cabin which is nearly halfway ensconced in earth. After the couple divorced, Mr. Bridwell, remained in the house. He likes to say he lives underground, though a wall of windows offers an up-close view of deer, owls, foxes and raccoons.
For him, the newcomers are a mixed blessing. "This lets the big fish play in a small pond and the small fish (Nevada County) play in a big pond," he said of the large companies, like the 3Com Corporation, the computer modem manufacturer, which have moved here. "But you get the traffic and the development and you wonder when will it end?"
Sonoma County is hoping it has that answer. The single most momentous change in the county in recent times occurred when Cisco Systems of San Jose plunked down $7.3 billion in 1999 to buy the Cerent Corporation in the Victorian town of Petaluma. The largest high-tech buyout of the year meant pay dirt for the employees of Cerent, then a struggling start-up with technology to speed up the Internet. Employees split a jackpot of $2.2 billion and began building huge houses and starting up companies in the county.
The wave of telecommunications companies attracted to the county by Cisco's investment (the company also bought Fibex Systems in Petaluma in 1999 for $320 million) has reached a critical mass -- at least two dozen companies have moved in over the last two years -- much to the dismay of many residents.
Much of Sonoma County still boasts the rolling hills and green landscape that attracts the city slickers and soothes the locals' souls. But corporate architecture and the oversized houses are springing up faster than the eye can process.
Last week, a coalition of conservation-minded groups won the right to place a measure limiting growth on the November ballot. The measure, called the rural growth initiative, would require that any changes for the next 30 years to the county's general plan on rural and agricultural lands be approved by a countywide vote.
"People are sick of standing by and watching greenbelts and open space paved over," said AnnaLis Dalrymple, a member of the Greenbelt Alliance, which helped draft the initiative, at a hearing where the county board of supervisors voted to place the initiative on the ballot.
For longtime residents, it's not just that newcomers chew up the landscape. Some also fight with their neighbors. Carmenet Vineyards in Glen Ellen, which has been making wine in Sonoma County for a generation, is butting heads with an Internet entrepreneur who lives down the road from a property the winery bought. He objects to the company's plan, which received a permit, for a warehouse to store 125,000 cases of wine a year (on the grounds that it will create noise and pollution) and is circulating a petition to have the permit rescinded.
In Salinas, which for so long has been described as "struggling" that the word seems part of its name, big house developments, new malls and chain stores are replacing farms and open land at such a pace that it is beginning to look like a suburb.
For the Chamber of Commerce, the news is all good. But the low-wage workers, many of them immigrants, who have counted on one day buying a house here are frustrated by the prices and the seemingly easy money of their new neighbors.
Juan Gonzalez Jr., a 31-year-old father of four who works on a vegetable farm, said that he drives out of the way to avoid the shiny new white houses along the highway. That way, he said, his children do not ask why they cannot live there and "I avoid the envy for gaudy material things."
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photos: In Nevada City, Calif., a Gold Rush-era town, house construction and prices have increased, but the downtown has kept its small-town flavor. (Photographs by Don Preisler for The New York Times)
 
Map of California shows the location of Nevada City: An influx of companies and people is changing quiet country towns.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

INDUSTRY: NAICS447110 GASOLINE STATIONS WITH CONVENIENCE STORES (55%); NAICS445120 CONVENIENCE STORES (55%); SIC5411 GROCERY STORES (55%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (96%); 

STATE: CALIFORNIA, USA (96%); 

CITY: SAN FRANCISCO BAY AREA, CA, USA (95%); SILICON VALLEY, CA, USA (94%); SALINAS, CA, USA (93%); SAN JOSE, CA, USA (92%); SAN FRANCISCO, CA, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: 7-ELEVEN INC (55%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: CALIFORNIA; SILICON VALLEY (CALIF); UNITED STATES (96%); CALIFORNIA, USA (96%); SAN FRANCISCO BAY AREA, CA, USA (95%); SILICON VALLEY, CA, USA (94%); SALINAS, CA, USA (93%); SAN JOSE, CA, USA (92%); SAN FRANCISCO, CA, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: SOCIAL CONDITIONS AND TRENDS; COMPUTERS AND THE INTERNET INTERNET & WWW (90%); REAL ESTATE (89%); RURAL COMMUNITIES (89%); CITY LIFE (89%); CITIES (89%); HOUSING MARKET (78%); VEHICLE TRAFFIC (78%); COFFEE & TEA STORES (78%); HISTORIC DISTRICTS & STRUCTURES (77%); POPULATION SIZE (76%); MOUNTAINS (74%); TRENDS (73%); CENSUS (72%); HOME PRICES (70%); REAL ESTATE VALUATIONS (70%); GRAPE VINEYARDS (63%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS (63%); REAL ESTATE AGENTS (50%); 

PERSON: NIEVES, EVELYN TOM BRIDWELL (61%); 

LOAD-DATE: July 16, 2000



388 of 757 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: July 16, 2000

SECTION: Section 1; Page 1; Column 4; National Desk 

LENGTH: 2501 words

HEADLINE: FALLOUT IN ARMS RESEARCH: A special report.;
Amid Race Profiling Claims, Asian-Americans Avoid Labs

BYLINE: By JAMES GLANZ 

 BODY:
Asian and Asian-American scientists are staying away from jobs at national weapons laboratories, particularly Los Alamos, saying that researchers of Asian descent are systematically harassed and denied advancement because of their race.
The issue has long simmered at the laboratories, but it came to a boil last year with the arrest of Dr. Wen Ho Lee, who is accused of mishandling nuclear secrets at Los Alamos. Though officials vehemently deny it, many Asian-Americans said Dr. Lee, a naturalized citizen born in Taiwan, was singled out because of his ethnicity. 
 In any event, Asians and Asian-Americans said, security procedures implemented after Dr. Lee's arrest fall hardest on them. Since the arrest, some scholarly groups have even called for a boycott of the laboratories, urging Asian and Asian-American scientists not to apply for jobs with them.
Whether because of the calls for a boycott, the underlying claims of discrimination, or both, all three national weapons laboratories -- Los Alamos, Lawrence Livermore and Sandia -- have seen declines in Asian and Asian-American applicants for postdoctoral positions, according to their own statistics. Other Asian and Asian-American scientists have left voluntarily.
Los Alamos, for example, has seen the number of Asian applicants (those granted formal reviews by committees) dwindle to 3 in the first half of 2000 from an average of 28 in 1998 and 1999. The number accepting jobs at Los Alamos fell from 18 in 1998 to 9 in 1999 to 3 in the first half of 2000.
The combined acceptances of Asians and Asian-Americans at Sandia and Livermore, which compile statistics by fiscal years ending in late September, are similar to Los Alamos, falling to 3 so far in 2000 from 21 in 1998. At Los Alamos, the number of Asians applying for jobs declined in percentage as well, to 4 percent of total applications from 12 percent in 1998. Over all, postdoctoral appointments of Asian and Asian-American fell to 7 percent from 14 percent when the three laboratories, with their slightly different record keeping, are combined.
"To me, this is an indicator that some of the best have decided either not to apply, or even when they do apply, not to come when they're offered a position," said Dr. John C. Browne, director of Los Alamos.
The decline is troubling for two reasons. First, Asians and Asian-Americans represent a huge pool of talent -- more than a quarter of all Ph.D.'s awarded in science and technology at American universities each year. Second, postdoctoral appointments, which are generally filled by researchers who have recently earned Ph.D.'s, are an essential source of candidates for permanent positions. The appointments constitute "the primary means of recruiting future scientists and engineers for Los Alamos," said Jim Danneskiold, a spokesman for the laboratory.
In May, the National Science Foundation, a major source of research money, reported that "heightened security concerns" at the laboratories were hindering efforts to recruit and retain Asian and Asian-American scientists.
And last week, speaking before a panel of the House Armed Services Committee on reorganizing the Energy Department, Representative Ellen O. Tauscher, Democrat of California, referred to suspicions of racial profiling at Livermore and Sandia.
Mrs. Tauscher said there was "the sense that Asian-Americans are targeted or scapegoated as potentially coming to work at the labs because they can spy," adding that the problem "has a deleterious effect on our ability to recruit and retain."
Observers say they are not surprised by the comments.
"There's no question in my mind that the Asian-Americans are conscientiously avoiding working in Los Alamos and the other labs like the plague," said Prof. L. Ling-chi Wang, chairman of the department of ethnic studies and director of the Asian American studies program at the University of California at Berkeley.
Two organizations, the Asian Pacific Americans in Higher Education and the Association for Asian American Studies, have called for a boycott, urging Asian-Americans not to work at the laboratories.
Professor Wang, who helped organize the boycott calls, is not alone in thinking that they have contributed to the flight from the laboratories.
Dr. Browne said that an "overall black cloud" caused by the boycott was driving Asian and Asian-American scientists away, but said that he did not believe racial profiling had occurred at Los Alamos.
Still, it is difficult to say whether anger over security measures is the sole reason for the sharp drop in Asian and Asian-American applicants, particularly with laboratory budget cuts and a booming economy creating lucrative jobs in private industry. But the impact is apparent.
"The labs are falling apart," said Dr. Jonathan Medalia, a specialist in national defense at the Congressional Research Service and the author of a study on the laboratories, which he presented at a conference but has not yet delivered to Congress.
The loss of talent is most severe in computer science, Dr. Medalia said, and if it continues, could threaten the nation's ability to ensure the safety and reliability of its nuclear weapons.
He said that tightened security measures increased the losses among all ethnic groups, but that the economy and other effects contributed.
Accusations of racism have also led to formal complaints.
In December, nine Asian-American scientists and engineers at Livermore filed a discrimination complaint with the State of California that the California Department of Fair Employment and Housing is investigating.
The federal Equal Employment Opportunity Commission has also begun an investigation, said officials at the laboratory and a lawyer for the scientists.
Secretary of Energy Bill Richardson, whose agency oversees the laboratories, conceded that political pressures from Congress had created "an atmosphere of fear" among foreign-born scientists.
A year ago, Mr. Richardson named a committee to investigate complaints of racial profiling, and he appointed Dr. Jeremy Wu, a former official in the Agriculture Department's office of civil rights, as the department's ombudsman to review diversity issues and hear employee complaints. But the problems are so ingrained, scientists said, that those measures are not enough.
"For years, a lot of these things have festered, and it was typical of the Asian way to say nothing," said Kalina Wong, an American-born scientist of Chinese and Hawaiian descent who tracks inventories of nuclear materials at Livermore, and one of the employees who filed the complaint. Now, Ms. Wong said, "Pandora's Box is open."
Laboratory officials deny any systematic discrimination. If anything, they said, administrators are eager to promote members of ethnic groups.
 
The Complaints
A History Of Discrimination
The new security directives do not explicitly mention Asian-Americans or any other group; moreover, Mr. Richardson accompanied the directives with a warning that they should not be seen as an excuse to question the "loyalty and patriotism" of Asian-Americans as a group.
But the directives required scientists to report "close and continuing contact" with nationals of sensitive countries -- a designation that covers Russia and most countries in Asia, but few countries in Europe.
"If you have relatives in sensitive countries, you are under the microscope," said Dr. Aaron Lai, a climate researcher at Los Alamos and a naturalized citizen born in Taiwan. "Before the Wen Ho Lee case, the chance of getting promoted was very low," Dr. Lai said. But with the new rules, he said, "it's getting worse."
Joel Wong, an engineer at Livermore, who is from Hong Kong and is now an American citizen, said, "They associate foreign-born with being a threat."
The 19-member committee appointed by Mr. Richardson, issued a report earlier this year, based on interviews with workers. Its recommendations included appointing an ombudsman, as Mr. Richardson has done, and compiling data on minority groups across the department. Existing data are sketchy at best. The report also described pervasive feelings of unease and fear.
In October, the Congressional Asian Pacific American Caucus heard from several scientists who said Asian-Americans faced discrimination at the laboratories.
Ms. Wong, the Livermore scientist, told the group of a lagging salary, racially insensitive comments from officials, her removal from sensitive projects and an unexplained erosion of authority.
"The whole Chinese spy allegation has set us back further," said Ms. Wong, whose family has been in the United States for five generations and who has worked at Livermore for more than two decades. "It seems now that there is license to do as was done to me because we Asians are potential spies."
Livermore officials said racial bias has not played a role in the treatment of scientists, either before or after the Lee case.
"There is no underlying discrimination," a Livermore spokeswoman, Susan Houghton, said. "If anything, it's the opposite. It is still very much a goal to increase minority representation in management."
In an interview, Ms. Houghton and Tommy Smith, a mechanical engineer who is the laboratory's director of affirmative action and diversity, said Livermore had established goals for increasing the numbers of Asians and other minorities in management and held a one-day workshop for employees in April. "Obviously, we can always do a better job," Ms. Houghton said.
She also noted that the investigations into discrimination claims were not proof of wrongdoing.
Los Alamos has about 7,000 employees, including 3,500 scientists, said Mr. Danneskiold, the laboratory spokesman.
Over all, Asians or Pacific Islanders make up 2.4 percent of the staff and about 4 percent of the scientists, he said.
But of 99 senior managers, only 1 is of Asian descent, Mr. Danneskiold said. And of 322 leaders of technical groups, a lower rung in management, only 3 are Asian-American.
Similar if somewhat less pronounced disparities exist at Livermore; at Sandia, the proportion of Asians in management and the laboratory are nearly the same.
Michael Trujillo, the equal employment opportunity officer at Los Alamos, also rejected the idea that Asian-Americans' relatively low representation in management was a result of bias. But Mr. Trujillo said he could not offer an explanation. "I don't think that there's an easy answer on that," he said.
 
The Rules
Response That Some Called Racial Profiling
The Energy Department ombudsman, Dr. Wu, said in an interview that he believed new security rules had infringed on "individual rights and scientific freedom" and added that he hoped he could improve the situation.
He has been on the job since January, but he began visiting the laboratories last year and has already investigated several bias complaints. In two cases, involving the loss of a security clearance and the termination of a grant, rulings against Asian and Asian-American scientists have been overturned, he said.
Edward J. Curran, who directs the Energy Department's counterintelligence office, said a review almost two years ago led to increased reporting requirements for many employees and to polygraph testing of some scientists. He said the rules were intended to make intelligence officials aware of any unusual inquiries from foreign nationals and to help catch any American scientists who were spying, whatever their ethnicity.
Among the directives are two that Mr. Richardson issued last July in which scientists are required to report certain "close and continuing contact" during unclassified visits with people from countries deemed sensitive.
Dr. Al West, a security director at Sandia, said that at least one Asian-American scientist, whose fiancee was from Hong Kong, left for a longstanding job offer in private industry "because they got tired of dealing with all the inquiries into their personal affairs" as a result of the new rule.
And Dr. Shao-Ping Chen, a physicist at Los Alamos, criticized a requirement to list all contacts and relationships with people in sensitive countries.
"Where it should stop is not easy to tell," said Dr. Chen, originally from Taiwan but now an American citizen. "If you have a big family, those people are large numbers."
Henry Tang, chairman of the Committee of 100, a group of Chinese-Americans engaged in public policy issues, said that in enforcing the new rules, security officials "are no different than a highway patrolman suspecting someone merely by virtue of their physical characteristics."
Dr. Paul D. Moore, who was the F.B.I.'s chief of Chinese counterintelligence analysis for more than 20 years and is now at the Center for Counterintelligence and Security Studies, a nongovernmental training center in Alexandria, Va., said that belief was mistaken. But Dr. Moore said that it had ultimately taken root because, in his view, the Chinese government specifically courts ethnic Chinese in the United States when looking for potential spies. As a result, he said, counterintelligence agents focus on Chinese-Americans. "It's unfair," he said, "but what are you going to do?"
 
The Boycott
A Mixed Reaction Among Scientists
As racism accusations simmer, the moves that have sparked the most discussion -- and dissension -- are the calls for a boycott.
Dr. Shujia Zhou, who left Los Alamos last year, said, "The Asian people feel hit hard."
Dr. Zhou published research in journals like Science and Physical Review Letters but said he left the laboratory because officials made continuing his work difficult, revoking his computer access, for example, and because the atmosphere had soured for Asians.
He easily found another job. Dr. Browne, the Los Alamos director, said that revoking computer privileges for some Asian scientists was an "unfortunate" overreaction and that fairer procedures had been put in place.
The calls for a boycott have generated mixed reactions at the laboratories. Dr. Manvendra K. Dubey, a Los Alamos scientist and chairman of its Asian-American Working Group, said he opposed a boycott "because if we disappear from within, we will have no voice." Some say the heightened sensitivity to race may eventually help the laboratories.
But for now, the security concerns about Asian countries, the lack of data on where and how Asian-American scientists work, and the near-absence of Asians in upper ranks are hindering progress at the laboratories, many Asian-American scientists say.
Perhaps more pernicious, they add, is the idea, prevalent among some Americans of European descent, that rational scientists must be immune to ordinary racial bias. That visceral difference in viewpoint may pose the most elusive but enduring barrier to improvements, some Asian scientists say.
"I think it's hard for a white person to appreciate the bias," said Dr. Huan Lee, a Chinese-American scientist at Los Alamos.
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photos: New security rules at the laboratories have infringed on "individual rights and scientific freedom." JEREMY WU -- Energy Department ombudsman appointed to review diversity issues. (Michael Geissinger for The New York Times); "There's no question in my mind that the Asian-Americans are conscientiously avoiding working in Los Alamos and the other labs." L. LING-CHI WANG -- Director of Asian American studies at the University of California at Berkeley (Susan Spann for The New York Times); "If you have relatives in sensitive countries, you are under the microscope." DR. AARON LAI -- Climate researcher at Los Alamos and naturalized citizen born in Taiwan. (Cary Herz for The New York Times); "For years, a lot of these things have festered, and it was typical of the Asian way to say nothing," Now, "Pandora's Box is open." KALINA WONG -- A scientist of Chinese and Hawaiian descent at Livermore. (Susan Spann for The New York Times)(pg. 14)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Special Report

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (99%); TAIWAN (92%); CHINA (79%); 

STATE: NEW MEXICO, USA (94%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); 

CITY: SAN FRANCISCO BAY AREA, CA, USA (75%); 

COMPANY: ;LOS ALAMOS NATIONAL LABORATORY UNIVERSITY OF CALIFORNIA (59%); LOS ALAMOS NATIONAL LABORATORY (59%); UNIVERSITY OF CALIFORNIA (59%); LOS ALAMOS NATIONAL LABORATORY (59%); 

ORGANIZATION: ;LOS ALAMOS NATIONAL LABORATORY UNIVERSITY OF CALIFORNIA (59%); LOS ALAMOS NATIONAL LABORATORY (59%); UNIVERSITY OF CALIFORNIA (59%); LOS ALAMOS NATIONAL LABORATORY (59%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: CHINA; UNITED STATES; UNITED STATES (99%); TAIWAN (92%); CHINA (79%); NEW MEXICO, USA (94%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); SAN FRANCISCO BAY AREA, CA, USA (75%); 

SUBJECT: ASIAN-AMERICANS; ESPIONAGE; ATOMIC WEAPONS; DISCRIMINATION; UNITED STATES ARMAMENT AND DEFENSE; UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; COMPUTERS AND THE INTERNET ASIAN AMERICANS (93%); MILITARY WEAPONS (92%); SCIENCE NEWS (90%); SCIENCE & TECHNOLOGY (90%); RACE & RACISM (90%); EMPLOYMENT SEARCH (89%); RACIAL PROFILING (79%); ETHNICITY (78%); TEST LABORATORIES (78%); DISCRIMINATION (78%); NUCLEAR WEAPONS (78%); GOVERNMENT RESEARCH FUNDING (78%); CLIMATOLOGY (73%); ESPIONAGE (71%); COLLEGES & UNIVERSITIES (66%); 

PERSON: GLANZ, JAMES; LEE, WEN HO (DR) JAMES LEE (92%); 

LOAD-DATE: July 16, 2000



389 of 757 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: July 16, 2000

SECTION: Section 1; Page 20; Column 5; National Desk 

LENGTH: 761 words

HEADLINE: Gore Contrasts His Policies With Bush's 'Mess' in Texas

BYLINE: By KATHARINE Q. SEELYE 

DATELINE: BALTIMORE, July 15

 BODY:
Continuing his assault on Gov. George W. Bush's record in Texas, Vice President Al Gore presented his own economic proposals today as "tried and true," while Governor Bush, he said, had made a "mess" in Texas.
Mr. Gore was addressing his ideological soul mates here at a convention of the Democratic Leadership Council, the centrist organization that he helped found 15 years ago. 
 Recalling that he had helped write the news release announcing the formation of the group, Mr. Gore described its mission as similar to that of his presidential campaign today: to help the nation to escape the clutches of special interests, which, he said, had dragged it into recession and deficits when the Republicans were in charge.
"That's the true legacy of the Bush-Quayle years," Mr. Gore said, in his episodic effort to link Mr. Bush, his likely Republican rival, with Mr. Bush's father's presidency, which was rejected by the voters in 1992.
"I'm not going to see us dragged back to the tired old thinking that nearly destroyed the American dream," Mr. Gore said, saying that his proposed tax cuts for specific purposes like health care and education were preferable to across-the-board income-tax cuts.
Mr. Gore has proposed $500 billion in tax cuts over 10 years. Mr. Bush has proposed $1.3 trillion in income-tax cuts over 10 years, which, Mr. Gore said, would bring the current prosperity to "a screeching halt."
If tax cuts run slightly counter to the Democratic Leadership Council orthodoxy, Mr. Gore assured his audience that he would impose fiscal discipline.
"I have been very clear, since the day I began this campaign, about what I am proposing," Mr. Gore said. "An economic policy that's tried and tested and built on our values. Fiscal discipline as the foundation."
In a sarcastic appraisal of the budget situation in Texas, Mr. Gore said the state faced a budget shortfall of $610 million, one that Democrats linked to Mr. Bush's $1.7 billion tax cut, but one that Republicans said would be more than covered by new surplus tax revenues, as long as the economic boom continued.
"You might think that a governor whose state ranks dead last in the entire nation for families with health coverage, who then gets a surplus courtesy of the national economic boom, might turn his attention to moving from No. 50 to, say, 45, or maybe even better -- but nooo," Mr. Gore said.
"Instead of taking up legislation to help families that desperately need health care, many of them going across the border to Mexico to try to find health care," he said. "Instead of proposing legislation to help them, Governor Bush made a big tax break for the oil industry the very first bill that he signed that year. Now I don't really know how many oil executives in Texas lack health insurance, but I can tell you this -- a lot of children in Texas do."
He recited some statistics: Texas is 50th for women without health insurance, 49th for children without health insurance, and more than half of the children who are not covered are Latino.
He went on: "This week, as Governor Bush was traveling from photo op to photo op, trying to put the compassion into his conservatism, we learned that he failed to use tens of millions of dollars budgeted to feed poor and hungry children during the summer months."
The vice president then said, "When he was asked why Texas was suddenly facing a shortfall, Governor Bush told The Dallas Morning News, 'I hope I'm not here to have to deal with it.' "
After the gasps died down, Mr. Gore added: "With all due respect to Governor Bush, America can't afford to deal with it either."
Dan Bartlett, a spokesman for the Bush campaign, said Mr. Gore was trying to have it both ways: first by criticizing Mr. Bush some months ago for not having to submit an actual budget the way other governors do, and now blaming this nonexistent budget for the shortfall. Mr. Bartlett also said that Mr. Bush had initiated an aggressive program to serve children, increasing the number being served to 260,000, from 175,000.
The Bush campaign also deployed Representative John Kasich, the Ohio Republican who is chairman of the Budget Committee and has been mentioned as a possible vice presidential running mate for Mr. Bush, on the governor's behalf. He said in a telephone interview that Mr. Gore's speech was "absurd," in part because the Clinton-Gore administration had submitted 13 supplemental budgets over the last seven years, spending plans that were submitted when the nation was "several hundred million dollars in the hole." 
http://www.nytimes.com

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

INDUSTRY: NAICS 213112 OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (65%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); 

STATE: TEXAS, USA (94%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: TEXAS; UNITED STATES (92%); TEXAS, USA (94%); 

SUBJECT: PRESIDENTIAL ELECTION OF 2000; UNITED STATES ECONOMY; ELECTION ISSUES TAX LAW (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); TAXES & TAXATION (90%); GOVERNORS (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); BUDGETS (89%); ECONOMIC NEWS (88%); TAX RELIEF (87%); ECONOMIC POLICY (78%); ELECTIONS (78%); PUBLIC POLICY (78%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (78%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (77%); POLITICAL PARTY CONVENTIONS (77%); PLATFORMS & ISSUES (76%); BUDGET DEFICITS (74%); RECESSION (74%); CONFERENCES & CONVENTIONS (73%); INCOME TAX (71%); HEALTH INSURANCE (66%); OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (65%); 

PERSON: SEELYE, KATHARINE Q; GORE, AL (VICE PRES); BUSH, GEORGE W (GOV) AL GORE (93%); GEORGE W BUSH (92%); 

LOAD-DATE: July 16, 2000



390 of 757 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: July 16, 2000

SECTION: Section 1; Page 2; Column 5; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 822 words

HEADLINE: NEWS SUMMARY

 BODY:

INTERNATIONAL 3-10
 
Russian Military Seeks To Increase Arms Sales
Russia's military industrial establishment is engaged in a major effort to increase arms sales to Asia, the Middle East and Africa and is expanding its share of the lucrative global arms market. 1 

Camp David's Delegates
While it is impossible to know what is going on at the negotiating tables inside the secluded Camp David, the contrasting teams of delegates reflect the serious intent on reaching some kind of deal. Everything will eventually come down to the leaders themselves, but the delegations offer a road map to the process. 10
 
Sri Lankan Support in Canada
Fund-raising for the Liberation Tigers of Tamil Eelam is illegal in the United States, but Canada has no such prohibition, and Canadian officials and Sri Lankan diplomats say it has become an important source of support for the Sri Lankan rebels. 3
 
Haitian Election Results Upheld
Haitian officials say they will stand by the results of their recent elections despite threats from international donors to suspend aid over a vote-counting method they deemed unfair and unacceptable. 10
 
Hong Kong Pollster Warned
A prominent pollster said he was warned by the head of Hong Kong University not to publish surveys critical of the Beijing-appointed chief executive of Hong Kong, Tung Chee-hwa, raising fears about academic freedom. 10
 
Canadian Tornado Kills 9
A campground tornado in Alberta, Canada, has killed nine people while leaving more than 130 injured and 400 in shelters. (AP)
 
NATIONAL 12-22
 
Clinton Called On to Bring Star Power to Campaign
A rising tide of Democratic leaders contend that President Clinton, who is still revered by a core of the party's constituents, should play a prominent role campaigning for Vice President Al Gore, who is trailing Gov. George W. Bush in several battleground states. 1
 
Vice President Al Gore presented his own economic proposals as "tried and true" in a continuation of his assault on Gov. George W. Bush's record in Texas. 20
 
Tobacco Jurors Speak Out
The six jury members who punished the tobacco industry with a $144.8 billion punitive damage settlement in Florida saw the industry as dishonest and arrogant throughout the two-year trial, the jurors said. 1
 
Even if the award in the Florida class-action lawsuit is eventually reduced or thrown out, the size of the figure has stunned legal experts. 19
 
Researchers See Bias
Asian and Asian-American scientists are staying away from jobs at national weapons laboratories, saying that researchers of Asian descent have been systematically harassed and denied advancement. 1
 
Flight Delays Worsen
Last summer was the worst on record for airline delays, prompting the airlines and the Federal Aviation Administration to try to ease the burden on passengers. Yet despite those efforts, this summer is turning out to be even worse. 1
 
Philadelphia's Starring Role
Philadelphia has suffered some loss of face recently, but the city is still hard at work preparing for the Republican National Convention. 12
 
NEW YORK/REGION 23-28
 
Senate Campaign's Intensity Drops Without Giuliani
The Senate race in New York State has become less intense, and less interesting to many voters, since Mayor Rudolph W. Giuliani dropped out as Hillary Rodham Clinton's opponent. And a fog has descended over this once highest of high-flying
campaigns, leaving the candidate's
advisers discussing what to do about it -- if anything, since it remains a matter of debate in both campaigns whether all this attention was ever a good thing for either candidate. 23
 
Nightclub Owner Slain Over Bill
The owner of a popular Korean nightclub in Midtown Manhattan was shot and killed by a customer who was enraged by his bill of nearly $1,000, the police said. The customer shot the owner, Sang Dal Choi, 43, several times in the head inside the Dae Tong Ryung club, in the basement of 6 East 32nd Street. 25
 
Corzine's Record Spending
A final accounting shows that Jon Corzine spent $36.7 million, almost all of it his own money, to beat former New Jersey Governor Jim Florio and win the Democratic nomination for United States Senate. 28
 
Fresh Air Fund 27
 
OBITUARIES 30-31
 
John O. Pastore
A dominant figure in Rhode Island politics for three decades who was the first Italian-American to be elected as a Governor and to sit in the United States Senate, he was 90. 30
 
John Morgan
A dashingly dapper dandy who took it upon himself to dictate to the
proper English about proper manners, he was 41. 31
 
Ursule Molinaro
A novelist and translator whose
career spanned five decades, she was believed to have been in her 80's. 31
 
Chess 30
Weather 26
Cong. Vote 27 
http://www.nytimes.com

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Summary

COUNTRY: CANADA (95%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (94%); HONG KONG (93%); SRI LANKA (93%); UNITED STATES (92%); MIDDLE EAST (92%); HAITI (92%); ASIA (91%); CHINA (70%); 

STATE: FLORIDA, USA (92%); ALBERTA, CANADA (57%); 

CITY: BEIJING, CHINA (70%); 

COMPANY: LIBERATION TIGERS OF TAMIL EELAM (56%); LIBERATION TIGERS OF TAMIL EELAM (56%); 

ORGANIZATION: LIBERATION TIGERS OF TAMIL EELAM (56%); LIBERATION TIGERS OF TAMIL EELAM (56%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: CANADA (95%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (94%); HONG KONG (93%); SRI LANKA (93%); UNITED STATES (92%); MIDDLE EAST (92%); HAITI (92%); ASIA (91%); CHINA (70%); FLORIDA, USA (92%); ALBERTA, CANADA (57%); BEIJING, CHINA (70%); 

SUBJECT: NO INDEX TERMS FROM NYTIMES MILITARY WEAPONS (90%); NEWS BRIEFS (90%); DEFENSE INDUSTRY (90%); SUITS & CLAIMS (89%); JURY TRIALS (87%); AIRLINES (83%); DAMAGES (78%); TOBACCO INDUSTRY (78%); EXECUTIVES (75%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (75%); LIBERATION TIGERS OF TAMIL EELAM (75%); ELECTIONS (74%); ASIAN AMERICANS (74%); FUNDRAISING (74%); LITIGATION (74%); TORNADOES (70%); CIVIL AVIATION (69%); APPOINTMENTS (68%); POLITICAL PARTIES (68%); AVIATION ADMINISTRATION (67%); ACADEMIC FREEDOM (66%); PUNITIVE DAMAGES (66%); EXECUTIVE MOVES (66%); DELAYS & POSTPONEMENTS (65%); RACE & RACISM (63%); CLASS ACTIONS (60%); 

PERSON: BILL CLINTON (79%); AL GORE (53%); 

LOAD-DATE: July 16, 2000



391 of 757 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: July 16, 2000

SECTION: Section 1; Page 10; Column 1; Foreign Desk 

LENGTH: 1902 words

HEADLINE: Arab-Israeli Negotiations Turn on the Chemistry of the Central Players

BYLINE: By DEBORAH SONTAG and JANE PERLEZ 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, July 15

 BODY:
Given the total seclusion of the Camp David peace talks, photographs issued by the White House offer the only glimpse inside the presidential retreat. They present frozen images of men in shirtsleeves, pens poised over note pads, their faces absorbed in thought.
While it is impossible to know what is going on at those negotiating tables, the delegations themselves offer a road map to the process. Israelis, Palestinians and Americans, their political, military and diplomatic careers have been interwoven and, in some cases, steered exclusively toward this goal: the supposed endgame of the Israeli-Palestinian peace effort and the resolution of 52 years of conflict. 
 For the three members of the American peace team, for instance, this summit meeting marks the culmination of a professional life spent shuttling between Israelis and Arabs, a career that became a personal mission.
In negotiations that will surely go right to the wire, and then trip it, everything will eventually come down to the leaders themselves. But the fabric of relations is knitted by the negotiators, by, say, the interaction between Shlomo Ben-Ami, the popular Labor Party politician who is a potential future challenger to Prime Minister Ehud Barak of Israel, and Abu Ala, the Palestinian parliament speaker, who is a potential future heir to Yasir Arafat, president of the Palestinian Authority.
Mr. Barak, leader of the Labor Party and a general turned peacemaker, brought the smallest delegation, a relatively lean, mean team of mostly military men and center-left politicians like himself. This fighting trim was not intentional; it reflects the defection of the rightist parties in his government on the eve of his departure. But it could serve to streamline his approach, since he will not have to answer to the deep-seated reluctance of those ministers who would otherwise have come.
"Barak is so intent he is like a horse with blinders, and this will make it simpler here, although harder when he returns home," an adviser to the prime minister said.
In contrast, Mr. Arafat traveled to the United States not only with his senior negotiators, security professionals and economic advisers but with some opposition party leaders and with a vocal critic as the appointed spokeswoman.
Unlike Mr. Barak, a democratic leader, Mr. Arafat, who is often considered to be an authoritarian, has surrounded himself with a consensus-building organism. The opposition leaders are not inside Camp David -- in fact, the Americans would not admit them when they banged at the gate this week -- but even within the group inside, there is a spectrum ranging from the more pragmatic to the more cynical, from money men to ideologues.
Some American and Israeli officials think Mr. Arafat would not have made the journey in such complete Palestinian company if he were not intent on reaching some kind of deal.
But an adviser to Mr. Arafat cautioned that the Palestinian leader has always "tried to bring people inside his tent" -- and that has been a strength and a weakness. Sometimes, hard-liners have kept him "too pure," an Israeli official said.
Also, the main opposition leaders, like Sheik Ahmed Yassin of the radical Islamic group Hamas, did not unite behind the peace effort.
"This time," a former diplomat said, "Arafat will only make a deal when it is to his advantage and he won't let artificial deadlines force him into something he doesn't want to do." That deadline is President Clinton's scheduled departure for Okinawa on Wednesday for the meeting of major industrial nations.
Behind Mr. Clinton at Camp David, there is a triptych of diplomats who -- sometimes symbiotically, sometimes competitively -- have devoted themselves to the Middle East since the 1980's: Dennis Ross, 52, chief Middle East peace envoy; his deputy, Aaron D. Miller, 51; and Martin Indyk, 49, who is now on his second tour as ambassador to Israel.
For all three men, their formative experience was the 1973 Arab-Israeli war. Mr. Miller and Mr. Indyk were graduate students in Israel; Mr. Ross had just left. And as young Jewish intellectuals, colleagues say, they came away believing that Israel needed peace with its neighbors as badly as it needed to be protected from another devastating war.
From that conviction, their concept of Israel grew, fortified by a strong security relationship with the United States, making peace with its neighbors through incremental steps. These ideas were developed by Mr. Indyk, who became the first director of the Washington Institute for Near East Policy, an offshoot of the American Israel Public Affairs Committee, and by Mr. Ross, who perched there briefly in 1992.
After Mr. Clinton became president, he gave the three men a chance to turn position papers into policy. Mr. Indyk, an Australian, became an American citizen in order to do so.
The three began with the 1993 Oslo interim peace accord. Mr. Miller cultivated relations with Mr. Arafat, whom he had first met in Tunis. Mr. Ross and Mr. Indyk concentrated on the Israelis. And when Mr. Barak was elected prime minister last year, the three made little secret of their pleasure at having an Israeli leader whose peacemaking platform matched theirs.
Palestinians, who think that American policy has long been skewed toward Israel, frequently note quietly that all three American negotiators are Jewish. But over the course of their repeated trekking to Gaza and Ramallah to visit Mr. Arafat, the three have come to be seen as fair -- although this judgment could fray in the heat of negotiations.
Before leaving for the meeting, one of the three said that it was the most "extraordinary development" he had experienced in 20 years. "The stakes are incredibly high," he said -- and it was clear he was talking personally and diplomatically.
Stakes are high, of course, for all present. There is not a single Palestinian official with Mr. Arafat's stature. But in the speculation about who would succeed the 70-year-old leader, his longtime deputies, Abu Ala and Abu Mazen, are the top contenders. They are formally positioned to split his two roles: Abu Ala to succeed him as president of the Palestinian National Authority and Abu Mazen as chairman of the Palestine Liberation Organization.
As such, they have an investment in negotiating a final peace accord that could stand the test of time. And yet, while they are both relative moderates within the Palestinian world, the delegation's official position is that the summit meeting is being held too soon, without the proper groundwork laid for a full or even partial resolution of outstanding problems.
Inside Camp David, Mr. Abu Ala, 63, a pragmatist and strong strategist, is certain to play the visible lead role. Although Mr. Arafat occasionally considers him a bit too independent, he has relied on Mr. Abu Ala for the hands-on part of all key negotiations. Mr. Abu Mazen, 65, the godfather of the breakthrough Oslo talks in 1993, is more the overseer.
Palestinians think of Mr. Abu Ala, a forceful white-haired politician who comes from the town of Abu Dis, adjacent to Jerusalem, as a businessman for his role overseeing P.L.O. investments, and consider that the key to his negotiating skill. He negotiated the 1995 interim peace agreement, Oslo II. But, on the plane ride to Washington for the signing ceremony, Mr. Arafat informed him that Mr. Abu Mazen would sign the agreement and deliver the speech. Mr. Abu Ala was crestfallen, and withdrew to the sidelines of the negotiation process for some time.
Mr. Abu Ala was accorded no official role in the present final-status peace negotiations. But he played the more important unofficial part in back-channel talks that eventually moved to Stockholm this spring and became the main channel.
In the 1970's, Mr. Abu Mazen, whose West Bank villa in Ramallah has been the site for late-night meetings of Israeli and Palestinian leaders, oversaw secret contacts between the P.L.O. and progressive Israelis. As a result of relationships he nurtured, Israeli doves and American peace negotiators regarded him as the most flexible Palestinian official. This made it difficult for him to play a central role, because it discredited him on the Palestinian streets. But Mr. Abu Mazen, anyway, prefers to be behind the scenes, thinking the big thoughts.
Saeb Erekat, a political scientist who is almost 20 years younger, has been most visible to Americans, since he makes media appearances and whispers English translations into Mr. Arafat's ears. He was not an original member of the P.L.O., never lived in exile and is thus considered to be in better touch with popular sentiments.
Dr. Erekat made his diplomatic entrance by defying his superiors' orders in the Madrid peace talks in 1991, when the Palestinians were trying to keep a low profile. He walked into the talks with a kaffiyeh draped over his shoulder. Mr. Arafat scolded him later, but Mr. Erekat disarmed him by saying, "Mr. Chairman, I felt I was carrying a piece of you inside."
Mr. Arafat is also accompanied by his senior security chief, Mohammed Dahlan; his information minister, Yasir Abed Rabbo, who plays the role of house skeptic; and his senior economic adviser, Mohammed Rachid, who is an Iraqi-born Kurd.
Mr. Rachid is the most pragmatic and least ideological of the delegation and Mr. Arafat is said to feel indebted to him for creating the monopoly businesses that generated the first income for the Palestinian Authority -- along with allegations of cronyism and corruption. Before the summit meeting, Mr. Rachid was preparing the Palestinians' compensation demands -- $40 billion, mostly for refugees -- and making clear that he would steer Mr. Arafat toward the practical if he could.
The Israeli delegation is not a well-oiled peace team, like the Americans and the Palestinians, but a disparate, experienced group of politicians, lawyers and generals. At the last minute, after the meeting had begun, Mr. Barak summoned Dan Meridor, a right-leaning legislator, to round out the center-left delegation.
Elyakim Rubinstein, a religious Jew and the attorney general, was reportedly reluctant to come. But he is there as the government's lawyer, and as the only delegate who participated in the original Camp David in 1978, bringing with him the accumulated experience of all the peace agreements from then on. Insiders say that he also tells the jokes.
The two central negotiators are Mr. Ben-Ami and Gilad Sher, a private lawyer who used to be a lawyer for the military. Mr. Barak trusts Mr. Sher, who negotiated the most recent interim agreement last September, precisely because he is apolitical.
Mr. Ben-Ami, on the other hand, is a Moroccan-born Israeli. He rose from humble beginnings to become an Oxford-educated historian and Israeli diplomat who, in the most recent Labor Party primary, shot up to the top spot behind Mr. Barak. Insiders say that it signals Mr. Barak's keen desire for an agreement that he is willing to use him as a resource, to tolerate his meetings with President Clinton on the back porch of the Aspen Cabin, which surely raise Mr. Ben-Ami's political capital.
"But Barak is confident, more confident than I have ever seen him," said an Israeli cabinet minister. "At Camp David, he is everything. The team is not essential. They are just there to fill the chairs, make the atmosphere."
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photos: Yasir Arafat and Ehud Barak with President Clinton on Tuesday, in seclusion at the Camp David retreat. (Ralph Alswang/The White House); Secretary of State Madeleine K. Albright, left, with members of the Israeli, American and Palestinian negotiating teams at the Camp David talks. (Sharon Farmer/The White House)
 
Chart/Photos: "WHO'S WHO: Around the Table at Camp David "
Some of the major figures behind the scenes in the Middle East peace negotiations
 
THE ISRAELIS
 
SHLOMO BEN-AMI -- Minister of internal security. Mr. Ben-Ami, a professor of history, served as ambassador to Spain. He is a popular, Moroccan-born Labor Party politician. Mr. Ben-Ami conducted secret negotiations in Stockholm that were aimed at arriving at a framework agreement for peace by mid-May.
 
GILAD SHER -- Senior negotiator. He is a former military lawyer and is now in private practice. Mr. Sher was Ben-Ami's partner in this spring's Stockholm talks, and negotiated the Sharm el Sheik agreement, the most recent interim accord.
 
ELYAKIM RUBINSTEIN -- Attorney general and a former judge. Mr. Rubenstein is the only delegation member who was at the 1978 Camp David talks, and is the only Orthodox Jew on the team.
 
THE AMERICANS
 
DENNIS ROSS -- Involved with Middle East policy since the Bush administration, Mr. Ross became President Clinton's chief Middle East adviser soon after the president took office. He has worked on all the major agreements in the last seven years.
 
AARON D. MILLER -- Mr. Ross's deputy for the past seven years, he specializes in negotiations with the Palestinians. Mr. Miller, a Middle East historian, he has worked at the State Department through four administrations.
 
MARTIN INDYK -- American ambassador to Israel. Advised Mr. Clinton on Middle East policy during the 1992 presidential campaign, moving afterward to the National Security Council. Later, at the State Department, he devised overall Mideast policy.
 
THE PALESTINIANS
 
ABU ALA -- Speaker of the Palestinian Authority's Legislative Council. The senior Palestinian negotiator of the 1993 Oslo accord. Although no clear successor to Mr. Arafat has emerged, he is seen as one of two top contenders. Ran Stockholm talks for the Palestinians.
 
ABU MAZEN -- Leader of the Palestinian negotiating team and secretary of the P.L.O. executive committee. The other top contender to succeed Mr. Arafat.
 
SAEB EREKAT -- Minister of local government. Chief Palestinian negotiator on matters connected with the interim settlement. The only member of the team representing the Palestinians who never went into exile or was deported. Former academic.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: ISRAEL (99%); UNITED STATES (99%); PALESTINIAN TERRITORY, OCCUPIED (96%); MIDDLE EAST (95%); SPAIN (79%); SWEDEN (79%); 

CITY: STOCKHOLM, SWEDEN (69%); OSLO, NORWAY (50%); 

COMPANY: NATIONAL SECURITY COUNCIL (59%); NATIONAL SECURITY COUNCIL (59%); 

ORGANIZATION: NATIONAL SECURITY COUNCIL (59%); NATIONAL SECURITY COUNCIL (59%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ISRAEL; ISRAEL (99%); UNITED STATES (99%); PALESTINIAN TERRITORY, OCCUPIED (96%); MIDDLE EAST (95%); SPAIN (79%); SWEDEN (79%); STOCKHOLM, SWEDEN (69%); OSLO, NORWAY (50%); 

SUBJECT: PALESTINIANS; UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS PEACE PROCESS (91%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (90%); TALKS & MEETINGS (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (89%); PRIME MINISTERS (89%); POLITICS (89%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (89%); ISRAELI-PALESTINIAN CONFLICTS (76%); ARMED FORCES (71%); 

PERSON: SONTAG, DEBORAH; PERLEZ, JANE; BARAK, EHUD (PRIME MIN); ARAFAT, YASIR; CLINTON, BILL (PRES) EHUD BARAK (89%); BILL CLINTON (88%); MAHMOUD ABBAS (58%); 

LOAD-DATE: July 16, 2000



392 of 757 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: July 16, 2000

SECTION: Section 1; Page 1; Column 6; Foreign Desk 

LENGTH: 1601 words

HEADLINE: RUSSIA IS PUSHING TO INCREASE SHARE IN WEAPONS TRADE

BYLINE: By MICHAEL R. GORDON 

DATELINE: NIZHNY TAGIL, Russia, July 13

 BODY:
Stung by meager defense orders from an impoverished army at home, Russia's military industrial establishment is engaged in a major effort to increase arms sales to Asia, the Middle East and Africa and is expanding its share of the lucrative global arms market.
The United States and western Europe dominate the international weapons bazaar. But this week, on a once-secret test range in the Ural mountains, the men who fashioned the formidable arsenal that once made NATO anxious and was paraded with pride by the Kremlin each Nov. 7 showed that they could attract plenty of customers -- and had plenty to sell, too. 
 Defense officials from India and China -- Russia's major customers for weapons -- Kuwait, North Korea, South Korea and dozens of other nations watched attentively as a T-90 tank, one of Russia's newest weapons, sent a laser-guided missile streaking toward a target more than two miles away. South Korean officials kept a watchful eye on any weapons that piqued North Korean interest.
Baton-twirling majorettes paraded along the range's esplanade as Russian officials toasted their guests from vodka bottles bearing the imprint of a Russian tank. And Mikhail Kalashnikov, the 80-year-old designer of the AK-47, strolled through the crowd, posing for pictures.
Executives from General Dynamics, the American defense contractor, were also there, scrutinizing the Russian tanks. Russian officials say that General Dynamics is discussing the purchase of a revolutionary Russian system to protect tanks from missile and grenade attacks.
"Exports are the most important thing for us because they bring in real money," said Viktor A. Yamov, the chief of advertising for Uralvagonzavod, manufacturer of the T-90 tank. "We don't see much real money from the Russian Army."
There are two ways to calculate arms sales: agreements made and actual deliveries. In terms of deliveries last year, the real money from the rest of the world totaled $2.8 billion, putting Russia fourth, behind the United States, France and Britain, in weapons sales. Russian weapons accounted for 6 percent of all arms delivered -- compared with the United States' 49 percent -- but Terence Taylor, assistant director of the Institute of Strategic Studies in London, said that Russia is now expanding that share toward 10 percent.
During Soviet times, the military sector had first claim on resources here and defense plants churned out thousands of tanks, artillery pieces and air defense missiles. Weapons production was surrounded by intense secrecy, and, although the Soviets dispatched tons of weaponry to friendly nations, a fair to sell arms to the world was unthinkable.
With the Soviet collapse, Russia's defense complex plunged into depression. Defense orders dried up. Debts to suppliers and utilities mounted. Conversion to civilian production remained largely a pipe dream. Exports became a vital, if tenuous, lifeline.
"At this point, the Russian armed forces are buying very little," Mr. Taylor said in a telephone interview. "Virtually all of the production is going for export."
Mr. Yamov's factory, a sprawling complex near this test range that used to employ 45,000 people, is a case in point. It produced all of the Soviet tanks, from the legendary T-34 of World War II to its T-72, operating under the cover story that it turned out mere railroad cars. Now, it lives for exports.
Russia is on the verge of announcing a major arms deal with India under which New Delhi would purchase about 300 T-90 tanks. One hundred of them would be manufactured at the Uralvagonzavod plant, with some 200 assembled in India. Russian press reports estimate the deal is worth some $700 million.
In contrast, the Russian Army has just two T-90 tanks in the European part of its territory, according to data Moscow supplied in January under the treaty limiting conventional forces in Europe.
And despite President Vladimir V. Putin's pledge to boost weapons procurement, the Russian Army is only scheduled to receive 30 T-90 tanks this year. That is a small fraction of the 350 new tanks that Col. Gen. Anatoly Sitnov, the weapons chief for the Russian armed forces, says are needed each year.
This year, the Russian Air Force is purchasing just 12 SU-30 fighter and attack planes, although with exports in mind, about 50 are being produced. In 1998, the air force did not acquire a single new fighter.
While exports are vital to Russia's military complex, competition is stiff. Western nations can offer more generous financing, have longstanding customers, and offer better maintenance and spare parts service after sale. And former Soviet states like Ukraine, which also inherited Soviet defense plants, compete for orders that Russia covets.
The fact that the Russian military has fielded so few new weapons does not help either; many customers like to buy only systems that have been put to the test.
Still, the Russians have some advantages. Low labor costs make their weapons cheaper than those of Western counterparts. They also have a reputation for producing high-quality armored systems, anti-tactical missile systems and artillery.
Russia's weapons trade has consequences for its foreign policy, according to some experts here. The defense establishment is still dominated by men reared in cold war enmity; the competition for sales has reinforced the notion that America is an unfriendly rival whose success comes at Russia's expense, particularly since NATO has expanded its membership and hence its arms clientele into the former Soviet bastion of Central Europe.
"It makes the defense establishment even more anti-American," said Dmitri V. Trenin, the deputy director of the Moscow Carnegie Center. "This is not just the abstract notion of competition. It is a confrontation over money."
The vast majority of Russia's arms exports go to two nations: China and India. Their primary interest is in acquiring the means to make weapons, not just to buy the weapons systems themselves, a development that contributes to the spread of advanced military technology.
Russia's major deals with China include a licensing agreement permitting Beijing to co-produce SU-27 aircraft, and the sale of two destroyers. In addition to the pending tank contract with India, another deal under discussion would provide the Indians with the Russian aircraft carrier Admiral Gorshkov and the MIG-29 planes that would be on it.
Measured in terms of agreements, Russia accounted for 40 percent of weapons sales to Asia between 1995 and 1998, according to Richard F. Grimmett of the Congressional Research Service in Washington.
"The Russians are highly dependent on arms contracts with those two countries," Mr. Grimmett said. "China and India have tremendous leverage in terms of getting the advanced equipment they are seeking."
With a younger, more dynamic president now in the Kremlin and sales at stake, the Russians appeared to go all out to make this week's arms fair in the Urals -- the second annual event here -- a prestigious occasion. Mr. Putin himself showed up.
And there were several new pieces of weaponry. One notable new item was a tank support vehicle, which has a crew of five. It has the protection of a tank but is outfitted with a unique set of weapons, including grenade launchers, a 30-millimeter cannon and four antitank missiles. The Russians appear to have designed the weapon with an insurgency like the one in Chechnya in mind, but it was a big hit with the Chinese, who clustered around it.
Another novel system that attracted attention was Nakidka, basically a tarpaulin that is draped over equipment to foil weapons guided by radar and heat-seeking devices that create images from the heat of objects.
Foreign military officials also seemed impressed by the Iskander surface-to-surface missile, which was shown for the first time, and the S-300 system, which is designed to shoot down Scud-type missiles.
One of the hits of the arms fair were the T-80 and T-90 jumping tanks, which zoomed up a ramp and leaped through the air.
Hundreds of foreigners who identified themselves only as defense attaches, intelligence experts or trade officials but often declined to give their names, prowled among the exhibits. Many carried sophisticated cameras and snapped detailed pictures of firing mechanisms, artillery tubes and weapons chassis.
Kuwaiti military officials eagerly talked with the Russians about their tanks. An Iranian delegation wanted to see executives at Uralvagonzavod. Iran has a fleet of T-72 tanks and is interested in upgrades, said Mr. Yamov, the advertising director.
General Dynamics, for its part, has been exploring the idea of acquiring Russia's Arena system, which uses a radar to detect antitank missiles or grenades and destroys them by firing munitions, according to Aleksandr I. Kobin, the general director of Rosvooruzheniye, the Russian arms sales agency. He indicated that President Putin would have to decide whether the system could be provided to the Americans.
Officials from the American corporation, based in Falls Church, Va., declined to discuss their interest in Arena, but they were certainly taking a close look at the Russian tanks.
"No one country has the corner on good ideas," said Philip W. Lett, the former program manager for the United States Army's M-1 tank program and a General Dynamics consultant.
And despite their long alliance with Washington, the South Koreans expressed interest in exploring production with the Russians. As a South Korean defense attache put it, "Business is business."
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photos: A once-secret testing range in the Ural Mountains was the site of Russia's international weapons bazaar. (James Hill for The New York Times)(pg. 1); A member of China's delegation to a Russian arms fair at Nizhny Tagil in the Urals last week wore a crewman's hat as she stood on a T-90 tank. (James Hill for The New York Times)(pg. 6)
 
Map of Russia shows the location of Nizhny Tagil: The weapons factories of Nizhny Tagil now live for exports. (pg. 6)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: ALMUDON (KUW) (56%); GD (NYSE) (54%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS531110 LESSORS OF RESIDENTIAL BUILDINGS & DWELLINGS (56%); SIC6513 OPERATORS OF APARTMENT BUILDINGS (56%); NAICS336992 MILITARY ARMORED VEHICLE, TANK & TANK COMPONENT MANUFACTURING (54%); NAICS336611 SHIP BUILDING & REPAIRING (54%); NAICS334511 SEARCH, DETECTION, NAVIGATION, GUIDANCE, AERONAUTICAL & NAUTICAL SYSTEM & INSTRUMENT MANUFACTURING (54%); SIC3531 CONSTRUCTION MACHINERY & EQUIPMENT (53%); 

COUNTRY: RUSSIAN FEDERATION (99%); UNITED STATES (94%); KOREA, REPUBLIC OF (93%); CHINA (93%); KOREA, DEMOCRATIC PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF (92%); MIDDLE EAST (92%); ASIA (92%); KUWAIT (92%); EUROPE (92%); WESTERN EUROPE (90%); FRANCE (79%); UNITED KINGDOM (79%); INDIA (79%); 

CITY: LONDON, ENGLAND (52%); 

COMPANY: AL MUDON INTERNATIONAL REAL ESTATE CO KSCC (56%); GENERAL DYNAMICS CORP (54%); URALVAGONZAVOD OAO (53%); NORTH ATLANTIC TREATY ORGANIZATION (57%); 

ORGANIZATION: NORTH ATLANTIC TREATY ORGANIZATION (57%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: RUSSIA; INDIA; CHINA; SOUTH KOREA; NORTH KOREA; KUWAIT; RUSSIAN FEDERATION (99%); UNITED STATES (94%); KOREA, REPUBLIC OF (93%); CHINA (93%); KOREA, DEMOCRATIC PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF (92%); MIDDLE EAST (92%); ASIA (92%); KUWAIT (92%); EUROPE (92%); WESTERN EUROPE (90%); FRANCE (79%); UNITED KINGDOM (79%); INDIA (79%); LONDON, ENGLAND (52%); 

SUBJECT: ARMS SALES ABROAD; ARMAMENT, DEFENSE AND MILITARY FORCES MILITARY ARMORED VEHICLE MFG (90%); MILITARY WEAPONS (90%); FACTORY ORDERS (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); ARMS TRADE (90%); ARMIES (90%); DEFENSE CONTRACTING (90%); DEFENSE ORDERS (90%); DEFENSE INDUSTRY (90%); EXPORT TRADE (89%); DEFENSE SECTOR PERFORMANCE (89%); ARTILLERY & ORDNANCE MFG (86%); AIR DEFENSE SYSTEMS (78%); DEFENSE DEPARTMENTS (78%); DEFENSE SPENDING (78%); FIREARMS (76%); BOMBS & EXPLOSIVE DEVICES (73%); LASERS (73%); MOUNTAINS (71%); 

PERSON: GORDON, MICHAEL R

LOAD-DATE: July 16, 2000



393 of 757 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: July 16, 2000

SECTION: Section 1; Page 30; Column 3; National Desk

LENGTH: 1345 words

HEADLINE: John Pastore, Longtime Rhode Island Politician, Dies at 93

BYLINE: By RICHARD GOLDSTEIN

 BODY:
John O. Pastore, the first Italian-American to be elected as a governor and sit in the United States Senate, and a dominant figure in Rhode Island politics for three decades, died yesterday. He was 93 years old.
He had been in a nursing home in North Kingstown, R.I., for treatment of Parkinson's disease. 
 "Rhode Island is the smallest state in the union and I am the smallest governor in the United States," the 5-foot-4-inch Mr. Pastore once told a group of German editors visiting the statehouse in Providence. When he went to Washington, he became the smallest senator. But in his 26 years in Washington he established himself as a formidable presence, a liberal Democrat regarded as a fierce debater with a booming voice and a firm grasp on the issues of his day.
He staked out a specialty in nuclear power matters as chairman of the powerful Joint Committee on Atomic Energy and in 1963 provided important backing for the Kennedy administration's controversial treaty with the Soviet Union barring nuclear tests in the atmosphere.
In waging a successful fight for ratification, Senator Pastore displayed his flair for the dramatic. During the debate he flung open his jacket and struck the left side of his chest. "I say to those who have doubts about this treaty that I want them to open their heart and look into their consciences," he implored fellow senators. "I want them to realize what they might be doing. If by their vote they destroy and kill the treaty, God help us! God help us!"
His son, John O. Pastore Jr., a cardiologist, was secretary of the International Physicians for the Prevention of Nuclear War when the Boston-based organization, jointly founded by American and Soviet physicians, was awarded the Nobel Peace Prize in 1985. He is also survived by his wife, Elena, and daughters, Francesca Pastore and Louise M. Harbourt.
Senator Pastore also held posts on the Commerce and Appropriations Committees as well as the Senate Democratic Policy Committee, making him one of the Senate's most influential members.
He led a bitter but losing battle to block the politically restrictive McCarran-Walter Immigration Act that passed over President Harry S. Truman's veto and played an important role in passage of the 1964 Civil Rights Act barring discrimination in public accommodations and cutting off federal financing of discriminatory programs.
Senator Pastore was floor manager of legislation suspending equal-time provisions of the Federal Communications Act to bring about the televised Kennedy-Nixon Presidential debates in 1960. As chairman of the Senate's communications subcommittee, he sometimes took a conservative stance on social issues. In the late 1960's and 1970's, he denounced what he viewed as excessive violence and sexual content in television programming, at one point expressing dismay over the double-entendre of a shaving cream commercial featuring an attractive young woman saying, "Take it all off."
The son of an immigrant tailor, left fatherless at age 9, he epitomized the self-made man. "I always felt there were two strikes against me, and to succeed I had to do a better job than anyone else," he said.
Mr. Pastore, who served as governor of Rhode Island from 1945 to 1950 and who never lost an election, was fortunate to have come of age politically at an opportune time. He entered statewide politics when Italian-Americans were voting in increasingly significant numbers in urban areas and using their growing economic strength to provide financial backing for political candidates they favored.
For a man whose rise reflected inroads by Italian-Americans on political gains made by Irish-Americans, John Orlando Pastore had an intriguing birthday. He was born in the largely Italian Federal Hill section of Providence on St. Patrick's Day -- March 17, 1907.
His father, Michele, a native of Potenza in southern Italy, supported his wife, Erminia, and their four children with his tailor shop, and the family seemed to be moving up the economic ladder. But Michele Pastore died suddenly in May 1916 while his wife was pregnant with their fifth child. Mrs. Pastore went to work as a seamstress in a department store while John cared for the three younger children and did the cooking and cleaning.
Mrs. Pastore made sure her children were well-dressed and well-mannered, and young John developed a penchant for fastidiousness. "When he cleaned house, he moved every stick of furniture," his mother would remember. "He never did anything by halves." His impeccable dress would become a hallmark in his public life -- he changed his shirts in the middle of the day if they bore the slightest signs of wear.
In 1927, while working as a $15-a-week claims adjuster for an electric utility company, Mr. Pastore enrolled in evening law school classes offered by Northeastern University of Boston at a Providence Y.M.C.A. In 1932 he set up a law office in the basement of the family home, but with the Depression in full force, he attracted few clients.
One Sunday in 1933, Mr. Pastore waited outside St. Bartholomew's Church until Tommy Testa, an important local politician, came out. "I'd like to go into politics," Mr. Pastore told him. Mr. Testa, who would recall how "I liked Johnny's manner," helped him obtain the Democratic nomination for the Rhode Island General Assembly, and he was elected to two-year terms in 1934 and 1936.
Seeking a better-paying post, Mr. Pastore then gained an appointment as an assistant state attorney general, and by the early 1940's his oratorical skill was winning over juries in criminal cases. One day a young woman named Elena Caito was passing by a courthouse while Mr. Pastore was prosecuting a case. As Mr. Pastore's son told the story long afterward: "The transom over the door was open. She could hear this booming voice coming out, and she asked one of her brothers, 'Who is that?' So they got introduced." In July 1941, they were married.
In 1944, Mr. Pastore was asked to run for lieutenant governor, a part-time position, on the statewide Democratic ticket headed by Gov. J. Howard McGrath. The Democrats won, and then Mr. Pastore got a huge break, succeeding to the governor's chair in October 1945 when Mr. McGrath was appointed solicitor general in the Truman administration. Mr. Pastore was narrowly elected to the statehouse in November 1946, but two years later he gained a second term with ease.
Although he was the first person of Italian descent to be elected governor, he was not the first to serve in a statehouse. Charles Poletti, a son of Italian immigrants who had been lieutenant governor of New York State, served as governor in December 1942 to complete the term of Gov. Herbert Lehman, who resigned to direct American war-relief efforts in Europe.
A liberal on social-welfare matters, Mr. Pastore as governor worked with business interests, pushing through a sales tax, rather than relying solely on corporate income taxes, to pay for public improvements neglected during World War II. He maintained a popular touch, eating lunch with statehouse employees in their cafeteria, and he was adept at cultivating the press.
He was known for punctuality. While presiding over the State Senate as lieutenant governor, he became irked by its failure to start sessions promptly at 1 p.m. So one day he convened the body precisely at 1 o'clock and then promptly adjourned it since nobody was ready to conduct business.
The Democratic leader ran into the Senate chamber and angrily shouted at Mr. Pastore, "Don't you dare ever do that again."
Mr. Pastore retorted: "Don't you ever dare what you did -- drinking beer in the statehouse while you are supposed to be attending the Senate session."
In November 1950, Mr. Pastore was elected to the United States Senate to fill out the unexpired term of Mr. McGrath, who had moved from the solicitor general's post to the Senate, then resigned to become President Truman's attorney general. In 1952, Mr. Pastore was elected to the first of his four full terms in the Senate.
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photo: John O. Pastore (Associated Press, 1986)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Obituary (Obit); Biography

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (98%); 

STATE: RHODE ISLAND, USA (96%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%); 

CITY: BOSTON, MA, USA (79%); PROVIDENCE, RI, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: JOHN O FARMER INC (91%); JOHN O BUTLER CO (91%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (98%); RHODE ISLAND, USA (96%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%); BOSTON, MA, USA (79%); PROVIDENCE, RI, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: Terms not available from NYTimes. DEATHS & OBITUARIES (96%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (91%); GOVERNORS (90%); PHYSICIANS & SURGEONS (89%); POLITICS (89%); POLITICAL DEBATES (78%); LEGISLATION (78%); PUBLIC POLICY (78%); POLITICAL PARTIES (78%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (78%); APPROPRIATIONS (78%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (78%); PLATFORMS & ISSUES (78%); VETO (78%); CONSERVATISM (77%); LIBERALISM (77%); DISEASES & DISORDERS (77%); CARDIOLOGY (73%); IMMIGRATION LAW (73%); NUCLEAR ENERGY (73%); PARKINSONS DISEASE (72%); SOCIETAL ISSUES (72%); CIVIL RIGHTS (69%); NOBEL PRIZES (67%); COMMUNICATIONS REGULATION & POLICY (66%); DISCRIMINATION (64%); IMMIGRATION (63%); AWARDS & PRIZES (62%); TELEVISION PROGRAMMING (60%); 

PERSON: JOHN F KENNEDY (79%); RICHARD NIXON (58%); 

LOAD-DATE: July 16, 2000



394 of 757 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: July 16, 2000

SECTION: Section 4; Page 16; Column 1; Week 

LENGTH: 470 words

HEADLINE: Ideas & Trends;
Cloak, Dagger, Echelon

BYLINE: By Tom Zeller 

 BODY:
WHAT else but the shadow of Big Brother could provoke equal anger from the American Civil Liberties Union, thousands of Internet enthusiasts and the French government? And what else but the elusive magic of digital communications could make that shadow so mysterious?
 The specter is Echelon, the not-so-supersecret surveillance cooperative that grew out of a cold-war agreement between Britain and the United States to share intelligence data, and that now includes Canada, Australia and New Zealand. The European Union has been sufficiently unnerved by Echelon to commission two reports on its capabilities. And earlier this month a French prosecutor began a preliminary investigation into whether the surveillance network is engaged in economic espionage. Here at home, Representative Bob Barr, Republican of Georgia, has been pressing the National Security Agency to demonstrate that Echelon does not spy on ordinary Americans. 
 But what is Echelon exactly? Most of what is known comes from recycled reports in the news media, but enough evidence has surfaced, including documents released by the N.S.A. under the Freedom of Information Act, that the existence of Echelon is rarely questioned.
 At its core, Echelon is a network of ground stations with dishes aimed at the dozen or so satellites that now shepherd much of the world's television, fax, Internet and voice data. High-capacity computers allow millions of signals per hour to be intercepted and scanned for keywords of interest to each country's intelligence community.
 That agencies like the N.S.A. are mining the spill-off from those satellites should come as no surprise, according to John Pike, a policy analyst for the Federation of American Scientists. "You've got heaping piles of information just sitting up there, all for the price of a satellite dish."
 Questions about how that information is used, and whether or not laws are being violated, are driving the current debate, which is itself clouded by hyperbolic estimates of Echelon's capabilities. A British Web site, for example, seeks to expose Echelon as a source of "psychotronic attacks" and "mind control experimentation." Several other sites claim that Echelon is capable of collecting and processing every e-mail message, every phone call and every fax on the planet.
 "I would be very skeptical that the N.S.A. could or even would try to process every bit of data out there," said Dr. Jeffery Richelson, a senior fellow at the National Security Archives. "It makes sense to question how information they do gather is used, but the hysterical idea that the N.S.A. really cares about the e-mail conversations of everyday citizens is bottom-line nonsense. What everyone is worried about doesn't really exist."
 "Of course," he added, "50 years from now it could."
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Drawing
 
Chart: "The Spy Cooperative"
The National Security Agency and its counterparts in the Echelon partnership neither confirm nor deny the existence of the network. But a picture can be sketched from N.S.A. documents, published reports and experts' analysis. The concept is simple: linked ground stations collect and share data from orbiting satellites. The exact number of collection sites is unknown, but these are thought to be the main stations.
 
Computers at each site scan incoming communications for keywords of interest to each member country. Messages containing hits are forwarded to the intelligence agency of the country whose dictionary contained the keyword.

YAKIMA, WASHINGTON: Located 125 miles southwest of Seattle on the site of the U.S. Army's Yakima Firing Center.
 
LEITRIM, CANADA: Operated by the Canadian Communications Security Establishment, this site is thought to monitor the skies over Latin America.
 
SUGAR GROVE, W. VA.: Reports of a commercial satellite monitoring operation here first surfaced nearly 20 years ago.
 
MORWENSTOW, UNITED KINGDOM: Operated by Britain's Government Communications Headquarters. This site is believed to tap into satellites between the Atlantic and Indian Oceans.
 
GERALDTON, AUSTRALIA: Roughly 200 miles north of Perth. This is considered an important site for monitoring North Korea and Pakistan.
 
WAHOPAI, NEW ZEALAND: The station figured prominently in the latest Echelon report to the European Parliament.
 
Chart: "Several Ways to Snoop"
There are numerous ways to collect communications, but not all are thought to be plugged into the Echelon network.
 
LAND LINE TAPPING: Wire tapping works well for targeted investigations of individuals. But the absence of a central routing system for phone calls and the inability of computer technology to interpret and digitize millions of different voices simultaneously make mass collection unfeasible.
 
MICROWAVE INTERCEPTION: The rise of digital networks has made some interception of communication signals easier. Phone, fax and e-mail data carried between microwave towers also spill out into space and can be intercepted.
 
FIBER OPTIC CABLES: Buried or submerged fiber optic lines are logistically difficult to tap, but intelligence agencies are able to intercept signals at electronic amplifier points, which are necessary to send optic signals over long distances.
 
COMMERCIAL SATELLITE INTERCEPTION: Commercial satellites are the easiest means for intelligence agencies to collect and analyze large amounts of data simultaneously. They are also thought to be the primary targets of Echelon. Although voice signals are still difficult for Echelon's computers to interpret, e-mail, fax and telex data are easily scooped up as they are relayed through space.
(Sources: National Security Archives; Federation of American Scientists; Interception Capabilities 2000, report to European Parliament)
 
Map of the World shows the approximate locations of the Echelon partnership sites.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (97%); CANADA (93%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (93%); EUROPE (93%); AUSTRALIA (92%); FRANCE (92%); UNITED KINGDOM (92%); AUSTRALIA & NEW ZEALAND (92%); NEW ZEALAND (92%); LATIN AMERICA (79%); KOREA, DEMOCRATIC PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF (79%); PAKISTAN (79%); 

STATE: WASHINGTON, USA (92%); ATLANTIC OCEAN (72%); INDIAN OCEAN (59%); 

CITY: YAKIMA, WA, USA (84%); PERTH, AUSTRALIA (79%); SEATTLE, WA, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: SECURITY AGENCY FENIX AS (56%); NATIONAL SECURITY AGENCY (92%); NATIONAL SECURITY AGENCY (92%); EUROPEAN PARLIAMENT (84%); AMERICAN CIVIL LIBERTIES UNION (84%); FEDERATION OF AMERICAN SCIENTISTS (84%); AMERICAN CIVIL LIBERTIES UNION (84%); EUROPEAN PARLIAMENT (84%); FEDERATION OF AMERICAN SCIENTISTS (59%); EUROPEAN UNION (57%); EUROPEAN UNION (57%); 

ORGANIZATION: NATIONAL SECURITY AGENCY (92%); NATIONAL SECURITY AGENCY (92%); EUROPEAN PARLIAMENT (84%); AMERICAN CIVIL LIBERTIES UNION (84%); FEDERATION OF AMERICAN SCIENTISTS (84%); AMERICAN CIVIL LIBERTIES UNION (84%); EUROPEAN PARLIAMENT (84%); FEDERATION OF AMERICAN SCIENTISTS (59%); EUROPEAN UNION (57%); EUROPEAN UNION (57%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES; UNITED STATES (97%); CANADA (93%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (93%); EUROPE (93%); AUSTRALIA (92%); FRANCE (92%); UNITED KINGDOM (92%); AUSTRALIA & NEW ZEALAND (92%); NEW ZEALAND (92%); LATIN AMERICA (79%); KOREA, DEMOCRATIC PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF (79%); PAKISTAN (79%); WASHINGTON, USA (92%); ATLANTIC OCEAN (72%); INDIAN OCEAN (59%); YAKIMA, WA, USA (84%); PERTH, AUSTRALIA (79%); SEATTLE, WA, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: ESPIONAGE; SATELLITES; COMPUTERS AND THE INTERNET INVESTIGATIONS (90%); INTELLIGENCE SERVICES (90%); ESPIONAGE (90%); TRENDS (89%); PUBLIC POLICY (78%); COLD WAR (78%); HUMAN RIGHTS ORGANIZATIONS (78%); INTERNET & WWW (78%); SPECIAL INVESTIGATIVE FORCES (77%); NATIONAL SECURITY (77%); SURVEILLANCE TECHNOLOGY (77%); SATELLITE TELEVISION (77%); EUROPEAN UNION (76%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (76%); TELEVISION INDUSTRY (74%); FREEDOM OF INFORMATION (71%); SATELLITE BROADCASTING (71%); 

PERSON: ZELLER, TOM

LOAD-DATE: July 16, 2000



395 of 757 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: July 16, 2000
Correction Appended

SECTION: Section 3; Page 8; Column 5; Money and Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 685 words

HEADLINE: INVESTING;
A Cell-Phone Company At Old-Economy Prices

BYLINE: By MICHELLE LEDER 

 BODY:
WHAT should investors make of Audiovox, the mobile telephone handset provider that has been called the poor man's Qualcomm? Though Audiovox, based in Hauppauge, N.Y., has been reporting stellar sales growth and has surpassed earnings expectations for three quarters, the stock, having soared through March, is now down 32 percent this year, compared with a 10.7 percent climb in the Standard & Poor's Communications Equipment index.
The reasons include strong competition, falling profit margins and the company's dependence on a single customer for the bulk of its sales. 
 Stacked next to Qualcomm, a much-better-known maker of cellular telephones (as well as chip sets) that became a Wall Street darling, Audiovox remains inexpensive, now trading at $31.375, about 17 times its estimated 2001 earnings of $1.89 a share. Qualcomm, meanwhile, is trading at 46 times 2001 estimates of $1.37 a share, even after falling by about two-thirds this year.
But the two control similar pieces of the $48.4 billion North American market for handsets. In 1999, Audiovox had 10 percent, while Qualcomm had 11.2 percent, according to Dataquest, a market tracker.
As a result, some investors saw Audiovox as a bargain. "It was a cheap way to play Qualcomm," said Jayne Stevlingson, a portfolio manager for the Oppenheimer Discovery fund. But she is now having doubts, and has sold 50,000 of her 300,000 Audiovox shares.
Alan Alpers, a senior portfolio manager at Navellier Fund Management, has also pulled back, citing the stock's difficulty in breaking past the high $20's. "Fundamentally, everything looks good, so it's kind of a mystery," he said.
Before last year, Audiovox stock struggled to break $10, as the company was still best known for its decidedly unsexy car audio equipment. Car electronics now makes up only 20 percent of the business, with handsets accounting for the rest. By March 7 of this year, less than a month after it sold 3.1 million shares at $45 each in a secondary offering, the stock had reached a record of $72.50. Then, amid the selloff in technology stocks, Audiovox fell further and faster than most.
The company's strongest defender is John J. Shalam, 67, the entrepreneur who turned his $15,000 investment 35 years ago into a company that reported $1.16 billion in sales last year, an 89 percent increase over 1998. "We don't think the ride was justified to $72 because that's not realistic," Mr. Shalam, the chief executive, said recently, just after trying to shore up his support at a meeting for analysts and investors in Manhattan. "But we believe that it deserves to trade at $40 to $50."
The five analysts who follow the stock, including four whose firms were involved in the secondary offering, recently raised their earnings expectations for Audiovox. All but one have strong buys on the stock. "Compared with its competitors who are trading at 47 times 2001 earnings, this company is clearly undervalued," said Michael Sheldon, chief market strategist for Spencer Clarke, an investment boutique in Manhattan that did not help underwrite the stock.
The analysts' consensus is that Audiovox will earn $1.64 a share for the current fiscal year, which ends on Nov. 30, and $1.89 a share in 2001. But last month, the analysts lowered their 52-week price targets to $40 to $50 a share from as high as $70.
MR. SHELDON, among others, says he remains concerned about the company's falling margins. In 1998, Audiovox had gross margins, or profits before interest and taxes, of 14.4 percent. Last year, they fell to 11.6 percent; most analysts expect them to go below 10 percent this year as competitors cut prices.
Another concern is that up to 80 percent of Audiovox's handset sales are to one customer, Verizon Communications, the combined Bell Atlantic-GTE cellular service provider. Mr. Shalam said that having so many orders in hand from Verizon helped the company avoid having excess inventory. But Ms. Stevlingson worries that "when you have one customer that controls 80 percent of your revenue, they're basically telling you what to price it at." 
http://www.nytimes.com

CORRECTION-DATE: July 23, 2000, Sunday

 CORRECTION:
Because of an editing error, an article last Sunday about investing in Audiovox, the mobile telephone handset provider, misstated its closing stock price and price-to-earnings multiple for Friday, July 14. The stock closed at $20.625, not $31.375, and was trading at 10.9 times estimated 2001 earnings, not 17.
Also because of an editing error, the article misstated the 2000 performance of the Standard & Poor's Communications Equipment index through July 14. It was down, not up, 10.7 percent.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: VOXX (NASDAQ) (90%); QCOM (NASDAQ) (90%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS423690 OTHER ELECTRONIC PARTS & EQUIPMENT MERCHANT WHOLESALERS (90%); NAICS334310 AUDIO & VIDEO EQUIPMENT MANUFACTURING (90%); NAICS334210 TELEPHONE APPARATUS MANUFACTURING (90%); SIC5065 OTHER ELECTRONIC PARTS & EQUIPMENT (90%); SIC3661 TELEPHONE & TELEGRAPH APPARATUS (90%); SIC3651 HOUSEHOLD AUDIO & VIDEO EQUIPMENT (90%); NAICS334413 SEMICONDUCTOR & RELATED DEVICE MANUFACTURING (90%); NAICS334220 RADIO & TELEVISION BROADCASTING & WIRELESS COMMUNICATIONS EQUIPMENT MANUFACTURING (90%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (79%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (79%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: AUDIOVOX CORP VOXX INTERNATIONAL CORP (90%); QUALCOMM INC (90%); 

ORGANIZATION: AUDIOVOX CORP

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: TELEPHONES AND TELECOMMUNICATIONS; CELLULAR TELEPHONES MOBILE & CELLULAR TELEPHONES (91%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS SECTOR PERFORMANCE (90%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS SERVICES (90%); MOBILE & CELLULAR COMMUNICATIONS (90%); SALES FIGURES (90%); WIRELESS TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (90%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS EQUIPMENT (90%); COMPANY EARNINGS (90%); EARNINGS PREANNOUNCEMENTS (89%); STOCK OFFERINGS (88%); INVESTMENT MANAGEMENT (78%); COMPANY PROFITS (77%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (77%); FINANCIAL RESULTS (77%); WIRELESS & BROADCAST EQUIPMENT MFG (73%); STOCK INDEXES (72%); AUDIO & VIDEO EQUIPMENT (71%); EXECUTIVES (70%); 

PERSON: LEDER, MICHELLE JOHN J SHALAM (59%); 

LOAD-DATE: July 16, 2000



396 of 757 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: July 16, 2000
Correction Appended

SECTION: Section 4; Page 3; Column 1; Week in Review Desk 

LENGTH: 1143 words

HEADLINE: The World;
Ulster and Israel Look In a Mirror at Each Other

BYLINE: By WILLIAM A. ORME Jr. 

DATELINE: JERUSALEM

 BODY:
DAVID TRIMBLE, the leader of Northern Ireland's new power-sharing government, paid a brief visit here recently, shortly before Ulster re-erupted into flames last week and Middle East negotiators hunkered down for endgame peace talks in Washington.
As one veteran peacemaker to another, he held a comradely chat with Yossi Beilin, the Israeli justice minister who helped lay the groundwork for the Camp David summit, and another with Oded Eran, who ran Israel's preliminary negotiations with the Palestinians. Earlier, in Gaza, he met with Yasir Arafat and other senior Palestinian officials. 
 An Israeli reporter buttonholed him and asked him to contrast the parties in conflict here with the two sides of the Ulster dispute. Mr. Trimble refused. "There is no room for comparison," he said flatly. "The Israeli-Palestinian conflict is much more complex than ours."
The disappointed Israeli pressed on: Isn't the Irish problem far more entrenched, with enmities dating back 500 or 600 years?
Mr. Trimble wasn't buying it. The present Irish troubles began barely three decades ago, he replied, while "your conflict is 3,000 years old."
Perhaps. From Ulster or from here, peace seekers tend to see the other conflict as one inherited from the past, and their own as one based in the more manageable present.
Returning home, Mr. Trimble was quickly pulled into the peculiar dynamics of the Ulster "marching season," which celebrates the defeat of the Catholic King James II by the Protestant King William III 310 years ago.
The Palestinians and Israelis, meanwhile, were ensconced in the Catoctin hills, confronting seemingly intractable issues -- refugees, borders, the ownership of Jerusalem -- which are rooted not in ancient history but in Israel's victory over Arab forces here just half a century ago.
Fresh wounds, however, are the most painful, noted Meron Benvenisti, one of Israel's leading social commentators. "The conflict here is much more raw, and even among intellectuals there is less understanding of the other side's position and history than you would find in Northern Ireland," said Mr. Benvenisti, who wrote his Harvard doctoral thesis on Ulster politics 20 years ago.
Unlike most Israelis who have compared the conflicts, Mr. Benvenisti agrees with Mr. Trimble that the dispute between Israelis and Arabs -- whatever its timeline -- is inherently more difficult. The religious and ethnic division and distrust is more profound, the economic and political disparities are far greater, and at the explosive heart of the conflict are mutually exclusive territorial claims, he notes.
Yet for all those reasons, he and others here say, Israelis and Palestinians should look at Northern Ireland for instructive parallels, warning signs and, more recently, practical lessons in how to resolve conflicts.
Not all the lessons are encouraging. The riots that raged through Northern Ireland last week could be seen as a foreshadowing of the internal problems many expect Israel and the Palestinians will confront after a settlement. With the staunchly loyalist Royal Ulster Constabulary faced off against Orange Order marchers, the parades that had long been a flashpoint for friction with Catholics instead exposed deep rifts within the Protestant community. Similarly, Israeli troops are braced to confront militant Jewish settlers, while Palestinian police are prepared to battle radical Islamist opponents of a peace pact.
The bloody terrorist bombings by breakaway Irish Republican factions after the Good Friday agreement was reached in 1988 offer another object lesson for the future here, some observers believe. And the fierce resistance within the Irish Republican Army to unequivocal disarmament is likely to have its parallels in the Fatah movement and other armed Palestinian factions after an accord, Mr. Beilin said.
"These are the two longest-running conflicts since the second world war," said Mr. Beilin, who visited Belfast in January. "In both cases we now seem close to a solution, but in Northern Ireland this week we saw the fragility of the process. Good Friday can be followed by Bad Sunday."
In April, Mr. Beilin convened a workshop here where Israeli and Palestinian officials traded insights with Irish and British experts in the Ulster conflict. What struck him most forcefully, he said, is the need for peace agreements to reflect the power of "symbols and rituals," along with more tangible things like political institutions and economic benefits. An example: Mr. Beilin believes Israel should let a Palestinian flag fly over the Dome of the Rock, the crowning monument of Jerusalem's Old City -- an image shocking to many Israelis, but to Palestinians a powerful statement of their national identity.
Mr. Beilin particularly admires the artful blurring of sovereignty lines in the Good Friday accord. The Republic of Ireland now has a formal consultative role in the Northern Irish government, a concession that for many Protestant loyalists struck at the core of their British identity. Yet in return the Republic withdrew its historic claim on the province and formally recognized the United Kingdom's rule there for the first time.
President Clinton has also repeatedly drawn comparisons. In speeches in Northern Ireland he pointed to the Oslo accord as a sign of the possibility of cooperation between once-bitter enemies, and when visiting Israel and the Palestinian territories, he cited the Good Friday accord as an example of what he hoped negotiators could achieve in final-status talks here.
The most significant parallel is the critical mediation of President Clinton himself, said David Scannell, a veteran Irish diplomat, who worked on the Northern Ireland settlement before being sent to Israel as Dublin's ambassador four years ago. But when looking at the political backdrop to both negotiations, Mr. Scannell is discouraged about President Clinton's chances for securing a settlement here.
Israeli polls still show a solid 40-percent-plus opposition to a peace accord, he noted. In the referendum approving the Good Friday pact, support was overwhelming in the Irish Republic -- it passed 94 percent to six percent -- and still resounding in the predominately Protestant North, where it carried by 71 percent to 29 percent.
Mr. Benvenisti is similarly pessimistic, saying that in the critical "emotional aspects of the conflict," Israelis and Palestinians do not appear ready for a lasting, binding compromise. Yet he adds that the increasing normalization of life in Belfast, with its two long-warring communities, may offer hope for a resolution of the dispute over ethnically divided Jerusalem.
"It used to be said that if you know the solution to the Irish question, you don't know the question," Mr. Benvenisti said. "The same could still be said here."
 
http://www.nytimes.com

CORRECTION-DATE: July 23, 2000, Sunday

 CORRECTION:
Because of an editing error, an article last week about comparisons between the Israeli-Palestinian and Northern Ireland conflicts misstated the date of the Good Friday peace agreement in Northern Ireland. It was 1998, not 1988.

GRAPHIC: Photo: A woman at a peace vigil is a scene familiar in both Tel Aviv and Belfast. This one was in Belfast in 1996. (Associated Press)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: ISRAEL (99%); PALESTINIAN TERRITORY, OCCUPIED (95%); NORTHERN IRELAND (94%); UNITED STATES (92%); MIDDLE EAST (92%); 

CITY: JERUSALEM, ISRAEL (92%); BELFAST, NORTHERN IRELAND (90%); TEL AVIV, ISRAEL (79%); 

COMPANY: ROYAL ULSTER CONSTABULARY (95%); 

ORGANIZATION: ROYAL ULSTER CONSTABULARY (95%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ISRAEL; NORTHERN IRELAND; ISRAEL (99%); PALESTINIAN TERRITORY, OCCUPIED (95%); NORTHERN IRELAND (94%); UNITED STATES (92%); MIDDLE EAST (92%); JERUSALEM, ISRAEL (92%); BELFAST, NORTHERN IRELAND (90%); TEL AVIV, ISRAEL (79%); 

SUBJECT: PALESTINIANS TALKS & MEETINGS (90%); BRITISH MONARCHS (89%); PEACE PROCESS (89%); PROTESTANTS & PROTESTANTISM (76%); ISRAELI-PALESTINIAN CONFLICTS (76%); ALTERNATIVE DISPUTE RESOLUTION (75%); NEWS BRIEFS (74%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (73%); POLITICAL SCIENCE (73%); REFUGEES (70%); CATHOLICS & CATHOLICISM (64%); RELIGION (64%); 

PERSON: ORME, WILLIAM A JR; BENVENISTI, MERON TZIPORA LIVNI (95%); 

LOAD-DATE: July 16, 2000



397 of 757 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: July 17, 2000

SECTION: Section C; Page 4; Column 5; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 1269 words

HEADLINE: New Economy;
Poor country, rich country: Two very different fronts of growth in the satellite radio industry.

BYLINE: By Simon Romero 

 BODY:
IT is not every day that the trailblazer of a multibillion-dollar niche of the satellite industry is an entrepreneur betting on the commercial potential of Africa. No wonder Noah Samara is smiling at the irony.
"The fundamental difference between one person and another, rich or poor, is access to information," said Mr. Samara, who was born in Ethiopia, raised in Tanzania and educated at the University of California at Berkeley. "It is kind of funny that our basic approach of profiting from providing that access is ahead of what is happening in the developed world." 
 Late last year, Mr. Samara's company, the WorldSpace Corporation, based in Washington, initiated satellite radio-broadcasting service in a region stretching from Cairo to Cape Town, providing Africa with 25 audio channels of news, music, entertainment and educational programming.
WorldSpace's foray into Africa was a milestone for the budding satellite radio industry. In various regions, including North America, the idea is that an array of high-quality radio channels will prove more attractive to many listeners than their local radio stations -- like the way that cable television and satellite television changed broadcast television.
WorldSpace's digital audio broadcast system, which depends on a solar-powered satellite beamed into space from a launch site in French Guiana, is a harbinger of things to come. So far, the company has showed promise in urban areas with large expatriate communities wanting regional news, such as Indian merchants in Kenya or Nigerians living in other African countries.
But it will be far from Africa, on the dashboards of automobiles in the United States, where the development of the industry is expected to be played out with fervor.
In four years, satellite radio is expected to grow from virtually nothing into a $2.4 billion global industry, according to C.E. Unterberg Towbin, a brokerage firm that focuses on the satellite industry. In this country, the two companies seen fueling the growth are Sirius Satellite Radio and XM Satellite Radio, which have received the only two licenses from the Federal Communications Commission to offer satellite radio.
By this time next year, both companies hope to be able to deliver 100 audio channels throughout the United States, for a monthly charge of about $10. The service is to be available to either fixed or mobile locations. Test versions of the receiving antenna are small domes only a few inches in diameter that could be attached externally to the rear windows of automobiles. Each of the channels will be devoted to a specific theme, like jazz or classical or salsa music, with much of the programming produced at Sirius's studio in New York and XM's in Washington.
Sirius went public in 1994; its shares closed at $49.25 on Friday, more than double last fall's price. XM went public in October and announced last week that it had completed a final round of financing with the private placement of $235 million in convertible stock, raising its total funds to $1.26 billion. Its publicly traded shares, which spent last fall in the low teens, closed Friday at $40.875.
Investors in the companies, which include major car manufacturers and satellite companies, are wagering that consumers in the United States will be eager to pay for CD-quality radio in their automobiles -- on the assumption that radio is as essential to the car as television is to the home.
"Our business model foresees us becoming profitable if we capture just 1 percent of the market," said David Margolese, the president of Sirius. "It's premised on the idea that a lot of people in a prosperous, large country like this one will be willing to spend a little extra to get top-quality radio programming when they're in traffic."
So far, Sirius has distribution agreements with Ford Motor, DaimlerChrysler and BMW, while XM has an agreement with General Motors and is in talks to form a similar agreement with the Honda Motor Company. When Sirius successfully launched the first of three satellites it plans to send into space, from the Baikonur Cosmodrome site in Kazakhstan earlier this month, its shares rose 10 percent in one day.
"This is a chance to buy into something that could profoundly change the way Americans consume their music," said Peter J. Eichler, the president of Aletheia Research and Management, a $150 million money management firm in Santa Monica, Calif. "It's easy; you just have to choose between two companies because the industry is controlled by a duopoly."
Still, there are obstacles to overcome before service is rolled out by next year. Sirius needs to launch two more satellites, while XM Satellite Radio also needs to launch both of its two planned satellites, which it intends to do from a mobile launching site in the Pacific Ocean -- the first later this year. Analysts say there is about a 10 percent chance of a failure for each of the companies' launches, and such a failure could mean delays in the initiation of consumer service.
There is also concern over the quality of reception, even though both companies say that tests indicate listeners will have virtually static-free coast-to-coast reception.
"The quality should be fine, but this might depend on the construction of some line-of-sight apparatus on the ground to ensure seamless transmission, and that deployment could get expensive," said William Kidd, who covers the satellite radio industry for Unterberg.
Regardless of what happens, analysts don't expect either company to show a profit before 2004. In the time being, some people are pondering the effect satellite radio will have on the conventional radio broadcasting industry, which has not been shaken by a major technical innovation since the introduction of the FM band. (Of course, there is Internet radio broadcasting. But that requires a computer and Internet access, and it may be years before wireless versions are viable.)
Since the rules regarding ownership of multiple radio stations were loosened under the Telecommunications Act of 1996, the broadcast industry has been through extensive consolidation, with large media companies like Clear Channel Communications and Viacom acquiring small radio stations throughout the country.
Two large satellite radio companies could further concentrate power in the radio industry, critics say. "Radio will become more of a wasteland because satellite radio won't offer much space for localism," said Robert McChesney, a mass media professor at the University of Illinois in Urbana-Champaign. "Remember the mom-and-pop radio stations? They will all be gone."
With their large production studios, though, satellite radio companies say that they could produce content unparalleled by small radio stations. "We can surpass radio's golden age," said Hugh Panero, the president of XM. "We'll be able to tailor content in ways people wouldn't dream of."
Of course, these are rich-country problems. WorldSpace, which is backed by investors from Saudi Arabia and from several African countries, plans to expand into Asia, and then into South America, with two additional satellites.
With a substantially different business model from those of Sirius and XM, WorldSpace will concentrate on providing satellite radio service to people who are stationary, and perhaps not yet prosperous enough to buy a car. The company hopes to make money from advertising aimed at regions with a combined population of more than four billion people.
"Nothing," Mr. Samara said, "can cross the geographic and cultural divides like radio can."
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Drawing (Igor Kopelnitsky)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: SIRI (NASDAQ) (71%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS515111 RADIO NETWORKS (92%); SIC4832 RADIO BROADCASTING STATIONS (92%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (53%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (53%); 

COUNTRY: AFRICA (95%); UNITED STATES (94%); ETHIOPIA (92%); TANZANIA, UNITED REPUBLIC OF (92%); SOUTH AFRICA (79%); FRENCH GUIANA (79%); KENYA (79%); EGYPT (79%); NORTH AMERICA (79%); NIGERIA (79%); 

STATE: CALIFORNIA, USA (92%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); 

CITY: SAN FRANCISCO BAY AREA, CA, USA (92%); CAPE TOWN, SOUTH AFRICA (79%); CAIRO, EGYPT (79%); 

COMPANY: SIRIUS SATELLITE RADIO INC; XM SATELLITE RADIO INC; WORLDSPACE CORP WORLDSPACE INC (92%); SIRIUS XM RADIO INC (71%); COLLINS STEWART LLC (53%); UNIVERSITY OF CALIFORNIA (57%); UNIVERSITY OF CALIFORNIA (57%); 

ORGANIZATION: SIRIUS SATELLITE RADIO INC; XM SATELLITE RADIO INC; WORLDSPACE CORP UNIVERSITY OF CALIFORNIA (57%); UNIVERSITY OF CALIFORNIA (57%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: AFRICA; AFRICA (95%); UNITED STATES (94%); ETHIOPIA (92%); TANZANIA, UNITED REPUBLIC OF (92%); SOUTH AFRICA (79%); FRENCH GUIANA (79%); KENYA (79%); EGYPT (79%); NORTH AMERICA (79%); NIGERIA (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (92%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); SAN FRANCISCO BAY AREA, CA, USA (92%); CAPE TOWN, SOUTH AFRICA (79%); CAIRO, EGYPT (79%); 

SUBJECT: RADIO; AUTOMOBILES; SATELLITES SATELLITE RADIO (92%); BROADCASTING INDUSTRY (92%); RADIO BROADCAST INDUSTRY (91%); ENTREPRENEURSHIP (90%); TELEVISION INDUSTRY (90%); ENTERTAINMENT & ARTS (90%); SATELLITE BROADCASTING (90%); SATELLITE INDUSTRY (90%); CABLE & OTHER DISTRIBUTION (88%); SATELLITE TELEVISION (78%); COMMUNICATIONS REGULATION & POLICY (78%); EMERGING MARKETS (77%); NEW ECONOMY (77%); TELEVISION PROGRAMMING (73%); FOLK & WORLD MUSIC (68%); ENERGY & UTILITY LAW (65%); SOLAR ENERGY (51%); 

PERSON: ROMERO, SIMON

LOAD-DATE: July 17, 2000



398 of 757 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: July 17, 2000

SECTION: Section E; Page 1; Column 3; The Arts/Cultural Desk 

LENGTH: 1489 words

HEADLINE: A Theater Maverick Says He's Not Fretting About a Lean Spell;
Cameron Mackintosh Isn't Turning Out Broadway Hits the Way He Used To

BYLINE: By ROBIN POGREBIN 

 BODY:
"Martin Guerre" didn't make it to Broadway last season. "Oklahoma!" is no longer coming next season. "Cats" is closing. So is "Miss Saigon." "Putting It Together" did not last earlier this year. And whether there will be a future for "The Witches of Eastwick," which opens in London tomorrow night, is anyone's guess.
Whither Cameron Mackintosh, the guiding force behind them all? The boyish British producer who brought Broadway one long-running blockbuster after another in the 1980's and early 90's -- "Cats," "Miss Saigon," "The Phantom of the Opera" and "Les Miserables" -- is not turning them out as he used to. Maybe the age of the megamusical has come and gone. Gone, too, perhaps is the age of the maverick producer. Or has Sir Cameron, 53, simply lost the touch? 
 "He's had a tough 10 years," said Gordon Davidson, artistic director of the Mark Taper Forum in Los Angeles. "But he's indefatigable."
Along Broadway he has a legion of admirers who don't doubt that sooner or later he will be back with another hit; he still hopes to bring his acclaimed revival of "Oklahoma!" across the Atlantic next summer. "He's really the only giant we have left in our business," said Rocco Landesman, president of Jujamcyn Theaters. "Cameron is the last singular idiosyncratic producer."
In recent interviews in London and by phone from New York, Sir Cameron did not seem particularly concerned about the state of his career. The Sunday Times of London lists him as one of Britain's 200 richest people, estimating his personal wealth at $600 million. He owns seven theaters in the West End of London. He was knighted in 1996 for his services to British theater. "When it's meant to stop, I can do other things," he said, sipping tea in his London office of overstuffed couches and oriental rugs. "I'm not in any way wedded to doing theater for the rest of my life."
Talking to Sir Cameron one gets the feeling he might be ready to hang it up, spend more time at his estate in Scotland, the vineyard in the South of France, that dairy farm in Somerset, England. "We make very nice cheddar," he said. "We raise our own sheep. All of that I find equally satisfying."
"Life is for living," he added at another point. "Life isn't just for musical theater."
Speaking by telephone a few days ago he sounded confident about his musical "Witches," derived from John Updike's novel and written by two young Americans, John Dempsey and Dana P. Rowe. "I'm enjoying it, the cast is having a good time, audiences seem to like it," Sir Cameron said. "Now we need several good reviews."
But "Witches" and "Oklahoma!," while ambitious, are clearly shows of a different order from his earlier extravaganzas in which chandeliers crash, helicopters land, barricades revolve and tires rise. Economics comes into play. "Phantom of the Opera," which cost about $8 million when it was originally produced in 1988, would cost nearly twice that now. The expense of taking big shows on the road, where much of the profit resides, have escalated as well.
"Costs being a great factor, the spectacle of those musicals is very difficult to continue, except for someone like Disney," said Gerald Schoenfeld, chairman of the Shubert Organization, which owns the theaters that house Sir Cameron's Broadway productions.
"They really represented a golden age," he added. "Now it is winding down." ("Miss Saigon" and "Cats" are to close before the end of the year.)
Sir Cameron said he was not preoccupied with his dwindling presence on Broadway. "When I grew up wanting to put on shows and musicals, I never dreamt any would run 5 years, let alone 9 or 10 or even 20," he said. "To have any sense of sadness would be stupid, and because they're good shows, they will appear in other guises forever. I would much rather go out still being thought of as good shows rather than faded replicas."
Born in Enfield, in north London, the son of a timber merchant who played the trumpet and a secretary, Sir Cameron fell in love with theater at age 8, when his aunt took him to see "Salad Days," a musical by Julian Slade and Dorothy Reynolds. His first theater job was as an apprentice stagehand at the Theater Royal Drury Lane, during the run of "Camelot" in 1965. "Miss Saigon" recently closed at that theater (not one of his), and "Witches" is now ensconced there.
After he worked as a stagehand and stage manager, Sir Cameron's first big West End production was a revival of "Anything Goes" in 1969, which flopped. His first hit came in 1976, when he invested in the revue "Side by Side by Sondheim," which came to New York.
Sir Cameron said he was disappointed that his revival of "Oklahoma!" would not come to New York this year, a decision announced 10 days ago, citing scheduling difficulties involving the show's production team. "There isn't enough time to do it properly," he said. "That's not the way I produce things, in a hurry."
In particular the show has been trying to work around the schedule of Sir Trevor, who is artistic director of the Royal National Theater in London. Other members of the production team include Susan Stroman as choreographer and Anthony Ward as set designer. Plans to bring "Oklahoma!" were canceled once before, when the Actors Equity Association refused Sir Cameron's request to bring the all-British cast to Broadway last year. For the production that was supposed to come this season, he had agreed to try to cast American actors. (In a similar showdown, Sir Cameron successfully insisted that Jonathan Pryce play the Eurasian narrator in "Miss Saigon" despite Equity's calls for an Asian actor.) Sir Cameron said that he hoped the show would make it to New York in about a year.
Sir Cameron disputed a report that the problem with "Oklahoma!" had to do with the amount that SFX Theatrical Group was asking for the Ford Center for the Performing Arts. "I'm sure a deal would have been sorted out," he said.
As to why "Martin Guerre" never made it to New York, Sir Cameron said that musical, which received poor reviews out of town, was a difficult challenge. Based on a 1982 film and the 16th-century case history about a soldier returning from war, the musical had been about four years in the making. Sir Cameron said even he turned it down at first. "It took me a long time to get into the subject matter," he said. "I couldn't see what was intriguing about it."
Gradually, Sir Cameron said, he came to understand what the authors -- Claude-Michel Schonberg and Alain Boublil, who also wrote "Les Miz" and "Miss Saigon" -- were trying to accomplish. "I'm a huge admirer of both of them," Sir Cameron said. "I made a fortune beyond my dreams on two of their shows. My misgivings about it initially were how you tell the story, which has been the practical search for the authors."
Sir Cameron is a hands-on producer who works closely with his creative team -- asking questions, making suggestions -- and then checks in regularly during rehearsals.
"Everything is produced by committee these days," Mr. Landesman said. "There are very few producers who have their own personal imprint on their shows."
Sir Cameron said it was important not to hand a project to a director too quickly, that he prided himself on being able to prod the writers to do their best work. And when he does turn a show over, he said, it's like letting a child venture forth into the world. "I'm not in charge anymore," he said of "Witches." "I had to pass the baton."
He makes no secret of preferring old-fashioned like "South Pacific" and "Oliver!" He will revive "My Fair Lady" in the West End next season, with his longtime colleague Trevor Nunn directing. It is "arguably the greatest book musical ever written," he said. "Every note is perfect."
He said that he was rarely attracted to anything that did not have a strong dramatic theme, and that the work he did was almost always based on classics.
His love of the conventional may seem difficult to reconcile with his love of Stephen Sondheim's work. But there is darker Sondheim ("Passion"), and there is lighter Sondheim ("Putting It Together"), and Sir Cameron does not profess to like it all. "He's one of my closest friends," he said of Sondheim. "Could I produce all his other shows? I don't have the personality that has a rapport with some of the characters he writes about."
After seeing "Company," for example, Sir Cameron said he loved the score but not its effect on him. "I couldn't understand why, having been so theatrically excited, I came out of the theater feeling gutted," he said. "One of my strong suits is I still care as much."
It is that caring, producers say, that suggests that Sir Cameron will be around the theater for some time to come.
"The fact that a few things he has done haven't worked out doesn't mean anything," said Roger Berlind, a longtime Broadway producer. "He's an extraordinary showman. He ain't going away."
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photos: Clockwise from top left, the producer Cameron Mackintosh; a scene from his revival of "Oklahoma!," which opened in London in 1998 but has not made it to New York; "The Witches of Eastwick," which opens in London tomorrow. (Above and bottom left, Alastair Muir; left, Peter Macdiarmid/The Independent)(pg. E1); A scene from the United States premiere of "Martin Guerre," at the Guthrie in Minneapolis. The show has not made it to New York. (Michal Daniel/Guthrie Theater)(pg. E3)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TITLE: OKLAHOMA! (PLAY); WITCHES OF EASTWICK, THE (PLAY); MISS SAIGON (PLAY); CATS (PLAY)

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); ENGLAND (79%); UNITED KINGDOM (79%); SCOTLAND (53%); FRANCE (51%); 

STATE: OKLAHOMA, USA (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); MINNESOTA, USA (73%); ATLANTIC OCEAN (54%); 

CITY: LONDON, ENGLAND (93%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%); ENGLAND (79%); UNITED KINGDOM (79%); SCOTLAND (53%); FRANCE (51%); OKLAHOMA, USA (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); MINNESOTA, USA (73%); ATLANTIC OCEAN (54%); LONDON, ENGLAND (93%); 

SUBJECT: THEATER; THEATER; THEATER; THEATER; THEATER THEATER (90%); MUSICAL THEATER (78%); CELEBRITIES (78%); MUSIC INDUSTRY (74%); INTERVIEWS (72%); MUSIC (69%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (68%); 

PERSON: MACKINTOSH, CAMERON; POGREBIN, ROBIN CAMERON MACKINTOSH (93%); 

LOAD-DATE: July 17, 2000



399 of 757 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: July 17, 2000

SECTION: Section C; Page 1; Column 5; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 1240 words

HEADLINE: JDS Who? Fast Growth, Farflung Fold And Worries

BYLINE: By LAURA M. HOLSON 

 BODY:
When JDS Uniphase announced last week that it was buying a competitor, SDL, for an astounding $41 billion in stock, many on Wall Street wondered, who are these guys?
Sure, JDS was one of the hottest companies of 1999, its stock price soaring more than 900 percent. But its business -- making components for fiber optic networks -- was hardly the most glamorous angle of the telecommunications industry. 
It has been only a year since JDS Fitel, a Canadian telecommunications equipment maker, merged with the Silicon Valley company Uniphase to become JDS Uniphase. At that point, the company had a market capitalization of only $14 billion. But in the last year, JDS has been on an acquisition tear, agreeing to buy 10 companies -- including SDL -- for more than $63 billion in stock or cash.
Suddenly, JDS Uniphase is a behemoth with a stock market value of $100 billion, raising the eyebrows of not only investors but antitrust regulators as well.
Why? JDS Uniphase makes fiber optic equipment like receivers and amplifiers that generate and direct pulses of light and distribute bits of information at eye-blink speed over optical networks. Demand for such components is sizzling: customers like Nortel Networks and Lucent Technologies need those pieces to build the Internet superhighway.
As such, JDS's acquisition strategy has been to buy component suppliers that can fill the gaps in its product line, providing it a more complete catalog of fittings and fixtures to offer its telecommunications company customers.
This is a time-honored strategy in technology circles, similar to the way Texas Instruments acquires hardware specialists or Computer Associates buys up software boutiques. Yet, although the strategy makes sense in a hot market, it can also be risky.
Along with the products gained through the nine acquisitions finalized, about half of JDS's 17,000 employees are also new to the fold. Operations are spread far and wide -- from China to Canada, and scattered on the East and West Coasts of the United States.
And acquiring and making products to meet demand in the booming fiber optics network market is more than a full-time job. So, really, who has time to pay attention to the minutiae of integrating all those new members of the JDS Uniphase family?
Possibly no one. And that is what worries some money managers, analysts and industry consultants who wonder if JDS Uniphase's reach is fast exceeding its grasp.
"If you've gotten used to a certain size of deal, you have a process in place," said Mark Sirower, a merger adviser at the Boston Consulting Group. "When you go to multibillion-dollar deals, it's a much bigger management challenge."
Investors punished JDS's stock price last Monday, knocking it down 13 percent upon the announcement of its merger with SDL. Though the shares had recovered most of the lost ground by Friday, analysts are concerned that the SDL deal comes too fast on the heels of the $18 billion agreement in January to acquire E-Tek Dynamics, a merger completed on June 30 after months of scrutiny by the Department of Justice. Only now is E-Tek beginning to be combined with JDS.
Leery that the fiber optics industry may be consolidating too quickly, the Justice Department demanded concessions of JDS, the industry leader for several products, before approving the acquisition of E-Tek, one of the largest makers and buyers of optical thin-film filters, which divide beams of light so they can transmit more information. E-Tek had deals with other makers to be the exclusive buyer of their filters, and the Justice Department forced E-Tek to give up those deals before allowing the JDS merger to proceed.
The Justice Department could require various concessions in the SDL acquisition, too.
"We think the regulatory approval process will be somewhat involved and could add volatility to the two stocks over the next six months," Tom Astle, Merrill Lynch's senior optics analyst, wrote in an assessment of the SDL deal last week.
Charles J. Abbe, the president of JDS Uniphase, who himself came aboard only in February after JDS bought Optical Coding Laboratory Inc., acknowledges that the expanding company is still very much a work in progress. But rather than a liability, he sees the company's structure as a new-economy paradigm. "We are forging a geographically diverse model," he said. "We are a virtual management team."
With each acquisition, Mr. Abbe said, the first group to be integrated is the sales force, which reports to him. But he acknowledged that senior managers of most departments could meet only by videoconferencing because they were too farflung to gather in person. Rather than being concentrated at JDS's headquarters in San Jose, Calif., or Ottawa, managers who head business units are situated at whichever acquired company has the relevant area of expertise.
Take JDS Uniphase's operations in optical thin-film coating. Because Mr. Abbe's old company, called OCLI, has a particular expertise in that specialty, he said, the operations of other acquired companies in that sector report to a manager in Santa Rosa, Calif., OCLI's former base.
Similarly, executives at two other companies acquired last year -- AFC Technologies, formerly of Hull, Quebec, and Oprel Technologies, whose previous address was Nepean, Ontario -- report to executives in Freehold, N.J.
Confusing? Only to the uninitiated, Mr. Abbe said. "Whatever we do is tested against the idea of serving the customer effectively," he added. Because demand for networking products is booming, the acquired companies have a common goal of getting product out the door fast. That, he said, is the tie that binds; anything more would seem too constraining.
"The way we bring them into the fold is that the strategies are very clear and the charter is understood," he said. "Beyond that, we aren't going to bring them into the fold."
Mr. Astle, the Merrill analyst, said that despite the risks, the purchase of the San Jose-based SDL would be positive for both companies if they delivered as promised. He points to the primordial merger of JDS Fitel and Uniphase as the template for what the management team can do well. Jozef Straus, now chief executive of JDS Uniphase, was chief executive at JDS Fitel.
For one thing, executives remained focused on what customers wanted, he said, freed from the corporate jockeying that distracts even the best managers during a merger. And the company continued to foster its own in-house research and development instead of relying solely on the companies they bought.
But as with any investment, past performance is no guarantee of future results. "Just because you put a bunch of products together doesn't mean they will be better off," said Mr. Sirower of Boston Consulting. In other words, a merger can make sense on paper but not succeed unless it is executed well. "It's separate to the economies of why you are doing a deal," he said.
Mr. Straus said JDS Uniphase had an advantage in these fast-changing times: The fiber optics component field is such a close community that the senior management teams at many of the companies JDS has acquired have known one another for some time. JDS Fitel, for instance, once had a joint venture with OCLI.
Mr. Straus said he had known Donald Scifres, chief executive of SDL, for nearly a decade. "We share the same passion," he said. "That is the essence of this merger."
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photo: Jozef Straus, left, chief executive of JDS Uniphase, with Donald Scifres, chief executive of SDL, before the purchase of SDL was announced last Monday. The $41 billion deal represents JDS's 10th acquisition in a year. (Associated Press)(pg. C7)
 
Chart: "Hot Streak"
The share price of JDS Uniphase is up 435 percent from 12 months ago.
 
Chart shows companies progress over the last 12 months.
(Source: Bloomsberg Financial Markets)(pg. C7)
 
Chart: "Expanding Its Catalog"
Companies acquired by JDS Uniphase.
 
DATE ANNOUNCED: July '00
COMPANY ACQUIRED: SDL -- Fiber optic equipment
HEADQUARTERS: *San Jose, Calif.
VALUE OF DEAL: $41 billion
 
DATE ANNOUNCED: May '00
COMPANY ACQUIRED: Casix -- fiber optic components
HEADQUARTERS: Fuzhou, China
VALUE OF DEAL: Undisclosed
 
DATE ANNOUNCED: April '00
COMPANY ACQUIRED: Cronos -- Optical microelectronics
HEADQUARTERS: Morrisville, N.C.
VALUE OF DEAL: $750 million
 
DATE ANNOUNCED: Jan. '99
COMPANY ACQUIRED: E-Tek Dynamics -- Fiber optic components
HEADQUARTERS: San Jose, Calif.
VALUE OF DEAL: $18 billion
 
DATE ANNOUNCED: Dec. '99
COMPANY ACQUIRED: Oprel Technologies -- Optical and test equipment and electronic packaging
HEADQUARTERS: Nepean, Ontario
VALUE OF DEAL: Undisclosed
 
DATE ANNOUNCED: Nov. '99
COMPANY ACQUIRED: SIFAM -- Fiber optic equipment
HEADQUARTERS: Devon, Britain
VALUE OF DEAL: $95.9 million+
 
DATE ANNOUNCED: Nov. '99
COMPANY ACQUIRED: OCLI -- Optical film coatings and components
HEADQUARTERS: Santa Rosa, Calif.
VALUE OF DEAL: $2.8 billion
 
DATE ANNOUNCED: Oct. '99
COMPANY ACQUIRED: Ramar -- Fiber optic equipment
HEADQUARTERS: Northborough, Mass.
VALUE OF DEAL: Undisclosed
 
DATE ANNOUNCED: Oct. '99
COMPANY ACQUIRED: EPITAXX -- Optical equipment
HEADQUARTERS: Trenton
VALUE OF DEAL: $400 million
 
DATE ANNOUNCED: Sept. '99
COMPANY ACQUIRED: AFC Technologies -- Optical equipment and broadband instruments
HEADQUARTERS: Hull, Quebec
VALUE OF DEAL: Undisclosed
 
*Pending
+Converted from 60 million pounds at Nov. '99 exchange rate.
(Source: Merrill Lynch; the company)(pg. C7) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: News Analysis

TICKER: JDU (TSX) (92%); JDSU (NASDAQ) (92%); ALU (PAR) (68%); ALU (NYSE) (68%); ALU (BIT) (68%); TXN (NASDAQ) (55%); CA (NASDAQ) (54%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS334220 RADIO & TELEVISION BROADCASTING & WIRELESS COMMUNICATIONS EQUIPMENT MANUFACTURING (92%); NAICS334210 TELEPHONE APPARATUS MANUFACTURING (92%); SIC3663 RADIO & TELEVISION BROADCASTING & COMMUNICATIONS EQUIPMENT (68%); SIC3661 TELEPHONE & TELEGRAPH APPARATUS (68%); NAICS334413 SEMICONDUCTOR & RELATED DEVICE MANUFACTURING (55%); NAICS333318 OTHER COMMERCIAL & SERVICE INDUSTRY MACHINERY MANUFACTURING (55%); SIC3674 SEMICONDUCTORS & RELATED DEVICES (55%); SIC3578 CALCULATING & ACCOUNTING MACHINERY, EXCEPT ELECTRONIC COMPUTERS (55%); NAICS511210 SOFTWARE PUBLISHERS (54%); SIC7372 PREPACKAGED SOFTWARE (54%); NAICS541513 COMPUTER FACILITIES MANAGEMENT SERVICES (50%); NAICS541511 CUSTOM COMPUTER PROGRAMMING SERVICES (50%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%); CANADA (92%); CHINA (92%); 

STATE: CALIFORNIA, USA (93%); WEST USA (68%); QUEBEC, CANADA (57%); ONTARIO, CANADA (57%); SOUTH CHINA (53%); 

CITY: SAN FRANCISCO BAY AREA, CA, USA (90%); SAN JOSE, CA, USA (88%); SILICON VALLEY, CA, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: JDS UNIPHASE CORP; SDL INC JDS UNIPHASE CORP (92%); ALCATEL-LUCENT SA (68%); NORTEL NETWORKS CORP (68%); TEXAS INSTRUMENTS INC (55%); CA INC (54%); BOSTON CONSULTING GROUP INC (50%); DEPARTMENT OF JUSTICE (58%); 

ORGANIZATION: JDS UNIPHASE CORP; SDL INC DEPARTMENT OF JUSTICE (58%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%); CANADA (92%); CHINA (92%); CALIFORNIA, USA (93%); WEST USA (68%); QUEBEC, CANADA (57%); ONTARIO, CANADA (57%); SOUTH CHINA (53%); SAN FRANCISCO BAY AREA, CA, USA (90%); SAN JOSE, CA, USA (88%); SILICON VALLEY, CA, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: TELEPHONES AND TELECOMMUNICATIONS; MERGERS, ACQUISITIONS AND DIVESTITURES; FIBER OPTICS FIBER OPTICS (91%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS (90%); COMMUNICATIONS EQUIPMENT MFG (90%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS EQUIPMENT MFG (90%); MERGERS (89%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS SECTOR PERFORMANCE (89%); ACQUISITIONS (78%); MARKET CAPITALIZATION (78%); INVESTMENT MANAGEMENT (78%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS EQUIPMENT (76%); TELEPHONIC EQUIPMENT (76%); TELEPHONE EQUIPMENT MFG (75%); ANTITRUST & TRADE LAW (73%); COMPUTER NETWORKS (71%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS SERVICES (66%); COMPUTER SOFTWARE (65%); CONSULTING SERVICES (64%); 

PERSON: HOLSON, LAURA M

LOAD-DATE: July 17, 2000



400 of 757 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: July 17, 2000

SECTION: Section C; Page 6; Column 4; Business/Financial Desk

LENGTH: 219 words

HEADLINE: Dividend Meetings

 BODY:
A partial list for this week.
 
MONDAY
Central Vt Pub Svc Corp
Johnson & Johnson
Total Sys Svcs Inc 

TUESDAY
Black Hills Corp
Cavalier Homes Inc
CCB Finl Corp
Charter One Finl Inc
Clorox Co
Eastman Kodak Co
FirstEnergy Corp
Fleming Cos Inc
Health Care REIT Inc
IMS Health Inc
M & T Bk Corp
Manitowoc Inc
Public Svc
Enterprise Group
Thornburg Mtg Inc
(was Thornburg Asset Corp)
Washington Mut Inc
 
WEDNESDAY
Apartment Invt & Mgmt Co
Ashland Inc
California Wtr Svc Group
Chittenden Corp
Cinergy Corp
Dana Corp
Detroit Diesel Corp
Equitable Res Inc
Federal Mogul Corp
Heller Finl Inc
Minnesota Pwr Inc
Omega Healthcare Invs Inc
PG&E Corp
RPM Inc Ohio
TCW Conv Secs Fd
Teco Energy Inc
Vastar Res Inc
Western Res Inc
 
THURSDAY
Alltel Corp
AptarGroup Inc
Black & Decker Corp
Burlington Northn Sante Fe
Cabot Oil & Gas Corp
Capital One Finl Corp
Coca-Cola Co
Cooper Tire & Rubr Co
Golden West Finl Corp Del
Hartford Finl Svcs Group Inc
Idacorp Inc
Keycorp New
Lakehead Pipe Line Partners
Pepsico Inc
PPG Inds Inc
Simon Ppty Group Inc New
Standard Register Co
Torchmark Corp
Union Planters Corp
 
FRIDAY
Borg Warner Inc (was Borg Warner Automotive Inc)
Cleco Corp New
Corning Inc
Ikon Office Solutions Inc
MassMutual Corporate Invs Inc 
http://www.nytimes.com

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Schedule

TICKER: BKH (NYSE) (91%); TSS (NYSE) (91%); BWA (NYSE) (91%); CLX (NYSE) (91%); JNJ (NYSE) (91%); HCN (NYSE) (84%); FE (NYSE) (72%); MTB (NYSE) (72%); FDML (NASDAQ) (71%); DAN (NYSE) (71%); ASH (NYSE) (71%); PBCT (NASDAQ) (71%); DUK (NYSE) (71%); RPM (NYSE) (70%); PCG (SWX) (70%); PCG (NYSE) (70%); TE (NYSE) (70%); IDA (NYSE) (69%); SWK (NYSE) (69%); PEP (NYSE) (69%); WFC (NYSE) (69%); COG (NYSE) (69%); KO (NYSE) (69%); HIG (NYSE) (69%); ATR (NYSE) (69%); PPG (NYSE) (69%); COF (NYSE) (69%); TMK (NYSE) (68%); TMK (LSE) (68%); CNL (NYSE) (68%); SR (NYSE) (68%); GLW (NYSE) (67%); RF (NYSE) (55%); KEY (NYSE) (55%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS221122 ELECTRIC POWER DISTRIBUTION (91%); NAICS221111 HYDROELECTRIC POWER GENERATION (91%); SIC4911 ELECTRIC SERVICES (91%); SIC3714 MOTOR VEHICLE PARTS & ACCESSORIES (91%); NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (91%); SIC6712 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (91%); NAICS321991 MANUFACTURED HOME (MOBILE HOME) MANUFACTURING (91%); SIC2451 MOBILE HOMES (91%); SIC1311 CRUDE PETROLEUM & NATURAL GAS (91%); NAICS561422 TELEMARKETING BUREAUS & OTHER CONTACT CENTERS (91%); NAICS522320 FINANCIAL TRANSACTIONS PROCESSING, RESERVE & CLEARINGHOUSE ACTIVITIES (91%); NAICS336350 MOTOR VEHICLE TRANSMISSION & POWER TRAIN PARTS MANUFACTURING (91%); NAICS325992 PHOTOGRAPHIC FILM, PAPER, PLATE & CHEMICAL MANUFACTURING (91%); NAICS325612 POLISH & OTHER SANITATION GOOD MANUFACTURING (91%); NAICS325611 SOAP & OTHER DETERGENT MANUFACTURING (91%); NAICS325180 OTHER BASIC INORGANIC CHEMICAL MANUFACTURING (91%); SIC2841 SOAPS & OTHER DETERGENTS, EXCEPT SPECIALTY CLEANERS (91%); SIC2812 ALKALIES & CHLORINE (91%); NAICS339115 OPHTHALMIC GOODS MANUFACTURING (91%); NAICS334510 ELECTROMEDICAL & ELECTROTHERAPEUTIC APPARATUS MANUFACTURING (91%); NAICS325620 TOILET PREPARATION MANUFACTURING (91%); NAICS325413 IN-VITRO DIAGNOSTIC SUBSTANCE MANUFACTURING (91%); NAICS325412 PHARMACEUTICAL PREPARATION MANUFACTURING (91%); SIC2836 BIOLOGICAL PRODUCTS, EXCEPT DIAGNOSTIC SUBSTANCES (91%); SIC6798 REAL ESTATE INVESTMENT TRUSTS (84%); NAICS541910 MARKETING RESEARCH & PUBLIC OPINION POLLING (72%); NAICS511210 SOFTWARE PUBLISHERS (72%); SIC8732 COMMERCIAL ECONOMIC, SOCIOLOGICAL, & EDUCATIONAL RESEARCH (72%); SIC7372 PREPACKAGED SOFTWARE (72%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (72%); SIC6022 STATE COMMERCIAL BANKS (72%); SIC5141 GROCERIES, GENERAL LINE (72%); NAICS522292 REAL ESTATE CREDIT (72%); SIC6162 MORTGAGE BANKERS & LOAN CORRESPONDENTS (72%); NAICS336390 OTHER MOTOR VEHICLE PARTS MANUFACTURING (71%); SIC3519 INTERNAL COMBUSTION ENGINES, NEC (71%); NAICS336330 MOTOR VEHICLE STEERING & SUSPENSION COMPONENTS (EXCEPT SPRING) MANUFACTURING (71%); NAICS424720 PETROLEUM & PETROLEUM PRODUCTS MERCHANT WHOLESALERS (EXCEPT BULK STATIONS & TERMINALS) (71%); NAICS325211 PLASTICS MATERIAL & RESIN MANUFACTURING (71%); NAICS324110 PETROLEUM REFINERIES (71%); NAICS237310 HIGHWAY, STREET & BRIDGE CONSTRUCTION (71%); NAICS221112 FOSSIL FUEL ELECTRIC POWER GENERATION (71%); SIC6153 SHORT-TERM BUSINESS CREDIT INSTITUTIONS EX. AGRICULTURAL (71%); NAICS522120 SAVINGS INSTITUTIONS (71%); SIC6036 SAVINGS INSTITUTIONS, NOT FEDERALLY CHARTERED (71%); SIC6029 COMMERCIAL BANKS, NEC (71%); NAICS212111 BITUMINOUS COAL & LIGNITE SURFACE MINING (70%); NAICS325520 ADHESIVE MANUFACTURING (70%); NAICS325510 PAINT & COATING MANUFACTURING (70%); NAICS325130 SYNTHETIC DYE & PIGMENT MANUFACTURING (70%); SIC4931 ELECTRIC & OTHER SERVICES COMBINED (70%); NAICS517210 WIRELESS TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (EXCEPT SATELLITE) (70%); NAICS517110 WIRED TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (70%); SIC4813 TELEPHONE COMMUNICATIONS, EXCEPT RADIOTELEPHONE (70%); SIC4812 RADIOTELEPHONE COMMUNICATIONS (70%); NAICS221121 ELECTRIC BULK POWER TRANSMISSION & CONTROL (70%); SIC1221 BITUMINOUS COAL & LIGNITE SURFACE MINING (70%); NAICS333991 POWER-DRIVEN HANDTOOL MANUFACTURING (69%); NAICS332216 SAW BLADE & HANDTOOL MANUFACTURING (69%); NAICS312111 SOFT DRINK MANUFACTURING (69%); NAICS311919 OTHER SNACK FOOD MANUFACTURING (69%); SIC2096 POTATO CHIPS, CORN CHIPS, & SIMILAR SNACKS (69%); SIC2086 BOTTLED & CANNED SOFT DRINKS & CARBONATED WATER (69%); NAICS524113 DIRECT LIFE INSURANCE CARRIERS (69%); SIC6311 LIFE INSURANCE (69%); NAICS211112 NATURAL GAS LIQUID EXTRACTION (69%); NAICS211111 CRUDE PETROLEUM & NATURAL GAS EXTRACTION (69%); NAICS327212 OTHER PRESSED & BLOWN GLASS & GLASSWARE MANUFACTURING (69%); NAICS525190 OTHER INSURANCE FUNDS (69%); NAICS524126 DIRECT PROPERTY & CASUALTY INSURANCE CARRIERS (69%); SIC6331 FIRE, MARINE, & CASUALTY INSURANCE (69%); NAICS332999 ALL OTHER MISCELLANEOUS FABRICATED METAL PRODUCT MANUFACTURING (69%); NAICS326121 UNLAMINATED PLASTICS PROFILE SHAPE MANUFACTURING (69%); SIC3499 FABRICATED METAL PRODUCTS, NEC (69%); SIC3431 ENAMELED IRON & METAL SANITARY WARE (69%); SIC3089 PLASTICS PRODUCTS, NEC (69%); NAICS325199 ALL OTHER BASIC ORGANIC CHEMICAL MANUFACTURING (69%); SIC3211 FLAT GLASS (69%); SIC2851 PAINTS, VARNISHES, LACQUERS, ENAMELS & ALLIED PRODUCTS (69%); NAICS524114 DIRECT HEALTH & MEDICAL INSURANCE CARRIERS (68%); NAICS323111 COMMERCIAL PRINTING (EXCEPT SCREEN & BOOKS) (68%); NAICS322220 PAPER BAG & COATED & TREATED PAPER MANUFACTURING (68%); NAICS333316 PHOTOGRAPHIC & PHOTOCOPYING EQUIPMENT MANUFACTURING (67%); SIC3861 PHOTOGRAPHIC EQUIPMENT & SUPPLIES (67%); SIC3661 TELEPHONE & TELEGRAPH APPARATUS (67%); SIC3577 COMPUTER PERIPHERAL EQUIPMENT, NEC (67%); NAICS335921 FIBER OPTIC CABLE MANUFACTURING (67%); NAICS334290 OTHER COMMUNICATIONS EQUIPMENT MANUFACTURING (67%); SIC3229 PRESSED & BLOWN GLASS & GLASSWARE, NEC (67%); NAICS486110 PIPELINE TRANSPORTATION OF CRUDE OIL (55%); SIC4612 CRUDE PETROLEUM PIPELINES (55%); SIC6021 NATIONAL COMMERCIAL BANKS (55%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (79%); 

STATE: OHIO, USA (79%); VERMONT, USA (78%); CALIFORNIA, USA (55%); 

CITY: BURLINGTON, VT, USA (78%); 

COMPANY: CHARTER ONE BANK (91%); CAVALIER HOMES INC (91%); BLACK HILLS CORP (91%); TOTAL SYSTEM SERVICES INC (91%); BORGWARNER INC (91%); CCB FINANCIAL CORP (91%); EASTMAN KODAK CO (91%); CLOROX CO (91%); JOHNSON & JOHNSON (91%); HEALTH CARE REIT INC (84%); IMS HEALTH INC (72%); FIRSTENERGY CORP (72%); M&T BANK CORP (72%); FLEMING COS INC (72%); TSMT INC (72%); FEDERAL-MOGUL CORP (71%); DETROIT DIESEL CORP (71%); DANA HOLDING CORP (71%); ASHLAND INC (71%); HELLER FINANCIAL INC (71%); PEOPLE'S UNITED FINANCIAL INC (71%); DUKE ENERGY CORP (71%); RPM INTERNATIONAL INC (70%); PG&E CORP (70%); ALLTEL CORP (70%); TECO ENERGY INC (70%); IDACORP INC (69%); STANLEY BLACK & DECKER INC (69%); PEPSICO INC (69%); WELLS FARGO & CO (69%); CABOT OIL & GAS CORP (69%); COCA-COLA CO (69%); HARTFORD FINANCIAL SERVICES GROUP INC (69%); APTARGROUP INC (69%); PPG INDUSTRIES INC (69%); CAPITAL ONE FINANCIAL CORP (69%); TORCHMARK CORP (68%); CLECO CORP (68%); STANDARD REGISTER CO (68%); RICOH AMERICAS CORP (67%); CORNING INC (67%); LAKEHEAD PIPE LINE PARTNERS LP (55%); REGIONS FINANCIAL CORP (55%); KEYCORP (55%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%); OHIO, USA (79%); VERMONT, USA (78%); CALIFORNIA, USA (55%); BURLINGTON, VT, USA (78%); 

SUBJECT: NO INDEX TERMS FROM NYTIMES OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (90%); REAL ESTATE INVESTMENT TRUSTS (77%); ELECTRIC POWER PLANTS (77%); NATURAL GAS & ELECTRIC UTILITIES (74%); SOFT DRINK INDUSTRY (67%); 

LOAD-DATE: July 17, 2000

 
