

201 of 868 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 8, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section W; Column 4; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 567 words

HEADLINE: LVMH Reports Record Profit for 2000 

BYLINE:  By JOHN TAGLIABUE

DATELINE: PARIS, March 7 

 BODY:
The world's leading luxury goods group, LVMH- Moet Hennessy Louis Vuitton of France, reported record revenue and profit for 2000 today, but warned of more difficult conditions in 2001 because of slowing growth prospects in major economies, most notably in North America.
 After a two-year acquisition spree, the company said it would focus more on strengthening its cash flow and easing the burden of acquisition-related debt. 
 The results came the day before a ruling was expected from a Dutch commercial court in a legal battle that pits LVMH against another big French retailer, Pinault-Printemps-Redoute, for control of the Gucci fashion house. LVMH indicated that the outcome of the suit could result in a bid by LVMH for all of Gucci. 
Disappointed at the dimmed prospects for 2001, and perhaps fearing that LVMH has bitten off too much, investors bid down the company's stock price by 5 percent before a slight recovery late in the trading day to close at 63.05 euros ($58.94) a share. The stock has slumped more than 30 percent since August.
LVMH said that though it expected double-digit growth in revenue and operating income this year, the 13 percent rate in the first two months of 2001 was a considerable drop-off from the 35 percent rate it posted in the corresponding period last year.
Figures for operating profit last year were stronger, rising 27 percent, to 1.95 billion euros ($1.82 billion), in 2000 on a 35 percent increase in revenue, to 11.58 billion euros. The cost of servicing 7 billion euros in debt held net profit down to a 4 percent rise, to 722 million euros, in 2000.
Bernard Arnault, the flamboyant French billionaire who has built up LVMH over the last 15 years, said he expected revenue growth to slow in the first half-year because of morose American sentiment toward the economy. But he said experience showed that LVMH tended to gain market share during downturns. 
In the last two years, LVMH has spent over $3 billion acquiring a stable of brands including Fendi and Emilio Pucci of Italy and Donna Karan in the United States. But the big prize Mr. Arnault has sought, Gucci, has so far eluded him.
The court in Amsterdam is expected to respond on Thursday to a request by LVMH that it order an investigation of a $3 billion deal in 1999 that gave Pinault control of Gucci. That deal, which pitted Mr. Arnault against another French billionaire, Francois Pinault, sliced a considerable stake that LVMH had amassed in Gucci to only 20 percent. LVMH hopes a favorable decision will force Mr. Pinault to negotiate a deal over Gucci; failing that, Mr. Arnault suggested that bank financing would be available for LVMH to bid for all of Gucci.
The Dutch case is just one in a web of disputes surrounding Gucci, which has filed an antitrust complaint against LVMH with the European Commission. LVMH has also complained to American securities regulators over stock options that LVMH says Gucci illicitly provided to its chief executive and other top managers. 
But LVMH management has also been following a lawsuit and a grand jury proceeding in California involving the French bank Credit Lyonnais, Mr. Pinault and others, who are accused of defrauding the state in connection with the purchase of a portfolio of junk bonds. LVMH is evidently hoping that rulings unfavorable to Mr. Pinault in California could add to the pressure on him to seek an accommodation over Gucci.

GRAPHIC: Photo: Bernard Arnault, right, the chairman of LVMH, and Myron Ullman III, the general director, reported company results yesterday in Paris. (Agence France-Presse) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: COMPANY PROFITS (92%); COMPANY REVENUES (90%); LUXURY GOODS (90%); FINANCIAL RESULTS (90%); FASHION DESIGNERS (89%); EURO (89%); COMPANY EARNINGS (89%); INVESTIGATIONS (78%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (78%); CASH FLOW (78%); CORPORATE DEBT (76%); RETAILERS (73%); MARKET SHARE (72%); FASHION & APPAREL (69%) Terms not available from NYTimes. 

COMPANY: LVMH MOET HENNESSY LOUIS VUITTON SA (96%); PPR SA (85%); GUCCI GROUP NV (83%)

TICKER: MC (PAR) (96%); LVMH (BIT) (96%); PP (PAR) (85%); PP (BIT) (85%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS316992 WOMEN'S HANDBAG & PURSE MANUFACTURING (96%); NAICS312140 DISTILLERIES (96%); NAICS312130 WINERIES (96%); NAICS452111 DEPARTMENT STORES (EXCEPT DISCOUNT DEPARTMENT STORES) (85%); NAICS448140 FAMILY CLOTHING STORES (85%); NAICS442110 FURNITURE STORES (85%); SIC5712 FURNITURE STORES (85%); SIC5651 FAMILY CLOTHING STORES (85%); SIC5311 DEPARTMENT STORES (85%); SIC3171 WOMEN'S HANDBAGS & PURSES (83%)

PERSON: BERNARD ARNAULT (89%); FRANCOIS PINAULT (79%); MYRON E ULLMAN (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: PARIS, FRANCE (88%) FRANCE (93%); NORTH AMERICA (92%); UNITED STATES (92%); NETHERLANDS (57%)

LOAD-DATE: March 8, 2001 



202 of 868 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 9, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section E; Part 2; Column 1; Leisure/Weekend Desk; Pg. 37

LENGTH: 4663 words

HEADLINE: ART GUIDE 

 BODY:
 A selective listing by critics of The New York Times of new or noteworthy art, design and photography exhibitions at New York museums and art galleries this weekend. Addresses, unless otherwise noted, are in Manhattan. Most galleries are closed on Sundays and Mondays, but hours vary and should be checked by telephone. Gallery admission is free. * denotes a highly recommended show.

Museums

* "ABCD: A COLLECTION OF ART BRUT," Museum of American Folk Art, 2 Lincoln Square, Columbus Avenue at 66th Street, Manhattan, (212) 977-7170 (through July). Memorably vivid and widely abused, the phrase Art Brut (meaning raw or rough art) was coined in the 1940's by the French artist Jean Dubuffet. This exhibition, drawn from the holdings of a Paris-based foundation, attempts to reinstate his original meaning, revisiting the amazing pantheon of artists who inspired it and proposing some additions. Its many highlights include works by acknowledged greats like Adolf Wolfli, Aloise Corbaz, Henry Darger and Augustin Lesage, but the show also introduces many equally riveting artists unfamiliar to American audiences. Hours: Tuesdays through Sundays, 11:30 a.m. to 7:30 p.m. Free (Roberta Smith).

GEORGES ADEAGBO, "Abraham: L'Ami de Dieu," P.S. 1 Contemporary Art Center, 22-25 Jackson Avenue, at 46th Street, Long Island City, Queens, (718) 784-2084 (through March 30). Mr. Adeagbo, born in Benin in 1942, is making his United States debut with a rich, deceptively low-key installation that resembles an African outdoor market, a New York City sidewalk sale and a personal archive in the process of being sorted. Hundreds of objects are neatly arranged on the floor and walls: paintings, secondhand books, record albums, African sculptures and magazines, many of which the artist gathered in New York, sent to Africa, then brought back for the show, reversing the global itinerary of African art centuries ago. And what do they all add up to? A myth-laden history of the world, of art and of African and American culture circa 1960. Hours: Wednesdays through Sundays, noon to 6 p.m. Admission: $5; $2, students and 60+ (Holland Cotter).

* "AFRICAN FORMS," Museum for African Art, 593 Broadway, near Houston Street, SoHo, (212) 966-1313 (through Aug. 8). This show forgoes the figurative sculptures and masks that made African art a foundation of Western modernism to concentrate on supposedly humbler stuff, objects of physical adornment and daily use. With some 400 objects created by 156 ethnic groups, it proceeds in clusters of related carved wood neck rests, stools and boxes; ivory hairpins and snuff bottles; all kinds of jewelry; baskets and ceramic vessels; as well as spoons, weapons and musical instruments. The show is pervaded by elegance, economy of form and a sensitivity to materials that is both intensely spiritual and protomodern. Figurative sculpture and masks may be the "high art" of Africa, but there is no low. Hours: Tuesdays through Fridays, 10:30 a.m. to 5:30 p.m.; Saturdays and Sundays, noon to 6 p.m. Admission: $5; $2.50, students and 65+ (Smith).

* "COMMITTED TO THE IMAGE: CONTEMPORARY BLACK PHOTOGRAPHERS," Brooklyn Museum of Art, 200 Eastern Parkway, at Prospect Park, (718) 638-5000 (through April 29). This sharply installed survey of 94 artists covers several decades of work, much of it by a generation of photographers who came of age in the 1960's and 70's. The pictures are sorted by broad themes (people, beauty, family, religion, etc.), and formal polish tends to predominate over conceptual grit. The terrain is, over all, unsensational ordinary life, with the heat now and then turned up high. Images of urban churchgoers, Louisiana sugar cane cutters, the magnetic Billie Holiday and children in African refugee camps sit side by side. The eclectic array has its share of bland entries, but there are dozens of wonderful artists here, and their collective spirit is persuasive. Hours: Wednesdays through Fridays, 10 am. to 5 p.m.; Saturdays and Sundays, 11 a.m. to 6 p.m (until 11 p.m. the first Saturday of the month). Admission: $4; $2, students and 62+ (Cotter).

* "CORREGGIO AND PARMIGIANINO: MASTER DRAFTSMEN OF THE RENAISSANCE," Metropolitan Museum of Art, Fifth Avenue at 82nd Street, (212) 879-5500 (through May 6). This copious and beautiful exhibition has nearly 130 drawings by two artists who were aligned in time, geography and, briefly, style in the third decade of the 16th century. Correggio, who blew the roof off Renaissance illusionism with the ecstatic ceiling paintings that he made in Parma in the 1520's, is represented by a room of exquisite mostly red-chalk studies that reflect a penchant for brazen foreshortening, glowing light and atmospheric sfumato; they also attest to a sensuousness that can seem more proto-Rococo than Proto-Baroque. The two galleries of Parmigianino's drawings seem true to his Mannerist sensibility. A searching restlessness is evident in the constant shifts in medium, style and subject, in the considerations of other artists' work (including Correggio's), in the pensive self-portraits and portraits and most of all in several drawings that layer together unrelated motifs. So is a relatively new notion for his time: drawing for the sake of drawing. Hours: Sundays and Tuesdays through Thursdays, 9:30 a.m. to 5:15 p.m.; Fridays and Saturdays until 8:45 p.m. Admission: $10; $5, students and 65+ (Smith).

"THE GLOBAL GUGGENHEIM: SELECTIONS FROM THE EXTENDED COLLECTION," Solomon R. Guggenheim Museum, 1071 Fifth Avenue, at 89th Street, (212) 423-3500 (through April 22). Of the big permanent collection shows that have been taking up so much space, the Guggenheim's is the last. It's also the coolest, the prettiest, the least programmatic and the most conservative. Despite the "global" spin of the title, this is strictly a Euro-American affair. And thanks to the eye of the curator, Carmen Gimenez, it is a very beautiful one. The great Wright spiral feels freshly swept out; the bays are sparingly hung; and dozens of top-notch works, including a few from the Hermitage in St. Petersburg and Guggenheim branches abroad, have been paired and grouped to ignite free-associational sparks. Hours: Sundays through Wednesdays, 9 a.m. to 6 p.m.; Fridays and Saturdays, 9 am. to 8 p.m. Admission: $12; $8, students and 65+ (Cotter).

* "ANDREAS GURSKY," Museum of Modern Art, 11 West 53rd Street, (212) 708-9400 (through May 15). The giant pictures in this mid-career retrospective of Mr. Gursky, the 46-year-old German photographer, are so eye-poppingly, drop-dead gorgeous that in this world, where no good turn goes unpunished, you may feel compelled to react with suspicion and reserve. But knee-jerk resistance at the sight of the nondescript global emblems of new capitalist sprawl that Mr. Gursky photographs is short-circuited by sheer awe at the incredible, sublimely weird, almost erotic glamour he imparts to them. The work is instantly attractive to the point of alarm, which is the feeling of falling in love. You might as well give yourself over to it and worry about the consequences later. Hours: Thursdays through Tuesdays, 10:30 a.m. to 5:45 p.m.; until 8:15 p.m. on Fridays. Admission: $10; $6.50, students and 65+ (Michael Kimmelman).

* THE MARY AND MICHAEL JAHARIS GALLERIES OF BYZANTINE ART AND THE GALLERY OF EARLY MEDIEVAL ART, Metropolitan Museum of Art, Fifth Avenue at 82nd Street, (212) 879-5500 (through Dec. 31). The new galleries for the Met's superb holdings in Byzantine and early medieval art exemplify inward expansion at its best. The refurbished hallway galleries beside the Grand Staircase are now entered through a beautiful little brick-lined Crypt Gallery (carved out of former storage space) and completed by a recently rediscovered apselike space. The configuration seems tailor-made for works that reflect the first flowering of Christian art, from stone carvings from fourth-century Egyptian monasteries to a larger-than-life wood crucifix from 12th-century Italy. It also has intricately carved ivories, vivid enamels, graffitoed ceramics, jewelry and textiles. It adds another jewel to an already heavy crown. Hours and admission: See above (Smith).

* "KENNETH JOSEPHSON: A RETROSPECTIVE," Whitney Museum of American Art, 945 Madison Avenue, at 75th Street, (212) 570-3676 (through May 27). The first full-scale career assessment for one of the earliest and most inventive explorers of photography's character and the issues of perception and representation that it raises. In the 1960's, when Mr. Josephson began commenting on it, the truthfulness of photography was still a myth with a powerful hold on the imagination. Best of all, his philosophizing is often served up with a generous portion of wit. Much of his work has never been exhibited, and he is not nearly so well known as he deserves to be. Hours: Tuesdays through Thursdays, Saturdays and Sundays, 11 a.m. to 6 p.m.; Fridays, 1 to 9 p.m. Admission: $10; $8, students and 62+ (Vicki Goldberg).

* PAUL McCARTHY, New Museum of Contemporary Art, 583 Broadway, near Prince Street, SoHo, (212) 219-1222 (through May 13). From his far-out position where the psychic security of Hollywood's packaging of sex and violence doesn't exist, Mr. McCarthy taps veins deep in the collective unconscious, far beyond where most shock artists have the audacity or intelligence to operate. Mr. McCarthy has been a cultish presence in Los Angeles for years, and his moment has finally come in New York with this retrospective and shows at Luhring Augustine in Chelsea; Deitch Projects in SoHo; and, in collaboration with the Public Art Fund, at the public atrium on the northwest corner of 56th Street and Madison Avenue. We see an artist of wild highs and lows, of black comedy, cheap jokes, unspeakable actions, dry formalism and some real fiascos, the mark of an artist risking failure, a good sign. There is something beyond mere Pop parody or social provocation in the work, something to do with deep private needs and desires, which we perceive secondhand as comic pathos. It is art as tough therapy, disturbingly honest. Hours: Wednesdays and Sundays, noon to 6 p.m.; Thursdays through Saturdays, noon to 8 p.m. Admission: $6; $3, artists, students and 65+ (Kimmelman).

* "NINETEENTH- AND 20TH-CENTURY CHINESE PAINTINGS FROM THE ROBERT H. ELLSWORTH COLLECTION, Metropolitan Museum of Art, Fifth Avenue at 82nd Street, (212) 879-5500 (through Aug. 19). The 19th and 20th centuries were shattering times for China, bringing wars, civil violence and the fall of an empire. In art, old forms survived and flourished but also changed. This exhibition surveys how elite painting traditions developed for a new audience and under Western influences from 1850 to 1980. Among the highlights is a group of paintings by Qi Baishi (1864-1957), deservedly one of the most popular of all Chinese artists. The big news is that a major museum has quietly taken a firm stand on modern art in Asia, seeing it not as a postscript to a great tradition but as an integral, living part of the continuum. Hours and admission: See above (Cotter).

* "PERFECTING MANKIND: EUGENICS AND PHOTOGRAPHY," International Center of Photography, 1133 Avenue of the Americas, at 43rd Street, (212) 860-1777 (through March 18). A timely exercise wildly disproportionate in significance to its size, this one-room show tackles the complicated story of photography's supporting role in eugenics, the pseudoscience of human breeding. Via 19th-century composite portraits of Jews, snapshots of "Fitter Family" and "Perfect Baby" contest winners and early Nazi photographs of Aryans, it tracks the arc of eugenics' popularity, an object lesson for this era of genetic engineering. And it shows the dubious results of an unreflective faith in technological science, in this case the new technology of photography, which seemed at the time a reliable instrument of reason. The exhibition is a reminder that photographs almost always say less than people think or want, and sometimes precious little except about the prejudices of the viewer. Hours: Tuesdays through Sundays, 10 a.m. to 5 p.m.; Fridays, 10 a.m. to 8 p.m.; Saturdays and Sundays, 10 a.m. to 6 p.m. Admission: $8; $6, students and 62+ (Kimmelman).

"JEAN POYET: ARTIST TO THE COURT OF RENAISSANCE FRANCE," Morgan Library, 29 East 36th Street, (212) 685-0610 (through May 6). His reputation as one of the great manuscript illuminators of the Renaissance has declined over the centuries, with much of his work ascribed to others, but the French artist Jean Poyet (ca. 1445-1503) is re-established in this beautiful show as the true author of some well-known Books of Hours and other religious treasures. His use of perspective, color, light and shadow and his convincing representations of the human figure took his work well beyond the limitations of his Late Gothic predecessors, as seen in such powerful manuscripts as the "Missal of Guillaume Lallemant" and "The Hours of Henry VIII." The judicious use of lightbox transparencies, blown-up color photographs and a CD-ROM room where viewers can turn the pages of virtual manuscripts all add to the show's accessibility. It is one of the season's most impressive presentations. Hours: Tuesdays through Thursdays, 10:30 a.m. to 5 p.m.; Fridays, 10:30 a.m. to 8 p.m.; Saturdays, 10:30 a.m. to 6 p.m.; Sundays, noon to 6 p.m. Admission: $8; $6, students and 65+ (Grace Glueck).

"THE THINGS THEMSELVES: PICTURES OF DUST BY VIK MUNIZ," Whitney Museum of American Art, 945 Madison Avenue, at 75th Street, (212) 570-3676 (through May 20). Never have dust motes been such a presence in art. Using as his medium grit gleaned from the Whitney's galleries and offices, Mr. Muniz made drawings from photographs of Miminalist and post-Minimalist sculptures and paintings exhibited at the museum over 30 years. Then he photographed the drawings and enlarged them so that the results are reproductions of reproductions. The dust -- plainly observable as strands and mats of hair, flecks of paper, flakes of dirt and fragments of pebbles -- blurs the hard-edge outlines of the sculptures, putting one in mind of aging movie stars photographed through filters. It can also have a dramatic effect, as in the case of one Robert Morris installation whose hazy black-and-white bleakness suggests the stark ruins of a future city. Mr. Muniz claims that his copies ask the viewer to look harder at the originals -- but which originals? Perplexing as it may be, his photograph-drawings are originals too. Hours and admission: See above (Glueck).

* "THE TREASURY OF BASEL CATHEDRAL," Metropolitan Museum of Art, Fifth Avenue and 82nd Street, (212) 535-7710 (through May 27). The jewel-embellished gold and silver liturgical objects and reliquaries in this show exist on some exotic outer fringe of beauty, where the crass and the ineffable meet. Together they have a cliffhanger of a tale to tell, as frustrating as it is uplifting. (They were preserved as an ensemble until Basel city politics intervened in the 19th century.) There's the rarity factor: almost none of the 75 works have visited the United States before. And it's hard to remember the last time anything quite like their single-minded incandescence radiated from a local museum. Hours and admission: See above (Cotter).

* "VAN GOGH'S POSTMAN: THE PORTRAITS OF JOSEPH ROULIN," Museum of Modern Art, 11 West 53rd Street, (212) 708-9400 (through May 15). This revelatory microexhibition reunites five portraits of the postal worker Joseph Roulin, whom van Gogh met while living in Arles in the south of France. The show affords an excellent opportunity to study the painter's craft as he processes a single motif through a series of approaches from painterly naturalism to richly patterned symbolism. It is fascinating as well to see the portraits in light of the biographical background. Roulin cared for van Gogh after the famous ear-cutting incident, and he grew in the artist's imagination from an amusing local character to a figure of Christ-like benevolence. Hours and admission: See above. (Ken Johnson).

Galleries: Uptown

* "WOMEN DESIGNERS IN THE U.S.A., 1900-2000: DIVERSITY AND DIFFERENCE," Bard Graduate Center for Studies in the Decorative Arts, Design and Culture, 18 West 86th Street, (212) 501-3000 (through April 8). At the turn of the 20th century, female designers were mostly white, middle-class and skilled in "female" pursuits; today their ethnicity is widely diversified, and they have made enormous progress in fields once open only to men. Architecture, landscaping, interiors, furniture, textiles, apparel, posters, tableware, wallpaper, ceramics, lighting, jewelry, floor coverings, silverware, doors for cars, costumes and industrial products are represented in this bountiful show, which shoehorns some 220 objects into three floors of tight gallery space. Works by American Indians and African-Americans are given special attention (Glueck).

Galleries: 57th Street

* OSKAR KOKOSCHKA, "Memorial Exhibition," Marlborough Gallery, 40 West 57th Street, (212) 541-4900 (through March 17). This show is a continual reminder that Kokoschka, who died in 1980 at 93, gave his whole self, without evasion and without stint, in everything he did. It begins with his portraits of the composers Webern (1914) and Schoenberg (1925); continues with his big cityscapes, with their attention to telling detail; and makes a strong case for his late watercolors, in which the image is briskly defined and the color has an irresistible energy. This hand never shook (John Russell).

* "OUR BEAUTIFUL AND TORMENTED AUSTRIA: ART BRUT IN THE LAND OF FREUD," Galerie St. Etienne, 24 West 57th Street, (212) 245-6734 (through March 17). This extraordinary show introduces the recently discovered work of two self-taught Viennese artists: Emanuel Navratil (1875-1956), who made large colored-pencil drawings that transform his native city into a magical kingdom of fantasy architecture, intricate pattern and bourgeois contentment; and Josef Karl Radler (1844-1917), a retired porcelain painter whose fusions of writing and painting infuse scenes of the hospital where he spent his final years with a power akin to illuminated manuscripts (Smith).

Galleries: Chelsea

BRIAN ALFRED, Max Protetch, 511 West 22nd Street, (212) 633-6999 (through March 24). A current minitrend has some young painters using tape to stencil hard-edged, 60s-style acrylic pictures of the modern built environment. Mr. Alfred, having his first solo exhibition, is an adept practitioner of the genre. The cheerful neo-Pop surfaces of his pictures of a building being demolished, a swimming pool or a great suspension bridge mask rueful emotions about utopian modernism (Johnson).

ROBERT F. HAMMERSTIEL, Cristinerose, 529 West 20th Street, (212) 206-0297 (through March 31). This Austrian photographer focuses on the dog industry to critique capitalism. Photographs of dog leashes alternate with small mug shots of dog owners. Each in a series of thin boxes displays a dog portrait and an actual syringe used for inserting identification microchips under the animal's skin. This may sound like a parody of some kind of neo-Marxist Conceptualism, but it is not particularly funny. Perhaps Mr. Hammerstiel is serious: that would be funny (Johnson).

BEVERLY SEMMES, Leslie Tonkonow, 535 West 22nd Street, (212) 255-8450 (through April 14). An artist known for her sculptures in the form of gigantically oversize women's clothing, here presents something monumental and absurd but abstract: a great, vaguely fecal mound of convoluted, fat, stuffed tubes of electric green nylon. Gallery personnel are wearing overalls made from the same material, which creates a mysterious sense of industrial purpose (Johnson).

LEON TARASEWICZ, Gary Tatintsian, 526 West 26th Street, (212) 633-0110 (through March 31). Mr. Tarasewicz, selected to represent Poland in the Venice Biennale later this year, paints brushy stripe compositions on canvas and, more interestingly, turns whole galleries into striped environments. Here fuzzy brown stripes alternating with blue, white or green wrap around a series of thick partitions and cover one wall, creating an enveloping interplay of Minimalist structure and humming painterly surface (Johnson).

"THEM!" Jay Grimm, 505 West 28th Street, (212) 564-7662 (through March 17). The most interesting items in this curiously didactic show about some of the least favorite animals are not artworks but actual exotic insects collected, mounted and framed by Bob Natalini. Otherwise, there are round photographic portraits of ants by Bill Scanga; nice washy watercolors of a praying mantis and a ladybug by Emilie Clark; and Shane Hope's strange, funky miniature assemblages with insectoid elements emerging from the gallery's electrical receptacles (Johnson).

Galleries: SoHo

CHRIS MARTIN, Malca, 580 Broadway, at Prince Street, (212) 966-8854 (through March 31) and at Sideshow, 319 Bedford Avenue, Williamsburg, Brooklyn, (718) 486-8180 (through March 19). Mr Martin is a perennially interesting and admirably unfashionable painter. At Malca, a canvas measuring 10 by 36 feet and bearing a stack of white rectangles topped by a flying-saucer-like form, looks like a giant sign made by a nonartist who had a close encounter of the third kind. At Sideshow, pictures of orange or yellow boxes against sky blue fields are richer as paintings and transcendentally suggestive as images (Johnson).

ERIN O'KEEFE AND VINCENT SZAREK, Sandra Gering, 476 Broome Street, (212) 226-8195 (through March 24). Two sculptors each combine Minimalist structure and lush material: Ms. O'Keefe arranges colored blocks and mirrors in boxes behind squares of frosted glass, creating blurry, spatially ambiguous compositions. Mr. Szarek, borrowing from custom-car culture, fabricates sleek undulating wall works with glossy automotive paint jobs; one beauty sports a sumptuous candy cherry red metalflake coating (Johnson).

ROBERT SCHMID, Sears-Peyton, 560 Broadway, at Prince Street, (212) 966-7469 (through March 31). With sensitive, assiduous craft, Mr. Schmid paints small-scale copies of blurred, smeared, double-exposed or otherwise distorted snapshots of people, city streets and natural landscapes, which were taken with a defective camera. He organizes these images into gridded compositions that have a moody cinematic quality (Johnson).

Other Galleries

DENNIS OPPENHEIM, Ace Gallery, 275 Hudson Street, South Village, (212) 255-5599 (through March 24). This medium-size, occasionally amusing survey of Mr. Oppenheim's work is what you would expect: a fun-house mixture of documentary photographs, booming electronics, videos, cockamamie sculpture and installations. The art is, at heart, about how hard it is to make art. Among the early works is a mechanized marionette, "Attempt to Raise Hell" (1974), a self-portrait that smashes its head into a big cast-iron bell. Frustration, anger and violence have been his creative touchstones, along with a sense of humor. His legacy is to have turned futility into a medium, a singular plan, sometimes effective but often not memorable enough visually (Kimmelman).

Last Chance

"A WINTER GROUP OF ARTIST COUPLES," Katharina Rich Perlow, 41 East 57th Street, (212) 644-7171 (through tomorrow). It is not a new idea, but it is always interesting to compare works by two artists who are (or were) a couple. This 22-artist show includes Abstract Expressionist paintings by James Brooks and Charlotte Parks; a squiggly drawing by Willem de Kooning and a slashing painting by Elaine de Kooning; and an elegant Constructivist-style drawing by Joel Shapiro with a delicately misty painting of a blue vase by Ellen Phelan (Johnson).

* NELL BLAINE, "The Abstract Work," Tibor de Nagy, 724 Fifth Avenue, near 57th Street, (212) 262-5050 (through tomorrow). This terrific show displays the astoundingly accomplished biomorphic abstractions that Blaine painted in the 1940's, when she was barely 20 and fresh off the train from Richmond, Va. They reflect study with Hans Hofmann, love of jazz, Leger, Mondrian and a prodigious talent. They should also sharpen one's appreciation of the formal rigor of the rapturous landscapes and garden views that Blaine painted from the late 1950's to her death in 1997, and underscore that this extraordinary artist is ripe for re-evaluation (Smith).

SARAH BEDFORD, JEANNE LORENZ AND AMY WILSON, Bellwether Gallery, 150 Franklin Street, Greenpoint, Brooklyn, (718) 389-3213 (through Sunday). The unstated theme of this show is Americana run decorously amok. Ms. Bedford's collagelike bad-dream visions of bugs, plants, geometric patterns and Currier & Ives sleigh rides are the most elaborate entries. Ms. Lorenz, in large grisaille watercolors, transforms winsome porcelain figurines from eBay auctions into bug-eyed mutants. Ms. Wilson also works in watercolor. In paintings the size of pages in children's books, she uses pleasing colors, draftsmanly finesse and wide-ranging research to chart the sinister inner workings of the military-industrial complex (Cotter).

* BODY AND THE EAST: FROM THE 1960'S TO THE PRESENT, Exit Art/The Third World, 548 Broadway, near Prince Street, SoHo, (212) 966-7745 (through tomorrow). Organized in 1998 by the Museum of Modern Art in Ljubljana, Slovenia, this exhibition surveys the body and performance work of some 100 artists or artists' collectives from 14 former Soviet bloc countries. It represents a tremendous effort of retrieval, adds many new names, locations and artworks to the constantly expanding map of postwar art and offers further proof that American and Western European artists did not and do not act alone (Smith).

"HANDS ACROSS THE SEA," Phyllis Kind Gallery, 136 Greene Street, SoHo, (212) 925-1200 (through Thursday). Arranged in a series of telling, often surprising comparisons between American and European self-taught artists, this exhibition demonstrates that there is plenty of reason to stretch Jean Dubuffet's original definition of Art Brut beyond its original European perimeter (Smith).

RICHARD NONAS, "Sophia Maria and the Indians," Lawrence Markey, 42 East 76th Street, (212) 517-9892 (through tomorrow). Carefully placed in this gallery's square white room, the simple, rough-hewn wooden sculptures by a veteran Minimalist create a slowed-down, contemplative ambience. An inclined plane of heavy beams; a saw-tooth pattern cut into a thick plank; an X made of intersecting blocks: these Brancusian objects encourage a calming attention to elemental facts of light, space and structure (Johnson).

BILL OWENS, Paul Morris, 465 West 23rd Street, Chelsea, (212) 727-2752 (through tomorrow). Mr. Owens published his famous and enthralling book "Suburbia" in 1973, but he continued his sharp-eyed documentation of suburban culture into the early 80's. This show presents large color prints from the series, including the images of a pretty young woman with big hair snorting coke in a restroom and a beautiful picture of a swimming pool titled "Hockney Painted This Pool" (Johnson).

"POETRY PLASTIQUE," Marianne Boesky Gallery, 535 West 22nd Street, Chelsea, (212) 680-9889 (through tomorrow). Art and poetry: made for each other. Poets write about art; artists turn to poetry for ideas. Sometimes the two disciplines meet in collaboration. Such meetings are the subject of this show, in which image and word are flexibly intertwined. Organized by the poet Charles Bernstein and Jay Sanders, it covers a stretch of recent historical ground, from word-peppered Blakean drawings by Robert Smithson from 1962 to work by Mira Schor, Richard Tuttle and Susan Bee from last year. When the gallery was host to a series of related panel discussions and readings, the buzz of voices and ideas made the art feel alive and interactive. Some of the pieces really need that charge; others do fine on their own. Certainly the cross-disciplinary concept behind the show is ripe for further exploration (Cotter).

GRAPHIC: Photos: An untitled work by Beverly Semmes is made of electric green nylon, part of her show at the Leslie Tonkonow gallery in Chelsea. (Leslie Tonkonow Artworks + Projects); "Tomato Head (Green)" by Paul McCarthy, at the New Museum. (New Museum of Contemporary Art) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Schedule 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (95%); ARTS FESTIVALS & EXHIBITIONS (90%); ARTISTS & PERFORMERS (90%); SCULPTURE (89%); VISUAL & PERFORMING ARTS (78%); PAINTING (78%); EXHIBITIONS (78%); ARCHIVE COLLECTIONS (78%); PHOTOGRAPHY (78%); ETHNIC GROUPS (64%); ETHNICITY (60%); DEMOGRAPHIC GROUPS (60%); MUSICAL INSTRUMENTS (50%); MUSIC (50%) NO INDEX TERMS FROM NYTIMES 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (91%); PARIS, FRANCE (56%) NEW YORK, USA (93%) UNITED STATES (94%); AFRICA (79%); FRANCE (56%)

LOAD-DATE: March 9, 2001 



203 of 868 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 9, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section E; Part 2; Column 1; Leisure/Weekend Desk; Pg. 39

LENGTH: 1135 words

HEADLINE: ANTIQUES; 
A Dynasty In Which Pottery Ruled

BYLINE:  By Wendy Moonan 

 BODY:
The Tang dynasty (A.D. 618 to 906) was unlike any other era in China, or in the world for that matter. It was a time of peace, prosperity and thriving international trade.
 "The Tang Empire was very powerful and very rich," said Khalil Rizk, director of the Chinese Porcelain Company in Manhattan. "It had a mighty army." Its borders stretched from the Caspian Sea in the west to Korea in the east, and from Manchuria in the north to Vietnam. 
 Like Constantinople, the Tang capital city of Changan (the modern Xian) had two million inhabitants, about what it has today. The government supported a large class of Confucian literati who served as civil servants and ran the country well. The crime rate was at an all-time low, with prisons reportedly empty. Inflation was under control. The poor had enough rice to eat and the ability to pay taxes.
"It was one of the most sophisticated periods of Chinese history," said Theow H. Tow, Christie's international director of Chinese ceramics and works of art. "China attracted Persians, Indians and Jews. Last summer they found the site of a seventh-century Christian church, so there were already Christians there, too."
The silk route opened China to foreign ideas, religions, culture and lifestyles. Foreign merchants established markets in Changan to sell exotic spices and aromatics, camels, horses, tropical birds, jewelry, ivory and furs.
"The Chinese tended to be inward-looking," Mr. Tow said. "The Tang is one of the few dynasties that looked outward."
The first 137 years of the dynasty were also a golden age for Chinese art. "Nowhere else in the world were they making better pottery at the time," Mr. Rizk said. Tang potters made elegant earthenware vessels for everyday use and sculptures for tombs, including the Tang horses and camels so prized in the West. 
The potters also created figurines representing exotic foreigners, with their odd physiognomy, costume and customs. "Sometimes the depictions of foreigners were like caricatures," Mr. Tow said. Horse grooms, for example, could have had wildly curly hair, bushy beards, big noses or bulging eyes.
Many of the Tang ceramics on the market today are tomb sculptures and vessels. The Chinese did not hedge their bets. They planned for the afterlife years in advance, buying hundreds of pottery figures and sculptures.
"The princes, princesses, wealthy ministers and distinguished nobles surrounded themselves with all the extravagances that money could buy, not only in life, but also in death," wrote the Chinese ceramics scholar Margaret Medley in a 1989 catalog for a show at the Dixon Gallery in Memphis, "Tang Sancai Pottery From the Collection of Alan and Simone Hartman."
Forty-eight pieces from the Hartman exhibition will be auctioned at Christie's in New York on March 20. The preview begins on Tuesday. "It's a good snapshot of life at the time," Mr. Tow said.
Mr. Hartman, who owns Rare Art Inc., a Manhattan gallery specializing in British and American silver and Chinese art, said that he and his wife, Simone, had collected Tang ceramics for 30 years and that he hoped to sell his pottery to one institution or collector for $1.3 million. If one buyer does not reach his reserve price, the collection will be sold in individual lots.
The Hartmans' pottery is all sancai (meaning three-colored) glazed earthenware in the colors of straw and amber (made from iron oxide) and green (from copper oxide). Sancai usually also includes blue glaze, which is rarer and was made from oxides with imported cobalt.
Other Tang sculptures are for sale in Sotheby's Chinese Ceramics and Works of Art auction on March 22. In addition, Mark Richards, a Los Angeles dealer, and Alberto Manuel Cheung, a private dealer in Manhattan, are bringing Tang ceramics to the Arts of Pacific Asia Show at the 69th Regiment Armory at Lexington Avenue and 26th Street, from March 22 to 25.
Mr. Cheung is selling a figure of a Tang woman playing a polo-like game on a horse whose legs are outstretched, similar to one exhibited last year at the International Museum of the Horse in Lexington, Ky. Nicholas Grindley, a London dealer, has two fine early unglazed Tang horses and two foreign grooms, which he is showing at the Kate Ganz Gallery, 25 East 73rd Street in Manhattan, from Wednesday through March 25.
The Hartman pottery is remarkable in its diversity. "The sculptures are of people who were part and parcel of Tang life," Mr. Tow said. There is a courtier, a groom, a falconer, an entertainer, a dancing lady, a foreign wine merchant and various animals. "They depicted native animals like buffalo and boar and foreign ones like camels and lions," Mr. Tow said. "The lion looks a bit like a pug, but they'd probably never seen a lion."
There are also jars, a water pot shaped like a beast, an ambrosia vase and a ewer with the head of a phoenix. The provenances of many pieces can be traced to the 1920's. Others were acquired at auction decades ago.
Tang artists were not the first to make tomb sculptures. Clay tomb figures go back to at least the third century B.C., before the Han dynasty. But Tang potters were more accomplished than their predecessors. The modeling is more subtle and individualized and the glazes are shinier and more colorful.
Perhaps the most extraordinary figure in the Christie's sale is a charming court lady seated on a rattan drum stool looking at a round mirror in her left hand. Her elaborate hairdo has two round buns. She rests her right foot on her knee, while one loose shoe, with a pointed toe, rests on the base. She wears a figure-revealing green gown with blue sleeves and has an amber throw on her shoulder.
Probably made in a mold, the figure has an unglazed head with a subtly carved, hand-painted face. The estimate is $170,000 to $200,000. "She cost me more than my apartment on Park Avenue," said Mr. Hartman, who bought his apartment in the 1970's. 
Another striking piece is a blue water buffalo with striped brown horns, huge ears and a plaintive look in his eyes. His tender, a small boy, sleeps on his back, the tether in his hand. The boy's straw hat rests on his hip. "This is one of the earliest depictions of a boy on the back of a water buffalo," Mr. Tow said.
Mr. Hartman added, "I bought it 20 years ago at Christie's East when it was being sold as a fake." Its estimate is $80,000 to $100,000.
According to Christie's, the only known similar depiction is of a cow with a boy wearing a straw hat in the Freer Gallery of Art in Washington.
Why are the Hartmans selling their collection? "I have eclectic tastes," Mr. Hartman said. "I collect jade and early English silver. In my gallery I sell English and American silver, Japanese cloissone, silver and ivory. I've been partial to the Tang, but times change. I'd rather put my resources into English silver now."

GRAPHIC: Photo: A large detail of a court lady figurine from China's Tang dynasty. (Christie's) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: RELIGION (90%); AGRICULTURAL TRADE (90%); CHRISTIANS & CHRISTIANITY (87%); SCULPTURE (87%); HORSES (86%); ANTIQUES & COLLECTIBLES (85%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (77%); MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (72%); EXHIBITIONS (72%); AROMATICS (72%); POTTERY & CERAMICS MFG (71%); CRIME RATES (69%); JEWS & JUDAISM (66%) ART; TANG DYNASTY (CHINA) (618-906); ANTIQUES 

COMPANY: CHRISTIE'S INTERNATIONAL PLC (55%); CHRISTIE'S (INTERNATIONAL) SA (55%); CHRISTIE'S INTERNATIONAL SINGAPORE PTE LTD (55%)

ORGANIZATION: CHRISTIE'S 

INDUSTRY: SIC5999 MISCELLANEOUS RETAIL STORES, NEC (55%)

PERSON: MOONAN, WENDY; TOW, THEOW H 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (90%) NEW YORK, USA (90%); NORTHEAST CHINA (79%); CASPIAN SEA (72%); SHAANXI, CHINA (58%) CHINA (96%); NORTHERN ASIA (92%); UNITED STATES (90%)

LOAD-DATE: March 9, 2001 



204 of 868 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 9, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section F; Column 1; Automobiles; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1214 words

HEADLINE: AUTOS ON FRIDAY/Owning and Leasing; 
More Buyers Put Money on the Table

BYLINE:  By MICHELINE MAYNARD 

DATELINE: DETROIT 

 BODY:
NOT long ago, when stock prices were soaring and discount lease deals were easy to find, it seemed almost foolish to pay cash for a car -- and hardly anyone did. In 1998, cash-paying customers fell to a historic low of less than 4 percent of car and truck buyers.
 But times have changed, as anyone who has recently tried to gain access to a vanished Web site understands. No longer is there easy money to be had by investing in dot-com stocks, and those too-good-to-be-true lease deals are fading, too. 
 A growing number of consumers are using their money not for speculation but for transportation. Last year, 8.8 percent of vehicle buyers paid cash, more than double the 3.9 percent who did so just two years ago, according to CNW Marketing/Research. 
Cash purchases fall far short of the levels of the 1950's, when a third of buyers, many with memories of the Great Depression, regularly eschewed debt to buy their cars with greenbacks.
But the recent shift toward paying cash is the strongest since the early 1990's, before automakers turned to leasing in an attempt to jump-start sales. And it is in line with the levels of the 1970's and 80's, when 9 to 10 percent of car buyers paid cash.
"The trend toward paying cash is simple," said Art Spinella, president of CNW, a research firm in Bandon, Ore. "For whatever reason, people want to own a car and they don't want to have payments."
Dan Martin of Whitefish Bay, Wis., investigated lease deals this winter when he set out to replace his 1988 Audi 100, which he had bought before his two children, ages 10 and 7, were born.
He planned to make a modest down payment to secure the lease and leave the rest of the money in the bank to earn interest. But he said the monthly payments were too high on the leases that were available. Also, he said, his savings were earning interest barely above the rate of inflation.
So Mr. Martin, 40, paid $35,000 cash for a top-of-the-line Chrysler Town & Country Limited minivan, in white, with leather seats, a CD player and a power liftgate.
"We looked at paying it off monthly, but we had the cash," said Mr. Martin, vice president of Hellerman Tyton, a company that makes plastic automotive parts. "We decided, Why bother with small profits when we can just write a check and drive it off the lot?"
Relatively affluent buyers like Mr. Martin are the most likely to pay cash for vehicles, according to CNW's data. Cash purchases regularly account for 20 percent or more of transactions at Jaguar, Land Rover, Mercedes and Porsche. Among those recent buyers was Jeremy P. Anwyl, the president of Edmunds.com, a Web site that provides information for those seeking to buy or lease vehicles. Although Mr. Anwyl's site provides tips on the most favorable loan rates and the most generous buyer incentives, he paid $68,000 cash for a Jaguar XJR, the latest in a series of cars he has bought without financing.
"I don't gamble; I don't drink heavily," Mr. Anwyl said. "This is my hobby. I'm really fickle. I get in and out of cars really fast."
Buyers are especially quick to whip out their checkbooks for something in hot demand. About 40 percent of the buyers of the Lexus LS 430 luxury sedan, which was redesigned for 2001, have paid cash.
"When you come out with a brand-new car, the number of people paying cash shoots up," said George Borst, chief executive of Toyota Financial Services, which provides financing for buyers of Toyota and Lexus vehicles. "There's still this pride of ownership -- 'I've got to get it.' Leasing is more of a rental mentality."
Mr. Borst, who keeps close watch on spending trends, said he began to notice a steady stream of cash buyers returning to the market during the last 18 months.
The growth coincided with decisions by banks and automakers' financing companies to put the brakes on lease programs. In the mid- to late 1990's, lenders offered attractive deals by setting generous residual values -- the amount that vehicles are estimated to be worth at the end of their leases. The higher the residual, the lower the monthly payment.
The situation was a boon to consumers, both the well-heeled seeking a bargain, and others who were able to take home vehicles that they could not afford to buy outright.
But this strategy began to backfire when many formerly leased vehicles turned out to be worth less than their residual values, in part because so many were coming back into the used-car market. The gap between the residuals and the actual values left lenders with $10.4 billion in losses last year, and CNW estimates that they face $11.1 billion in losses this year. Big lenders like GE Capital have left the lease market, and the "captive" finance companies owned by automakers have significantly scaled back their discount leases.
With attractive lease deals less common, and with the economy so uncertain, Mr. Borst says a number of previous lessees are choosing to pay cash instead. Some wealthy buyers are spending money they made in stocks before that market turned down.
Mr. Borst said: "They think, 'What am I going to do with this money? Put it in tech stocks? I might as well put it into something tangible.' "
Other buyers are simply following their convictions. Brenda Clough, a science-fiction writer in Reston, Va., has always paid cash for vehicles, citing her thrifty upbringing and an uncertain income that make her wary of accumulating bills.
Unexpectedly flush last fall after selling a novella to Analog, a science-fiction magazine, Ms. Clough gave her Honda Odyssey minivan to her 16-year-old daughter and paid $20,000 cash for a red 2000 Toyota Celica. "There are certain things you are stuck with -- you are stuck with paying interest on your mortgage because there is no way to pay cash for your house," Ms. Clough said. "I pay cash for everything. I pay credit card bills the minute they come in."
Ms. Clough said she felt she got a good deal by taking home a 2000 vehicle, instead of a higher-priced 2001 model.
But experts say Mrs. Clough's tactic does not always yield the best result. Mr. Spinella said dealers were more likely to bargain if they also provided financing, since they earn a commission on each loan or lease. "You can't negotiate the best price that way, unless it is a vehicle that nobody wants that is sitting on the lot," Mr. Spinella said.
Ron Palumbo, a longtime Volkswagen dealer in Middletown, N.Y., says that no dealer will turn away a cash customer. But given a choice, dealers "absolutely" prefer that a consumer arrange financing through the showroom, Mr. Palumbo said.
With brands like Oldsmobile offering interest-free loans, "paying cash for a car is the stupidest thing you can do," Mr. Spinella said. "It is a terrible waste of your money."
Unless, of course, it is love at first sight, a reason given by many consumers inspired to put down cash for the vehicles of their dreams. That was the case, in fact, for Mr. Spinella, who spotted a black Jeep Wrangler last October at a dealership near his home in Coos Bay, Ore. He went in the next day and paid $16,000 cash for the sport utility, to which he has added $3,000 in alloy wheels and chrome trim.
"I saw it in the showroom window and said, 'Oh, yeah, I have to have it,' " Mr. Spinella said. "It's a completely emotional purchase. It makes no sense at all."

GRAPHIC: Chart: "Cash or Credit? It All Depends . . . "Relatively few car buyers opted to pay with cash in the mid-1990's, when heavily discounted leases were readily available, but all-cash purchases are becoming more common again. These buyers tend to be affluent, and they are most likely to spend their money on luxury brands. WHO GETS THE GREENBACKSPercentage of each brand's transactions that were made in cash. Jaguar: 23.5Porsche: 21.4Land Rover: 21.3Mercedes: 20.7Lexus: 16.4BMW: 15.8Cadillac: 13.0Lincoln: 12.4Audi: 11.7Acura: 11.6Volvo: 9.7Infiniti: 9.0*Toyota: 8.3Chrysler: 8.0*G.M.: 7.3*Honda: 7.2*Ford: 6.6Hyundai: 5.6Kia: 5.3*Nissan: 5.2 ANNUAL PURCHASESPercentage of vehicles bought with cash from 1990 to 2000.Graph shows figures from 1991-1999. WHY THEY PAID CASH Had the money on hand: 58.6%Other reasons (i.e. business use): 6.8%Wanted to avoid payments: 6.9%Wanted to avoid paying interest: 27.7% WHERE THE MONEY CAME FROM Savings: 51.9%Other: 1.9%Gift: 2.1%Received a windfall: 8.2%Sold assets (stocks, mutual funds, etc.): 35.9% *Does not include luxury brands.(Source: CNW Marketing/Research)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LEASE AGREEMENTS (90%); MOTOR VEHICLES (78%); CONSUMER BEHAVIOR (77%); TRENDS (76%); INTERNET & WWW (76%); MARKET RESEARCH (74%); AUTOMOBILE MFG (73%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (73%); AUTOMOTIVE MFG (73%); AUTOMAKERS (73%); INFLATION (73%); ECONOMIC NEWS (73%); AFFLUENT MARKET (72%); MINIVANS (71%); CD & DVD DRIVES (50%); CHILDREN (50%) AUTOMOBILES; SALES; PRICES (FARES, FEES AND RATES); RENTING AND LEASING; CONSUMER BEHAVIOR 

ORGANIZATION: JAGUAR CARS LTD; LAND ROVER; MERCEDES-BENZ AG; PORSCHE AG 

PERSON: MAYNARD, MICHELINE 

GEOGRAPHIC: OREGON, USA (79%); WISCONSIN, USA (71%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: March 9, 2001 



205 of 868 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 9, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section E; Part 2; Column 4; Leisure/Weekend Desk; Pg. 31

LENGTH: 1658 words

HEADLINE: ART REVIEW; 
Magic Turns Light Into Life

BYLINE:  By ROBERTA SMITH 

 BODY:
GENIUS does not flourish in a vacuum. That's the simple lesson vividly conveyed by "Vermeer and the Delft School," an alternately tousled and crystalline show at the Metropolitan Museum of Art. It includes 15 paintings by Vermeer -- nearly half of the 35 works firmly attributed to him -- along with paintings, drawings and prints by a host of other artists and a smattering of decorative objects and books.
 This show tracks the emergence of an increasingly effortless illusionism in Delft in the late 1650's and 60's. In the process, it demonstrates that Vermeer's miraculous images, the pinnacle of this illusionism, emanated from a petri dish of precedent, influence, inspiration, collaboration and patronage that contained more than a jot of pure chance, including an assassination. 
 William the Silent, the George Washington of the Netherlands, was killed in Delft in 1584, and in the following decades his son and successor, Prince Maurits, moved the court to The Hague, three miles away. Not a great distance perhaps -- by the 1660's the two cities were connected by canal barges that left twice an hour in both directions -- but enough to place Delft on the margins of court patronage and taste, which favored artists influenced by Caravaggio. 
These events freed some of Delft's artists to investigate the ways light played upon the world around them, putting their own spin on ideas and conventions that were then in the air.
Picking up on work by Frans Hals, Nicolaes Maes and Gerard ter Borch, Pieter de Hooch helped revise the "merry company" tavern scenes popular in both Holland and Flanders into pools of domestic calm and intimacy. By 1650, influenced by Pieter Saenredam of Harlem, Gerard Houckgeest turned from grandiose evocations of imaginary Italianate architecture to measured renderings of the whitewashed interiors of the Old Church in Delft, setting a new standard for architectural perspective that de Hooch and Vermeer later applied to their domestic scenes.
The paintings of Vermeer, de Hooch and Houckgeest dominate this show, along with those of Carel Fabritius, a star pupil of Rembrandt who went to Delft in 1650 and may have taught Vermeer but certainly influenced him. Fabritius was 32 when he died, along with hundreds of others, in the accidental explosion of a gunpowder arsenal that leveled a sizable portion of Delft in October 1654. His "Sentry," painted that year, is one of the show's highlights, a dazzling arrangement of creams, gray and blacks that depicts a soldier dozing in the generous geometry of a sun-warmed courtyard.
But these artists have plenty of backup: the church interiors of Hendrick Cornelisz van Vliet, Emanuel de Witte and Louys Aernoutsz Elsevier, which sometimes cross over into trompe l'oeil; the flower paintings of Jacob Woutersz Vosmaer, Gillis Gillisz de Bergh and Balthasar van der Ast, with their increasingly transparent pockets of background space; the images of well-dressed burghers and their families in brick-lined courtyards or on front stoops by Jan Steen and Hendrick van der Burch. 
There are wonderful paintings by artists you've never heard of, from museums you may never visit, notably Egbert van der Poel's "Barnyard Scene" of 1658, an orchestration of coppery browns, tenderly rendered farm equipment and fading afternoon light, lent by the Museum for Foreign Art in Riga, Latvia.
This exhibition comes only six years after the first retrospective of Vermeer's art, a show of 20 canvases seen in Washington and The Hague. While that show presented one Vermeer after another, like pearls on a string or a row of motionless beacons, the Met's exhibition is like a roving spotlight that almost giddily illuminates a succession of artists, mediums and generations. It has been organized by Walter Liedtke, a curator in the Met's department of European paintings, with Axel Ruger, curator of Dutch paintings at the National Gallery in London, where the show will be seen this summer.
In the wall labels, Mr. Leidtke parses the qualities that might be defined as local, regional and international. He proposes the Delft School as a porous, fluctuating idea that intermittently revealed "a preference for understatement, for rationality and reserve and for sober realism." There doesn't seem to be a discernible Delft School of landscape painting, although the show contains a little corner of breathtaking ones. And whatever school existed wasn't triggered by a single work or artist, or the sudden arrival of artists like Fabritius or Paulus Potter, but was built over several generations.
In the opening galleries, things feel a bit piecemeal and disjointed. Enormous tapestries and pieces of silver-gilt from around 1600 attest to Delft's role in the production of high-end luxury items and to its exacting levels of craftsmanship, which were carried over into its painting. Yet all the conventions and motifs that Vermeer and his generation would refine into a new kind of representation are present, in one work or another.
In its own gaudy, cramped, awkwardly drawn way, the show's first painting, Bartholomeus van Bassen's "Renaissance Interior With Banqueters," even offers a compendium, if not a caricature, of what lies ahead. Its carefully detailed, albeit palatial and Italianate interior contains a rowdy "merry company," a more restrained group of well-dressed men and women gathered around a table next to a window, walls lined with art, a sort of still life and a checkerboard floor. (Few Dutch houses or churches had such floors, but they recur throughout these paintings, measuring the recession of space with clarity and eclat.)
It is striking to realize how many of these elements, floor included, are present, profoundly realigned and transformed, in Vermeer's grand, enigmatic "Art of Painting," which awaits the visitor in the show's final gallery.
If this exhibition places Vermeer in context, emphasizing milieu over individual achievement, it proceeds in a restrained, object-oriented manner characteristic of the Met. Those expecting to see examples of the Turkish carpets that cover the tables in Vermeer's paintings, or the guild membership roll open to the page with his name, will be disappointed.
On view, however, are Gillis van Scheyndel's imposing engraving of the winding line of dignitaries (many identified by name) that formed Prince Maurits's funeral procession in 1625, and an even larger house-by-house map of the town, first published in 1678 by Johannes de Ram and Coenraet Decker. Both are resplendent examples of civic pride and close observation.
A large selection of drawings, among them two views of the devastation of the 1654 arsenal explosion, corroborate the assertion in a catalog essay by Michiel C. Plomp that there is more to the Delft School than oil on canvas. Other supporting material includes books on perspective and its use in painting; blue-and-white Delftware chargers, or presentation bowls, which mix Chinese motifs with local landscape scenes; and a single exquisite diamond-engraved wineglass, made in Delft around 1685.
This glass is placed to the right of Vermeer's "Glass of Wine," a painting of a woman who hesitantly drains a nearly identical one while her male companion waits. It confirms that Vermeer's interiors, for their time, tended to be luxuriously appointed, in keeping with the patrician calm of his subjects.
But more germane is what leads up to this painting from the left side: a progression of four canvases from the mid- and late 1650's by de Hooch that display a growing confidence in the treatment of the domestic interior articulated by natural light. Almost painting by painting, we see spare paneled rooms, open doors and mullioned windows become the full-fledged partners, if not the stars, of de Hooch's interiors. It is a development that anticipates Vermeer's even more commanding use of the convention.
Luminous, compressed and perfect in every way, Vermeer's "Glass of Wine" trumps the lineup. It eliminates extraneous gesture or expression and any suggestion of narrative.
Yet his cool, omnivorous mind is everywhere, polishing every granule of surface until it communicates the maximum of visual information: about the painting on the wall behind the man and woman, the carpet covering their table, the light filtering through the slightly open stained glass window.
One of Vermeer's distinguishing strengths, beyond his skill at rendering the human figure (which de Hooch lacked), was his supreme evenhandedness. Painting the animate and the inanimate as if they were of equal import, he paradoxically implied the relentless inner pulse of life and thought, but from a discreet distance.
De Hooch and Vermeer were more equal outdoors, painting their brick courtyards and building fronts, which appear on the opposite wall of this gallery. First come two nearly identical paintings of brick courtyards by de Hooch that confirm that the Delft realists didn't necessary stick to reality. A spate of big and little differences -- from the street outside (visible through the passageway) to the angles of walls, the patterns of bricks and the courtyard's inhabitants -- attest to ways that reality was constantly rearranged to suit the artist, or a client.
But again Vermeer trumps, this time with "The Little Street," with its orderly progression of brick surfaces and forms; the disparate activities but shared concentration of the four figures, which mirror his own; and the creamy, loosely indicated cobblestones rendering the canvas soft and open at its bottom edge.
This exhibition outlines a world without which Vermeer could not possibly have been Vermeer. But it doesn't diminish or flatten his achievement. It makes it sharper, more specific and more miraculous than ever.
"Vermeer and the Delft School" remains at the Metropolitan Museum of Art, Fifth Avenue at 82nd Street, (212) 879-5500, through May 27. It will be at the National Gallery in London from June 20 to Sept. 16.

GRAPHIC: Photos: Vermeer's "Little Street," above, and "A Sermon at the Old Church, Delft" by Emanuel de Witte, right, at the Metropolitan Museum of Art. (Photographs from the Metropolitan Museum of Art)(pg. E34); A detail of "The Art of Painting" (1666-68), above, by Vermeer and a detail of Pieter de Hooch's "Courtyard of a House in Delft" (1658), at the Metropolitan Museum. (Photographs from the Metropolitan Museum of Art)(pg. E31) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Review 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PAINTING (90%); ARTISTS & PERFORMERS (90%); MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (77%) ART; REVIEWS 

ORGANIZATION: METROPOLITAN MUSEUM OF ART (94%) METROPOLITAN MUSEUM OF ART (NYC) 

PERSON: VERMEER, JAN (1632-1675); SMITH, ROBERTA 

GEOGRAPHIC: THE HAGUE, NETHERLANDS (79%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%) NEW YORK, USA (79%) NETHERLANDS (91%); UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: March 9, 2001 



206 of 868 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 9, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 2; Editorial Desk; Pg. 19

LENGTH: 403 words

HEADLINE: Science and Surpluses 

BYLINE:  By D. Allan Bromley; D. Allan Bromley, a professor of nuclear physics at Yale, was science and technology adviser to President George H. W. Bush from 1989 to 1993.

DATELINE: NEW HAVEN 

 BODY:
When President Bush spoke to Congress and the nation on Feb. 27, he outlined three cardinal goals: a $1.6 trillion tax cut, a first-class education for every child and a restructured military that confronts emerging post-cold-war threats. The next day, he announced a budget that jeopardizes the nation's ability to achieve any of these truly laudable goals.
 Both the tax cut and the spending that would support educational and military buildups depend upon an estimated $5.6 trillion surplus over the next 10 years. Where is all that money coming from? There are several sources, but the major driver of our nation's economic success is scientific innovation. And the Bush budget includes cuts, after accounting for inflation, to the three primary sources of ideas and personnel in the high-tech economy: the National Science Foundation is cut by 2.6 percent, NASA by 3.6 percent and the Department of Energy by an alarming 7.1 percent. 
 Economists, including Alan Greenspan, attribute much of America's 1990's boom to increased productivity stemming, in large part, from scientific research. Two simple discoveries -- the transistor and the fiber optic cable -- are at the root of it. Anyone skeptical of this should turn off the computer for a day and see how much work gets done.
The 21st century economy will continue to depend on scientific innovation. Economists estimate that innovation and the application of new technology have generated at least half of the phenomenal growth in America's gross domestic product since World War II. Keeping that economic source productive is critical to both national prosperity and federal revenues. (And where defense is concerned, basic scientific discovery also has a more direct role: it leads to the applied science that eventually provides advances in defense hardware.)
Technological innovation depends upon the steady flow of discoveries and trained workers generated by federal science investments in universities and national laboratories. These discoveries feed directly into the industries that drive the economy. It's a straightforward relationship: industry is attentive to immediate market pressures, and the federal government makes the investments that ensure long-term competitiveness.
The proposed cuts to scientific research are a self-defeating policy. Congress must increase the federal investment in science. No science, no surplus. It's that simple. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); BUDGETS (90%); SCIENCE FUNDING (90%); TAX LAW (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (89%); SCIENCE & TECHNOLOGY (89%); SCIENCE NEWS (89%); GROSS DOMESTIC PRODUCT (78%); BUDGET CUTS (78%); TAX RELIEF (78%); COLD WAR (77%); EXPERIMENTATION & RESEARCH (74%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (74%); PRODUCT INNOVATION (74%); WORLD WAR II (72%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS EQUIPMENT (66%); PRODUCTIVITY (66%); FIBER OPTICS (51%) SCIENCE AND TECHNOLOGY; FINANCES; BUDGETS AND BUDGETING; UNITED STATES ECONOMY 

ORGANIZATION: NATIONAL SCIENCE FOUNDATION (56%)

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (58%); ALAN GREENSPAN (54%) BROMLEY, D ALLAN (DR) 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%) UNITED STATES

LOAD-DATE: March 9, 2001 



207 of 868 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 9, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Foreign Desk; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 952 words

HEADLINE: New Legal Disputes Put Holocaust Victim Payments in Doubt 

BYLINE:  By EDMUND L. ANDREWS 

DATELINE: FRANKFURT, March 8 

 BODY:
Eight months after Germany and the United States reached an agreement on establishing a $5 billion fund to compensate victims of the Holocaust, the prospect of payments actually being made has been delayed by serious new legal disputes.
 The continued courtroom battles have increased the risk that many of the survivors, already in their 70's and 80's, will die before payments begin. And though German companies and the German government say they want to begin making payments as soon as possible, the companies are raising legal objections that defy easy resolution. 
 The most significant setback occurred on Wednesday, when a federal judge in New York refused to dismiss a batch of lawsuits brought against German companies by Holocaust victims. Judge Shirley Wohl Kram questioned whether the money would be there to pay the claims. And her decision raised doubts about whether German companies would achieve what they believed was their part of the deal: immunity from future lawsuits related to the Holocaust. 
Under the agreement signed last July, German companies as a group and the German government each pledged to provide about $2.5 billion for the fund. In exchange, the United States government promised to urge the courts to reject all existing and future lawsuits against German companies coming from slave laborers and other victims of the Nazi era. 
But the real problems lie less with Judge Kram's objections, which Germany companies may be able to address, than with deeper disputes about the issue of "legal peace," giving the companies future immunity, and if that is not resolved, the entire settlement could unravel. 
Judge Kram did not reject the basic premise of the agreement signed last year. Rather, she said, it was premature to dismiss the lawsuits because there are still uncertainties about whether German companies will come up with the money. 
The judge expressed particular concern that German industry has raised only 3.6 billion of the 5 billion German marks it pledged as its share of the fund. Many smaller and middle-sized German companies continue to resist making contributions, though German industry leaders insist they can and will fulfill their commitments. 
Other problems exist as well. In the last few weeks, Deutsche Bank and DaimlerChrysler have circulated letters arguing that no money should be paid until all pending court cases have been settled.
The companies noted that additional lawsuits have been filed since the agreements were signed last July, and one of them was filed by a lawyer, Michael Hausfeld, who took part in the negotiations last year.
"How can we contend that legal peace has been established when even certain actions are still pending?" wrote Klaus Kohler, Deutsche Bank's general counsel, in a letter to members of the German industry foundation collecting money for the fund. "How can we explain such a proposition to those companies who must continue to defend contested cases not yet finally dismissed?" 
In a letter to companies involved in the fund, DaimlerChrysler's chief financial officer, Manfred Gentz, argued that no money should be paid until at least 13 cases, including recently filed, are dismissed. 
If the industry group maintains this view, it might delay payments for months or indefinitely -- even assuming that the industry group gets pledges for the full amount and satisfies the objections raised by Judge Kram.
"The treaty is saying that first the cases have to be dismissed and then the payments will begin," said Wolfgang Gibowski, a spokesman for the German Economy Foundation, which represents companies contributing to the Holocaust fund.
But lawyers representing Holocaust victims said today that the German industry had created its own problems, because it refused to settle the claims as a conventional class-action lawsuit. In such a suit, the defendants and the plaintiffs would have proposed a settlement to the presiding judge and the judge would have the power to declare that case -- and all similar ones -- closed.
But neither German companies nor the German government wanted to put themselves under the power of an American court. Instead, the Germans reached a complex agreement with the United States government, under which the government agreed to urge the courts to dismiss all Holocaust lawsuits in a strongly worded "statement of interests."
The government did exactly that in the cases before Judge Kram, but the statement failed to persuade the judge, and thus failed to do what it was meant to do. 
"The reason we are in this position is that German industry and German parliamentarians insisted from the very first day on using the wrong legal mechanism," said Michael Witti, a lawyer in Munich who represents thousands of people forced to work in German factories and concentration camps during World War II. 
Mr. Witti said that now it is inevitable that new lawsuits will be filed, because the United States government has no legal right to block them and each judge will be able to decide whether to accept the government's plea to dismiss each case as it is presented. 
German leaders denounced the judge's ruling.
Count Otto Lambsdorff, who represented German industry in the long negotiations that led to last year's agreement, called it an "erroneous, bad, unjustified decision" and said German companies would appeal immediately.
In Washington, Richard Boucher, a spokesman for the State Department, which supported dismissal of the case, issued a statement criticizing the judge's ruling.
"The decision is contrary to the recommendations of all parties having an interest in the case and will delay justice and payments to Holocaust victims, a significant number of whom are dying each month." 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: HOLOCAUST (90%); SUITS & CLAIMS (90%); DELAYS & POSTPONEMENTS (90%); LITIGATION (90%); SLAVERY (78%); JUDGES (77%); LAWYERS (77%); JEWS & JUDAISM (73%); CORPORATE COUNSEL (72%) NAZI POLICIES TOWARD JEWS AND MINORITIES; SUITS AND LITIGATION; SLAVE LABOR 

COMPANY: DEUTSCHE BANK AG (52%)

TICKER: DEUT (JSE) (52%); DBK (FRA) (52%); DBK (BIT) (52%); DBETN (JSE) (52%); DBA (ASX) (52%); DB (NYSE) (52%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (52%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (52%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (52%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (52%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (52%); SIC6081 BRANCHES & AGENCIES OF FOREIGN BANKS (52%)

PERSON: ANDREWS, EDMUND L 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (79%); FRANKFURT AM MAIN, GERMANY (79%) GERMANY (99%); UNITED STATES (93%) GERMANY

LOAD-DATE: March 9, 2001 



208 of 868 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 9, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 6; Editorial Desk; Pg. 18

LENGTH: 154 words

HEADLINE: Lamenting a Loss For Injured Workers 

 BODY:
To the Editor:
Re "House Joins Senate in Repealing Rules on Workplace Injuries" (news article, March 8):
 Congress denigrates all workers, especially women, in overturning protections against work-related injuries like carpal tunnel syndrome. 
The emotional, physical and economic effects of carpal tunnel syndrome are devastating, costing the United States more than $20 billion a year in lost productivity. 
 Workers' compensation offers insufficient recourse. Fear of job loss often overrides reporting pain, increasing severity. And it often takes years before a claim is approved.
Prevention is the only solution. If President Bush signs this legislation repealing workplace safety regulations, he contributes to the onset of dependency and the cycle of poverty. 

MARIANNE C. FAHS
New York, March 8, 2001

The writer is an associate professor in the Milano Graduate School of Management and Urban Policy, New School University.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: WORKPLACE HEALTH & SAFETY (91%); WOUNDS & INJURIES (91%); OCCUPATIONAL ILLNESS & INJURY (91%); LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); LEGISLATION (90%); REPETITIVE MOTION DISORDERS (90%); DEREGULATION (90%); WORKERS COMPENSATION (88%); PUBLIC POLICY (88%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (74%); DISMISSALS (73%); WRITERS (73%); APPROVALS (68%); BUSINESS EDUCATION (65%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (65%); GRADUATE & PROFESSIONAL SCHOOLS (65%); POVERTY & HOMELESSNESS (51%); URBAN DEVELOPMENT (50%); ECONOMIC NEWS (50%) LABOR; REPETITIVE MOTION DISORDERS; LAW AND LEGISLATION; WOMEN; INDUSTRIAL AND OCCUPATIONAL HAZARDS; REGULATION AND DEREGULATION OF INDUSTRY; CARPAL TUNNEL SYNDROME 

PERSON: FAHS, MARIANNE C 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%) UNITED STATES

LOAD-DATE: March 9, 2001 



209 of 868 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 9, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section B; Column 2; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 793 words

HEADLINE: Residential Real Estate; 
$140 Million Complex for Jersey City Riverfront

BYLINE:  By RACHELLE GARBARINE 

 BODY:
The latest housing complex planned for Jersey City's Hudson River waterfront will also be the city's tallest, continuing the skyward growth of an old industrial neighborhood turned residential at the river's edge.
 Called HarborSpire, the complex will consist of two Art Deco-style rental towers: a 55-story building with 445 apartments and a 50-story building with 417 units. The apartments, ranging from studios to three-bedroom units, will have 600 to 1,650 square feet. Those above the 24th floor will have clear water views. 
 The brick towers will be among the tallest residential buildings in New Jersey and will anchor the northeast and southwest corners of a six-story base that will house 20,000 square feet of retail space and parking for 786 cars.
"The towers will be a nice addition to the city's skyline, which is growing on a daily basis," said Annemarie C. Uebbing, director of the city's Department of Housing, Economic Development and Commerce. "There are no other residential buildings planned so far that will be taller."
The $140 million complex is to rise over the next four years on a city block now used for parking that had been intended for office development since the mid-1980's. The site, near the PATH station at Exchange Place, is on the east side of Washington Avenue, across from the Harborside Financial Center.
The Applied Development Company of Hoboken, N.J., is developing the project with Liberty Center Associates, a group of New Jersey and Florida investors who own the site. The architect is Peter DeWitt of Manhattan.
Construction of the taller tower, which recently got a 15-year tax abatement from the city, is to start in November, said David B. Barry, a principal at Applied, which will manage the entire project.
He said his company would use its own money and had signed a letter of intent with the A.F.L.-C.I.O. Pension Trust Fund to finance the first building, which will cost $80 million.
HarborSpire is Applied's 10th project on the west bank of the Hudson River. Its other developments, either completed or under way, will ultimately have 4,500 units, most of them rentals, in Hoboken, North Bergen, Fort Lee and Jersey City.
Mr. Barry said HarborSpire would be a "true Manhattan-style luxury building on this side of the Hudson." 
All units will have marble tile bathrooms, a corner window and washers and dryers, he said. There will be an outdoor swimming pool, a basketball court, a health club and a children's play area. 
Mr. Barry said that although the office and residential markets were equally strong in Jersey City, his company argued to the investors that housing would maximize the site's value faster. Building offices would have required securing a tenant for much of the space before financing could be obtained, he said. Housing is a permitted use on the site, where the zoning allows buildings to rise 55 stories without special permits, he added. 
And that, Ms. Uebbing said, is among the reasons the project, despite its height, has encountered little resistance.
Most of the Exchange Place district projects so far have been office buildings. "We're interested in pursuing residential because it will populate the streets," said Robert Cotter, the city's planning director, "and help create a neighborhood."
The project's retail space will be on three sides of the base of the complex. The fourth side on the ground floor will be for parking until a decision about the fate of its neighbor, a century-old powerhouse in need of repair that is used to power part of the PATH train system.
Mr. Barry said rents at the first HarborSpire building would be at or above the high end of the market, which ranges from $1,600 for studios to $3,800 for three bedrooms. He said construction of the second tower would begin once the first was substantially complete.
Real estate experts say the rental vacancy rate along the riverfront is negligible. Mr. Barry said the demand for housing had been fueled by the wave of waterfront offices rising at Harborside as well as at the Colgate Center, the former site of a Colgate toothpaste factory just to the south, and the Newport mixed-use complex at the northern end of the waterfront.
Most of the spate of new buildings have already been leased by Manhattan-based companies, including Chase Bank and Goldman Sachs, which is erecting the city's tallest office building, a 45-story, 1.6-million-square-foot tower at Colgate Center.
There are other residential projects now under way or planned in the area. Fisher Associates of Purchase, N.Y., is building 650 rental units in two towers at Colgate Center. At Harborside, construction could begin this year on 300 rentals on a pier, according to Mack-Cali Realty Corporation of Cranford, N.J., which owns the complex.

GRAPHIC: Photo: A rendering of HarborSpire, a rental apartment complex proposed for Jersey City. (DeWitt Tishman Architects L.L.P.) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (91%); REAL ESTATE (91%); OFFICE PROPERTY (77%); COMMERCIAL RENTAL PROPERTY (77%); HOUSING AUTHORITIES (73%); CITY GOVERNMENT (73%); ECONOMIC NEWS (72%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (72%); BANKING & FINANCE (70%); RETAIL PROPERTY (69%); TAX INCENTIVES (67%); CHILDREN (67%); TRUST ARRANGEMENTS (64%); TAX LAW (63%); SPORTS & RECREATION FACILITIES & VENUES (62%); BASKETBALL (60%); TAXES & TAXATION (51%) HOUSING 

ORGANIZATION: HARBORSPIRE; APPLIED DEVELOPMENT CO; LIBERTY CENTER ASSOCIATES 

PERSON: GARBARINE, RACHELLE 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%) NEW JERSEY, USA (93%); NEW YORK, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (93%) NEW JERSEY; JERSEY CITY (NJ); HUDSON RIVER

LOAD-DATE: March 9, 2001 



210 of 868 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 9, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section C; Column 3; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 670 words

HEADLINE: I.R.S. Reports Tax Compliance Rates 

BYLINE:  By DAVID CAY JOHNSTON 

 BODY:
Senators, representatives and their employees are much more likely than federal employees as a whole not to file tax returns or to have unresolved debts for back taxes, an Internal Revenue Service report showed yesterday.
 Each year since 1993, the I.R.S. has checked its computer files to determine whether federal employees and retirees have filed tax returns and whether those who did file owed back taxes. Taxpayers who have signed an agreement with the I.R.S. to make payments on their tax debts are considered to be in compliance with the law. 
 The I.R.S. then calculates what percentage of workers at each federal agency or office either did not file a tax return or have unresolved debts for back taxes. 
For all federal employees and retirees, the noncompliance rate as of last October was just under 3 percent. For I.R.S. employees, the rate was less than 1.7 percent. For all Americans, the rate was 5.7 percent, meaning that 1 in 17 Americans was out of compliance.
The noncompliance rate for the 435 representatives and their 11,000 employees was 5 percent last year, down from 6 percent in 1999. 
For senators and their staff members, the rate was 4.4 percent, down from 5 percent in 1999.
It could not be determined from the data how many, if any, members of Congress had not filed returns, or owed back taxes but had not signed an agreement to pay off their tax debt.
The Clinton White House had a significantly better rate than Congress last year, though not in previous years. In the Executive Office of the President, the noncompliance rate was 3.1 percent last year, down from 4.3 percent in 1999 and 7.2 percent in 1998. Both Bill Clinton and Al Gore made their tax returns public, so the noncompliance involves only their staff members.
Federal judges and court employees had a 2.8 percent rate last year, the only period for which data was available. It could not be determined how many judges were included in the figures.
I.R.S. employees, whom Congress has ordered to be fired if they willfully fail to comply with the tax laws, had one of the best rates of compliance, far exceeding Congress and its staff members. A separate report, prepared last October, showed that fewer than 1.7 percent of I.R.S. workers were noncompliant, down from 2.2 percent two years earlier.
That means that House members and their staffs were three times as likely as I.R.S. workers to be out of compliance with the tax laws.
The House members and employees who owed back taxes had an average tax debt of $10,045, a much higher number than for the Senate ($5,942), the federal courts ($6,380), the White House ($8,968) or for all noncompliant Americans ($2,027). It is not known how much, if any, is owed by those who did not file tax returns. Some of those taxpayers may actually be owed refunds because the withholding tax tables are designed to collect slightly more than taxpayers taking the standard deduction owe.
Commissioner Charles O. Rossotti sent a letter to the heads of each federal agency with a copy of the report and urged them to reduce the noncompliance figures.
The lowest rates were at the Office of Special Counsel, which had perfect compliance, although two employees owed back taxes and were paying them under installment agreements.
Among large agencies, the best rates were at the F.B.I. and the Justice Department, both below 2 percent. That was the same level as retired civil servants. 
The highest noncompliance rate was 9.8 percent at the Inter-American Foundation, an agency that promotes economic development in Latin America. Among large agencies, the worst compliance rates were at the Federal Reserve, at 5.2 percent, and the State Department, at just less than 5 percent. 
Senator Charles E. Grassley, the Iowa Republican who is chairman of the Senate Finance Committee, said the noncompliance rate for the Senate was unacceptable. "It's against the law not to pay your taxes," Mr. Grassley said. "That applies to every taxpayer, whether an elected official, public employee or private citizen."

GRAPHIC: Chart: "Where the Bucks Stop"Percentage of people in each group or agency who have not filed tax returns for at least one year or who owe back taxes but have not worked out an agree-ment about when to pay them. All figures as of October 2000. All Americans: 5.7%House of Representatives and its staff: 5.0%Senate and its staff: 4.4%White House and its staff: 3.1%All federal employees and retirees: 3.0%Federal courts and their staffs: 2.8I.R.S.: 1.7(Source: Internal Revenue Service) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TAXES & TAXATION (93%); TAX LAW (92%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (91%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (90%); TAX AUTHORITIES (78%); TAX FRAUD (78%); JUDGES (67%) TAXATION; GOVERNMENT EMPLOYEES; TAX EVASION 

ORGANIZATION: INTERNAL REVENUE SERVICE (91%) HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES (US); SENATE (US); CONGRESS (US) 

PERSON: BILL CLINTON (69%); CHUCK GRASSLEY (59%); AL GORE (59%) JOHNSTON, DAVID CAY; GRASSLEY, CHARLES E (SEN) 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (95%) UNITED STATES; UNITED STATES

LOAD-DATE: March 9, 2001 



211 of 868 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 9, 2001
Correction Appended 
 Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 3; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1531 words

HEADLINE: The Dreams Of Webzines Fizzle Out; 
Online Magazines Scramble for Readers and Ads

BYLINE:  By JAYSON BLAIR 

 BODY:
In the good old days of just a year ago, the founders of Inside.com sniffed at the dead weight of their competitors' "legacy publications" -- that is, those printed on paper. Like others, they predicted that the nimbleness of the Internet would quickly make them a must-have magazine for media professionals.
 Then they cranked up their Web site last spring, just as the Internet stock bubble burst. Out went the forecasts of 30,000 paying Internet subscribers within a year (not to mention 100,000 subscribers and profitability after three years). And in came a somewhat retrograde Plan B: a print magazine. 
 "We realized pretty early that being an independent, Web-only provider was not entirely viable," said Michael Hirschorn, editor in chief of Inside.com. "You had to find other ways to become viable." 
Like a lot of others, Inside.com miscalculated its audience, which peaked at far below its forecast for the first year, he said. New-media companies generally made the mistake of "thinking they were bigger than they really were," said Mr. Hirschorn, who was the editor of Spin magazine before founding Inside.com with Kurt Andersen, the former editor of New York magazine.
Five years ago, Slate and Salon arrived amid proclamations that "Webzines" would become a multibillion-dollar business and displace print publications by stealing their readers and sucking their advertising dry. Many people, including not a few print publishers, believed it. But none of it happened.
In the last year, as subscription and ad sales forecasts fizzled and financing dried up, more than a dozen online magazines have gone back to tap old media, including radio and print, to draw audiences -- and advertisers -- at least until the Web delivers on its promise.
For example, Salon, based in San Francisco, has branched out into newsletters. Its rival, Slate, edited in Redmond, Wash., introduced a print edition and offers versions on the Web that can be printed out or saved as an audio file or an e-book. Inside.com, in New York, has been playing host to industry exhibitions as well introducing its glossy magazine.
In each case, the goal is to build readership and earn enough money to hang on until someone figures out how to make money publishing on the Internet. Many online magazine publishers hope the industry eventually will be able to charge subscriptions for Webzines. At the same time, however, they are hedging their e-bets by venturing into unproven arenas, like sending breaking news to cellular phones and translating essays into audio recordings, in the hope that affluent people will buy such services and advertisers will want to reach them.
Some online publishers without deep pockets are hoping that they have created enough of a buzz and a brand name that an old-economy company will acquire them.
Driving their new vision of entrepreneurialism is the rising morbidity among Internet content sites. Dozens of publications, including Word, have published their last issues. Other Webzines, including Salon.com, have retrenched after losing millions of dollars and having their stocks harshly punished. Slate is somewhat protected from being driven out of business because of the deep pockets of its owner, Microsoft, but in 1999 it abandoned trying to charge for subscriptions and returned to relying mostly on revenue from advertising.
"Things look really bleak right now" for online content companies, said Robert Hertzberg, an Internet analyst at Jupiter Communications, an Internet research firm in New York. A slowdown in the growth of online advertising in the second half of last year has not helped, not that advertising on the Web ever lived up to expectations.
Almost all Internet businesses have suffered since the Nasdaq stock market peaked last March, and investors became wary of technology companies. Among the hardest hit were companies that provide online content because, despite flashy marketing campaigns and high-profile leaders, Webzines have yet to make money. Even successful print magazines usually take three to five years to make a profit.
Mr. Hirschorn is convinced that the online magazine industry will survive. He said that magazines that provide news and analysis on the Web and in print, like Fast Company and Wired, would be able to use their revenue-generating ventures to finance experimentation online until they find some way to make enough money on the Net. But even these magazines are vulnerable because of their reliance on dot-com ads.
The hasty rewrite of business plans for online magazines has led to many chuckles among ink-on-paper publishers. While the migration to print may not be a retreat from the Internet as a communication tool, analysts said the retrenchment does signify something fundamental for Internet magazines: a general agreement that Internet advertising has not lived up to expectations.
"What the Web really offers is the communication ability -- e-mail and voice, auctions and chat -- and I think that has been really revolutionary on the consumer side," said Justin Post, an analyst at Deutsche Banc Alex. Brown. "But what has changed is that people are doubting the effectiveness of Web advertising banners."
The problem, he said, was that people bought Internet publishing stocks on the assumption that the companies' revenues would double each year, even though advertising sales were expanding at less than half that pace. "We have really cut back the rate at which we think the Internet can grow" Mr. Post said.
Kevin Ryan, the chief executive of DoubleClick Inc., the Web's largest advertising and data services company, told entrepreneurs at the Silicon Alley 2001 conference in Manhattan last week that even though advertisers spent $10 billion online last year, the Net was not likely to displace print and television any time soon. Over all, advertisers spent $233 billion last year, according to Universal McCann, a unit of McCann-Erickson Worldwide Advertising.
Some Webzines, including those that dropped subscription fees because so many competitors were free, will slowly begin to charge for their articles, Mr. Ryan added, citing the example of TheStreet.com, a financial news Web site. For now, he added, online publishers must increase the amount of space devoted to advertising from about 20 percent to something closer to the 60 percent seen in newspapers. "There is not enough advertising on the Web," he said, "and it's not as intrusive."
Until that happens, Internet magazines are searching for other ways to raise revenue and attract readers.
Slate, which is edited by Michael Kinsley, a former editor of The New Republic and a former CNN talk-show host, started a paper edition, Slate on Paper, to draw readers who were not reading online. Slate initially printed its paper edition and mailed it out, but switched to a less-expensive option of letting readers download and print it themselves.
Slate also offers an audio version of its articles and essays, as does Salon. Both Salon and Inside.com broadcast exclusives and other breaking news to cellular phones, pagers or hand-held computers. Inside also promotes sales of its print magazine on its Web site. Consumers either pay for such services, or they accept specially tailored advertisements that ad agencies have deemed more effective than Web banners.
Though these ventures have increased revenue, Scott Moore, the publisher of Slate, said the Internet itself was being judged too narrowly. After all, he said, Slate on the Web attracts more than two million visitors a month.
"From my perspective, a lot of the negative stuff that has been written about Internet content is from the perspective of Wall Street," he said. "If you look at it from a user perspective, online content is not only alive and well, but thriving.
"The audience that matters in the end are not the Wall Street analysts or the media critics," he added, "but the audience of readers, and they are voting with their mice."
Mr. Hirschorn of Inside.com agrees: "The Web is very powerful in terms of how to build a brand quickly and powerful to sell offline products. If we did not have the Web, people would not know who we are."
According to Jupiter Media Metrix Inc., a New York research firm that tracks Web readership, the number of people who go online for news and analysis is growing faster than the number for any other medium, as happened with cable, television and radio during their infancies. 
Online publishers hope their retreat to old media and embrace of several new technologies will let them stick around long enough to exploit that trend. They know that online publishing has exhausted its gee-whiz good will; practitioners must demonstrate the ability to make money, and fast.
Some Webzine workers take comfort in a comparison of their industry with the cable television business in the 1970's -- a new medium that struggled at first because it lacked enough unique, high-quality content to attract subscribers. It is now a multibillion-dollar industry.
"When cable television was invented, the 30-second spot already existed, and we are talking about developing a whole industry from scratch," Mr. Moore said. "Remember, we are only in our infancy."

CORRECTION-DATE: March 13, 2001

 CORRECTION:
A chart in Business Day on Friday with an article about the difficulties facing online magazines misstated the number of visitors to ABC sites on the Internet in January. ABC news sites received 4.3 million visitors; 2.9 million was the number for several other ABC sites.
On Thursday, June 12, 2003, The Times published an Editors' Note stating that ten additional articles by Jayson Blair, who resigned on May 1 as a reporter, were found to include misrepresentations or possible borrowed passages. An accounting of those articles was published online at nytimes.com/corrections.html. This article was among those described. The description:

'The Dreams of Webzines Fizzle Out; Online Magazines Scramble for Readers and Ads'
 In this article about the declining fortunes of online magazines, Mr. Blair quoted Michael Hirschorn, then editor in chief of Inside.com, a Web site, since closed, for news media and entertainment industry professionals. Mr. Hirschorn said in a recent interview that although the quotations were accurate, they came from an interview conducted about five months earlier for an article with a different premise: on Internet companies that were working. That article never appeared. When approached by Mr. Blair in early March for another article, Mr. Hirschorn said, he declined to be interviewed, because by that point his company, like many other new-media firms, was struggling. 

GRAPHIC: Photos: An ad for Inside.com on the side of a building in Manhattan. The Web magazine is introducing a print version to help build readership.; Michael Hirschorn, editor in chief of Inside.com, an Internet magazine, which, like others, miscalculated its audience. (Philip Greenberg, for The New York Times; below, Marilyn K. Yee/The New York Times) Chart: "Biding Their Time"Online magazines, including Inside, Salon and Slate, have had to shelve plans to sell their news and essays because their readers resisted subscription fees. By remaining free, they succeeded in attracting hundreds of thousands of viewers but are losing money. To try to bring in money until 'Webzines' become self-sustaining, online publishers are branching out into unexpected businesses, including old-fashioned ink-on-paper publishing. Here are the numbers of visitors to several online media sites. VISITORS IN JANUARYInside.com: 0.67 millionSalon.com: 1.54Slate.com: 2.02WashingtonPost.com: 2.66ABC*: 2.92NYTimes.com: 3.49CNN.com: 7.71(Source: Jupiter Media Metrix) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ELECTRONIC PUBLISHING (91%); INTERNET & WWW (90%); MAGAZINE PUBLISHING (89%); BUSINESS FORECASTS (89%); PUBLISHING (89%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING (87%); ONLINE CONTENT & INFORMATION SERVICES (77%); COMPANY PROFITS (76%); ECONOMIC BUBBLE (76%); MAGAZINE ADVERTISING (76%); PUBLISHING SECTOR PERFORMANCE (76%); SALES PROJECTIONS (72%); MEDIA CONVERGENCE (72%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (71%); MOBILE & CELLULAR COMMUNICATIONS (70%); AFFLUENT MARKET (64%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS EQUIPMENT (63%); ELECTRONIC BOOKS (63%); MOBILE & CELLULAR TELEPHONES (50%); TRADE SHOWS (50%) MAGAZINES; ADVERTISING; COMPUTERS AND THE INTERNET; FINANCES; INDUSTRY PROFILES; PRICES (FARES, FEES AND RATES) 

ORGANIZATION: INSIDE.COM; SALON (ON-LINE MAGAZINE); SLATE (ON-LINE MAGAZINE) 

PERSON: BLAIR, JAYSON; HIRSCHORN, MICHAEL 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (74%) NEW YORK, USA (74%); CALIFORNIA, USA (72%); WASHINGTON, USA (67%) UNITED STATES (74%)

LOAD-DATE: March 9, 2001 



212 of 868 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 9, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section B; Column 3; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1359 words

HEADLINE: The Grandeur That Graft Built; 
Boss Tweed's Courthouse Slowly Reveals Its Glory In a Painstaking and Expensive Restoration

BYLINE:  By DAVID W. DUNLAP 

 BODY:
No one, not yet, not even 120 years later, is prepared to say that the citizenry got everything it paid for at the New York County Courthouse behind City Hall.
 But an $85 million restoration of that notorious landmark, better known as the Tweed Courthouse, has uncovered a surpassingly vibrant 19th-century civic structure. Disdained and underused for so long, it was preserved by default. Now that it is coming back to light, one can marvel at just how much of a building New York received in exchange for lining the pockets of the political boss William M. Tweed and his Tweed Ring confederates. 
 "To see the care in craftsmanship and the amount of attention to detail, you have to conclude that while they poured a lot of dough in it, there is at least a lot to show for it," said John S. Dyson, who is Mayor Rudolph W. Giuliani's adviser on the project. "Perhaps not every penny's worth. But a lot." 
The restoration, which began in May 1999 and is to be finished this year, will pave the way for reuse of the building as a new home for the Museum of the City of New York, which expects to move from Fifth Avenue and 103rd Street in about 18 months to two years.
Tweed Courthouse will also serve as a ceremonial space for functions that now crowd City Hall. John G. Waite Associates are the architects. The construction manager is Bovis Lend Lease.
"I think we're going to get what we paid for this time," said Jennifer J. Raab, chairwoman of the Landmarks Preservation Commission.
But with Boss Tweed still casting a shadow, the expense of the project has raised more than a few eyebrows.
Though city officials acknowledge that the price tag more than doubled in five years, from an initial estimate of $37 million, they said that reflected the expanding scope of necessary work, including two new sets of fire stairs and the replacement of a marble cornice that was beyond repair.
"It's a significantly different project than the one priced out in 1996," said Michael G. Carey, president of the New York City Economic Development Corporation, which is overseeing the job.
At first, the city envisioned stabilizing the roof. In the end, Mr. Carey said, it undertook "a top-to-bottom, full-scale restoration of a building that has been neglected for years and years and years."
The county courts moved out in 1929, and the Tweed building served as a city courthouse until 1961. After that, it was used as a municipal office building. But 28-foot-high rooms were scarcely suited to that purpose, and that bedeviled numerous earlier renovations.
"The building was never made for offices," Ms. Raab said. "That fact has finally been acknowledged. It's not a convenient fact, but the scale of the rooms is astonishing."
So is the scale of the current restoration.
It has ranged as far afield as a farm in Sheffield, Mass., that was once a Tweed-controlled quarry and had supplied some of the stone for the New York courthouse. (Other marble came from a quarry in Tuckahoe, N.Y., where a shopping center now stands.)
About 120 blocks of marble -- up to 3 by 4 by 8 feet, weighing 9,600 pounds -- were still at the farm. Some had apparently been destined for Chambers Street in the 1870's, said Donald Curtis, a vice president of Bovis Lend Lease and project executive at the courthouse renovation.
They were bought from the owner of the farm, Craig Moskowitz. With the help of a local excavator, Bovis Lend Lease built a road to cart them away. Twenty-five trailer trucks from Granite Importers of Barre, Vt., hauled the stone to the Georgia Marble Company in Tate, Ga., for carving.
Granite Importers is also furnishing stone for what will surely be the most noticeable exterior feature. The grand stairway leading to the central portico, truncated in 1942 to allow the widening of Chambers Street, is to be restored.
Seventeen missing steps will be replaced. To accommodate the stairway, the sidewalk will be widened 11 feet into a no-parking, no-standing lane. Work is to begin next month, with completion expected by October.
For the rotunda, a 52-foot-wide octagonal stained- and etched-glass skylight is being fashioned by the Cummings Studios of North Adams, Mass., to replace one that was removed long ago. Based on surviving fragments, it will have two rings of amber, ruby and emerald panes depicting birds, squirrels, frogs, fish and flowers. This is to arrive in July.
At the moment, on scaffolding 65 feet above ground, a dust-covered, three-man crew from B & H Art-in-Architecture in Brooklyn -- Shi-Jia Chen, Muneto Maekawa and Patrick Mahon -- is recarving pilaster capitals that either crumbled or were lopped off.
Blocks of snowy Georgia Cherokee marble lie on the scaffold. In Mr. Chen's hands, a piece of stone 11 by 12 by 24 inches will yield a broad acanthus leaf supporting an eight-and-a-half-inch curlicue scroll. "We are artists," he said. "That's why we're here."
More than anything, the restoration has clearly revealed that the courthouse is really two buildings in one: an elegant Renaissance composition of pediments and pilasters designed by John Kellum, who died in 1871, and a wildly exuberant Romanesque counterpoint, with powerful arches and polychromatic brickwork, by Leopold Eidlitz, who finished the job a decade later.
This is nowhere more evident than in the 85-foot-high rotunda, where decades' worth of paint layers have been removed to reveal the expanses of intricately patterned red, cream and black brick -- tooth-edged, banded and diamond-shaped -- that Eidlitz inserted between classical niches at each corner.
Other surprises abound in the building.
The ornamentation of the 20-foot-high window frames in the third-floor courtrooms, for example, still has a pristine, knife-edge crispness that cannot simply be attributed to the fine work performed by Andrew Garvey, the Prince of Plasterers in the Tweed Ring, who was paid $133,187 for two days' work.
Close inspection reveals the secret: screw heads. These frames are made of cast-iron elements that have been screwed together. And they are thick. "The vendor was being paid by the pound," explained Nancy A. Rankin of John G. Waite Associates.
Another happy discovery was a piece of the original iron corrugated roof, which was found in the attic during an inventory of old doors. This was used to design a reconstruction of the roof, which is now made of stainless steel coated in tin and zinc, over a synthetic rubber waterproof membrane.
"The priority has been to address the structural issues first and the cosmetic issues second," Ms. Rankin said.
That meant sawing off the old cornice, which runs for about 900 feet around the building, and replacing it with new blocks of Georgia Cherokee stone, fastened with stainless-steel rods.
Old stone was not discarded. Instead, about three million pounds were shipped to the Georgia Marble Company to be refashioned as windowsills and odd-shaped replacement pieces, called dutchmen, for use in the more visible lower parts of the facade.
"We are mining the building for its own materials," Ms. Rankin said.
Some discoveries had to be left in place. In the course of an archaeological probe around the possible route of underground utility lines, workers came across eight graves presumed to date from the Colonial era. By agreement with the Landmarks Preservation Commission, they were left undisturbed.
Ms. Raab, who will step down from the commission later this year to assume the presidency of Hunter College, had championed the restoration of the Tweed Courthouse. She said it represented the final act in reclaiming the civic center, including the renovation of City Hall, City Hall Park and the former Sun Building at 280 Broadway, across Chambers Street.
"I'm very satisfied to see that ultimately it's been a priority of the administration to invest in its historic home," she said.
And if the job is completed on schedule, Mr. Giuliani will get to cut the ribbon.
"I said to the mayor that no Democrat will dare touch this thing because of Boss Tweed," Mr. Dyson recalled. "I always said it's going to take a Republican to do this, and I don't know when we're going to get another one, so we'd better do it while you're here."

GRAPHIC: Photos: The great courtroom, above, has vaulted ceilings and even a fireplace. Shi-Jia Chen, a master sculptor, below, worked on Corinthian capitals for the north facade.; A floor tile detail from the Tweed Courthouse, which will house the Museum of the City of New York. (Photographs by Suzanne DeChillo/The New York Times)(pg. B1); A glimpse into the rotunda at the Tweed Courthouse, where decades of paint had to be stripped off brickwork.; A carver restoring leaf-and-scroll marble capitals. When the building was built, one Tweed Ring artisan was paid $133,187 for two days' work. (Photographs by Suzanne DeChillo/The New York Times)(pg. B7) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CITIES (90%); COUNTY GOVERNMENT (89%); CITY GOVERNMENT (89%); HISTORIC DISTRICTS & STRUCTURES (77%); HISTORIC SITES (77%); MAYORS (77%); BUILDING RENOVATION (77%); POLITICS (70%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (67%); MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (66%) COURTHOUSES; HISTORIC BUILDINGS AND SITES; RESTORATION AND REHABILITATION; PUBLIC BUILDINGS; TWEED COURTHOUSE (NYC) 

ORGANIZATION: MUSEUM OF THE CITY OF NEW YORK 

PERSON: RUDY GIULIANI (58%) DUNLAP, DAVID W; TWEED, WILLIAM M (BOSS TWEED) (1823-78) 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (95%) NEW YORK, USA (96%) UNITED STATES (96%) NEW YORK CITY

LOAD-DATE: March 9, 2001 



213 of 868 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 9, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section C; Column 5; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 533 words

HEADLINE: THE MARKETS: STOCKS & BONDS; 
Dow Rises for 5th Day, but Technology Shares Fall 2.5%

BYLINE:  By Reuters 

 BODY:
Blue-chip stocks rose for a fifth consecutive session yesterday, as a dour profit forecast by the Internet company Yahoo drove investors to businesses that may better weather the soft economy.
 But the technology-heavy Nasdaq composite index fell almost 2.5 percent, to a level only about 50 points above its 52-week closing low. 
 "This is part of the process of trying to find a bottom in the technology sector," said John Bartlett, director of economics and market strategy at the Commerce Trust Company, which oversees about $10 billion in investments. "We all know business stinks today, and the question is how soon will things turn." 
The Dow Jones industrial average rose 128.65 points, or 1.2 percent, to 10,858.25. The Dow has gained almost 4 percent in the last five sessions.
The Nasdaq composite dropped 55.10 points, or 2.48 percent, to 2,168.82. Cisco Systems, the leading maker of networking equipment, led the index lower with a slide of $1.19, to $22.81. Declining issues outpaced those advancing, by 2,177 to 1,434.
The Standard & Poor's 500-stock index edged up 2.85 points, or 0.23 percent, to 1,264.74.
Investors, concerned over the economic slowdown's effect on technology companies, bought defensive issues. Procter & Gamble, up $2.48, to $71, and Johnson & Johnson, up $3.07 at $97.87, helped lift the Dow. Minnesota Mining and Manufacturing, up $4.26, to $117.19, and Exxon Mobil, up $1.64, to $85.85, also added strength.
Yahoo fell $3.31, to $17.69, after trading as low as $16.25. On Wednesday, Yahoo said that earnings this year would fall below estimates and that its chief executive would step down. Yahoo "just reminds us of the headwind the stock market has to slug its way through day after day," said Hugh Johnson, chief investment officer at First Albany.
Late in the afternoon, the semiconductor giant Intel cut revenue estimates for the first quarter and said it would eliminate 5,000 jobs, or 6 percent of the work force, mainly by attrition. Intel shares fell as low as $30 after hours, ending late trading at $30.94, down $2 from Wednesday. A small chip maker, Cree, and a systems integrator, Tibco Software, deepened concern about corporate earnings as companies cut back on technology purchases. Cree fell $7.94, to $17.50, after warning of disappointing revenue; Tibco, forecasting lower revenue and earnings from order delays, slipped 94 cents, to $9.94.
Computer storage companies suffered after Salomon Smith Barney cut investment ratings on several stocks. Brocade Communications fell $5.44, to $33.31. EMC dropped $3.85, to $37.15.
Two Fed officials -- William J. McDonough, president of the Federal Reserve Bank of New York, and Michael H. Moskow, the Chicago Fed chief -- said yesterday that the soft economy was likely to pick up speed later in 2001 and minimized recession fears.
In Tokyo, Finance Minister Kiichi Miyazawa said Japanese government finances were close to a "catastrophic situation." --------------------

Treasuries Are Mixed
By Bloomberg News
Treasury prices were mixed yesterday as investors postponed purchases awaiting today's jobs report. The benchmark 10-year Treasury note was unchanged at 100 27/32. Its yield remained at 4.89 percent.

GRAPHIC: Graph tracks the Dow Jones industrial average over the past year. (Sources: Associated Press; Bloomberg Financial Markets) Tables: "Hot & Cold" provides a look at stocks with large percentage gains and losses; "The Favorites" lists stocks held by largest number of accounts at Merrill Lynch. (Compiled from staff reports, The Associated Press, Bloomberg News, Bridge News, Dow Jones, Reuters) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: STOCK INDEXES (96%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); BOND MARKETS (90%); BONDS (90%); COMPANY PROFITS (89%); EARNINGS PREANNOUNCEMENTS (89%); EXECUTIVES (89%); STOCK EXCHANGES (89%); COMPANY EARNINGS (89%); SEMICONDUCTOR MFG (88%); MICROPROCESSORS (78%); FINANCIAL RESULTS (78%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (78%); DELAYS & POSTPONEMENTS (78%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (78%); ELECTRONICS (78%); NETWORKING EQUIPMENT (78%); COMPUTER NETWORKS (78%); LABOR FORCE (77%); COMPUTER SOFTWARE (73%); COMPANY STRATEGY (73%); SYSTEMS INTEGRATION (73%); FINANCIAL RATINGS (73%); TELEPHONE EQUIPMENT MFG (72%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS EQUIPMENT (72%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS EQUIPMENT MFG (72%) STOCKS AND BONDS; DOW JONES INDUSTRIAL AVERAGE; NASDAQ COMPOSITE INDEX; STANDARD & POOR'S 500-STOCK INDEX 

COMPANY: YAHOO! INC (94%); CISCO SYSTEMS INC (90%); INTEL CORP (85%); JOHNSON & JOHNSON (66%); FEDERAL RESERVE BANK OF NEW YORK (60%); 3M CO (54%); PROCTER & GAMBLE CO (54%); EXXON MOBIL CORP (54%); TIBCO SOFTWARE INC (51%); SMITH BARNEY HOLDINGS INC (50%); FEDERAL RESERVE BANK OF CHICAGO (50%)

TICKER: YHOO (NASDAQ) (94%); CSCO (NASDAQ) (90%); INTC (NASDAQ) (85%); JNJ (NYSE) (66%); MMM (SWX) (54%); MMM (NYSE) (54%); MMM (FRA) (54%); PGP (PAR) (54%); PG (NYSE) (54%); XOM (NYSE) (54%); TIBX (NASDAQ) (51%)

INDUSTRY: SIC7373 COMPUTER INTEGRATED SYSTEMS DESIGN (94%); NAICS519130 INTERNET PUBLISHING & BROADCASTING & WEB SEARCH PORTALS (94%); NAICS517110 WIRED TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (94%); SIC7375 INFORMATION RETRIEVAL SERVICES (94%); NAICS334210 TELEPHONE APPARATUS MANUFACTURING (90%); SIC3661 TELEPHONE & TELEGRAPH APPARATUS (90%); NAICS334413 SEMICONDUCTOR & RELATED DEVICE MANUFACTURING (85%); NAICS334510 ELECTROMEDICAL & ELECTROTHERAPEUTIC APPARATUS MANUFACTURING (66%); NAICS339115 OPHTHALMIC GOODS MANUFACTURING (66%); NAICS325620 TOILET PREPARATION MANUFACTURING (66%); NAICS325413 IN-VITRO DIAGNOSTIC SUBSTANCE MANUFACTURING (66%); NAICS325412 PHARMACEUTICAL PREPARATION MANUFACTURING (66%); SIC2836 BIOLOGICAL PRODUCTS, EXCEPT DIAGNOSTIC SUBSTANCES (66%); NAICS521110 MONETARY AUTHORITIES - CENTRAL BANK (60%); SIC6011 FEDERAL RESERVE BANKS (60%); NAICS339114 DENTAL EQUIPMENT & SUPPLIES MANUFACTURING (54%); NAICS322230 STATIONERY PRODUCT MANUFACTURING (54%); SIC3845 ELECTROMEDICAL & ELECTROTHERAPEUTIC APPARATUS (54%); SIC3843 DENTAL EQUIPMENT & SUPPLIES (54%); SIC2678 STATIONERY, TABLETS, & RELATED PRODUCTS (54%); NAICS325611 SOAP & OTHER DETERGENT MANUFACTURING (54%); NAICS322291 SANITARY PAPER PRODUCT MANUFACTURING (54%); SIC2844 PERFUMES, COSMETICS, & OTHER TOILET PREPARATIONS (54%); SIC2841 SOAPS & OTHER DETERGENTS, EXCEPT SPECIALTY CLEANERS (54%); SIC2676 SANITARY PAPER PRODUCTS (54%); NAICS325110 PETROCHEMICAL MANUFACTURING (54%); NAICS324110 PETROLEUM REFINERIES (54%); NAICS211111 CRUDE PETROLEUM & NATURAL GAS EXTRACTION (54%); NAICS541512 COMPUTER SYSTEMS DESIGN SERVICES (51%); NAICS511210 SOFTWARE PUBLISHERS (51%); SIC7372 PREPACKAGED SOFTWARE (51%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (50%)

PERSON: GREGORY E JOHNSON (68%)

GEOGRAPHIC: CHICAGO, IL, USA (67%) ILLINOIS, USA (67%) UNITED STATES (67%)

LOAD-DATE: March 9, 2001 



214 of 868 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 9, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 5; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1169 words

HEADLINE: 3 Men Are Charged With Fraud In 1,100 Art Auctions on EBay 

BYLINE:  By JOHN SCHWARTZ and JUDITH H. DOBRZYNSKI 

 BODY:
Three men accused of trying to sell an abstract painting for $135,805 on the eBay auction Web site last year were indicted yesterday on charges of taking part in a bidding ring that cost hundreds of art buyers a total of $450,000.
 The 35-page indictment charges the men with 16 counts of wire fraud and mail fraud. It accuses them of placing "shill" bids in 1,100 auctions between October 1998 and May 2000, including an auction involving the abstract painting, which seemed to be the work of the artist Richard Diebenkorn. 
 Using more than 40 online user ID's, or screen names, like thriftstorebob and big-fat-mamba-jambas, the indictment says, the bidders buoyed prices and intended to trick other bidders into believing that the sellers were respected users of eBay.
Shill bidding, or bidding on one's own auction, is forbidden by eBay rules and is generally illegal in the traditional auction world. Each count of mail fraud and wire fraud could, if proved in court, lead to a maximum penalty of up to five years in prison and $1 million in fines. 
Two of the men, Kenneth A. Walton of Sacramento, Calif., and Scott Beach of Lakewood, Colo., have been contacted by investigators but have not been arrested. The third, Kenneth Fetterman of Placerville, Calif., has not been located, said Nick Rossi, an F.B.I. spokesman in Sacramento, where the indictment was issued. Mr. Fetterman also faces six counts of money laundering.
The F.B.I. has said that it opened its investigation after reading an article that appeared in The New York Times on June 2, 2000. That article outlined how Mr. Walton, a Sacramento lawyer, almost sold the "Diebenkorn" for $135,805 after putting it up for sale for 25 cents. Mr. Walton paid a fee to eBay to have the painting listed as a "Featured Auction" in the art category on the Web site.
According to the indictment, the description of the work in a May 2000 listing said that Mr. Walton had bought the painting at a garage sale in Berkeley, Calif., before he was married, "and that his child had punctured a hole in it with a Big Wheel." A picture of the hole showed the initials "R.D."
The indictment says that "these statements were misrepresentations designed to deceive potential bidders." It added that Mr. Walton "had never been married, and had never had a child," and that he bought the picture at a secondhand shop in Littlerock, Calif.
The price of the painting skyrocketed on speculation that it might have been created by Richard Diebenkorn. The three defendants made more than 50 bids on the painting, the indictment says, and a man in the Netherlands placed the winning bid. The auction company later nullified the sale and suspended Mr. Walton for bidding on his own painting under at least five Internet names.
According to the indictment, the bidding ring had eclectic tastes in art, selling and bidding on hundreds of paintings that seemed to have been created by artists like Edward Hopper, Alberto Giacometti and Clyfford Still. The indictment states that Mr. Fetterman and Mr. Walton went so far as to create user ID's that included the names "Giacometti" and "Still" to give the impression that "a family member of the famous artists was bidding in the auctions of those paintings."
The two men also created an e-mail account for Gerald Stone, a fictitious expert on the art of Still, according to the indictment, and "Stone" sent an e-mail message to the winning bidder of the sham Still painting, congratulating the buyer for recognizing an "excellent example" of the artist's work. 
Online auctions remain one of the few raging successes of the faltering Internet economy, and eBay is by far the largest of the companies offering auctions online. In the fourth quarter of 2000, eBay had 22.5 million registered users, more than double the number it had in December 1999; some six million auctions are taking place at any time, adding up to more than 200 million auctions a year.
The site's visitors spend more than $5 billion a year on items that include baseball cards and cars. Current auctions include the $5 million Florida castle of the sculptor Howard Solomon, and 41,686 separate auctions of items pertaining to the late Dale Earnhardt, the Nascar driver who died last month in a crash at the Daytona 500.
Because auction sites like eBay are open to all -- eBay allows anyone to list an item for a fee of 25 cents to $2 -- the sites have been used to commit a wide range of swindles. Most of those turn on sellers receiving payment for goods they never ship, or for products that are damaged or less valuable than described. The number of auction fraud complaints to the Federal Trade Commission has leaped to nearly 11,000 in 2000, from 107 in 1997. Last year, "they accounted for 8 percent of all consumer complaints to the F.T.C.," said an agency spokeswoman, Claudia Bourne Farrell.
EBay's critics have long contended that the site could do far more to combat fraud. But eBay insists that it has taken forceful action to reduce fraud. It has sporadically used Shill Hunter, software developed by the company to spot questionable bidding, before the "Diebenkorn" case arose, said Robert C. Chesnut, deputy general counsel for the company. But in the months since the case was publicized, the company has improved the software, Mr. Chesnut said, and has added another software tool to help identify shill bids as they happen. 
Those tools cannot scan every auction, Mr. Chesnut said, but he compared the software to police with radar guns on the highway: "It sends a message," he said.
The company, he said, was pleased to hear of the indictments. "It helps send a message, and educate our user base that this isn't proper," Mr. Chesnut said. "If you do it, there can be serious consequences."
The United States attorney's office in Sacramento said eBay "provided substantial assistance" in the investigation.
David J. Carlson, a California art dealer who employs three "e-pickers" to search for authentic paintings on eBay that he might buy for resale, said that he had seen a recent drop-off in obviously fraudulent activity on the site. "Ring bidding is practically nil," he said. "It's as clean as I've ever seen it."
One bidder in the auction for the "R.D." painting, Mark Hudnall, said that he had bid $125,000 on the painting and, after being outbid, consulted Mr. Carlson about the painting. "I was ready to go to $350,000," said Mr. Hudnall, who lives in the San Francisco Bay area. Mr. Carlson raised doubts about the painting, and Mr. Hudnall did not raise his bid. "I learned a great big lesson," Mr. Hudnall said. 
Mr. Fetterman's lawyer, Mary French of the federal public defender's office in Sacramento, said that she could not comment on the case. Mr. Beach could not be reached for comment.
A lawyer for Mr. Walton, Harold Rosenthal, said yesterday that his client cooperated fully with the investigation. "He's a good guy, and this is a dumb, juvenile thing that got out of hand," Mr. Rosenthal said. "It makes me want to hit him over the head."

GRAPHIC: Photo: Kenneth Fetterman and two other men were charged with placing "shill" bids in eBay auctions. (F.B.I.)(pg. C2) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: INTERNET AUCTIONS (93%); AUCTIONS (91%); INDICTMENTS (91%); PAINTING (90%); FRAUD & FINANCIAL CRIME (90%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (89%); INVESTIGATIONS (89%); ART DEALERS (89%); WEB SITES (89%); MAIL ORDER RETAILING (78%); INTERNET & WWW (78%); CRIMINAL INVESTIGATIONS (76%); FINES & PENALTIES (73%); MONEY LAUNDERING (73%); ARRESTS (73%); CRIMINAL FINES (72%); SPECIAL INVESTIGATIVE FORCES (70%); JAIL SENTENCING (67%); USED MERCHANDISE STORES (60%) ART; COMPUTERS AND THE INTERNET; AUCTIONS; PRICES (FARES, FEES AND RATES); FRAUDS AND SWINDLING 

COMPANY: EBAY INC (95%)

ORGANIZATION: FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION (82%) EBAY INC 

TICKER: EBAY (NASDAQ) (95%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS454112 ELECTRONIC AUCTIONS (95%); SIC5961 CATALOG & MAIL-ORDER HOUSES (95%) SIC5961 CATALOG & MAIL-ORDER HOUSES; 

PERSON: SCHWARTZ, JOHN; DOBRZYNSKI, JUDITH H; WALTON, KENNETH A; DIEBENKORN, RICHARD (1922-93); BEACH, SCOTT; FETTERMAN, KENNETH 

GEOGRAPHIC: SACRAMENTO, CA, USA (90%); SAN FRANCISCO BAY AREA, CA, USA (79%) CALIFORNIA, USA (93%); COLORADO, USA (70%) UNITED STATES (93%); NETHERLANDS (50%)

LOAD-DATE: March 9, 2001 



215 of 868 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 9, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Foreign Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1710 words

HEADLINE: CHINA'S LEADERSHIP PUSHES FOR UNITY 

BYLINE:  By ERIK ECKHOLM and ELISABETH ROSENTHAL 

DATELINE: BEIJING, March 8 

 BODY:
Last month, President Jiang Zemin summoned more than 2,000 top Communist Party officials to Beijing for an extraordinary, closed-door meeting.
 At a crucial point in his political life, Mr. Jiang wanted to make sure that the ruling party remained firmly unified on two divisive issues: the campaign to crush the Falun Gong spiritual movement and the correctness of the party's decision to use troops against the 1989 pro-democracy protesters in Tiananmen Square. 
 Such a large scale "central work conference" had not been held since 1988, political experts said. The one convened in February reflects the leadership's deep unease about party unity and domestic stability, even as their country emerges as a world power and as Mr. Jiang, who is expected to step down as president and party chief in the next two years, worries about a smooth transition and his own legacy. 
Seeking to counter rumors of high-level discord, the seven members of the Standing Committee of the party's Politburo -- the men who effectively rule the country -- stood up one by one to endorse the anti-Falun Gong campaign as an urgent necessity and to justify the 1989 crackdown, according to two officials who attended separate, detailed briefings on the meeting as part of the leadership's effort to spread the message through party ranks. 
The two said they spoke because they had misgivings about the leadership's strategy. "It is very rare to hold this kind of meeting now, and in Beijing," said one of the officials, noting that major issues of party policy and unity are normally dealt with during the leaders' summer retreat at the seaside resort of Beidaihe. "So you know this has to be very, very important to them."
Mr. Jiang warned his audience that Western powers were trying to use the Falun Gong conflict and the memory of Tiananmen to divide the party as it nears pivotal changes in leadership over the next two years, the officials said. 
Although Mr. Jiang has pursued friendlier ties with the United States, he appears to harbor deep suspicions about American motives -- or, at least, is not above using the "American threat" as a rallying cry to bolster his own position.
The leaders also reportedly expressed concern about anti-China currents within the Bush administration and warned that relations could go through a rough period, especially if the United States sells advanced weapons to Taiwan.
Although no one suggests that the party is in imminent danger of falling from power, it has no overwhelmingly dominant leader like Mao Zedong or Deng Xiaoping and indications are plentiful that the center is not holding as it once did.
At last month's conference, Mr. Jiang complained that some local leaders had been unenthusiastic about the drive to stamp out Falun Gong, allowing practitioners to go to Beijing where they have held almost daily silent protests in Tiananmen Square. Before the movement was banned as an "evil sect" last year, Falun Gong had attracted millions of ordinary Chinese with its meditative exercises said to bring about good health and spiritual salvation.
Under guidance from a new office in Beijing, each province has set up a team to coordinate the anti-Falun Gong battle using a two-pronged strategy: prison or "re-education" for leaders and recalcitrant members; intense propaganda demonizing the group for everyone else. 
But not everyone has been in step: At least one group of police officers, from the northeastern city of Shenyang, has written to the party's main newspaper, the People's Daily, to complain that the government's strategy of harsh repression is not working, a journalist with a state newspaper said. The letter was not printed.
Meanwhile, demonstrations by angry workers and farmers over issues like unpaid pensions, taxes and corruption have become commonplace. Even party stalwarts express amazement at the scale of the official corruption that is emerging from investigations around the country.
Adding to their sense of apprehension, Mr. Jiang and the rest of the leaders are taking what they see as major but necessary political risks in opening the economy further to the pressures of global competition. A temporary surge in unemployment and other dislocations are expected as China joins the World Trade Organization.
The officials said the February meeting was in part an attempt to make sure that Mr. Jiang's policies would be continued by his successors and to demonstrate to all officials that it would be risky to step out of line. 
Mr. Jiang and other top leaders made it clear that they hope to crush the defiant Falun Gong movement altogether before the 16th Communist Party Congress, to be held in the fall of 2002, when the transition to new leaders is expected to begin, the official said. 
"If this isn't solved by then it opens the possibility of a rift between the old and new leaders and that could be a real threat," one of the officials said.
A central message at the February meeting, the officials said, was that the United States and other Western powers are trying to use the Falun Gong issue and memories of the violent 1989 crackdown to drive a wedge between the current, aging leaders and their potential successors, who might find it to their political advantage to break with unpopular policies.
The recent publication in the United States of "The Tiananmen Papers," said to be secret records of leaders' deliberations as they decided to use military force to halt the demonstrations, was cited by Mr. Jiang and other top leaders at the meeting as a deliberate Western effort to split the party, the officials said. 
The book of transcripts was published in English in January and has not been widely seen here outside elite and scholarly circles. Government officials have tried to dismiss it as a fabrication, though many experts here and abroad say the documents appear to be genuine.
The papers will soon be published outside mainland China in the original Chinese, which is likely to lead to much broader circulation and discussion here via the Internet and contraband copies. While the transcripts provide no explosive revelations they provide potentially embarrassing details about the roles in the 1989 crackdown of current leaders such as Li Peng, the former prime minister who now ranks No. 2 in the party and is chairman of the National People's Congress, or Parliament. And they describe Mr. Jiang's accession to party leadership that year as having been personally engineered by Deng Xiaoping, even though Deng, the most respected figure in Chinese politics then, lacked the formal authority to do this.
"The spirit of the meeting," said one official, "was that although Falun Gong and the Tiananmen papers are threats to the party in their own right, both are also symptoms of renewed efforts in the West to undermine the Communist Party and, in particular, to sabotage preparations for the 16th Party Congress." 
The official added, "The leaders asserted that Falun Gong has become a tool of hostile Western forces, directly nurtured and protected by, among others, the C.I.A." 
As for the Tiananmen papers, the leaders reportedly said that "although the book is in itself inconsequential, it is a sign of stepped-up Western efforts to destabilize China and sow division within the party." 
The unusual gathering in February of a central work conference was featured at the time in the state-run press as an important meeting, but the specific topics were not disclosed beyond vague calls for unity and support for Mr. Jiang's opaque refinements of ideology. It was attended by all senior central officials, top party leaders from each province and leaders of the military, the judiciary and government ministries. 
After the meeting, senior officials fanned out to brief party organizations and government agencies about the message. 
This week, thousands of Chinese officials are gathered in Beijing for the annual 10-day session of the National People's Congress, which has been devoted mainly to announcing the government's economic plans. Bold political initiatives appear to be on hold as the leaders scramble behind closed doors to influence the scheduled change in the country's top three positions over the coming two years.
Mr. Jiang, 74, is expected to step down as party secretary at the party congress next fall after serving since 1989, though there is speculation that he will try to keep another senior post and hopes to run the country behind the scenes. He will remain president until his term expires in spring 2003. 
At that time, Li Peng, 72, is expected to retire from his major party and parliamentary posts and the No. 3 leader, Prime Minister Zhu Rongji, 72 is also scheduled to step down, as are several other senior leaders who have reached or passed the age of 70. 
Party members and diplomats widely assume that the youngest member of the Standing Committee, Vice President Hu Jintao, 58, will succeed Mr. Jiang as party general secretary and then as president. But the politics and process of the succession are known only to a small circle. 
Mr. Hu, former chief of the Communist Youth League and party chief of two provinces, has kept a relatively low profile during his rise to power. Western diplomats, who have rarely even met the man, call him a "political cypher."
He is widely believed to have been designated in the early 1990's by Deng Xiaoping, as the best successor to Mr. Jiang's generation. There have been no open signs of discord between Mr. Hu and Mr. Jiang, but his rise through the ranks did not depend on Mr. Jiang's patronage, either.
The struggle to eradicate Falun Gong and discredit its leader in exile, Li Hongzhi, was set off in 1999 after 10,000 followers held an illegal vigil outside the leadership compound in Beijing, calling for official recognition. It has been a messy and unpleasant campaign involving intense, crude propaganda and the detention of tens of thousands of otherwise law-abiding citizens, leaving many Chinese feeling uneasy. 
Mr. Jiang and other leaders appear worried that if the struggle against Falun Gong drags on too long it could, in fact, cause divisions at the top.
Mr. Jiang is also worried about his historical legacy and if he steps down without resolving the bitter conflict, his reputation may suffer.

GRAPHIC: Photo: Jiang Zemin listening to a report in a meeting of China's legislature. Among topics expected are reforms for China's entry into the W.T.O. (Associated Press)(pg. A8) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TALKS & MEETINGS (90%); POLITICS (90%); CULTS & SECTS (90%); CONFERENCES & CONVENTIONS (89%); US PRESIDENTS (78%); POLITICAL PARTIES (78%); POLITICAL PROTESTS (78%); EXECUTIVE MOVES (78%); PROTESTS & DEMONSTRATIONS (76%); MILITARY WEAPONS (71%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (68%); HUMAN RIGHTS (59%) POLITICS AND GOVERNMENT; FALUN GONG (CHINESE SPIRITUAL MOVEMENT); DEMONSTRATIONS AND RIOTS; FREEDOM AND HUMAN RIGHTS; UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; CHINA-INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS-US 

PERSON: ECKHOLM, ERIK; ROSENTHAL, ELISABETH; JIANG ZEMIN (PRES) 

GEOGRAPHIC: BEIJING, CHINA (92%) NORTH CENTRAL CHINA (94%) CHINA (95%); UNITED STATES (95%); TAIWAN (79%) CHINA; BEIJING (CHINA); TIANANMEN SQUARE (BEIJING)

LOAD-DATE: March 9, 2001 



216 of 868 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 9, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section B; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 746 words

HEADLINE: The Big City; 
Best Incentive For Job Safety: Money

BYLINE:  By JOHN TIERNEY 

 BODY:
HERE we go again. By rescinding a new set of ergonomic regulations, Congress this week raised an old question: do the workers of the world need politicians and union leaders to write safety rules for them?
 It's a touchy issue, as I discovered from the large pile of hate mail that arrived after a column in 1999 about the Triangle shirtwaist factory fire. I questioned the popular view, as expressed in a documentary by Ric Burns, that the 1911 fire inspired "epoch making" reforms protecting "hapless" workers against "nightmarish" exploitation by employers. 
 The less popular view, as expressed by the economists I quoted, is that workplace safety rules never did much to protect workers. Conditions improved over the last century because safety was profitable: employers wanted to avoid injuries that lessened productivity and drove up costs, notably the bill for workers' compensation insurance.
Readers were appalled at these arguments -- callous abstractions, they said. How could I ignore the gruesome evidence of employer negligence at the Triangle factory? Descendants of garment workers cursed me. Labor activists said I was living in an economist's dream world. More than one reader wished me a severe occupational injury.
As it happens, I did have an injury on the job, and it was just the kind being debated in Washington this week. While typing my way through the 1992 presidential campaign, I came down with tendinitis in both forearms. I was one of the early victims of an epidemic of repetitive strain injuries (which included carpal tunnel syndrome) that hit reporters and editors at The New York Times in the early 1990's.
It was a scary time for us, because little was known about the injuries, and horror stories abounded. We heard of workers who were permanently incapacitated, unable to open jars or button shirts. Those of us who stopped working -- I was out of commission for six months and couldn't type normally for a year -- spent a lot of time imagining career options for a former journalist unable to type.
We were furious at our employer. We blamed the deadline pressure at the paper for our injuries. There were angry conversations about the managers' ruthlessly working us into the ground, secure in the knowledge that plenty of replacements were available from other papers. Veterans feared that managers secretly welcomed the chance to replace them with younger journalists who would work longer hours for less pay.
There were threats of lawsuits and calls for union action, none of which amounted to anything. Our union, as far as I could see, did zero to help me. Nor did we get any help from the Occupational Safety and Health Administration, which would spend most of the next decade drawing up the regulations that Congress voted down this week.
BY the time OSHA acted, our problem had long since been brought under control by workers and managers. Those of us who were injured experimented, at company expense, with various kinds of therapy and equipment. Many beat the problem just by learning to pace themselves and relax their muscles. Some switched to new equipment, including voice-activated computers (or, in my case, a weird keyboard with keys at a nearly vertical angle that put my forearms in the same position as an accordion player's).
Meanwhile, the company hired experts to educate workers and redesign office equipment to avoid injuries. Through all these efforts, the epidemic ended -- without any guidance from Washington.
You could argue that we were lucky here because we had enlightened managers. (My bosses would welcome that theory.) You could argue that other kinds of workers, like blue-collar ones in unskilled jobs, wouldn't be treated so well because they're more expendable.
But the experience in this office is hardly unique: repetitive strain injuries have been declining across the country in recent years. Companies do not want to lose experienced workers of any kind, if only because replacing them takes time and money. Every company, like The Times, knows that injuries mean potential lawsuits as well as higher premiums for workers' compensation insurance.
So why do workers across America now need OSHA's ergonomic expertise? Not because they're being exploited by ruthless employers. The best justification for the new rules is that employers and workers both fail to appreciate the benefits of spending more money on safety -- a difficult argument, although not an impossible one. More on that next week. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: WORKPLACE HEALTH & SAFETY (93%); WOUNDS & INJURIES (90%); ERGONOMICS (90%); HEALTH DEPARTMENTS (89%); OCCUPATIONAL HEALTH & SAFETY AGENCIES (89%); LABOR UNIONS (89%); WRITERS (89%); REPETITIVE MOTION DISORDERS (89%); OCCUPATIONAL ILLNESS & INJURY (89%); JOURNALISM (86%); WORKERS COMPENSATION (78%); LEGISLATION (78%); WORKPLACE ACCIDENTS (78%); GARMENT WORKERS (78%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (78%); APPAREL MFG (76%); FACTORY FIRES (76%); MUSCULOSKELETAL DISORDERS & INJURIES (68%); LITIGATION (67%); NEGLIGENCE (67%) LABOR; REPETITIVE MOTION DISORDERS; INDUSTRIAL AND OCCUPATIONAL HAZARDS; LAW AND LEGISLATION; ACCIDENTS AND SAFETY 

ORGANIZATION: OCCUPATIONAL SAFETY & HEALTH ADMINISTRATION (59%) OCCUPATIONAL SAFETY AND HEALTH ADMINISTRATION 

PERSON: TIERNEY, JOHN 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%) UNITED STATES

LOAD-DATE: March 9, 2001 



217 of 868 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 9, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 4; National Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1618 words

HEADLINE: Free Spending in Flush Times Is Coming Back to Haunt States 

BYLINE:  By PAM BELLUCK 

 BODY:
The State of Missouri was feeling generous. The economy was booming; tax dollars were pouring in and legislators decided to use some of the money to expand a modest program that gave a stipend to grandparents acting as foster parents to their grandchildren. 
 But the state did not just expand it a little. 
 With bipartisan support, the Legislature dropped virtually all restrictions on who could qualify for the $386 monthly payment, scrapping a requirement that the children be in financial need and dropping the minimum age of the grandparent to 50 from 55. The state even opened the program to people who were not grandparents at all -- aunts, uncles and other close relatives. 
The consequences have been startling. Participation skyrocketed from 280 children in August 1999 to 2,239 children now. Expected to cost $1.4 million through the fiscal year ending in June, it will now cost $10.7 million. And $22.4 million is needed for the next fiscal year.
"Quite frankly, I voted for it," said State Representative Kenneth Legan, a Republican. But "it's costing us about 16 times more than we thought it would. We think it's going to cost even more if we can't figure out how to stop it."
Mr. Legan considers himself a fiscal conservative, but a couple of years ago he and countless other lawmakers in state capitols across the country were showing uncharacteristically little fiscal restraint. In Louisiana, tens of thousands of students got free tuition at state colleges; Iowa promised school teachers thousands of dollars in bonuses; Arizona offered millions in subsidies to help people buy cars that burned cleaner fuels.
And some lawmakers say they wish they had paid more attention to how much it would ultimately cost. "I'm sure we weren't looking as close to fiscal notes as we ought to be," Mr. Legan said.
Now, thrown off balance by a suddenly sluggish economy, Missouri and many other states are finding that decisions or promises to spend money when times were flush are coming back to haunt them.
From Connecticut to Indiana, Louisiana to Arizona, governors and legislators are trying to rein in commitments for health, social or environmental programs, college scholarships, prison building or teacher bonuses. Some will have a hard time finding the money to open prisons they are building or make good on promised raises for teachers.
As of late February, 31 states reported they were spending more than they budgeted, according to the National Conference of State Legislatures. And, grappling with declining tax revenues and soaring Medicaid costs, as many as 23 states may cut budgets or reach into rainy day funds for the first time in years.
Experts on state budgets say the experience of states that allocated money for programs and then suddenly found they could not afford them could be something of a cautionary tale for Congress as it considers President Bush's proposed tax cut of $1.6 trillion over 10 years.
"Things got a little heady in that we were dealing with the longest economic expansion in history and nobody knew how long it was going to continue," said Arturo Perez, a budget specialist with the National Conference of State Legislatures.
Even so, despite the troubles faced by many states -- particularly those that rely on sales tax revenues -- estimates of federal tax revenues remain strong, and most experts expect the government to continue to run surpluses for years to come. 
In addition, Mr. Perez said that in some ways federal budgets were more resilient to economic rough spots than states' budgets were.
But on the state level, where governments cannot run deficits, the rising costs of some programs are colliding head on with shrinking tax revenues.
In Louisiana, a program providing free tuition at state universities for students scoring 20 or above on the ACT has become so expensive that several legislators want it scaled back, either by raising the minimum score to 23 or forcing students who fail or drop out to reimburse the state. The top ACT score is 36.
State Representative Mike Futrell, a Republican, said the tuition program was so popular that virtually every in-state undergraduate attending Louisiana State University gets free tuition. Statewide, more than a third of those with ACT scores below 23 have failed or quit, Mr. Futrell said. 
"Statistically, we are financing their failure," said Mr. Futrell, who introduced a bill to give those scoring 20 to 23 tuition to two-year community colleges only. That would be "a lot less expensive," he said, than the $105 million projected cost of the program next year. 
Missouri is looking at a $307 million budget deficit, in part because of the exploding costs of the foster care program and also because of what Mr. Legan calls "another boondoggle": a tax credit to help the elderly pay for prescription drugs. When the credit was approved, it was expected to cost $20 million a year. Mr. Legan, who voted for the program, said the current pricetag was about $89 million. 
Arizona told people last year that if they bought cars that could burn alternative fuels, the state would pay up to half the cost. So many people applied for reimbursement that a program expected to cost less than $5 million annually threatened to reach $800 million, more than 10 percent of the state's budget.
"Frankly, nobody looked at the big picture when the bill was passed, and I take my share of the blame for signing it," Gov. Jane Dee Hull, a Republican, said last fall after calling for an emergency one-year moratorium on the program.
"The fiscal implications were all overlooked," Governor Hull said. "No one knew what the cost would be."
New York and New Jersey, which rely less on sales taxes and manufacturing than other states, continue to have surpluses and have no plans to cut budgets or tap their reserves, Mr. Perez said. But in Connecticut, one of many states that spent millions to build prisons in recent years, Gov. John G. Rowland's budget includes ideas that would save money by reducing the need for new prison cells. Strikingly, the proposals by Governor Rowland, a Republican, would also modify years of tough-on-crime policies by waiving minimum sentencing requirements for certain nonviolent drug offenders and allocating money so some nonviolent criminals could get mental health treatment instead of jail. 
"There are a lot of good examples of states around the country that went on a prison-building spree and now they're saying, 'Oh, my God, we're not going to be able to afford another prison,' " said Michael Thompson, a criminal-justice expert for the eastern region of the Council of State Governments.
Mr. Thompson said Mr. Rowland's proposals follow an effort last year to save money on new prisons by exporting nearly 500 Connecticut inmates to a Virginia prison. Problems, including inmate deaths, have fueled criticism of that program, he said, "so Connecticut's saying, We got to rethink who we're sending to prison or jail."
John Thomasian, director of the Center for Best Practices at the National Governors' Association, said that in many states, "where you saw a lot of expansions were support systems for low-income workers: transportation subsidies, child care benefits, automobile repair costs." 
In Indiana, officials started an advertising blitz to get people to enroll in the Children's Health Insurance Program in 1998. They used television, radio and billboards, handed out pencils and baby sippy cups, even set up separate enrollment centers so people could avoid any stigma of going to a welfare office, said Kathy Gifford, Indiana's Medicaid director. 
The result was an extraordinary increase in enrollment -- to about 350,000 children from about 200,000, Ms. Gifford said. More children are enrolling after officials last year raised the income level of families that qualify. And the advertising swelled the numbers of adults on Medicaid, too. 
Now, although Ms. Gifford says Medicaid needs a 9.2 percent increase next year, the Indiana House has proposed a Medicaid budget that scarcely increases at all.
"I don't have a way that I know today to get to a zero percent growth rate by July," she said. "I don't know what we would do if that budget actually passes."
And in Iowa, lawmakers decided in 1998 to give teachers who earned national board certification a $50,000 award -- $10,000 a year for five years. But, almost immediately nearly six times more than the projected number of teachers became certified. The Legislature first decided to pay out the bonus over 10 years, then cut the award to $25,000 and decided to phase out the program.
"We were criticized for not living up to promises made," said Representative Brad Hansen, a Republican. "But when budgets get tight, we ask families to tighten the belt. The government should have to do the same thing."
In Missouri, legislators are trying to figure out ways to put the runaway programs on a leash.
The problem with the elderly tax credit, several said, was that anyone who met the income and age criteria could qualify for a tax credit of up to $200, whether or not they actually needed or bought prescription drugs.
"We were qualifying people for this that are in nursing homes, who haven't spent a dime because the state pays for prescriptions in nursing homes anyway," Mr. Legan said.
And State Representative Denny Meredith, a Democrat, is sponsoring a bill to restrict the foster-care program to people in financial need and ensure that expense reimbursements from the state are for necessities, not, say, a baby sitter while foster parents "go shopping on Sunday," he said.
"It's something that we've got to do from a responsibility standpoint," Mr. Meredith said, "to make sure we take care of the state budget."

GRAPHIC: ChartMany states are over budget, particularly in these programs: MedicaidArizona, Colorado, Connecticut, Delaware, Florida, Georgia, Idaho, Illinois, Indiana, Kentucky, Maine, Maryland, Massachusetts, Missouri, Montana, New Mexico, North Carolina, Ohio, Oklahoma, Texas, Vermont, Virginia, Washington EducationArkansas, Florida, Louisiana, Mississippi, New Jersey, New Mexico, Pennsylvania, Washington CorrectionsArkansas, Colorado, Missouri, Montana, Oklahoma, Texas, West Virginia(Source: National Conference of State Legislatures)(pg. A1) Chart/Map: "FOR THE RECORD -- In the Red"The number of states reporting lower-than-expected revenues for fiscal 2001 is on the rise. Map of United States groups states that reported above forecast, on target, and below forecast. *Alabama's General Fund is above forecast; its Educational Trust Fund is below.(Source: National Conference of State Legislatures)(pg. A12) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LEGISLATIVE BODIES (92%); GRANDPARENTS (91%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (90%); TAXES & TAXATION (90%); BUDGETS (89%); CHILDREN (89%); CONFERENCES & CONVENTIONS (89%); TEACHING & TEACHERS (87%); EDUCATIONAL INSTITUTION EMPLOYEES (86%); GOVERNORS (78%); TUITION FEES (78%); SALES TAX (78%); MEDICAID (78%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (78%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (78%); GRANDCHILDREN (77%); STUDENT FINANCIAL AID (77%); SCHOLARSHIPS & GRANTS (77%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (76%); TEACHER COMPENSATION (76%); FOSTER CARE (72%); CONSERVATISM (72%); SCHOOL BUDGETS (69%); COLLEGES & UNIVERSITIES (69%); PRISONS (60%); BUDGET CUTS (60%) STATES (US); FINANCES; BUDGETS AND BUDGETING; UNITED STATES ECONOMY; TAXATION; SALES TAX 

ORGANIZATION: NATIONAL CONFERENCE OF STATE LEGISLATURES (91%) NATIONAL CONFERENCE OF STATE LEGISLATURES 

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (51%) BELLUCK, PAM 

GEOGRAPHIC: MISSOURI, USA (94%); LOUISIANA, USA (93%); MONTANA, USA (92%); FLORIDA, USA (92%); INDIANA, USA (92%); TEXAS, USA (92%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (92%); COLORADO, USA (92%); OHIO, USA (79%); MARYLAND, USA (79%); GEORGIA, USA (79%); MISSISSIPPI, USA (79%); ALABAMA, USA (79%); NORTH CAROLINA, USA (79%); IDAHO, USA (79%); ILLINOIS, USA (79%); KENTUCKY, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: March 9, 2001 



218 of 868 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 9, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section D; Column 5; Sports Desk; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 757 words

HEADLINE: ON BASEBALL; 
The Mets Take Aim But Miss Their Mark

BYLINE:  By Murray Chass 

DATELINE: KISSIMMEE, Fla. 

 BODY:
Add Gary Sheffield to the list, and the easiest reaction would be to question, even criticize the Mets for their winter failures. They coveted three free-agent pitchers -- Mike Hampton, Mike Mussina and Denny Neagle -- as well as a pitcher who was on the trading block, David Wells, and they snared none of them. They desired Alex Rodriguez and Johnny Damon and flirted with Sheffield and captured none of them.
 With General Manager Steve Phillips's declaration that he will no longer pursue a trade for Sheffield with the Los Angeles Dodgers, the Mets have basically decided they will begin defense of their National League pennant with the team that occupies their spring camp in Port St. Lucie on this day. 
 Phillips's decision to abandon his half-hearted pursuit of the slugging outfielder marked the second time in the past few years that he has shunned Sheffield. The reasons were basically the same -- the other team's asking price and the player's attitude.
"It was Kevin's expectation to have done something by now," another general manager said of Kevin Malone, the Dodgers' trade-maker, "but every time the outfielder opens his mouth, it makes his task tougher."
Having heard the wild-mouthed rhetoric that has emanated from Sheffield's outrageous orifice, the Mets concluded that they could quickly become the next target of his economic unhappiness.
Sheffield, tied to his contract for at least three more years, saw the groundbreaking contracts that were awarded during the off-season and decided to make a play for one of his own. He couldn't wait until he was 36 years old and at the end of his contract, after all, and expect to get one of those gifts. Sheffield struck out, but he continued swinging.
Now other teams have to decide if they want to take a chance on his intemperate behavior. The Mets no longer are one of them.
But where does their decision leave the Mets?
Despite their attempts to rationalize their previous failures, one would be hard pressed to view these Mets as being as good as the team that played in the World Series last season. At the same time, however, they deserve the chance to prove themselves correct in their self-assessment.
Whatever anyone thinks of the Mets' decisions and their unwillingness to offer more money to a free agent or more talented players to another team, the ultimate and only test will be graded in October.
If the Mets make the playoffs again, it will be difficult to fault their failure to get one or more of the players they sought. If they don't make it to the playoffs for the first time in three years, they will deserve all of the criticism rendered.
Phillips undoubtedly is putting his growing reputation squarely on the chopping block. Even though the Mets' owners have supported his moves, or lack of same, his public reputation will suffer if the Mets neither win the division championship nor continue their annual role as the wild-card team.
Forget the signing of the two starting pitchers, Kevin Appier and Steve Trachsel. They are replacements, not reinforcements. This is the first time in three years that the Mets have not bolstered themselves with the addition of significant players -- Al Leiter three years ago, Mike Piazza in May 1998, Robin Ventura and Armando Benitez two off-seasons ago, Hampton and Todd Zeile last off-season.
The Mets won the wild-card spot in the playoffs in 1999 and 2000 because they added those players. Tsuyoshi Shinjo, the outfielder with the questionable ability to hit major league pitching whom they signed this off-season, will not serve that purpose.
But the Mets and the teams that will challenge them for their playoff spot still have to play the season. Who among us knows whether the Mets have undermined their chances to be a playoff repeater? Remember, Phillips is the same man who built the teams that put the Mets in position to be a playoff repeater. A team can't be a repeater this year if it wasn't in the playoffs last year.
So if Phillips believes this team can make it again, give him the opportunity to find out if he's right. The Mets, it should be noted, don't have to get to the World Series again to validate Phillips's thinking. Ask the Atlanta Braves.
If the Mets fail, there will be plenty of time to roast Phillips. Of all the decisions he made in not securing a player the Mets wanted, the one that could be viewed with a questionable eye was the Mets' rapid removal from the Alex Rodriguez sweepstakes. That was the decision that could haunt the Mets, but even that possibility needs time to play out. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BASEBALL (92%); ATHLETES (90%); SPORTS (89%); SPORTS & RECREATION EVENTS (89%); SPORTS & RECREATION (89%); THIS DAY IN HISTORY (74%); BASEBALL TOURNAMENTS (65%); CONTRACT AWARDS (64%) BASEBALL; TRADES (SPORTS) 

ORGANIZATION: NEW YORK METS (94%); LOS ANGELES DODGERS (91%) NEW YORK METS; LOS ANGELES DODGERS 

PERSON: ALEX RODRIGUEZ (56%) CHASS, MURRAY; SHEFFIELD, GARY 

GEOGRAPHIC: LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (88%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (59%) CALIFORNIA, USA (88%); NEW YORK, USA (78%); FLORIDA, USA (71%) UNITED STATES (88%)

LOAD-DATE: March 9, 2001 



219 of 868 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 9, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section W; Column 4; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 79 words

HEADLINE: WORLD BUSINESS BRIEFING: EUROPE; 
BRITISH INTEREST RATE UNCHANGED

BYLINE:  By Alan Cowell 

 BODY:
 As expected, the Bank of England left its benchmark interest rate unchanged at 5.75 percent, reflecting economists' assessments that the slowdown in the United States will have a limited impact in Britain. 
The bank cut the rate by one quarter of a percentage point a month ago, coinciding with concerns about the United States slowdown. Since then, statistics have shown an expansion in British house prices, service industries and consumer spending. Alan Cowell (NYT)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC NEWS (91%); INTEREST RATES (91%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); CENTRAL BANKS (90%); TRENDS (86%); REAL ESTATE (85%); REAL ESTATE VALUATIONS (85%); HOME PRICES (51%) ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS; CREDIT; INTEREST RATES; UNITED STATES ECONOMY 

COMPANY: BANK OF NEW YORK MELLON CORP (91%); BANK OF ENGLAND (58%)

ORGANIZATION: BANK OF ENGLAND 

TICKER: BK (NYSE) (91%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (91%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (91%); SIC6712 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (91%); NAICS521110 MONETARY AUTHORITIES - CENTRAL BANK (58%); SIC6011 FEDERAL RESERVE BANKS (58%)

PERSON: COWELL, ALAN 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED KINGDOM (94%); UNITED STATES (93%) GREAT BRITAIN

LOAD-DATE: March 9, 2001 



220 of 868 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 9, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section B; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 85 words

HEADLINE: Metro Business Briefing; 
REPORT NOTES EXPORT STRENGTH

BYLINE:  By Leslie Eaton 

 BODY:
 Exports are increasingly important to New York's economy, according to a report to be released today by goTrade New York, a business group promoting international trade. 
The group calculated that New York State exported more than $27 billion in services like financing, accounting and consulting in 1999, supporting about 400,000 jobs. The state also exported more than $43 billion in merchandise -- including machinery, chemicals and food -- which the group said accounted for 473,000 jobs. Leslie Eaton

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: EXPORT TRADE (90%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (88%); TRENDS (85%) ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS; INTERNATIONAL TRADE AND WORLD MARKET 

PERSON: EATON, LESLIE 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (96%) UNITED STATES (96%) NEW YORK STATE

LOAD-DATE: March 9, 2001 



221 of 868 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 9, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 5; National Desk; Pg. 16

LENGTH: 146 words

HEADLINE: National News Briefs; 
Jackson Defends Policies That Help Friends Profit

BYLINE:  AP 

DATELINE: CHICAGO, March 8 

 BODY:
The Rev. Jesse Jackson said today that there was nothing wrong with friends and civil rights groups profiting from companies that he had singled out in his effort to increase minority representation in business. 
 Mr. Jackson likened his tactics, including threats of boycotts and protests of proposed mergers, to the bus boycotts and civil rights marches of the 1960's. And he said if his friends who are minority entrepreneurs benefited, it was all the better. 
 "If we can get these very able people in, we'll break down the barriers, and that is our mission," Mr. Jackson said. "Of course they are friends, but that's not the basis of their getting business."
Mr. Jackson held a news conference to release financial records for two of his groups, Citizenship Education Fund and Rainbow/PUSH Coalition. An internal audit lists corporations that have donated to his groups. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MINORITY BUSINESSES (91%); CIVIL RIGHTS (90%); HUMAN RIGHTS ORGANIZATIONS (90%); NEWS BRIEFS (90%); MINORITY BUSINESS ASSISTANCE (88%); ENTREPRENEURSHIP (88%); ETHICS (88%); PROTESTS & DEMONSTRATIONS (87%); BOYCOTTS (87%); AFFIRMATIVE ACTION (85%); TAXES & TAXATION (82%); TAX LAW (71%); MERGERS (71%); PRESS CONFERENCES (66%); TAX FRAUD (59%); AUDITS (50%) UNITED STATES ECONOMY; ETHICS; MINORITIES (US); BLACKS; TAX EVASION 

ORGANIZATION: CITIZENSHIP EDUCATION FUND; RAINBOW/PUSH COALITION 

PERSON: JESSE JACKSON (92%) JACKSON, JESSE L (REV); STANFORD, KARIN L 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: March 9, 2001 



222 of 868 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 9, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section C; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 893 words

HEADLINE: THE MEDIA BUSINESS: ADVERTISING; 
In Hewlett-Packard's new campaign, innovation moves from the garage to the laboratory.

BYLINE:  By Stuart Elliott 

 BODY:
THE next phase of an ambitious, attention-getting campaign for the Hewlett-Packard Company leaves the garage to assert that past is prologue.
 The campaign, which begins on Sunday, retains the theme "Invent" that was introduced in November 1999, when Goodby, Silverstein & Partners in San Francisco began efforts to burnish the Hewlett-Packard brand by adopting as a symbol the garage in which the company was founded in 1938 by William Hewlett and David Packard. 
 The next step in the campaign, with a yearlong global budget estimated at $100 million, is centered on current Hewlett-Packard employees. They outline projects under way at six laboratories around the world in areas from streaming video to wireless devices to image-processing microchips. 
In the television commercials and print advertisements and on outdoor posters and the Hewlett-Packard Web site (www.hp.com), the employees are presented as innovative inventors whose work at the laboratories -- referred to throughout the campaign as the "hp labs" -- makes them the spiritual descendants of the company's founders.
The main thought expressed in the humorous ads is that Hewlett-Packard's heritage can predict its future -- a crucial reassurance at a time of uncertainty in the high-technology and general economies as well as for Hewlett-Packard, which in the midst of a revamping recently fell short of analysts' financial projections.
"The first stage was to reignite the spirit of invention at H.-P.," said Allison Johnson, vice president for brand strategy and communications at Hewlett-Packard in Palo Alto, Calif. "The next is reminding people where we came from in the context of where we're headed."
"From a brand strategy perspective," she added, the goal is "to reconnect with our inventive roots and remind people we're the company started by the original inventors who invented Silicon Valley."
The change is indicative of the need perceived by advertisers and agencies to more frequently freshen continuing campaigns to avoid fatigue among the intended audiences for sales pitches. Here, Hewlett-Packard is aiming the ads not only at the customers for its computers, software, printers and consulting services but also at employees, investors and Wall Street analysts.
"I think the idea came from Carly Fiorina, who said what gets her most excited is walking through the labs talking to people," said Rich Silverstein, referring to the chairwoman and chief executive of Hewlett-Packard. Mr. Silverstein shares with Jeff Goodby the duties of chairman and creative director at Goodby, Silverstein, the Omnicom Group agency that handles the lead corporate brand assignment.
"The brand stands for 'Invent,' and how do we show that?" Mr. Silverstein asked rhetorically. "Right under our noses was the answer. We're trying to put a face on a very large company, and that face is the employees."
"We're saying 'Our inventors work here every day,' " he added, "and they're the real thing. Inventors are cool."
Speaking of which, Mr. Silverstein said he was particularly impressed by Cooltown, a section of the Palo Alto laboratory specializing in wired and wireless technologies and appliances devoted to mobile Web services. One such invention is featured in the campaign in a way that is cool, literally and figuratively.
Rycharde Hawkes, a senior research engineer, describes a pilot project in Helsinki, Finland, which sends customers of the public transportation system alerts over their cellular phones when buses are approaching. Frosty winter images like a snowy street and Mr. Hawkes photographed as if encased in ice suggest just how welcome those messages would be if you have "ever waited for a bus in Helsinki in December."
The polished, poised performance Mr. Hawkes delivers in a commercial demonstrating the project is evocative of the actor Jude Law, whom he resembles in appearance and accent. He is one of five employees of the laboratories in the campaign's initial phase, which will include the first Hewlett-Packard sponsorship of the Academy Awards broadcast on ABC.
Mr. Hawkes and the other "new Bills and Daves," Ms. Johnson said, are being selected for the campaign using criteria that include whether the projects are "meaningful to people in their everyday lives" and are "things people will see in a short period of time" rather than in the far-off future.
The employees are a mosaic of men and women of different races and national origins because Hewlett "is a global company and a diverse company," she added, "and that's an important component."
Another employee who, like Mr. Hawkes, is appearing in a commercial and a print ad is Susie J. Wee, project manager for streaming media technologies.
"I thought 'This could be fun; I'll give it a shot,' " Ms. Wee said in a telephone interview. When she filmed the spot -- in which she predicts a day when mountain climbers can keep up with their favorite soap operas -- she said she was surprised at "all these people milling around to make one little commercial; I was asking 'What do you do? What do you do?' "
Ms. Wee said she was unsure how many people she knew would see the spot because "to be honest, not many of my friends watch TV; we're too busy doing our work."
Asked her opinion of her ads, Ms. Wee said she believed they turned out "great."
But, she added, laughing, "I don't think I'll be quitting my day job."

GRAPHIC: Photo: A print ad from the new campaign features an employee, Susie Wee. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MARKETING & ADVERTISING (91%); BRANDING (89%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING AGENCIES (89%); COMPANY STRATEGY (78%); WIRELESS INDUSTRY (76%); BUDGETS (75%); INTERNET VIDEO (74%); STREAMING MEDIA (74%); INTERNET BROADCASTING (74%); ONLINE MARKETING & ADVERTISING (73%); INTERNET & WWW (73%); OUTDOOR ADVERTISING (70%); COMPUTER CHIPS (69%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS EQUIPMENT (69%); TELEVISION ADVERTISING (69%); CONSULTING SERVICES (69%); EXECUTIVES (69%); IMAGE PROCESSING & COMPUTER VISION (69%); COMPUTER SOFTWARE (68%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (64%) COMPUTERS AND THE INTERNET; ADVERTISING 

COMPANY: HEWLETT-PACKARD CO (94%); OMNICOM GROUP INC (84%); GOODBY SILVERSTEIN & PARTNERS (58%)

ORGANIZATION: HEWLETT-PACKARD CO; GOODBY SILVERSTEIN & PARTNERS 

TICKER: HPQ (NYSE) (94%); OMC (NYSE) (84%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS334118 COMPUTER TERMINAL & OTHER COMPUTER PERIPHERAL EQUIPMENT MANUFACTURING (94%); NAICS541810 ADVERTISING AGENCIES (84%); NAICS541820 PUBLIC RELATIONS AGENCIES (84%); NAICS541613 MARKETING CONSULTING SERVICES (84%); SIC7311 ADVERTISING AGENCIES (58%) SIC3571 ELECTRONIC COMPUTERS; 

PERSON: ELLIOTT, STUART 

GEOGRAPHIC: SAN FRANCISCO, CA, USA (92%); SILICON VALLEY, CA, USA (79%); SAN FRANCISCO BAY AREA, CA, USA (73%) CALIFORNIA, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (92%)

TITLE: ADVERTISING (TIMES COLUMN) 

LOAD-DATE: March 9, 2001 



223 of 868 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 9, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section C; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 577 words

HEADLINE: TECHNOLOGY; 
Intel Again Warns of Slumping Revenue This Quarter

BYLINE:  By CHRIS GAITHER 

DATELINE: SAN FRANCISCO, March 8 

 BODY:
For the second time in six weeks, Intel today cautioned that its revenue this quarter would fall short of Wall Street's expectations.
 The company, based in Santa Clara, Calif., also said it would eliminate 5,000 jobs by year's end, mainly through normal attrition, and trim spending on research and development by 2 percent. 
 Intel said it expected revenue for its first quarter, which ends March 31, to be 25 percent less than its previous quarter, when it reported $8.7 billion in sales. In January, Intel estimated that its revenue would decline 15 percent. 
Intel did not offer any forecast for the rest of this year. Andy D. Bryant, the company's chief financial officer, said he would do so when the company reported earnings for this quarter, on April 18.
Intel, the world's largest chip maker, said large customers had canceled orders in all segments of its business.
A decline in sales for its microprocessors, which power personal computers, was expected. But Intel said demand was even weaker for chips that power server systems, communications devices and networking systems.
"We expected it to pick up here in the second half of the quarter, and we haven't seen it," Mr. Bryant said of the company's sales. "There are days you come in and you find two positive signs, and the next day you come in and find three negative signs."
An announcement late today by National Semiconductor, another chip maker, illustrated Mr. Bryant's point. The company reported earnings for its fiscal third quarter, ended Feb. 25, of 27 cents a share, beating Wall Street's per-share estimates by 7 cents. But the company, also based in Santa Clara, cut its estimates for the current quarter by 10 percent.
Two other smaller chip makers, RF Micro Devices and Integrated Circuit Systems, also lowered their expectations for the quarter, citing the same slump in demand as Intel and National Semiconductor.
Analysts said Intel's warning came as little surprise.
"They're just the latest to go to the confessional booth," David Wu, an analyst with ABN Amro Inc., an investment bank.
Craig Barrett, Intel's chief executive, had repeatedly said he intended to spend his way through the economic slowdown. His colleagues repeated his assertions today, even after cutting the research and development budget from $4.3 billion this year to $4.2 billion. The $100 million in savings will come through thrifty spending, they said, not through the elimination of development programs for its products. 
"They're just not going to cut those that much," said Joseph A. Osha, a senior semiconductor analyst with Merrill Lynch, "as long as they continue to believe at some point over the next year or two, business is going to get better."
Intel said it intended to reduce its work force from 87,000 to 82,000 by the end of the year and accelerate cost-saving efforts announced last month. The moves include the postponement of employee pay increases until the second half of the year and a 30 percent reduction in "discretionary expenses" like employee travel.
"While slashing nonessential spending across the company," Mr. Bryant said, "we are protecting investments we think will make Intel more competitive."
Before Intel's announcement late today, the company's shares rose 31 cents, or 1 percent, to $33.25. The shares fell to $30.94 in after-hours trading. National Semiconductor gained 41 cents, or 1.65 percent, to $25.25. In after-hours trading, the shares fell 45 cents, to $24.80. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LAYOFFS (90%); MICROPROCESSORS (90%); COMPUTER CHIPS (90%); SEMICONDUCTORS (89%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (89%); ANNUAL FINANCIAL RESULTS (89%); FINANCIAL RESULTS (89%); RESEARCH & DEVELOPMENT (89%); ELECTRONICS (89%); COMPANY EARNINGS (89%); PERSONAL COMPUTERS (78%); BUSINESS FORECASTS (78%); BUDGETS (78%); LABOR FORCE (77%); OCCUPATIONAL HEALTH & SAFETY AGENCIES (74%); POLICE FORCES (74%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (73%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS EQUIPMENT MFG (73%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (72%); BUDGET CUTS (72%); EXECUTIVES (69%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS EQUIPMENT (67%); NETWORK SERVERS (67%); COMPUTER NETWORKS (66%); ECONOMIC NEWS (50%) COMPUTERS AND THE INTERNET; FINANCES; LABOR; LAYOFFS AND JOB REDUCTIONS; COMPUTER CHIPS; RESEARCH 

COMPANY: INTEL CORP (96%); RBS HOLDINGS NV (81%); MERRILL LYNCH & CO INC (58%); RF MICRO DEVICES INC (55%); NATIONAL SEMICONDUCTOR CORP (54%)

ORGANIZATION: INTEL CORP 

TICKER: INTC (NASDAQ) (96%); ABO (ASX) (81%); RFMD (NASDAQ) (55%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS334413 SEMICONDUCTOR & RELATED DEVICE MANUFACTURING (96%); NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (81%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (81%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (81%); SIC6712 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (81%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (81%); SIC6029 COMMERCIAL BANKS, NEC (81%); NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (58%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (58%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (58%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (58%); SIC3674 SEMICONDUCTORS & RELATED DEVICES (55%); SIC3663 RADIO & TELEVISION BROADCASTING & COMMUNICATIONS EQUIPMENT (55%) SIC3674 SEMICONDUCTORS & RELATED DEVICES; SIC3679 OTHER ELECTRONIC COMPONENTS; 

PERSON: GAITHER, CHRIS 

GEOGRAPHIC: SAN FRANCISCO, CA, USA (79%); SAN FRANCISCO BAY AREA, CA, USA (73%) CALIFORNIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: March 9, 2001 



224 of 868 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 9, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section C; Column 3; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 503 words

HEADLINE: Discount Stores Spur Increase in Retail Sales 

BYLINE:  By Bloomberg News 

 BODY:
Sales at American retailers edged up in February, led by Wal-Mart Stores Inc., the Kmart Corporation and the Costco Wholesale Corporation, as a slowing economy prompted consumers to buy low-priced household goods and clothing.
 Sales at stores open at least a year, a crucial industry measurement, rose 1.6 percent, according to the Goldman, Sachs retail composite index. That was less than January's 3.4 percent gain and well below the 5.1 percent rise in February 2000. 
 Merchants cleared out leftover holiday items and restocked stores with spring goods. Consumers, whose confidence in the economy fell last month to the lowest point in more than four and a half years, did most of their shopping at discount chains that sell basic products and food.
"Consumers clearly are buying less, but they aren't afraid, they're just finicky," said Steve Paspal, an analyst at Sovereign Asset Management, a unit of John Hancock Funds.
Wal-Mart, the world's largest retailer, said that its same-store sales rose 4.3 percent.
Costco, the nation's biggest chain of warehouse clubs, had a 5 percent increase, and Kmart posted a 3.3 percent gain. Target, the third-biggest discount store, said sales rose 1.5 percent.
The sales gain at Kmart, the No. 2 discount chain after Wal-Mart, was the fourth consecutive monthly increase and was at the high end of forecasts.
Family Dollar Stores Inc. had a 5 percent gain, and the rival Dollar General Corporation reported a 4.7 percent increase.
Few gains were posted among specialty and department store chains. Sears, Roebuck & Company, the nation's biggest department store company, said its sales dropped 2 percent.
The May Department Stores Company, which owns the Hecht's and Lord & Taylor chains, posted a 1.1 percent decline, while sales at Federated Department Stores Inc., which owns Bloomingdale's and Macy's stores, fell 1.6 percent.
Dillard's Inc. dropped 2 percent, and Saks Inc., which sells luxury goods, fell 1.3 percent. The J. C. Penney Company posted a 2.1 percent decline. Its same-store sales dropped in seven of the last eight months.
"It's devastating," Kurt Barnard, president of Barnard's Retail Trend Report, said of the performance of department stores and specialty apparel stores. "Terrible is a kind word."
An exception to these results was the Kohl's Corporation, a low-priced department store, which had a 7.3 percent jump in sales.
Sales at Gap Inc., the nation's largest clothing chain, dropped 11 percent. The company, which owns the Gap, Old Navy and Banana Republic chains, is trying to improve marketing, apparel offerings and management to reverse a slump.
Talbots Inc., a women's career-clothing chain, had a 9.3 percent increase, which was at the high end of its forecasts. Sales at the Ann Taylor Stores Corporation fell 6.1 percent. The company lowered its profit forecasts for its first and second quarters yesterday because it has yet to clear out slow-selling contemporary styles and replace them with the classic fashions that Ann Taylor is known for.

GRAPHIC: Chart: "Retail Sales in February"Chart shows year-to-year changes in the Goldman Sachs retail composite index, based on monthly sales at stores open at least a year. Below are results for the four weeks ended March 3, compared with the corresponding period last year, except as noted. Companies are listed in order of 1999 sales. COMPANYWal-Mart* (Four weeks to March 2)SAME STORE Change: + 4.3OVERALL Sales: $11.36 billionOVERALL Change: +10.7 Kmart (Four weeks to Feb. 28)SAME STORE Change: + 3.3OVERALL Sales: 2.45 billionOVERALL Change: + 1.4 TargetSAME STORE Change: + 1.5OVERALL Sales: 2.36 billionOVERALL Change: + 7.5 Sears, RoebuckSAME STORE Change: - 2.0OVERALL Sales: 1.97 billionOVERALL Change: - 1.5 FederatedSAME STORE Change: - 1.6OVERALL Sales: 1.15 billionOVERALL Change: - 5.1 J. C. Penney (Four weeks to Feb. 27)SAME STORE Change: - 2.1OVERALL Sales: 858 millionOVERALL Change: - 0.8 MaySAME STORE Change: - 1.1OVERALL Sales: 937 millionOVERALL Change: + 3.1 GapSAME STORE Change: - 11.0OVERALL Sales: 784 millionOVERALL Change: + 8.0 Limited+SAME STORE Change: Unch.OVERALL Sales: 661 millionOVERALL Change: + 3.0 TJX (Four weeks to Jan. 27)SAME STORE Change: - 1.0OVERALL Sales: 647 millionOVERALL Change: + 7.0 TalbotsSAME STORE Change: + 9.3OVERALL Sales: 92 millionOVERALL Change: + 14.0 Ann TaylorSAME STORE Change: - 6.1OVERALL Sales: 74 millionOVERALL Change: + 9.7 *Figures exclude McLane's.+Figures exclude Galyan's and Limited Too.(Source: Goldman, Sachs, based on company reports.) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: RETAIL SALES (94%); DISCOUNT & CLUB STORES (94%); RETAILERS (92%); GENERAL MERCHANDISE STORES (90%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (90%); SAME STORE SALES (90%); STOCK INDEXES (90%); SALES FIGURES (90%); LUXURY GOODS (89%); CLOTHING & ACCESSORIES STORES (89%); DEPARTMENT STORES (89%); ECONOMIC RECOVERY (78%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (78%); TRENDS (78%); WOMEN'S CLOTHING STORES (78%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (68%); WOMEN WORKERS (64%) RETAIL STORES AND TRADE; SALES; GOLDMAN SACHS RETAIL COMPOSITE INDEX 

COMPANY: WAL-MART STORES INC (95%); MACY'S INC (95%); COSTCO WHOLESALE CORP (95%); KMART CORP (93%); DOLLAR GENERAL CORP (91%); J C PENNEY CO INC (84%); BANANA REPUBLIC (84%); TALBOTS INC (84%); GAP INC (84%); KOHL'S CORP (82%); SEARS ROEBUCK & CO (66%); FAMILY DOLLAR STORES INC (66%); DILLARD'S INC (64%); SAKS INC (63%); GOLDMAN SACHS GROUP INC (57%)

TICKER: WMT (NYSE) (95%); M (NYSE) (95%); COST (NASDAQ) (95%); DG (NYSE) (91%); JCP (NYSE) (84%); GPS (NYSE) (84%); KSS (NYSE) (82%); FDO (NYSE) (66%); DL7A (FRA) (64%); DDS (NYSE) (64%); SKS (NYSE) (63%); GS (NYSE) (57%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS452111 DEPARTMENT STORES (EXCEPT DISCOUNT DEPARTMENT STORES) (95%); SIC5311 DEPARTMENT STORES (95%); NAICS452910 WAREHOUSE CLUBS & SUPERCENTERS (95%); NAICS452112 DISCOUNT DEPARTMENT STORES (95%); SIC5399 MISC. GENERAL MERCHANDISE STORES (95%); NAICS452990 ALL OTHER GENERAL MERCHANDISE STORES (93%); SIC5331 VARIETY STORES (93%); NAICS454113 MAIL-ORDER HOUSES (84%); SIC5961 CATALOG & MAIL-ORDER HOUSES (84%); NAICS448140 FAMILY CLOTHING STORES (84%); SIC5651 FAMILY CLOTHING STORES (84%); NAICS448120 WOMEN'S CLOTHING STORES (84%); SIC5621 WOMEN'S CLOTHING STORES (84%); NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (57%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (57%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (57%); SIC6289 SERVICES ALLIED WITH THE EXCHANGE OF SECURITIES OR COMMODITIES, NEC (57%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (57%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: March 9, 2001 



225 of 868 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 9, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section B; Column 3; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 642 words

HEADLINE: BOLDFACE NAMES 

BYLINE:  By James Barron; With Glenn Collins

 BODY:
'My Way' the Wrong Way
 MAYOR RUDOLPH W. GIULIANI has regrets about his performance last weekend at the Inner Circle, the roast by reporters that is traditionally followed by an equally theatrical response from the mayor -- but not, apparently, about dressing up in a Rockette costume and showing a lot of leg. 
 "I sang 'My Way' at the Inner Circle, and I ruined it," he declared on Wednesday during the intermission of "If It Was Easy," a new play, at the Douglas Fairbanks Theater on West 42nd Street, about the pre-opening night disasters that bedevil a Sinatra-themed musical.
"If It Was Easy" was directed by STEWART F. LANE, at whose 1997 wedding to BONNIE COMLEY the mayor officiated -- "Thank God I didn't sing on that occasion," Mr. Giuliani said. Ms. Comley happens to be the star of "If It Was Easy," and Mr. Lane's monogrammed office furniture happens to dominate the set. 
The mayor's good friend, JUDITH NATHAN, went with him to the play but sounded lukewarm about Sinatra. "I'm a fan of Sinatra," she said, "when Rudy is singing."

Buenos Dias, King
DAVE H. WILLIAMS, the chairman of the Foreign Policy Association, spoke little Spanish but carried a 113-year-old gift to his audience with KING JUAN CARLOS I of Spain on Wednesday in Madrid: a maritime print by "a bigtime etching guy," as Mr. Williams described the artist Charles Adams Platt.
It was an appropriate present, Mr. Williams said yesterday after returning to Manhattan, because the king is "a bigtime sailor." It came from Mr. Williams's collection of 5,000 prints. (The apple he gave Spain's conservative prime minister, JOSE MARIA AZNAR, came from Steuben.)
And Mr. Williams's Spanish?
"One year at Austin High School has not really made me much better than 'buenos dias,' " he said, "but nearly all the government people spoke English, with the exception of the president. He uses a translator."

Thirty Days Hath . . .
PETER NORTON, the entrepreneur whose face stares out from thousands of yellow boxes of software, read a flier about a trip to St. Petersburg being planned by the nonprofit American Friends of the Hermitage Museum and fired off an e-mail message to the group's executive director, KATE BROOKS: "Love to go but don't see how we can return on June 31st."
Only then did Dr. Brooks catch the error, which appeared in five places on the four-page flier: June, of course, has only 30 days.
"This is the kind of mistake you make on computers when you type your own stuff," she said. "I'm using the technology he invented, and that's the problem. I'm so proud I can open the e-mail and read it that I don't realize what the problem really is. For me, it's all about art and Catherine the Great."
St. Petersburg was familiar territory to many of the guests at a party for Dr. Brooks's group at the Forbes Gallery, at 60 Fifth Avenue, on Wednesday. CHRISTOPHER FORBES, pictured, the vice chairman of Forbes and the honorary chairman of an April 17 fund-raiser for the American Friends of the Hermitage, recalled a recent trip: "Only George Gilder outpulled my lecture at the Hermitage," he said, referring to the libertarian writer who became a cheerleader for the high-tech economy of the 1990's.
Mr. Forbes said his topic had been Faberge: "People don't look to me for investment advice."

A Churchill for Chartwell
Winston Churchill's granddaughter EDWINA SANDYS, who has done sculptures for the Cathedral of St. John the Divine and the United Nations, is working on a painting.
For an apartment-house lobby.
The painting will show her grandfather at Chartwell, the manor house in which he lived from 1924 until his death in 1965. It is no coincidence that the 34-story condominium, on Second Avenue near 91st Street, is being named Chartwell House: One of the developers, RICHARD L. FISHER, is such a Churchill aficionado that he named his son, 28, WINSTON. With Glenn Collins

GRAPHIC: Photos 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (89%); THEATER (78%); CONSERVATISM (77%); ARTISTS & PERFORMERS (75%); EXECUTIVES (74%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (71%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (70%); NONPROFIT ORGANIZATIONS (70%); MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (69%); PRIME MINISTERS (62%); COMPUTER SOFTWARE (60%) Terms not available from NYTimes. 

ORGANIZATION: FOREIGN POLICY ASSOCIATION (82%) INNER CIRCLE; AMERICAN FRIENDS OF THE HERMITAGE; FOREIGN POLICY ASSN 

PERSON: RUDY GIULIANI (90%) GIULIANI, RUDOLPH W (MAYOR); BARRON, JAMES; COLLINS, GLENN; WILLIAMS, DAVE H; JUAN CARLOS I, KING OF SPAIN; CHURCHILL, WINSTON LEONARD SPENCER (SIR) (1874-1965); SANDYS, EDWINA 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%); MADRID, SPAIN (79%); SAINT PETERSBURG, RUSSIAN FEDERATION (66%) NEW YORK, USA (92%) SPAIN (94%); UNITED STATES (92%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (67%) SPAIN; ST PETERSBURG (RUSSIA); NEW YORK CITY

LOAD-DATE: March 9, 2001 



226 of 868 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 9, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section C; Column 2; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1146 words

HEADLINE: Bankruptcy Bill May Lead to a Surge of Filings 

BYLINE:  By RIVA D. ATLAS 

 BODY:
As legislation to tighten the rules for filing for bankruptcy gathers momentum in Congress, consumers facing a financial squeeze are being advised to act sooner rather than later.
 Lawyers say they are cautioning clients not to delay, and some are running advertisements. Those actions and a continued weakening of the economy are likely to contribute to a surge in filings this year. 
 "It would be imprudent not to advise people that the legislation will make the process more cumbersome," David Shaev, a consumer bankruptcy lawyer in Manhattan, said. 
A radio advertisement asks: "Have you thought about filing for personal bankruptcy? You may be well advised to make that decision right now, before the bankruptcy law is amended." The ad, which has been running on WCBS-AM radio in New York, on behalf of Dennis J. O'Sullivan, a bankruptcy lawyer in Flushing, Queens, concludes, "Now could be your last opportunity to receive relief under the current law." 
Samuel J. Gerdano, executive director of the American Bankruptcy Institute, a trade association, said, "It's ironic that the purpose of the law is to reduce bankruptcy filings."
The legislation would make it harder for individuals to walk away from their obligations if they have the means to pay at least some of their credit card bills or other debts. After being rejected by President Bill Clinton, it was revived this year under the new administration. The House passed it last week, and last night the Senate was sorting through proposed amendments to the bill, which, if passed, President Bush is expected to sign.
Consumer bankruptcy filings declined 5 percent last year, according to data compiled by the Administrative Office of the United States Courts. Figures for the first months of this year are not yet available.
But data compiled by Lundquist Consulting on behalf of Visa's network of bank card issuers -- which generally support the bill in hopes of recovering more money from bankruptcy filers -- show a 20.3 percent increase in consumer bankruptcies from Jan. 1 through March 3 of this year, compared with a year earlier.
Bankruptcy leaves a consumer with a tarnished credit record for up to 10 years. So consumers in financial distress usually wait for several months after they are laid off or otherwise thrown into a cash squeeze and they have exhausted all their other options before going into bankruptcy.
When they do have to file, the most popular route is Chapter 7, which is the section of the United States Bankruptcy Code that allows consumers as well as businesses to shed most of their unsecured debts, or those that are not backed by assets like homes or cars. 
The bill, though, would make this more difficult for consumers. Last year, 69 percent of the people who filed for bankruptcy opted for Chapter 7, according to the United States courts office.
Consumer lawyers say the proposed law will force more individuals into Chapter 13, which requires debtors to work out a plan to pay off at least a portion of their debts, typically over three to five years. 
That is because the new law will require individuals to meet certain standards before they are permitted to file for Chapter 7. For example, the debtor's income needs to be less than his or her state's median income. There are also certain minimum payments to creditors that, should an individual be able afford to make them, would result in the case being shifted to a Chapter 13 bankruptcy.
Some bankruptcy lawyers have already noticed an increase in clients. 
"My Chapter 7 business is up 25 percent so far this year," said Barbara Wyskowski, a consumer bankruptcy lawyer based in Sea Girt, N.J., adding that she gets several e-mail inquiries a day about the legislation. Ms. Wyskowski predicts that business will pick up more if the law is passed. From the time the legislation is signed into law, there will be a six-month period before the changes take effect.
Robert A. Goering Sr., a consumer bankruptcy lawyer in Cincinnati, who noted little pickup in his work so far, said: "I'd expect a 10 to 15 percent increase in bankruptcy filings if the law passes in the six months preceding its implementation. Then I'd expect a dramatic decline after it becomes effective."
The bill's sponsor in the House, George W. Gekas, Republican of Pennsylvania, said he was disappointed in the legal advisers. 
"I think it's an awful commentary on our society when people are advised to go bankrupt as fast as they can," he said. "Every time somebody files for bankruptcy, everybody else in the country pays for it one way or another." 
Mr. Gekas said his bill would not remove bankruptcy as a remedy for those who really need it.
"Either under our bill or the current system, if a person is legitimately burdened so that there is no other way out, they are guaranteed relief," he said.
The shift in administrations made it more likely that bankruptcy laws would be overhauled, hastening the decision of some individuals to file last year, lawyers said.
Irwin L. Zalutsky of Zalutsky & Pinski, a law firm in Chicago that specializes in bankruptcies, said worries about the new bill prompted one of his clients to file for Chapter 7 in December. The client, a construction worker, was concerned that his income of about $70,000 would prohibit him from Chapter 7 filing in the future.
"I talked with him early last year, and told him there could be a law change," Mr. Zalutsky said. "He called back in October, and I asked how business looked. He said there were fewer construction jobs, and his creditors were hounding him." 
Supporters of the bankruptcy bill note that, in cases of extreme hardship, the courts have the discretion to permit individuals to file for Chapter 7 even if they exceed the income requirements.
Still, the matter is at the discretion of the judge, and some individuals do not want to take the risk. "It would be a luck of the draw, depending on which judge you get," Ms. Wyskowski said.
Like the lawyers, some credit counselors say more people are coming in for guidance, though they generally refer people for legal help elsewhere. As part of the pending legislation, consumers would be required to get credit counseling from an approved nonprofit organization before seeking bankruptcy protection.
"Our advice is always aimed at finding a way to avoid bankruptcy," said Timothy Raftis, vice president of Incharge Institute of America, a national nonprofit credit counseling organization. But, he added, "sometimes bankruptcy is the best option."
A former secretary at a leading company said she and her husband were being advised by Ms. Wyskowski to file for bankruptcy soon. Illness caused both of them to lose their jobs, she said, and her husband still faces surgery to remove a tumor.
"I called her because I was at my wits' end," the woman said. "She said the laws may change and we need to file as soon as possible." 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (96%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY LAW (91%); LEGISLATION (90%); PERSONAL DEBT (90%); US CHAPTER 7 BANKRUPTCY (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); CONSUMER LAW (78%); CREDIT REGULATION (78%); BUSINESS INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (78%); BROADCAST ADVERTISING (77%); RADIO ADVERTISING (77%); EXECUTIVES (72%); US PRESIDENTS (70%); BUSINESS & PROFESSIONAL ASSOCIATIONS (67%); PAYMENT CARDS & SERVICES (65%); BUSINESS FINANCIAL TROUBLE (58%) BANKRUPTCIES; LAW AND LEGISLATION 

COMPANY: VISA INC (54%)

ORGANIZATION: AMERICAN BANKRUPTCY INSTITUTE (55%)

TICKER: V (NYSE) (54%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS522320 FINANCIAL TRANSACTIONS PROCESSING, RESERVE & CLEARINGHOUSE ACTIVITIES (54%)

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (73%); BILL CLINTON (54%) BUSH, GEORGE W (PRES); ATLAS, RIVA D 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%) NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%) UNITED STATES

LOAD-DATE: March 9, 2001 



227 of 868 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 9, 2001
Correction Appended 
 Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Foreign Desk; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 1142 words

HEADLINE: In Filling Latin Post, Bush May Reignite Feuds 

BYLINE:  By RAYMOND BONNER and CHRISTOPHER MARQUIS 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, March 8 

 BODY:
President Bush's choice for the top Latin American policy post, Otto J. Reich, will face strong Democratic opposition in an echo of the fractious foreign policy feuds that marked United States policy in Central America 20 years ago, according to administration and Congressional officials.
 Mr. Reich, who officials said is undergoing a White House background check before his nomination to be assistant secretary of state for the Western Hemisphere, was in charge of a covert program during the Reagan administration to generate public support in the United States for the anti-Sandinista rebels, known as the contras. 
 A government investigation concluded that Mr. Reich's office engaged in prohibited acts of domestic propaganda, like writing letters submitted to the op-ed pages of United States newspapers to appear as if they came from a contra leader. 
For the past six years, Mr. Reich, who came to the United States from Cuba when he was 15, has been a lobbyist, and one of his major clients is Bacardi-Martini, which has paid him more than $600,000, according to public records. Mr. Reich played a role in writing the Helms-Burton Act, which tightens the embargo on Cuba. The act has provisions that could benefit Bacardi by allowing suits against some foreign companies that do business in Cuba, which include Bacardi's competitors.
Mr. Reich's firm has also lobbied recently on behalf of Lockheed, which seeks to sell F-16 fighter aircraft to Chile, a move that would end a two-decade ban on the sale of high-technology arms to Latin America.
Mr. Reich's appointment has the backing of Gov. Jeb Bush of Florida and of Karl Rove, President Bush's senior policy adviser, who have acted at the behest of leaders of the Cuban-American community in Florida, Mr. Reich's supporters said. They argue that the Cuban-American community, a pivotal constituency in a narrowly divided state, voted heavily for Mr. Bush and deserves the appointment, according to Congressional officials from both parties.
Two key Democrats on the Senate Foreign Relations Committee expressed reservations about Mr. Reich.
"I do not believe that under these circumstances Mr. Reich is the right person for the job at this critical time," said Senator Christopher J. Dodd of Connecticut. "This is an important position that is going to require diplomatic and political skills to maintain bipartisan support for U.S. policies in the hemisphere."
Senator John Kerry of Massachusetts said Mr. Reich would have to answer some "serious questions" about his role in Central America during the Reagan years.
Critics of Mr. Reich's appointment say that putting him in the top post for Latin America portends a rocky road for Mr. Bush's repeatedly expressed desire to improve regional relations. "Our own hemisphere is in our national strategic interests," Mr. Bush said during the campaign.
"If Bush tries to placate hard-line Cuban-Americans in South Florida by appointing Otto Reich, he is going to find himself at odds with the core legions of the Republican Party -- farmers and businesses -- who want to open up to trade with Cuba," said Wayne Smith, an adjunct professor of Latin American studies at Johns Hopkins University and a former head of the United States interests section in Havana, who advocates liberalizing ties with Cuba. 
Mr. Reich's supporters say that those who claim he will pursue his own agenda on Cuba or view regional relations through the prism of his anti-Castro sentiments are misguided.
"That's where people are in for a surprise," said Daniel Fisk, a senior fellow at the Heritage Foundation and a former aide to Senator Jesse Helms, the North Carolina Republican who was the driving force behind the Helms-Burton bill. "They're going to find him with a broader and deeper understanding of the hemisphere than the skeptics give him credit for." 
Representative Lincoln Diaz-Balart, a Republican from Miami who has led the efforts to appoint Mr. Reich and personally approached Mr. Rove, called Mr. Reich "amply qualified" for the post.
The State Department and White House declined to comment on Mr. Reich's expected nomination because it has not yet been announced. Mr. Reich is out of the country and not available for comment, according to his office, RMA International, in Arlington, Va. Mr. Reich is president of the consulting and lobbying firm.
A number of liberal groups are preparing to mount a campaign against Mr. Reich.
"It is absolutely the wrong choice," said William Goodfellow, director of the Center for International Policy. "This will put us right back there" in the ideological battles of the Reagan era, Mr. Goodfellow said. 
Mr. Reich antagonized many Democrats when he was head of the Office of Public Diplomacy, set up by President Reagan to counter the heavy criticism of the administration's policies in Central America. 
Although officially part of the State Department, Mr. Reich reported to the National Security Council, where Lt. Col. Oliver North was running the covert anti-Sandinista program that arranged for the sale of weapons to Iran and the diversion of the profits to the contras.
In carrying out its work, Mr. Reich's office "engaged in prohibited, covert propaganda activities," the United States comptroller general concluded after an investigation in 1987. 
In one instance, the office arranged for a university professor to write an op-ed piece for The Wall Street Journal, which was critical of the Sandinistas, without revealing to the readers, or even the newspaper, that the professor was a consultant in Mr. Reich's office and the office had collaborated in writing the article. "Officially, this office had no role in its preparation," Mr. Reich's deputy notified the White House in a "confidential-eyes only" memorandum.
At the same time, the office was writing two op-ed pieces, for The New York Times and The Washington Post, that would appear as coming from a contra leader, the memo said.
Mr. Reich left the public diplomacy office in 1986, before the Iran-contra affair erupted, and became ambassador to Venezuela, where he remained until 1989.
In his current role with RMA International, Mr. Reich is again associated with Johnathan S. Miller, the firm's managing director, who was Mr. Reich's deputy at the Public Diplomacy office. He has lobbied for British American Tobacco, being paid more than $100,000 in the last three years, according to public records.
Aware that he faces a battle over his nomination, Mr. Reich has turned to some surprising places. This week, he left two messages with a New York Times reporter in Miami. In Spanish, Mr. Reich identified himself, and then said, "I am a Cuban, who lives in Miami and has worked for the American government for many years." He concluded the brief message, "I need your support for my nomination as assistant secretary of state for Latin America." 

CORRECTION-DATE: March 14, 2001

 CORRECTION:
An article on Friday about Otto J. Reich, President Bush's choice for the top Latin American diplomatic post, and the opposition he faces from Democrats in Congress reported that Mr. Reich had left two telephone messages with a reporter for The New York Times in Miami, asking for support for his nomination. The caller identified himself as Mr. Reich. But in an e-mail message to The Times on Monday, Mr. Reich said he had not made any such calls.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: FOREIGN POLICY (91%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (91%); FOREIGN RELATIONS (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); PUBLIC POLICY (89%); HISPANIC AMERICANS (89%); EMBARGOES & SANCTIONS (87%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (79%); POLITICAL PARTIES (78%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (78%); STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (78%); BACKGROUND CHECKS (76%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (66%); FIGHTERS & BOMBERS (64%); INVESTIGATIONS (55%) APPOINTMENTS AND EXECUTIVE CHANGES; CUBAN-AMERICANS; UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; EMBARGOES AND ECONOMIC SANCTIONS 

ORGANIZATION: STATE DEPARTMENT 

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (92%); RONALD REAGAN (89%); JOHN KERRY (79%); CHRISTOPHER DODD (59%); KARL ROVE (59%) BONNER, RAYMOND; MARQUIS, CHRISTOPHER; BUSH, GEORGE W (PRES); REICH, OTTO J; REAGAN, RONALD 

GEOGRAPHIC: FLORIDA, USA (92%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%); CONNECTICUT, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (97%); CUBA (94%); CENTRAL AMERICA (92%); LATIN AMERICA (91%); CHILE (79%); NORTH & SOUTH AMERICAS (56%) LATIN AMERICA; CUBA; 

LOAD-DATE: March 9, 2001 



228 of 868 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 9, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 3; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 1198 words

HEADLINE: NEWS SUMMARY 

 BODY:
 INTERNATIONAL A3-9

U.S. Says G.I.'s in Kosovo Will Not Patrol in Serbia
The Bush administration has told its NATO allies that it will not let American peacekeepers cross from Kosovo into Serbia, despite a spreading Albanian insurgency in a border zone inside Serbia from which NATO has excluded the Yugoslav Army. A1

A largely American peacekeeping force occupied a village straddling the Macedonia-Kosovo border in a coordinated move with Macedonia to flush ethnic Albanian guerrillas from their mountain base. A4

China Leaders Push for Unity
President Jiang Zemin, at a secret meeting last month, pressed 2,000 top officials of the Communist Party to stand firm on two divisive issues: the campaign to crush the Falun Gong spiritual movement and the correctness of the decision to use troops against the 1989 pro-democracy protesters in Tiananmen Square. A1

Prime Minister Zhu Rongji said an explosion at a rural Chinese schoolhouse that killed at least 41 people, many of them children, was caused by a deranged suicide bomber. But many parents said their children had been assembling fireworks. A8

Bush Pick May Renew Old Rift
President Bush's choice for the top Latin American policy post, Otto J. Reich, will face strong Democratic opposition in an echo of the fractious foreign policy feuds that marked United States policy in Central America 20 years ago. Mr. Reich was in charge of a Reagan administration program to generate support in the United States for anti-Sandinista rebels in Nicaragua. A6

I.R.A. to Resume Arms Talks
The guerrillas said they would resume talks with the independent commission supervising the turnover of their weaponry to help preserve the shaky power-sharing provincial government in Northern Ireland. A8

Dispute over Guerrilla Arrest
Colombia made public a grainy videotape that officials said showed Jose Maria Ballestas being arrested in Caracas last month. Mr. Ballestas is a member of Colombia's second-biggest a guerrilla force, which hijacked a Colombian airliner in 1999. Venezuela denies that it arrested Mr. Ballestas, but Colombia said Venezuela subsequently freed him. A5

World Briefing A6

NATIONAL A10-16

House Passes Tax Bill; 10 Democrats Break Ranks
The House, voting 230 to 198, approved the heart of President Bush's tax-cut plan, an across-the-board reduction in income tax rates. Ten Democrats voted with the Republican majority. Democratic opponents said a large tax reduction would mostly help the well-to-do and leave no money to meet social needs. The bill faces an uncertain fate in the Senate, which is split 50-50. A1

States Tighten Budget Belts
As many as 23 states may cut budgets or reach into rainy day funds for the first time in years, as officials try to rein in financially costly programs that were enacted before the economy turned sluggish. A1

More Hearings on Florida Vote
The chairwoman of the United States Civil Rights Commission, Mary Frances Berry, sent Gov. Jeb Bush of Florida a letter informing him that the commission intended to hold more hearings in Florida this spring to follow up on the state's response to last fall's electoral problems. A12

View of Sub Captain's Actions
An investigating admiral who chronicled a series of errors contributing to the collision between the submarine Greeneville and a Japanese trawler nonetheless told a naval court of inquiry that he did not believe the submarine's captain, Cmdr. Scott D. Waddle, above, had acted with criminal negligence. A10

'Next Stop, (Your Name Here)'
The Boston subway system, the nation's oldest, will auction off naming rights to four busy stations: Downtown Crossing, Back Bay, Sullivan Square and South Station. Winners can add their names to station titles, but not replace them. Many Bostonians dislike the plan. A10

Berry Grower Signs Union Pact
The United Farm Workers signed its first contract with a strawberry grower, Coastal Berry, capping a four-year drive to unionize California strawberry workers. A16

Prize for Priest-Scientist
The Rev. Arthur Peacocke, a Church of England priest and theologian who holds a doctorate in physical biochemistry, will receive the Templeton Prize for Progress in Religion, one of the world's largest monetary awards, worth about $1 million. A13

NEW YORK/REGION B1-7

Census Finds Minorities Fuel New Jersey's Growth
Census figures show the population of New Jersey fanned out into the state's booming midsection and its coastal counties during the 1990's. Hispanics accounted for more than half the state's growth between 1990 and 2000 and are likely to outnumber blacks soon. Comparable data for New York and Connecticut are to be made public later this month. A1

Stormy Hearing on Term Limits
A City Council hearing on term limits raised fundamental questions about the nature of democracy, the civil rights movement and the limits of power in New York City. B1

Indictments in Stock Scheme
Twenty people were indicted on charges that they worked with the Gambino crime family to bilk thousands of investors out of more than $50 million, selling fraudulent stocks at high prices and threatening anyone who sought to withdraw. B3

EDUCATION

Panel Backs Testing Measure
A Senate committee unanimously approved a bill that would require states to test students in grades three to eight annually for progress in reading and math. But several Democrats threatened to withdraw their support if the Bush administration did not back a substantial increase in spending for schools in poor areas. A13

WEEKEND E1-30; E31-44

SPORTS D1-8

Seton Hall Advances
The Pirates beat No. 21 Georgetown, 58-40, to move into the semifinals against Boston College in the Big East tournament. D1

OBITUARIES B8-9

Dame Ninette de Valois
The founder of England's Royal Ballet and a major British choreographer, she was 102. B8

Leslie C. Quick Jr.
A founder of the Quick & Reilly brokerage business, and a leading supporter of Roman Catholic charities in the New York area, he was 75. B9

BUSINESS DAY C1-12

Charges in Online Auction Sale
Three men accused of trying to sell an abstract painting for $135,805 on eBay last year were indicted on charges of taking part in a bidding ring that cost art buyers $450,000. A1

Beating a Bankruptcy Deadline
Lawyers are advising clients struggling with consumer debts to file for bankruptcy sooner rather than later because legislation to tighten bankruptcy filing rules is gathering momentum in Congress. C1

Amazon Chief's Trades Studied
The S.E.C. is said to be investigating stock sales by Jeffrey P. Bezos, the chairman of Amazon.com, made in February, just before a Wall Street firm released a negative research report on the company. C1

O'Neill Criticized for Holdings
Treasury Secretary Paul H. O'Neill's $117 million Alcoa stake raises a number of potential conflicts because of the nature of both Mr. O'Neill's job and his investments, corporate and government analysts say. C1

Business Digest C1

World Business W1

EDITORIAL A18-19

Editorials: Losing momentum on Korea; the F.A.A.'s contract; a setback in Parkinson's research; continuity among prosecutors.

Columns: Gail Collins, Thomas L. Friedman.

Crossword E42
TV Listings E29
Public Lives B2
Weather C11

GRAPHIC: Photos 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Summary 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US PRESIDENTS (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (90%); NEWS BRIEFS (90%); PEACEKEEPING (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (89%); REBELLIONS & INSURGENCIES (89%); POLITICAL PARTIES (89%); TAXES & TAXATION (86%); ARRESTS (86%); BUDGETS (84%); TAX LAW (84%); TAX RELIEF (84%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (79%); FOREIGN POLICY (78%); ARMIES (78%); BOMBINGS (78%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (78%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (78%); PROTESTS & DEMONSTRATIONS (77%); HIJACKING (75%); PRIME MINISTERS (75%); POLITICS (75%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (75%); CULTS & SECTS (75%); ARMED FORCES (71%); POLITICAL PROTESTS (70%); APPROVALS (69%); SUICIDE BOMBINGS (68%); INCOME TAX (65%); BUDGET CUTS (64%) NO INDEX TERMS FROM NYTIMES 

ORGANIZATION: NORTH ATLANTIC TREATY ORGANIZATION (92%)

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (89%)

GEOGRAPHIC: SERBIA (99%); UNITED STATES (97%); KOSOVO (94%); COLOMBIA (94%); SERBIA & MONTENEGRO (94%); ALBANIA (93%); MACEDONIA, THE FORMER YUGOSLAV REPUBLIC OF (93%); VENEZUELA, BOLIVARIAN REPUBLIC OF (92%); NICARAGUA (79%); CHINA (79%); NORTHERN IRELAND (79%); CENTRAL AMERICA (79%); LATIN AMERICA (58%)

LOAD-DATE: March 9, 2001 



229 of 868 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 9, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section B; Column 5; Foreign Desk; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 639 words

PERSON: Felipe Pazos 

HEADLINE: Felipe Pazos, 88, Economist; Cuban Split Early With Castro 

BYLINE:  By PAUL LEWIS 

 BODY:
Felipe Pazos, a Cuban economist who initially supported Fidel Castro because he said he believed that he would restore democracy but broke with him in 1959, died on Feb. 26 in exile at Puerto Ordaz, Venezuela. He was 88.
 In February 1957, Dr. Pazos and his son Xavier arranged for a correspondent from The New York Times, Herbert L. Matthews, to interview and photograph Mr. Castro and his guerrillas at their hideaway in the southern Sierra Maestra. 
 The interviews belied the contentions by the dictatorship of Fulgencio Batista that Mr. Castro had been killed and propelled him and his revolutionaries into the international limelight.
In July 1957, Dr. Pazos met Mr. Castro in the mountains. With Raul Chibas, another Batista opponent, they issued a manifesto intended to reassure the middle classes about the revolutionaries' intentions. 
The revolutionaries committed themselves to "the fine ideal of a Cuba free, democratic and just," pledging to restore the democratic Constitution of 1940 that had been abrogated after the Batista coup in 1952. 
They promised a free press and free elections in all unions. Uncultivated land was to be redistributed among landless peasants. 
Immediately after the manifesto, Dr. Pazos and his family were forced to flee the country.
When Mr. Castro seized power two years later, Dr. Pazos was reappointed president of the Banco Nacional de Cuba, Cuba's central bank, which he had headed in the early 50's, resigning after Batista took over. 
But the two quickly fell out, with Dr. Pazos increasingly disillusioned by Mr. Castro's confrontational attitude toward the United States, his failure to make good on his pledge to restore democracy and the growing power of Communists. 
Accompanying Mr. Castro on a visit to the United States in April 1959, Dr. Pazos was annoyed at being forbidden to discuss economic aid for Cuba. 
In October, he was further disillusioned by the arrest and imprisonment for treason of Maj. Hubert Matos, the former military governor of Camaguey and a leading anti-Communist in the army.
Later that month, when the former air force commander, Diaz Lanz, flew a B-25 bomber from Florida over Havana to drop anti- Castro leaflets, Mr. Castro denounced the United States for complicity in the raid.
On Oct. 23, 1959, Dr. Pazos told President Osvaldo Dorticos that he wanted to resign, saying Mr. Castro had overreacted to the raid and that if Major Matos had been arrested for opposing Communism, he should be, too. 
"He realized then that the revolution would be taken over by the Communists and the 1940 Constitution would never be restored as Castro had promised," said Ernesto Betancourt, another former Castro supporter who also fell out with Mr. Castro and went into exile.
Mr. Castro's brother Raul proposed executing Dr. Pazos and Major Matos immediately. 
But Dr. Pazos was eventually allowed to leave the country, and his Central Bank position was taken by Che Guevara.
Dr. Pazos was born in 1912 in Havana. He earned a doctorate from the University of Havana in 1938, joined the Cuban foreign service and in 1944 attended the Bretton Woods conference that created the World Bank and International Monetary Fund. 
He was on the I.M.F. staff from 1946 until 1949, when he returned to Havana to work on the creation of the central bank there, working as president from 1950 until 1952.
After leaving Cuba, he worked on the Alliance for Progress and then for the Inter-American Development Bank, until his retirement in 1975, when he moved to Venezuela.
His best known publications were "Economic Development of Latin America" (1961) and "Chronic Inflation in Latin America" (1972).
His wife, the former Fara Vea, died in 1982. His son Xavier, who played the boy in the film of "The Old Man and the Sea," is an engineer in Venezuela. Another son and a daughter also survive. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Obituary (Obit); Biography 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: DEATHS & OBITUARIES (92%); INTERVIEWS (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (88%); ARMED FORCES (85%); ANTI-CASTRO CUBANS (78%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (78%); FREEDOM OF PRESS (77%); COUPS (77%); INTERNATIONAL ASSISTANCE (75%); TREASON (72%); ARMIES (71%); ECONOMIC POLICY (70%); ECONOMIC NEWS (70%); FARM LABOR (68%); AIR FORCES (62%); ARRESTS (62%) DEATHS (OBITUARIES); BIOGRAPHICAL INFORMATION 

COMPANY: BANCO NACIONAL DE CUBA (55%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS522298 ALL OTHER NONDEPOSITORY CREDIT INTERMEDIATION (55%); SIC6019 CENTRAL RESERVE DEPOSITORY INSTITUTIONS, NEC (55%)

FIDEL CASTRO (92%); RAUL CASTRO (79%) PAZOS, FELIPE; LEWIS, PAUL 

GEOGRAPHIC: CUBA (94%); UNITED STATES (93%); VENEZUELA, BOLIVARIAN REPUBLIC OF (92%)

CATEGORY: Business and Finance 

LOAD-DATE: March 9, 2001 



230 of 868 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 9, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; National Desk; Pg. 14

LENGTH: 1395 words

HEADLINE: Excerpts From House Debate on Tax Cut Plan 

 BODY:
Following are excerpts from comments by Speaker J. Dennis Hastert and Representative Richard A. Gephardt, the minority leader, in the House debate yesterday on President Bush's tax cut plan, as recorded by The New York Times:

Mr. Hastert
 I rise today in support of the Economic Growth and Tax Relief Act of 2001. The name of this legislation is significant for two reasons. 
 First, this bill promotes economic growth by returning money to the private sector, alias, the American taxpayer. Who among us can say that the economy doesn't need a little encouragement? Consumer confidence is down, energy prices are up, economic growth is stagnant. The economy needs a boost and this tax relief will provide that boost. It will give consumers more money to pay off credit card bills. It will give families more resources to pay off high energy bills. And it will give parents more money to pay for education expenses. It will give the private sector more money so it can grow more.
Second, this tax bill gives taxpayers some relief, also. My friends, taxpayers need some relief. They need relief from the highest tax burden put on taxpayers since the end of the Second World War. . . . The budget is balanced. In fact, we now have the largest tax surplus in our nation's history. That means the American people are paying too much in taxes, giving too much of their money to the government and not enough money to their families. Now is the time to give taxpayers some relief.
I've heard criticism on this floor from some of our friends in the other side of the aisle. And it's based that, you know, we haven't got the process right. Well let me tell you, when you talk about process and you look at giving people a retroactive tax cut this year, I remember this year's budget. We passed it last year. We set aside 90 percent of that surplus, non-Social Security-Medicare surplus, to pay down the debt. And we took 10 percent of it -- you know what? -- to give people a tax break.
Well, we passed tax relief out of this House and out of the Senate and we sent it down to the other end of Pennsylvania Avenue and President Clinton vetoed that. We have $8 billion set aside in this year's budget to give people a retroactive tax break. We ought to do it. It's there. We owe it to the American people. It's the right thing to do.
I've heard that the argument is based on process and not on substance. Well, we need to look at substance. I know that many of you really want to be for tax relief but for political reasons you're now opposed to it.
Tax relief goes to the heart of what this country's all about. There's three things that you can do with a surplus. Some of it we need to spend. We're going to spend some money on education and defense and the things, the needs of our people across this country. We're going to take some of that money and, as of Sept. 30 of this year, we'll pay down $600 billion in public debt. We need to do that. But we need to take a fraction of that surplus and we need to give it back to the American people so that they have it in their pocket. So that they can make decisions how they're going to spend that money for their families and their future and education and the needs of their debt, their credit card debt.
You know, I don't think we ought to let politics get in the way of taking care of the needs for the American people. I remember in 1996 standing in this chamber. And in 1996 we were able to pass one of the first tax relief bills in a long time, almost over a decade. And as we finished the business of the day and we went into special orders, I stood over there underneath the balcony. And one of my colleagues, happened to be from Illinois, on the other side of the aisle stood up and he was giving a very, very impassioned speech why we shouldn't have tax relief for the American people -- that we had a lot of responsibilities; we need to spend that money. And he made a statement and said, you know, the American government can't afford to give this money back to the American people. And there was a fellow that stood right up there up in that gallery and he came to the front of the gallery and said, "What do you mean? It's our money."
Well, folks, the guards came up and dragged that guy out and we never heard from him again. But I'll tell you something, that gentleman was right. It is their money. It is the money of the American taxpayers.

Mr. Gephardt
I think that it's wrong to be taking up a tax bill without a budget, in fact, without even spending a moment deciding what the budget will say. By assigning nine hundred and some odd billion dollars to a tax cut that this bill encompasses, we're making decisions that will make it difficult or different, at least, to make other decisions that we might want to make in the budget. How much debt we're going to pay down, how much we're going to assign to defense or education or health care or all the other functions that are in the budget. So the cart is in front of the horse and we should be waiting for this tax bill until we have considered the budget. 
A second reason that I urge you to look at the Democratic alternative is because the forecast that, or the premise of the context for this tax cut bill so often are wrong. In fact C.B.O. recently said that they're always wrong. Now sometimes they're better than we thought they were going to be; sometimes they're worse. You know the other day the weather forecasters said we were going to have a big snow storm in the Northeast. A lot of us listened to that forecast. People decided not to fly. Flights were canceled. Airports were closed. People stayed home from work. People went and got shovels and bought water and flour and bread. And then it didn't snow. But when it didn't snow none of us were surprised because often weather forecasts are wrong. We are taking an action today, if we vote for this bill, that really leaves us less alternatives in case the forecasts are wrong. Why would we want to do that? 
The third argument I'd make is that the thing we've got to keep most on our mind is what action can we take that will best help the economy, that will make the economy go forward. 
I had lunch the other day with a very wealthy individual. And he said "Why are you doing this big tax cut?" And I used a lot of the arguments that my friends on the other side of the aisle make and that I believe and we all believe. And that is, we have a big surplus. And we ought to give taxpayer money back to taxpayers. That's the right thing to do. That will help the economy. He said, "Yes, a tax cut of a reasonable size will be helpful to people." But he said, "Remember the most helpful thing to all of us is keeping the economy working." And then he said, think about this. He said 1 percent off interest rates would pick up for an average family of four about $1,500 a year savings in car payments and house payments. And if you add that to a reasonable tax cut, of, he said, maybe $800 a year, you're going to wind up putting more money in those people's pockets than by the larger tax cut that would probably keep interest rates up. 
We have to keep in our mind that the goal here is to keep the economy moving, to keep unemployment down, to keep growth up. And one of the best ways to do that is to keep interest rates down. And so I argue to you today: Think about what this does to the economy and to ordinary families in this country who pay interest rates every month. 
Another reason that I think we need to reconsider this tax cut and to go for the smaller alternative is because it allows us to take care of other alternatives in the budget. The president has talked very dramatically about what he wants to do in education. Query: Will we have the funds to do what he wants to do, what we want to do in education? Will we be able to take care of Medicare and Social Security? Kent Conrad the other day made a very important statement. He said we could make a mistake on a tax cut in 1981, but we didn't have $4 trillion in debt at the time and we didn't have the baby boomers coming to the Social Security fund nine years from now. We all voted two weeks ago to put Medicare in a lockbox. The budget the president sent that encompasses the tax bill, part of which is on the floor today, invades the Medicare trust fund. The lockbox has already been picked if we vote for this kind of a tax bill. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Text 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TAXES & TAXATION (96%); TAX RELIEF (93%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); TAX INCENTIVES (90%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (90%); LEGISLATION (90%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (90%); TAX LAW (90%); CONSUMER CONFIDENCE (90%); POLITICAL DEBATES (90%); FAMILY (89%); BUDGETS (89%); POLITICAL PARTIES (78%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); VETO (78%); ENERGY & UTILITY SECTOR PERFORMANCE (77%); PERSONAL FINANCE (75%); PRICE INCREASES (72%); NATURAL GAS & ELECTRIC UTILITIES (70%); HISTORY (66%); MEDICARE (64%); WORLD WAR II (51%) TAXATION 

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (90%); BILL CLINTON (58%) HASTERT, J DENNIS (SPEAKER); GEPHARDT, RICHARD A (REPR); BUSH, GEORGE W (PRES) 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: March 9, 2001 



231 of 868 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 10, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Editorial Desk; Pg. 12

LENGTH: 508 words

HEADLINE: Contagion and Confidence 

 BODY:
Foot-and-mouth disease and bovine spongiform encephalopathy, better known as mad cow disease, are radically different kinds of illnesses. Foot-and-mouth disease, which last appeared in the United States in 1929, is an old agricultural enemy -- endemic in much of the world, highly contagious, debilitating to young animals, but seldom harmful to humans. Mad cow is caused by an agent whose existence was largely undreamed of until a few years ago -- an abnormal protein called a prion. Mad cow is not contagious, but it is invariably fatal to animals and, in the form of the new variant Creutzfeldt-Jakob disease, to humans infected by it. 
 What these two diseases share is an aftermath -- the slaughter of entire herds of infected and potentially infected farm animals. This is a preventive measure that has turned Britain, where 127 farms have been infected so far with foot-and-mouth disease, into an agricultural inferno. First came the herd destructions that followed the diagnosis of mad cow in the late 1980's. Now the herds with foot-and-mouth disease are being destroyed. 
 The reason for all this killing is that both diseases are extraordinarily difficult to stop. Despite a ban on importing British beef and cattle, mad cow, which cannot be passed from animal to animal, has nonetheless spread to other European countries through contaminated feed. Preventing the spread of foot-and-mouth disease, which can be carried by the wind and on human clothing, is vastly more difficult. The movement of people, animals, animal byproducts and other farm products must be strictly controlled wherever the disease is suspected. In Britain, nearly every animal-related activity has come to a halt, shutting down race meetings and hunting of every kind, closing all the national parks and making travel in the countryside extremely difficult. The European Union has imposed restraints on livestock trading and extended a ban on meat imports from Britain. In the United States, Senator Tom Daschle has called for a temporary ban on all livestock imports and for the labeling of imported meat.
The outbreak of foot-and-mouth disease, coming on top of mad cow, has created in Britain a sense of profound unease. The effect on public confidence and the general economy is alarming, but the effect on farmers is devastating. They are compensated for the destruction of their animals, but there is no possible compensation for the emotional and cultural loss when a farmer sees a herd put to the flames.
It looks like the end of a way of life, the latest blow in an ongoing British agricultural tragedy that has included mad cow, a recent outbreak of swine fever and commodity prices that have been sharply affected by the strength of the pound against the euro. Wherever it may have spread in Europe, governments must do what they can to ensure that foot-and-mouth disease is controlled. But in Britain especially the government must do everything it can to see that farmers continue to farm and to ensure public confidence in the vitality of agriculture. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Editorial 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LIVESTOCK DISEASE (97%); BOVINE SPONGIFORM ENCEPHALOPATHY (95%); FOOT & MOUTH DISEASE (94%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); NEUROLOGICAL DISORDERS & INJURIES (90%); DENTAL MOUTH & JAW DISORDERS (90%); ANIMALS (90%); INFECTIOUS DISEASE (90%); IMPORT TRADE (89%); AGRICULTURAL EXPORT & IMPORT CONTROLS (89%); MEAT EXPORTS & IMPORTS (87%); IMPORT CONTROLS (87%); MEATS (79%); CREUTZFELDT JAKOB DISEASE (78%); BEEF (78%); LIVESTOCK FEED (78%); RURAL COMMUNITIES (77%); BEEF & CATTLE MARKETS (74%); FOOD BORNE ILLNESS (73%); EUROPEAN UNION (73%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (72%); NATIONAL PARKS (71%); LIVESTOCK EXPORTS & IMPORTS (70%); MEAT & LIVESTOCK MARKETS (70%); EURO (62%); DISEASES & DISORDERS (59%) LIVESTOCK; EDITORIALS; FOOT-AND-MOUTH DISEASE; MAD COW DISEASE (BOVINE SPONGIFORM ENCEPHALOPATHY); FOOD CONTAMINATION AND POISONING; LIVESTOCK DISEASES; FARMERS 

PERSON: TOM DASCHLE (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED KINGDOM (93%); UNITED STATES (93%); EUROPE (92%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (79%) GREAT BRITAIN

LOAD-DATE: March 10, 2001 



232 of 868 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 10, 2001
Correction Appended 
 Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; National Desk; Pg. 11

LENGTH: 430 words

PERSON: Richard Ruggles 

HEADLINE: Richard Ruggles, 84, Economist; Developed Measurement Tools 

BYLINE:  By BARNABY J. FEDER 

 BODY:
Richard Ruggles, a Yale University economist who developed tools for measuring national income and improving price indexes used in formulating government policy, died of complications from prostate cancer at his home in New Haven on Sunday, according to Patricia Ruggles, his daughter. He was 84.
 Mr. Ruggles showed a talent for extracting valuable information from raw data while working for the Office of Strategic Services in London during World War II. Using photographs of serial numbers from captured or destroyed German tanks, a team that Mr. Ruggles led figured out how to interpret the numbers and use them to estimate the production rates of the tanks at various German factories. The estimates proved to be surprisingly accurate. 
 Mr. Ruggles was a member of the economics department at Yale from 1946 to 1985, serving as chairman from 1969 to 1972, but he spent much of his time away from New Haven doing research for government agencies, the United Nations, the Ford Foundation and the National Bureau of Economic Research.
Much of his work was done with his first wife, Nancy, who died in 1987. A collection of their studies was published in "Pricing Systems, Indexes and Price Behavior" (Edward Elgar, 1999).
"He was one of the early architects of income and wealth accounting," said James Tobin, the Nobel laureate in economics who was Mr. Ruggles classmate at Harvard University and colleague at Yale.
Richard Ruggles was born June 15, 1916, in Columbus, Ohio, but spent most of his childhood in Cambridge, Mass., where his father, Clyde O. Ruggles, an economist, rose through the academic ranks to become dean of the Harvard Business School. 
Mr. Ruggles studied economics at Harvard as both an undergraduate and graduate before joining the Office of Strategic Services in 1943. He returned to Harvard as an instructor in 1946, the year he married the former Nancy Dunlap, but was soon lured away by Yale.
Mr. Ruggles and his wife were intrepid travelers who took their three children on research trips to the Soviet Union and numerous developing countries. The children, Steven, Catherine and Patricia, have all become known for their own data-intensive economic and sociological research.
In addition to his children, Steven, of Minneapolis; Patricia, of Washington, and Catherine Ruggles, of Los Angeles; Mr. Ruggles is survived by two sisters, Catherine Ruggles Gerrish, of Cambridge, and Rebecca Ruggles, of New York; his wife, Caridad Navarrete Kindelan, whom he married in 1989; 4 grandchildren; and Ms. Navarrete Kindelan's 7 children and 13 grandchildren.

CORRECTION-DATE: March 16, 2001

 CORRECTION:
An obituary of the Yale economist Richard Ruggles on Saturday misstated the position of his father, Clyde O. Ruggles, also an economist, at the Harvard Business School. He was a member of the faculty, not a dean.

GRAPHIC: Photo: Richard Ruggles (Charles Albertus/Yale University, 1964) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Biography; Obituary (Obit) 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: DEATHS & OBITUARIES (94%); PUBLIC POLICY (90%); GRANDCHILDREN (89%); CHILDREN (89%); ECONOMIC NEWS (88%); GRADUATE & PROFESSIONAL SCHOOLS (78%); BUSINESS EDUCATION (78%); PRICE MANAGEMENT (78%); PROSTATE DISEASE (73%); SOCIOLOGY (73%); NOBEL PRIZES (73%); PROSTATE CANCER (73%); WORLD WAR II (71%); UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (69%); DEVELOPING COUNTRIES (68%); AWARDS & PRIZES (65%) DEATHS (OBITUARIES); BIOGRAPHICAL INFORMATION 

ORGANIZATION: YALE UNIVERSITY (94%); NATIONAL BUREAU OF ECONOMIC RESEARCH (56%); UNITED NATIONS (56%); HARVARD UNIVERSITY (54%)

RUGGLES, RICHARD; FEDER, BARNABY J 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW HAVEN, CT, USA (88%); COLUMBUS, OH, USA (79%); LONDON, ENGLAND (73%) CONNECTICUT, USA (88%); OHIO, USA (79%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (88%); GERMANY (88%)

CATEGORY: Economics 

LOAD-DATE: March 10, 2001 



233 of 868 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 10, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 5; Foreign Desk; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 706 words

HEADLINE: Documents Shed New Light On C.I.A.'s View of Soviets 

BYLINE:  By JAMES RISEN 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, March 9 

 BODY:
Just three days after Cardinal Karol Wojtyla of Cracow became Pope John Paul II in 1978, the Central Intelligence Agency predicted that the installation of the first Polish pontiff would lead to political instability within Poland and the erosion of the Soviet Union's ability to control its Eastern European empire, according to newly declassified C.I.A. documents. 
 In the analysis, in October 1978, the C.I.A. forecast that Moscow would find it increasingly difficult to "check and to counter Poland's instinctive, cultural and political gravitation to the West." In fact, the Solidarity movement, a Polish workers' rebellion against Communist rule that was supported by the pope, began just two years later, and ultimately played a crucial role in ending Soviet control over Eastern Europe. 
 Over the long run, the C.I.A. report predicted, "the election of a Polish pope will contribute to an increase in nationalism in East Europe and will raise the consciousness of Orthodox churches and churchmen in the area." 
That report was among 19,000 pages of previously secret C.I.A. documents declassified and released today in conjunction with a conference at Princeton University on the history of the C.I.A.'s analysis of the Soviet Union. The 850 reports cover a broad range of military, political and economic topics from the early years of the cold war to the Soviet Union's demise in December 1991.
Some documents shed new light on how the agency viewed the Soviet Union during the final decade of the cold war, a period when political debates raged in the United States and elsewhere in the West about the nature and scale of the Soviet military threat.
Since the end of the cold war, the agency has been heavily criticized for failing to predict the Soviet Union's collapse, and for focusing too heavily on Moscow's military strengths without acknowledging how economic stagnation and changes in Soviet society were undermining Communist Party control.
But in fact, a recurring theme in the newly declassified reports from the late 1980's and from 1990 and 1991 was the notion that reforms by Mikhail S. Gorbachev, the Soviet leader, were imposing dramatic trade-offs between the military and consumer economies, and that something in the Soviet system would have to give.
By 1990, the C.I.A. believed it was probably already too late for Mr. Gorbachev's plans to succeed.
"Gorbachev's perestroika program is at a critical juncture," said a C.I.A. report in March 1990. "He is preoccupied by the decline of the Communist party's authority, social unrest, secessionist movements in non-Russian republics and continued economic deterioration. These developments will come to a head this year and make it increasingly difficult for Mr. Gorbachev to continue his policy of managed democratization and market-ization."
The report concluded that the social and political upheaval confronting Mr. Gorbachev's reforms "are the direct result of Gorbachev's own policies." His initiatives have accelerated "the disintegration of the old system's social control mechanisms -- thereby releasing powerful centrifugal forces that threaten the country's unity."
The documents -- like other previously declassified reports -- show that the C.I.A. was increasingly skeptical that the Soviet Union could afford to keep up with the United States in the arms race, especially during the Reagan administration's military buildup. 
A 1987 report on the Soviet response to President Ronald Reagan's Strategic Defense Initiative, for example, concluded that it would be extremely difficult for Moscow to keep up with an American "Star Wars" program. The Soviets would have to pour so much money into countermeasures or its version of missile defense that it would face extremely painful economic choices between its military budget and its consumer sector, this report said. 
"Soviet statements indicate that Moscow believes that the cost of deploying advanced strategic defenses while modernizing and expanding offensive forces would be prohibitive," the report stated. "Technological stagnation of their forces in the face of continually improving U.S. strategic defenses would upset the strategic balance and ultimately undermine their superpower status." 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CATHOLICS & CATHOLICISM (91%); RELIGION (91%); INTELLIGENCE SERVICES (90%); CLERGY & RELIGIOUS (90%); MILITARY WEAPONS (90%); MISSILE SYSTEMS (90%); COLD WAR (89%); POLITICS (89%); CHRISTIANS & CHRISTIANITY (88%); MISSILE DEFENSE SYSTEMS (79%); POLITICAL PARTIES (77%); TRENDS (77%); REBELLIONS & INSURGENCIES (75%); NUCLEAR WEAPONS (74%); POLITICAL DEBATES (72%); DEFENSE ELECTRONICS (70%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (70%); SEPARATISM & SECESSION (65%); ECONOMIC NEWS (59%) ARMAMENT, DEFENSE AND MILITARY FORCES; ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS; POLITICS AND GOVERNMENT; ATOMIC WEAPONS; MISSILES AND MISSILE DEFENSE SYSTEMS; UNITED STATES ARMAMENT AND DEFENSE 

ORGANIZATION: CENTRAL INTELLIGENCE AGENCY (95%); PRINCETON UNIVERSITY (55%) ROMAN CATHOLIC CHURCH; CENTRAL INTELLIGENCE AGENCY 

PERSON: RONALD REAGAN (79%) RISEN, JAMES; JOHN PAUL II (POPE); GORBACHEV, MIKHAIL S; REAGAN, RONALD WILSON 

GEOGRAPHIC: MOSCOW, RUSSIAN FEDERATION (93%) EUROPE (94%); POLAND (94%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (93%); UNITED STATES (93%); EASTERN EUROPE (90%) RUSSIA; POLAND

LOAD-DATE: March 10, 2001 



234 of 868 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 10, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section C; Column 2; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1106 words

HEADLINE: Job Growth Unexpectedly Strong, Easing Recession Fears 

BYLINE:  By LOUIS UCHITELLE 

 BODY:
Despite widespread cutbacks in manufacturing, the economy churned out many more jobs last month than Wall Street's forecasters had expected, easing concerns for the moment that the economy is sliding toward recession.
 The February employment report, released yesterday by the Labor Department, carried a different message: the economy appears to be leveling off, at a weak growth rate, after plunging sharply in the fall and early winter. The collapse in manufacturing has not spread significantly to the rest of the economy. 
 Some forecasters argue that it soon will, and point to weaknesses buried in the February report, which is the first broad measure of how the economy fared last month. Others look forward to a rebound -- a return to robust economic growth -- once manufacturing completes a shakeout, by early summer, they hope. Whatever the view, there is agreement on one point: during the transition, consumer confidence and spending have been sufficient to fend off recession. 
"The layoffs have made all the headlines; what has not made the headlines are the hirings," said Edward Yardeni, chief investment strategist at Deutsche Banc Alex. Brown, speaking in effect for the optimists. For the pessimists, there was Ian C. Shepherdson, chief domestic economist at High Frequency Economics. "Consumer confidence is being pushed down by the decline in stock prices, particularly on Nasdaq, and that implies that consumer spending and employment will not hold up as well in the next few months," he said. 
Certainly, the markets pushed consumers toward pessimism yesterday. Major market indexes fell sharply, with the Nasdaq falling 115.95 points, or 5.35 percent, to close at 2,052.78 -- less than half its peak of one year ago. Weak earnings reports played a role in the sell-off, and so did the Labor Department, which reported that 135,000 new jobs had been created in February, more than double what Wall Street had forecast. The unemployment rate held at 4.2 percent.
The good news dashed expectations of a big interest rate cut when the Federal Reserve's policy makers meet on March 20. Stock prices usually rise in response to rate cuts, or the expectation of them. Mr. Shepherdson, for example, had been lobbying for a Fed rate cut of three-quarters of a percentage point. In the wake of yesterday's employment report, however, he expects a rate cut of no more than half a percentage point, if that much.
Fed officials themselves have been optimistic that the economy will revive in the second half of the year. In recent speeches, some have argued that the slowdown will be limited mostly to manufacturing, which will soon recover. The February employment report strengthened the view that manufacturing explains most of the slowdown.
The Bush administration chose to focus on the glass half full. "The numbers released today are like an alarm clock," Secretary of Labor Elaine L. Chao said in a statement, calling attention to the carnage in manufacturing. "It is important that we wake up and not just hit the snooze button."
The 135,000 new jobs came despite a loss of 94,000 manufacturing jobs in February on top of 96,000 in January, a number that was revised yesterday from an original estimate of 65,000. The cutbacks, once mostly in autos, computers and telecommunications, have become much more widespread since last fall.
Only 24.1 percent of the nation's manufacturing companies increased their payrolls in February, the lowest percentage since 1990, a recession year. A sharp decline in capital spending for new machinery and computers has resulted in layoffs and hiring freezes at companies that make this equipment.
"Even electronic components, a manufacturing sector that had been adding jobs for months, lost ground in February," said Thomas Nardone, chief of labor statistics at the Labor Department's Bureau of Labor Statistics.
Outside of manufacturing, on the other hand, the picture was far better. While manufacturers pulled the economy in one direction, nearly everyone else pulled in the other. There were employment gains in construction, health care, retailing, mortgage banking, hotel employment, real estate, airlines, trucking, insurance, brokerage houses and government, which added a very important 37,000 jobs, mostly at state and local levels and mostly in education.
Even the temporary-help sector, which had lost a whopping 178,000 jobs since September, finally gained a bit of ground, adding 3,000 jobs in February. Manufacturers are big users of temp workers, and they may have accounted for most of the losses in this sector.
"I guess the people who are looking for recovery will take comfort from all these gains," said Richard Berner, chief domestic economist for Morgan Stanley Dean Witter. He does not. The unemployment rate may have held at 4.2 percent -- after jumping to that level in January from 4 percent -- but job growth has clearly slowed, Mr. Berner noted.
The average increase of 103,000 a month since October is down from 187,000 over the previous nine months. 
And hours worked are declining. The workweek shrank across the economy in February, by an eyebrow-raising 0.5 percent. The shrinkage was particularly strong in manufacturing, where the regular workweek -- 40.6 hours on average -- is at its lowest level since the last recession, and overtime has also fallen. What is more, among the unemployed, a rising percentage lost their jobs in recent weeks, and among those who were laid off, a rising proportion never expect to be recalled.
For Mr. Berner, a key issue is income. The unemployment rate may stay down, but fewer hours shrink income, which eventually shrinks spending and the economy -- unless raises offset the income loss from fewer hours.
That may still be happening. An hourly wage measure covering white- collar and blue-collar production workers, or roughly 80 percent of the 132.2 million people in the work force, rose by 7 cents in February, to $14.10. Since November, this wage has been rising at an annual rate of 4.1 percent, up from 3.8 percent or less over the previous 18 months. 
The danger from rising wages, some economists say, is that inflation will rise, too, as companies increase prices to cover the higher labor costs. But productivity, or the average worker's output per hour, has risen rapidly enough since 1995 to allow companies to raise wages without raising prices, if they choose to do so. And that rise in income will probably save the day for the economy, says Chris Varvares, a partner at Macroeconomic Advisers in St. Louis.
"You can't say the slowdown won't spread," he said, "but the rise in income helps to limit the spread."

GRAPHIC: Chart: "The Labor Picture in February"UNEMPLOYMENTCivilian unemployment: 4.2 percent EMPLOYMENTHousehold survey: 135.8 millionNonfarm payroll survey: 132.2 million DEMOGRAPHICSWhite: 3.7Black: 7.5Hispanic*: 6.3Men 20 and over: 3.5Women 20 and over: 3.7Teenagers (16-19): 13.6 OUT OF WORK (millions)Total: 5.9Lost job: 2.9Left job: 0.8Returning to labor market: 1.9New to labor market: 0.4 TYPE OF WORK (millions)NonfarmJan.: 132.1Feb.: 132.2GoodsJan.: 25.6Feb.: 25.6ServicesJan.: 106.5Feb.: 106.7 AgricultureJan.: 3.2Feb.: 3.1 SHARE OF POPULATION (percent)Work forceJan.: 64.5Feb.: 64.4 Labor force (workers and unemployed)Jan.: 67.3Feb.: 67.2 All figures are seasonally adjusted. *Hispanics can be of any race.(Source: Bureau of Labor Statistics)(pg. C14)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC NEWS (91%); CONSUMER CONFIDENCE (91%); RECESSION (91%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (90%); STOCK INDEXES (89%); LABOR DEPARTMENTS (89%); LABOR SECTOR PERFORMANCE (89%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (78%); JOB CREATION (78%); ECONOMIC DEPRESSION (78%); LAYOFFS (78%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (78%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (78%); PUBLIC POLICY (78%); WAGES & SALARIES (78%); INTEREST RATES (76%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (72%); COMPANY EARNINGS (72%); BANKING & FINANCE (71%); PRICE INCREASES (65%); LOBBYING (61%) LABOR; WAGES AND SALARIES; UNEMPLOYMENT; RECESSION AND DEPRESSION; UNITED STATES ECONOMY 

COMPANY: DEUTSCHE BANC ALEX BROWN INC (55%)

ORGANIZATION: BUREAU OF LABOR STATISTICS (59%)

INDUSTRY: SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (55%)

PERSON: ELAINE CHAO (57%) UCHITELLE, LOUIS 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: March 10, 2001 



235 of 868 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 10, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Foreign Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1747 words

HEADLINE: Africa's AIDS War 

BYLINE:  By SHERYL GAY STOLBERG 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, March 9 

 BODY:
This week, the unthinkable happened in Africa: the world's biggest pharmaceutical companies were forced into a painful negotiation over patent rights and the price of AIDS medicines. Suddenly, the question is no longer whether Africans will get life-saving drug cocktails, but how.
 That question lacks a simple answer; merely slashing prices will not automatically get drugs to patients. Many African nations are too poor to afford the medicines, even at rock-bottom prices, and some lack the infrastructure to deliver the pills and educate patients about how to use them. 
 Still, with the international spotlight now shining on the millions of Africans -- many of them babies -- dying for lack of drugs routinely available in the United States, world health officials, patient advocates and the manufacturers themselves say the situation can no longer be ignored. 
"I think, really, things are changing," said Awa-Marie Coll-Seck, head of research and policy for Unaids, the United Nations agency fighting the disease. "Before, nobody was complaining. It was as if this were normal. People are now putting this issue on the table."
Over the past few days, several developments have pushed the issue onto the table.
In South Africa, 39 foreign drug companies went to court to challenge a law that would allow the country to buy cheap, generic substitutes for patented AIDS drugs -- as thousands of protesters marched in the streets demanding drug price cuts.
Cipla, an Indian manufacturer of generic medicines, asked the South African government for permission to sell inexpensive knockoff versions of 8 of the 15 anti-H.I.V. drugs that, in varying combinations, are used in the cocktails. Cipla has said it could offer an AIDS regimen, which typically consists of three drugs, for $600 per year per patient -- a small fraction of the $10,000 to $15,000 that Americans pay.
And at the same time, the pharmaceutical giant Merck, which makes two of the most widely used AIDS medicines, announced that it would offer them to a number of countries at cost: $600 per patient per year for the protease inhibitor Crixivan, and $500 per patient per year for another anti retroviral, Sustiva, marketed overseas as Stocrin.
The move was bold; pharmaceutical manufacturers rarely disclose what it costs them to make a particular medicine. But it was also defensive, experts say -- a maneuver that could put the company in a position to fend off competition from manufacturers of generic drugs in South Africa while at the same time bolstering Merck's battered image.
"I think that the companies have probably started to understand that, from a public relations standpoint, they were doing their best to shoot themselves in the foot," said Dr. Mark A. Wainberg, past president of the International AIDS Society, a scientists' group. "They are starting to wake up."
In making the offer, Merck threw down the gauntlet before other pharmaceutical companies, which will inevitably come under pressure to match it. Merck also issued a challenge to the governments of wealthy nations, which must now confront the thorny issue of how to help Africa pay for the drugs. Drug executives expect the topic to come up at this summer's Group of Eight economic summit meeting in Genoa, Italy.
"The global society needs to be serious about the problem," said Per Wold-Olsen, Merck's president for Europe, the Middle East and Africa. "What the governments of the rest of the world need to do, together with the World Health Organization, is to start a process of building the health care infrastructure, distribution systems and the enormously important process of education."
The W.H.O. says 25 million Africans are infected with the human immunodeficiency virus, H.I.V., which causes AIDS. Of those, the organization estimates, five million are ready for antiretroviral therapy, meaning they are sick enough to need the drugs, not too sick to benefit from them, and living in places where they could get them.
But only about 10,000 are getting the drugs; with the recent offers, that number could jump to 100,000, said David Nabarro, a top aide to Gro Harlem Brundtland, the W.H.O. director general. "To go from 100,000 to 5 million," Mr. Nabarro said, "is the next challenge."
Merck's offer, and Cipla's move, did not come out of the blue. In May, at the urging of the World Health Organization, five multinational drug companies -- Merck and Bristol-Myers Squibb of the United States; Boehringer Ingelheim of Germany; GlaxoSmithKline of Britain; and Hoffman-LaRoche of Switzerland -- offered to sell their AIDS drugs to poor nations at lower prices.
But the negotiations, which were conducted nation by nation, have moved slowly, and only Uganda, Rwanda and Senegal have agreements. Moreover, the five companies are not the only ones in the business of making AIDS drugs. One unanswered question is whether other pharmaceutical manufacturers will make offers similar to Merck's. So far, none have.
But several drug makers said they were already making quiet overtures on their own.
Hoffman-LaRoche has come up with a "preferential pricing list" for African nations, according to Kellie McLaughlin, a spokeswoman. But she would not disclose the prices. 
Nancy Pekarek, a spokeswoman for GlaxoSmithKline, said her company had offered discounts as high as 90 percent to roughly a dozen African nations, as well as employers there. Glaxo makes a two-drug combination, Combivir, that costs $17 a day in the United States; in Africa the price is $2. But, Ms. Pekarek said, few countries have taken up the offer of Combivir (which is only part of the AIDS regimen).
"We're doing our part; we're lowering our prices," Ms. Pekarek said. "The countries have to want to do something about the problem. They have to put in an order."
Merck officials, meanwhile, provided new details of their program today, saying the discounts would be extended to all countries in sub-Saharan Africa, including South Africa, which has one of the biggest AIDS epidemics on the continent, as well as to several other poor nations -- Yemen and Nepal among them -- where at least 1 percent of adults are infected with H.I.V.
Brazil, which has attracted considerable attention by using copies of brand-name drugs to treat its AIDS patients, will be offered discounts, but they will not be as sharp. Jeffrey Sturchio, a Merck spokesman, explained, "A country like Brazil that has a per-capita income of about $4,800 and a prevalence rate well under 1 percent, does not have the same level of need as a country like Uganda, which has the same number of H.I.V.-positive people, but a per-capita income of about $330 a year."
By offering AIDS drugs cheaply, the companies will not lose money. "There are no lost profits in South Africa," said Stephen W. Schondelmeyer, a professor of pharmaceutical economics at the University of Minnesota. "The people that are going to use these medicines at 10 percent of the normal price are people who would have never purchased it on their own."
But Uwe Reinhardt, a health care economist at Princeton University, said the companies did have to worry that their cheap drugs could be imported by patients in the United States, or resold in Africa at a profit.
"Africa is not known for benign, democratic leaders, let's be honest," he said, adding that the companies don't want "some potentate grabbing these drugs and reselling them within Africa for $25 a dose."
In the United States, discounts are a politically delicate matter for the manufacturers, who must worry that if they are providing AIDS drugs cheaply, they may face pressure to do the same with drugs for other diseases.
The worry is not so much AIDS drugs; in this country, even those who lack drug insurance can get antiretrovirals because the federal Ryan White Act provides money for states to pay for them. The same is not true for other drugs, and the question of how to help elderly people pay for their medications has generated intense political debate. So the companies do not want to step onto the slippery slope of providing cheap drugs overseas only to be accused of price gouging at home.
In addition, they are deeply concerned about threats to their intellectual property rights. Patents enable drug companies to market their products, free from generic competition, for a set period of time. During that time they can set prices as they see fit; that freedom, they say, enables them to recoup the high cost of research and development, and to invest in developing new and better medicines.
That is why Cipla, the Indian generic manufacturer, so troubled the industry with its announcement this week. As Mr. Wold-Olsen, the Merck official, complained, "They are stealing my intellectual property, and I cannot accept that."
But Professor Reinhardt said that problem was one of the companies' own making. "They are in a pickle now," he said, that they could have avoided by acting sooner.
The professor said the companies should have "gone to the United Nations or World Bank and said, 'We are willing to help in Africa and other stricken nations, but in return for that kindness, we want you to do two things. No. 1, we want you to condemn knockoffs and patent infringement. And No. 2, when these developing nations get richer, we don't want to permanently give them drugs for nothing.' They should have done this pre-emptively, 10 years ago."
Drug executives say they are also feeling bruised because, no matter what they do, some advocates for AIDS patients often say it is not enough. That held true this week; Paul Davis, a spokesman for the activist group Act Up Philadelphia, said, "Headline-generating measures such as Merck's have not so far added up to pills in hand for even a 10th of 1 percent of the millions of people without access to medicine."
Others were slightly more sympathetic to the industry. Dr. Wainberg of the International AIDS Society said he understood the companies' need to protect their patents. Safeguarding intellectual property, he said, may become especially important once AIDS drugs reach Africa, because drug-resistant strains of the virus may spread, as they have in other parts of the world. That will make new medications all the more necessary.
Still, Dr. Wainberg said, drastic times call for drastic measures. "This is a war," he said, "and when you're in a war, as we are worldwide with H.I.V., which will claim more lives than any other infectious disease in history, the rules of the game have got to change." 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News Analysis 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: AIDS & HIV (94%); AIDS & HIV TREATMENT (92%); PHARMACEUTICALS INDUSTRY (91%); DRUG PRICES (90%); PATENT LAW (90%); PRICE CHANGES (90%); PHARMACEUTICAL PREPARATION MFG (90%); GENERIC DRUGS (90%); GENERIC PRODUCTS (89%); ANTIVIRALS (89%); PRESCRIPTION DRUGS (89%); PRICE CUTTING (78%); PATENTS (78%); PROTEIN BASED DRUGS (78%); BEVERAGE PRICES (78%); INTELLECTUAL PROPERTY LAW (78%); HEALTH DEPARTMENTS (77%); DISEASES & DISORDERS (77%); ENZYME INHIBITORS (73%); PUBLIC HEALTH ADMINISTRATION (69%); UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (67%); PROTESTS & DEMONSTRATIONS (50%) ACQUIRED IMMUNE DEFICIENCY SYNDROME; DRUGS (PHARMACEUTICALS); PRICES (FARES, FEES AND RATES) 

COMPANY: MERCK & CO INC (85%); CIPLA LTD (58%)

ORGANIZATION: UNITED NATIONS (55%)

TICKER: MRK (PAR) (85%); MRK (NYSE) (85%); CIPLA (NSE) (58%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS325412 PHARMACEUTICAL PREPARATION MANUFACTURING (85%); SIC2834 PHARMACEUTICAL PREPARATIONS (85%); NAICS325414 BIOLOGICAL PRODUCT (EXCEPT DIAGNOSTIC) MANUFACTURING (85%)

PERSON: STOLBERG, SHERYL GAY 

GEOGRAPHIC: AFRICA (98%); SOUTH AFRICA (93%); UNITED STATES (93%) AFRICA

LOAD-DATE: March 10, 2001 



236 of 868 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 10, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 4; National Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1541 words

HEADLINE: Despite Opposition in Party, Bush to Seek Emissions Cuts 

BYLINE:  By ANDREW C. REVKIN 

 BODY:
The Bush administration, some influential Republicans in Congress and several big owners of coal-burning power plants have joined in advocating something long sought by environmental groups and Democrats: cuts in the plants' emissions of carbon dioxide, a heat-trapping greenhouse gas widely thought to contribute to a global warming trend.
 The cuts would come as part of a larger bill controlling carbon dioxide and three other emissions from the power plants: sulfur dioxide, which causes acid rain; nitrogen oxides, which contribute to smog; and mercury, a toxic heavy metal. 
 Mr. Bush promised in his campaign last fall to seek such a bill, and Christie Whitman, the new administrator of the Environmental Protection Agency, has reasserted that pledge in recent days. 
Cuts would constitute the nation's first restrictions on carbon dioxide, a gas that has no direct effect on human health -- in fact, it is the bubbles in beer -- but that many scientists have concluded is already altering ecosystems and weather patterns as it accumulates in the atmosphere. 
But the prospect has spawned a fierce lobbying effort by conservative Republicans and some coal, oil and industry groups, which are urging Mr. Bush to abandon his campaign stance and any mention of carbon dioxide. 
The opponents say laws requiring carbon dioxide cuts would harm the economy and clash with the administration's goal of raising supplies of fossil fuels.
"This is a colossal mistake," said Myron Ebell, director of global warming policy for the Competitive Enterprise Institute, a Washington group that advocates free markets and limited regulation and has attacked the administration recently. "If they persist, there will be war."
Still, many people on both sides of the issue say chances have never been better for legislation to limit the emissions from power plants, which produce about 40 percent of the nation's carbon dioxide output.
Mr. Bush's commitment on carbon dioxide -- articulated in a couple of short sentences deep in an energy policy paper released on Sept. 29 -- was a sharp shift for a politician who had long avoided making definitive statements on the seriousness of global warming.
The change went largely unnoticed in the campaign, but has now bubbled up like a suddenly opened bottle of warm seltzer because of a confluence of recent events.
First, several Republicans in important positions in Congress are preparing to propose power-plant legislation that would limit carbon dioxide, most significantly Senator Bob Smith, a New Hampshire Republican who is chairman of the Senate Environment Committee.
Mr. Smith and other proponents of the bill say the bill is needed to simplify life for utilities facing a growing, unpredictable maze of federal and state laws governing all manner of emissions.
At the same time, the energy task force, headed by Vice President Dick Cheney, is rushing to complete its initial plan for turning Mr. Bush's promises on energy and the environment into programs.
And legislatures in many states where air pollution is an issue -- including New Hampshire, Ohio, Wisconsin and Michigan -- are moving toward passage of bills that limit the four emissions. Growing numbers of power-plant operators now regard as inevitable some sort of restrictions, and would prefer one federal standard to a patchwork of confusing regulations.
Some environmental advocates, Democrats and moderate Republicans say that Mr. Bush's support for a comprehensive bill could provide crucial momentum. Past efforts foundered because of the political divide between the Clinton administration and Congress.
"Having George W. Bush seriously looking at carbon dioxide as part of a four-pollutant approach on power plants really demonstrates that you can't ignore CO2 any more," said Jennifer L. Morgan, climate policy director for one conservation group, the World Wildlife Fund.
Opponents of the legislation include coal and oil companies, business groups, and conservatives in Congress who doubt that climate change poses a significant threat and fear that restrictions on utilities would be costly -- and would eventually be applied to other carbon dioxide sources, notably cars and trucks. 
More than half the nation's electricity is produced by burning coal, which generates the most carbon dioxide per watt of any fuel. So any restrictions on carbon dioxide would probably lead to a shift toward other options, like natural gas, and would inevitably have some economic impact, though estimates range widely.
Some conservatives also fear that any greenhouse-gas limits would signal that the Bush administration is planning to complete the Kyoto Protocol, a treaty negotiated under the Clinton administration that would commit the United States and 37 other industrialized countries to larger cuts in greenhouse gases. The treaty has not yet been ratified by any industrialized country.
Negotiations about vital details broke down in November and are scheduled to resume in July. During the campaign, Mr. Bush criticized the treaty, saying that it would harm the economy by raising fuel prices and that it unfairly excluded large developing countries like China and India from obligations to reduce their gas releases.
A task force within the administration is reviewing its stance on the treaty and other climate issues. But last week, Mrs. Whitman told a gathering of environment ministers from the Group of 8 -- the leading economic powers and Russia -- that the review "does not represent a backing away from Kyoto."
Perhaps the strongest proponent of controlling greenhouse gases within the administration is Treasury Secretary Paul H. O'Neill. As chairman of Alcoa, he spoke forcefully of the threat posed by the atmosphere's carbon dioxide levels, which have risen 25 percent since the late 1800's. "There is no doubt about this issue," he said in a 1998 speech.
Despite the intensifying effort to sway Mr. Bush from the power-plant bill, supporters of the legislation say that if it is written the right way it can eventually be passed with the president's support. 
They point to the unequivocal language used in Mr. Bush's Sept. 29 position paper, which stated that he would seek legislation that would "establish mandatory reduction targets for emissions of four main pollutants: sulfur dioxide, nitrogen oxide, mercury and carbon dioxide."
Not only that, proponents say, the same paper promoted the difference between his mandatory cuts and the proposal of his rival. "Vice President Gore has advocated only a voluntary program," Mr. Bush said.
One impediment to a bill is a sharp battle line drawn by some in industry against language that would label carbon dioxide as pollution. That classification would bring it under the umbrella of the Clean Air Act. 
But a bill could be written that controls the gas while stating it is not a "pollutant," according to William F. Tyndall, vice president for environmental services and federal affairs at the Cinergy Corporation, a power company based in Cincinnati that has a fleet of coal-fired plants around the Midwest but supports a comprehensive plant cleanup. 
"We've been promoting this idea and see it as an elegant solution to a very difficult situation," Mr. Tyndall said. "I think it has a real shot."
Cinergy, American Electric Power -- a huge coal-dependent midwestern power company -- and some other utilities say they would accede to the limits in the expectation that the bill would provide flexibility. That could come in the form of allowing utilities to trade emissions credits earned by reducing emissions or planting forests, which sop up carbon dioxide through photosynthesis and store the carbon in wood and soil. 
Just as important, Mr. Tyndall said, such a bill would eliminate uncertainty about future regulation, making it much easier for a company to decide which of its existing power plants to improve, which to shift to cleaner fuels like natural gas, and which to shut down.
For the moment, the White House is giving no signal about whether it will stick with the campaign position, with the first glimpse of its policy likely to come when Mr. Cheney's task force provides its initial findings on how to restore the country's energy balance. That report could be completed later this month. 
In the meantime, opponents have built up their pressure, most visibly in sharp attacks on Mrs. Whitman for reaffirming in recent statements Mr. Bush's pledge to include carbon dioxide in a cleanup of power plants. 
One e-mail message distributed recently to Congress, reporters and a list of conservatives by the Greening Earth Society, a group financed by coal-based utilities, described Mrs. Whitman as Christine Todd Browner -- an allusion to Carol M. Browner, the E.P.A. administrator under President Clinton.
Yesterday, though, officials at the White House and E.P.A. said that Mrs. Whitman had not been pressured to change her remarks, though she was apparently nudged gently to tone things down.
"They are backing her up," said an E.P.A. official, referring to White House officials. "No one is telling her not to speak. Everything she said was in his campaign message. They're just saying let's have some caution in the public statements until we are finished with this review."

GRAPHIC: Photo: The Bush administration is supporting an effort to restrict carbon dioxide emissions from coal-burning plants like this one near Moundsville, W.Va. (Associated Press)(pg. A9) Chart: "KEEPING TRACK: Carbon Emissions"Carbon dioxide production from fuels burned at U.S. power plants. Graph tracks coal, oil, and natural gas outputs from 1990-1998 in millions of metric tons.(Source: Environmental Protection Agency)(pg. A9)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: POWER PLANTS (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (90%); FOSSIL FUEL POWER PLANTS (90%); GREENHOUSE GASES (90%); ENVIRONMENTAL & WILDLIFE ORGANIZATIONS (90%); EMISSIONS (90%); AIR QUALITY REGULATION (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); ELECTRIC POWER PLANTS (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); COAL FIRED PLANTS (90%); ENVIRONMENT & NATURAL RESOURCES (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); LEGISLATION (89%); GLOBAL WARMING (89%); CLIMATOLOGY (89%); INDUSTRIAL POLLUTION (89%); NATURAL GAS & ELECTRIC UTILITIES (89%); ENERGY & UTILITY POLICY (89%); UTILITIES INDUSTRY (89%); ENVIRONMENTAL DEPARTMENTS (78%); ENERGY & ENVIRONMENT (78%); CLIMATE CHANGE (78%); LOBBYING (78%); HEAVY METALS & TOXIC MINERALS (78%); ENERGY REGULATION (78%); SMOG (78%); PUBLIC POLICY (78%); CONSERVATISM (78%); NITROGEN OXIDES (77%); US ENVIRONMENTAL LAW (77%); WEATHER (77%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (76%); TOXIC & HAZARDOUS SUBSTANCES (76%); EARTH & ATMOSPHERIC SCIENCE (72%); ACID RAIN (72%); PETROLEUM PRODUCTS (72%) WEATHER; LAW AND LEGISLATION; CARBON DIOXIDE; GREENHOUSE EFFECT; UNITED STATES ECONOMY; COAL; OIL (PETROLEUM) AND GASOLINE; GAS (FUEL); ELECTRIC LIGHT AND POWER 

ORGANIZATION: US ENVIRONMENTAL PROTECTION AGENCY (83%)

PERSON: DICK CHENEY (58%) REVKIN, ANDREW C; BUSH, GEORGE W (PRES) 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW HAMPSHIRE, USA (79%); WEST VIRGINIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (95%) UNITED STATES

LOAD-DATE: March 10, 2001 



237 of 868 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 10, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section C; Column 2; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 774 words

HEADLINE: THE MARKETS: STOCKS & BONDS; 
Intel Warning and Jobs Report Help Send Stocks Sharply Lower

BYLINE:  By MICHAEL BRICK 

 BODY:
Stocks fell sharply yesterday as investors digested another earnings warning and found new reasons to worry that the Federal Reserve might not cut interest rates as quickly as they had hoped.
 The earnings warning came from Intel, which said after the close of trading Thursday that its revenue would fall below expectations. That news heightened fears that the slump in corporate earnings already expected for the first and second quarters could extend into the second half of the year. 
 Then as trading began yesterday morning, the government reported that job growth in February was stronger than expected and that hourly wages rose 0.5 percent, showing that some inflationary pressures may be emerging. Both reports dampened expectations for the size and speed of future Fed rate cuts. Fed policy makers next meet on March 20. 
Technology stocks took the brunt of the selling. The Nasdaq composite index fell 115.95 points, or 5.4 percent, to close at 2,052.78. The Nasdaq is now down 59.3 percent from its record closing high of 5,048.62, reached a year ago today. And the 59.3 percent plunge is just a few points short of the Nasdaq's record peak-to-trough decline of 59.9 percent during the 1973 to 1975 recession.
But the losses extended to the broader market. The Standard & Poor's 500-stock index lost 31.32 points, or 2.5 percent, to close at 1,233.42. Its losses were restrained by slight gains in telecommunications, food and drug stocks.
Like the Nasdaq, the S.& P. 500 is not far from an important threshold in its decline from its record high last year. If the index closes below 1,221.97, it will be down 20 percent from its peak. By Wall Street measures, that puts the index into a bear market.
The Dow Jones industrial average fell 213.63 points, or 2 percent, to end at 10,644.62, its steepest one-day decline in percentage terms since Jan. 5. "Everything looks tired and sick and dying," said Jon Brorson, director of equities for Northern Trust, the money management unit of the Northern Trust Company. 
Intel fell $3.81, or 11.5 percent, to $29.44. Its announcement -- that first-quarter revenue would be 25 percent below expectations -- will probably push already declining earnings estimates lower. This fear is reflected in the decline in earnings forecasts for this year.
Wall Street now forecasts that earnings for the companies in the S.& P. 500 index will decline by 5.4 percent in the first quarter. Just a week ago the projection was for a decline of 4.3 percent. For the second quarter, the forecast is down to negative 3 percent from a decline of 2.2 percent a week ago. And in the third quarter, the projected increase has fallen to 4.9 percent from 5.3 percent.
Making a bad day worse for technology investors -- and for workers -- Cisco Systems said it would cut as much as 11 percent of its full-time work force. Its stock fell $2.19, or 9.6 percent, to $20.63.
Those two stocks weighed heavily on the Nasdaq. Several pillars of the computing economy -- Microsoft, Dell Computer, Oracle and JDS Uniphase -- also took sizable percentage losses.
The employment report was a negative for stocks because it showed that the economy was stronger than expected last month and, at the same time, that there are some inflationary pressures. The Labor Department reported that payrolls outside the farm sector grew by 135,000 in February, more than economists had expected after a gain of 224,000 in January. The unemployment rate was unchanged at 4.2 percent. But average hourly wages rose 4.1 percent over the last 12 months.
Donald J. Fine, chief market analyst for J. P. Morgan Chase said that some investors had begun to expect an interest rate cut as large as three-quarters of a percentage point when Fed policy makers meet March 20. But those hopes, he said, were dashed by the absence of a sharp decline in the job market.
The problem, analysts said, is that the economic data is not dire enough to force the Fed to make rate cuts as quickly as some investors want, especially if there are some emerging inflationary pressures. Since the stock market began to plunge relentlessly last fall, investors have pinned their hopes for a turnaround on quick and deep rate cuts.
Bond prices fell and interest rates rose, also because of the surprisingly strong jobs report. The yield on the 10-year Treasury note rose to 4.94 percent, from 4.89 percent Thursday. The price of the 10-year note, which moves in the opposite direction, fell 5/32 to 100 16/32.
The yield on the two-year note, which is an indication of how investors feel about the likelihood of another Fed rate cut, rose to 4.46 percent from 4.41 percent Thursday.

GRAPHIC: Graph tracks the Dow Jones industrial average over the past year. (Sources: Associated Press; Bloomberg Financial Markets) Tables: "Hot & Cold" provides a look at stocks with large percentage gains and losses; "The Favorites" lists stocks held by largest number of accounts at Merrill Lynch. (Compiled from staff reports, The Associated Press, Bloomberg News, Bridge News, Dow Jones, Reuters)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: STOCK INDEXES (96%); PROFIT WARNINGS (91%); BONDS (91%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); LABOR SECTOR PERFORMANCE (90%); MARKET OPEN CLOSE (90%); INTEREST RATES (90%); BOND MARKETS (90%); ECONOMIC POLICY (90%); STOCK EXCHANGES (90%); COMPANY EARNINGS (90%); EARNINGS PREANNOUNCEMENTS (89%); BUSINESS FORECASTS (89%); COMPANY REVENUES (78%); FINANCIAL RESULTS (78%); THIS DAY IN HISTORY (78%); PUBLIC DEBT (78%); INFLATION (78%); WAGES & SALARIES (78%); RECESSION (78%); PUBLIC FINANCE (78%); INTERIM FINANCIAL RESULTS (77%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (75%); GOVERNMENT BONDS (74%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS (73%); PUBLIC POLICY (73%) STOCKS AND BONDS; FINANCES; GOVERNMENT BONDS; DOW JONES INDUSTRIAL AVERAGE; STANDARD & POOR'S 500-STOCK INDEX; NASDAQ COMPOSITE INDEX; CREDIT; INTEREST RATES 

COMPANY: INTEL CORP (84%); NORTHERN TRUST CORP (81%)

TICKER: INTC (NASDAQ) (84%); NTRS (NASDAQ) (81%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS334413 SEMICONDUCTOR & RELATED DEVICE MANUFACTURING (84%); NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (81%); SIC6712 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (81%)

PERSON: BRICK, MICHAEL 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%) UNITED STATES

LOAD-DATE: March 10, 2001 



238 of 868 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 10, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section C; Column 5; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 692 words

HEADLINE: Cisco Plans Steep Job Cuts And a Charge 

BYLINE:  By CHRIS GAITHER 

DATELINE: SAN FRANCISCO, March 9 

 BODY:
The slowdown in information technology spending hit the sturdiest of computer-networking companies today, as Cisco Systems Inc. said it intended to eliminate as many as 5,000 jobs, or 11 percent of its full-time work force.
 Cisco, based in San Jose, Calif., said it would take a one-time charge of $300 million to $400 million, eliminate unnecessary programs and cut employee travel budgets by 60 percent. 
 About half of the job reductions will come from layoffs, the other half through normal attrition, according to a person within the company who spoke on the condition of anonymity.
Networking companies, which have been financial bedrocks during the Internet boom, have had their business fall out from underneath them during the troubled economic times in recent months. Cisco, the leader of the group, said the slowdown in capital spending by its customers could extend beyond the next two quarters, dampening hopes for a comeback in the second half of the year. 
"We're taking these steps because of the continuing slowdown in the U.S. economy and initial signs of a slowdown expanding to other parts of the world," John T. Chambers, Cisco's chief executive, said in a statement.
Cisco does not plan to cut research and development spending, said Tom Galvin, a company spokesman. To save money as its revenues slow, Cisco intends to cut its pool of temporary and contract workers sharply. From 2,500 to 3,000 of the 4,000 temporary jobs will be eliminated, Mr. Galvin said.
Its regular work force of 44,000 could face cuts of 3,000 to 5,000, or as much as 11 percent. Cisco said it would eliminate the positions by the end of its fiscal year.
"Demand for the Internet has been explosive," Mr. Galvin said. "But now with the economic climate more uncertain, these are the kind of steps a prudent company takes."
Cisco's shares tumbled nearly 10 percent after the midday announcement, dropping $2.19, to $20.63. The stock hit its 52-week high of $82 last March.
Cisco became a bellwether of high-technology stocks, as it rode gains of 30 percent to 50 percent, much to the delight of investors. But in February, the company stunned Wall Street when it warned that revenue this quarter could fall as much as 5 percent. The decline would be the company's first after 44 consecutive quarters, or 11 years, of growth.
That same quarter, Cisco missed Wall Street's earnings projections by a penny a share, the first time in three and a half years that Cisco failed to meet or exceed analysts' expectations.
Today, Cisco gave no additional financial guidance to analysts, other than to say it could not predict when the business climate would improve.
"We do expect a wider range of estimates for the remainder of this fiscal year," Larry R. Carter, the chief financial officer, said in a statement.
William Becklean, managing director of equity research for SunTrust Equitable Securities, an investment bank based in Boston, called Cisco's cost-savings prudent and unsurprising, given today's economic climate.
Ariane Mahler, a telecommunications equipment analyst for Dresdner Kleinwort Wasserstein, said stock buyers on the floor of her Manhattan office had been placing bets on when and how many jobs cuts Cisco would make, not if Cisco would make them.
Ms. Mahler said the company grew more quickly than it should have by counting on unreliable revenue from "bad apples," or dot-coms and other businesses that struggled once the market turned downward.
"People would have probably been upset if Cisco had done nothing to reduce its costs," she said.
Cisco is only the most recent computer-networking company whose work force paid the price for diminishing revenue. In recent months, Nortel Networks, Lucent Technologies and the 3Com Corporation each outlined plans to cut their employee count by 10 percent, through layoffs and normal attrition.
The Intel Corporation, the world's leading maker of semiconductors, lost more than 11 percent of its stock value today, a day after warning that quarterly revenue would decline 25 percent from last quarter.
Intel also announced a work force reduction of 5,000 jobs, or 6 percent, mainly through attrition, this week. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LAYOFFS (90%); COMPUTING & INFORMATION TECHNOLOGY (90%); COMPUTER NETWORKS (90%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (89%); LABOR FORCE (89%); ECONOMIC NEWS (78%); CAPITAL EXPENDITURES (78%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (78%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (78%); RESEARCH & DEVELOPMENT (78%); BUDGETS (78%); FULL TIME EMPLOYMENT (77%); TEMPORARY EMPLOYMENT (77%); COMPANY EARNINGS (74%); BUSINESS CLIMATE & CONDITIONS (73%); BUSINESS FORECASTS (71%); EXECUTIVES (69%) COMPUTERS AND THE INTERNET; LABOR; LAYOFFS AND JOB REDUCTIONS; FINANCES 

COMPANY: CISCO SYSTEMS INC (95%)

ORGANIZATION: CISCO SYSTEMS INC 

TICKER: CSCO (NASDAQ) (95%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS334210 TELEPHONE APPARATUS MANUFACTURING (95%); SIC3661 TELEPHONE & TELEGRAPH APPARATUS (95%) SIC3577 OTHER COMPUTER PERIPHERAL EQUIPMENT; 

PERSON: JOHN T CHAMBERS (58%) GAITHER, CHRIS 

GEOGRAPHIC: SAN JOSE, CA, USA (92%); SAN FRANCISCO, CA, USA (79%) CALIFORNIA, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: March 10, 2001 



239 of 868 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 10, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 3; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 1295 words

HEADLINE: NEWS SUMMARY 

 BODY:
 INTERNATIONAL A3-5

U.S. Sets Milosevic Arrest As Condition for Further Aid
The United States has told the new democratic government of Yugoslavia that if it expects American aid to continue, it should arrest and imprison former President Slobodan Milosevic by the end of the month, Western officials said. Belgrade must also assist in the transfer to The Hague of at least one person indicted on war crimes charges. A1

Macedonian Police Ambushed
Dozens of Macedonian police officers and two senior government officials were trapped for hours in a village near the Kosovo border after ethnic Albanian rebels ambushed their convoy. The attack was a blow to the Macedonian government, which sent the convoy to establish a police presence to try to keep an Albanian insurgency from taking hold. A5

Sharon's Message to Arafat
Israel's new prime minister, Ariel Sharon, told the Palestinian leader, Yasir Arafat, that he hoped they could establish "personal contact" after violence diminished in the region. But prospects for a meeting anytime soon appeared distant as street clashes and gun battles flared throughout Gaza and the West Bank. A4

Soviet-Era C.I.A. Files Opened
Newly declassified documents contain a C.I.A. prediction in 1978 that the installation of Cardinal Karol Wojtyla of Cracow as Pope John Paul II, the first Polish pontiff, would lead to political instability in Poland and erosion of the Soviet Union's control of Eastern Europe. A5

Inquiry Clears Blair Confidant
A close political ally of Prime Minister Tony Blair of Britain, Peter Mandelson, did not act improperly in a passport dispute that forced him out of the government on Jan. 24, an inquiry concluded. Mr. Mandelson was Northern Ireland secretary. A3

House Arrest in Asylum Case
A Chinese smuggling suspect, Lai Changxing, and his wife were allowed to move from police custody in Vancouver, B.C., to house arrest while awaiting a hearing on their asylum claim. Mr. Lai is accused of being the mastermind of a ring that smuggled billions of dollars' worth of goods into China, and his lawyer says he would face execution if he were sent back. The couple were arrested in November on charges of providing false information to enter Canada. They will pay $13,500 a week for security at their condominium. (AP)

World Briefing A5

NATIONAL A6-10

White House Signals Possible Tax Compromise
Republicans who have consulted with the White House said the Bush administration had identified two areas of possible compromise with Democrats in the overall $1.6 trillion tax-cut plan: reducing the amount by which the top income tax rate would drop, and scaling back rather than repealing the estate tax. A1

Mr. Bush shared a stage with a leading opponent of his tax plan, Senator Tom Daschle, during Mr. Bush's visit to Mr. Daschle's home state, South Dakota, to promote the tax cut. A

U.S. Presses Power Suppliers
The Federal Energy Regulatory Commission told 13 power generating companies to justify the record-high prices they have charged California utilities for electricity or refund profits that the agency said might have been excessive. A6

Osprey Program Assailed
Relatives of four marines who died in a V-22 Osprey crash last year told a Pentagon investigators at a hearing that the tilt-rotor aircraft had been rushed into service before it was safe. A6

Inquiry Uses Virtual Periscope
A computer simulation of views from the submarine Greeneville's periscope indicated that its captain would have seen the Japanese trawler it later struck had he done his periscope search correctly, a naval investigator testified. A6

Investigation of Pardon Claims
Federal prosecutors are investigating complaints from several people who say they were swindled by two Arkansas businessmen who said they were partners of Roger Clinton, the former president's brother, and could deliver pardons and business deals. A9

Edgar and Vonna Jo Gregory, who received pardons for their bank fraud convictions through the intercession of Tony Rodham, President Bill Clinton's brother-in-law, said they saw nothing wrong with having asked him for help. A9

Boy, 14, Sentenced to Life
Lionel Tate, who was convicted of murdering a 6-year-old girl two years ago, when he was 12, was given life in a Florida prison without possibility of parole. It is believed to be the first life sentence imposed for a crime committed at so young an age. A1

Beliefs A10

NEW YORK/REGION B1-7

Green Is Cool to Nader Over Presidential Race
Public Advocate Mark Green, a protege of Ralph Nader, said he did not want Mr. Nader to come to New York City to campaign for him in the mayoral race because Mr. Nader shared much of the blame for Al Gore's loss to George W. Bush. B1

Senator to Skip Parade
Hillary Rodham Clinton will not march in the city's St. Patrick's Day parade, but will attend events in the city before flying to Syracuse to march there. Mrs. Clinton drew fire from gay groups for marching in the Fifth Avenue parade last year. B2

Man Admits Role in Plot
Abdel Ghani Meskini, 33, has pleaded guilty in federal court in Manhattan to helping smuggle explosives into the United States from Canada as part of a suspected plot against American targets around the time of millennial celebrations in 1999. B2

Brooklyn Site Interests Ikea
Ikea, the Swedish furniture retailer forced to scrap plans for a Westchester superstore last month, was said to be considering putting a store on a nine-acre site on the banks of the Gowanus Canal in Brooklyn. B3

EDUCATION

Teachers Seek Mediation
The president of New York City's teachers' union, Randi Weingarten, said contract talks were at an impasse and asked the state to name a mediator and, if needed, an impartial panel to recommend a settlement. B2

ARTS & IDEAS B9-18

Rock Episode Prompts Rebuff
The Freud Society of Vienna has canceled a lecture by Edward Said, the Palestinian-American professor at Columbia University, after members saw a photo of him poised to hurl a stone at an Israeli guardhouse. B9

SPORTS D1-8

Seton Hall Is Eliminated
Boston College beat the Pirates, 75-48, to advance to the Big East tournament finals against Pittsburgh, which beat Syracuse, 55-54. D1

Mets Star Out With Injury
A knee bruise will keep Mike Piazza out of action for 7 to 10 days. D1

BUSINESS DAY C1-14

Bush Acts to Bar Airline Strike
President Bush issued an executive order barring a possible strike next week by mechanics at Northwest Airlines, and he said he would take "necessary steps" to block walkouts at any major carrier this year. A1

Slide to Recession Ebbs
The Labor Department reported that despite widespread cuts in manufacturing,135,000 new jobs were created in February, more than double what Wall Street had forecast. The unemployment rate held at 4.2 percent. The data dashed expectations of a big interest rate cut at the Fed meeting on March 20. C1

The Nasdaq, rattled by Intel's profit warning, fell 115.95 points, or 5.4 percent, to 2,052.78. The Nasdaq is now down 59.3 percent from its all-time closing high of 5,048.62, reached a year ago today. The S.& P. 500 lost 31.32 points, or 2.5 percent, to 1,233.42, and the Dow fell 213.63 points, or 2 percent, to 10,644.62. C1

Tech Slowdown Hits Cisco
Cisco Systems will eliminate up to 8,000 jobs, or 17 percent of its work force, and take a one-time charge of $300 million to $400 million. C1

Record Labels' Protected List
Major record companies said they would give Napster 135,000 song titles that they wanted blocked from downloading by users of the service. C14

Business Digest C1

OBITUARIES A11

EDITORIAL A12-13

Editorials: The threat of airline strikes; Mr. Sharon's new course; contagion and confidence.

Columns: Anthony Lewis.

Bridge B17
TV Listings B18
Crossword B16
Weather B6
Public Lives A6

GRAPHIC: Photo 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Summary 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: INTERNATIONAL ASSISTANCE (90%); NEWS BRIEFS (90%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (89%); HOUSE ARREST (89%); POLITICAL PARTIES (89%); PRIME MINISTERS (89%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (89%); ARRESTS (89%); TAXES & TAXATION (86%); PASSPORTS & VISAS (79%); US PRESIDENTS (78%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (78%); INDICTMENTS (78%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (78%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (78%); ESTATE TAX (77%); POLICE FORCES (77%); WAR & CONFLICT (76%); SMUGGLING (76%); REBELLIONS & INSURGENCIES (76%); WAR CRIMES (76%); BRITISH PRIME MINISTERS (73%); LAWYERS (69%); CATHOLICS & CATHOLICISM (65%); POLITICAL ASYLUM (63%); TAX LAW (63%); TAX RELIEF (63%); INCOME TAX (60%) NO INDEX TERMS FROM NYTIMES 

PERSON: TOM DASCHLE (58%); TONY BLAIR (58%); PETER MANDELSON (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: BELGRADE, SERBIA (92%); VANCOUVER, BC, CANADA (53%) BRITISH COLUMBIA, CANADA (53%) MACEDONIA, THE FORMER YUGOSLAV REPUBLIC OF (94%); UNITED STATES (94%); SERBIA (92%); UNITED KINGDOM (92%); NETHERLANDS (92%); PALESTINIAN TERRITORY, OCCUPIED (92%); ISRAEL (92%); ALBANIA (92%); KOSOVO (79%); EUROPE (79%); NORTHERN IRELAND (79%); POLAND (79%); EASTERN EUROPE (54%); CENTRAL EUROPE (54%); CANADA (53%)

LOAD-DATE: March 10, 2001 



240 of 868 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 10, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section B; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 757 words

HEADLINE: Bailout Law Means Relief And Sacrifice In Waterbury 

BYLINE:  By PAUL ZIELBAUER 

DATELINE: HARTFORD, March 9 

 BODY:
Shortly after 1 a.m. today, with a recently unknotted silk tie draped around his neck, Gov. John G. Rowland signed into law a controversial measure to deliver as much as $39.5 million in cash to Waterbury, the governor's near-bankrupt hometown, to save it from financial collapse. 
 Now the residents of Waterbury, Connecticut's fifth-largest city and arguably its most chronically mismanaged, are bracing for the sacrifices that will be involved in having the city's finances almost completely surrendered to a state-run committee for the next five years. 
 The law requires state budget officials to determine exactly how much of that $39.5 million Waterbury needs to receive -- most likely by Monday or Tuesday -- to meet its payroll obligations on Wednesday. Without the cash infusion, the city, which has hundreds of millions of dollars in debts and a bond rating scarcely better than junk, would have sunk irretrievably into financial ruin. 
"I feel relieved, to an extent," said Waterbury's mayor, Philip A. Giordano, a Republican who in 1996 inherited a bureaucracy that for decades had agreed to unusually expensive contracts with the city's eight labor unions. "I tried to hold it together as best I could. I feel I was holding a 30-year time bomb that exploded on my watch."
The new law allows Waterbury to issue as much as $75 million in new bonds, backed by the state, to help reduce the city's deficits.
But it also requires the city to pare a famously bloated municipal work force -- which the State Senate president pro tem, Kevin B. Sullivan, last night called "the most patronage-laden in the state of Connecticut" -- by 10 percent by June 30. City and state officials say Waterbury will almost certainly raise property taxes to help reduce the city's debt. And seven labor unions in the city have agreed to give up a total of $10 million in benefits.
The law gives the oversight committee, to be headed by Mr. Rowland's budget director, Marc S. Ryan, control of virtually any decision that could affect the city's finances, and the power to negotiate leaner contracts with the city's 11 collective bargaining units, 6 of whose contracts are now open.
The board's other members will be Mr. Giordano; the state treasurer, Denise L. Nappier; and four others appointed by Governor Rowland, including one member recommended by the city's labor unions.
In Hartford on Monday afternoon, state officials including Mr. Ryan and representatives from the state comptroller's and treasurer's offices will begin detailed discussions with Mayor Giordano about how to begin the state board's financial control over the city, Mr. Ryan said.
Mr. Giordano said that if the takeover went as planned, Waterbury should be back in control of its finances in about three years. 
Before it became law today, the bill spent much of Thursday tied up by a last-minute dispute over a provision concerning creation of the oversight board.
Mr. Rowland, a Republican, had demanded that the bill retain language giving the new board the power to close contract negotiations with Waterbury's unions without seeking arbitration, as state law mandates. The leaders of both chambers of the General Assembly, which Democrats control, opposed granting that power and pressed Mr. Rowland repeatedly to yield. 
In the end, though, knowing that Democrats were unlikely to hold up an emergency relief package, Mr. Rowland refused to budge, and the bill passed the House at 10:20 p.m. on a 122-to-22 vote. Two and a half hours later, the Senate approved it 20 to 15. 
Despite the partisanship evident as lawmakers stretched their debate well into the evening, the collective mood was somber, and several legislators said they supported the bill only because there was no other way to rescue the city. 
"It's kind of sad that we're sitting here today trying to resolve 30 years of fiscal irresponsibility in the city of Waterbury," Representative Richard O. Belden, a Republican from Shelton, told his colleagues.
Still, Democrats and union leaders steamed as they watched Mr. Rowland ostentatiously receive the bill in his office early this morning, raising his arms and proclaiming, "Republicans save the day once again." 
As Roy Occhiogrosso, a spokesman for Mr. Sullivan, put it: "What the governor did last night was akin to beating your opponent and then stepping on his neck just to make sure he knows he lost." 
In Waterbury, the mood was more akin to relief. On the front page of today's Waterbury Republican-American, the lead headline ran in two-inch type: "Bailed Out." 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (90%); LEGISLATION (90%); BAILOUTS (90%); BUDGETS (90%); CITY GOVERNMENT (90%); BONDS (90%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (89%); GOVERNORS (89%); LABOR UNIONS (89%); PUBLIC DEBT (89%); MAYORS (89%); PUBLIC CONTRACTING (89%); PUBLIC FINANCE (89%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (78%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (77%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (77%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (77%); GOVERNMENT CONTROLLERS & AUDITORS (76%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (75%); BUDGET DEFICITS (75%); GOVERNMENT BONDS (73%); FINANCIAL RATINGS (73%); COLLECTIVE BARGAINING AGREEMENTS (71%); LABOR FORCE (69%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (67%); COLLECTIVE BARGAINING (61%) LAW AND LEGISLATION; BANKRUPTCIES; GOVERNMENT BONDS; GOVERNMENT EMPLOYEES; FINANCES; BUDGETS AND BUDGETING 

PERSON: ZIELBAUER, PAUL; ROWLAND, JOHN G (GOV); GIORDANO, PHILIP A (MAYOR) 

GEOGRAPHIC: HARTFORD, CT, USA (92%) CONNECTICUT, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%) WATERBURY (CONN); CONNECTICUT

LOAD-DATE: March 10, 2001 



241 of 868 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 10, 2001
Correction Appended 
 Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 3; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1590 words

HEADLINE: INTERNATIONAL BUSINESS; 
That Other Maker of Andean Wines

BYLINE:  By CLIFFORD KRAUSS 

DATELINE: MENDOZA, Argentina, March 4 

 BODY:
Kendall-Jackson, the California winemaker, has had its share of mishaps since it arrived in the vine-covered Andean foothills and valleys of western Argentina in 1996. 
 Ferocious hailstorms mangled one grape harvest. An early overreliance on oak barrel fermentation of its chardonnay and malbec produced some disappointing wines. And the marketing people tripped up when they named the initial line of Argentine wines "Mariposa," or Butterfly -- a name that unfortunately matched a low-quality Argentine sweet liqueur as well as the Latin American slang word for an effeminate man. 
 But despite Kendall-Jackson's fitful early experience, it is pressing ahead with an ambitious effort to expand the size of its vineyard and sell more wine at home and abroad. Joined by a raft of other foreign heavyweights -- like two from France, Pernod Ricard and Chandon, a unit of LVMH-Moet Hennessy Louis Vuitton; Allied Domecq of Britain; Sogrape of Portugal; and Concha y Toro of Chile -- the company is remaking Argentina's long-slumbering wine industry into a potential export powerhouse. 
With a goal of making Argentine malbec and syrah as fashionable on world markets as Argentine steaks and tango, foreign investors have plowed in more than $250 million over the last five years to open new wineries, refurbish old ones and enter into joint ventures with undercapitalized Argentine companies hankering to modernize. 
They have imported computerized irrigation systems, stainless steel vats, French and American oak barrels, and grape vines. They have brought in renowned French and California winemakers. And Argentine investors, often in partnership with the foreigners, have followed suit with $250 million in new investments in recent years.
"The sky is the limit," Randy Ullom, Kendall-Jackson's chief winemaker, said of his company's current $5 million investment, predicting that the company will invest several times that in the next seven years. He noted that the company had completed planting only 494 acres of its 2,717 acres in Mendoza Province, and many more grapes were coming. Expressing his enthusiasm in a flurry of metaphors, he added: "Like an iceberg you see the tip, and more is coming. Argentina is the sleeping giant of the wine world."
Kendall-Jackson executives are now laughing off their early cultural mistakes. They have a new management team in Argentina, including a new Chilean winemaker, and they are altering their fermentation techniques to produce better wines for local as well as foreign tastes. Production has soared from 21,000 cases in 1997 to 34,000 in 2000 to an estimated 75,000 in 2001, with hopes to reach 200,000 cases annually in five years.
"We believe Argentina is the next frontier in the world of wine," said Carlos Garcia, managing director for Latin America at Credit Suisse First Boston Private Equity, which has $75 million invested in Grupo Penaflor, Argentina's largest wine exporter. 
The Argentine wine industry goes back to the 1540's. But, isolated for decades because of political instability and triple-digit inflation that put imposing limits on borrowing, investing and consistent pricing of exports, Argentina fell well behind Chile and other producers then opening up to the world. But an economic recovery in the 1990's based largely on pegging the value of the peso to the dollar -- a policy known here as convertibility, which reduced inflation to almost zero -- finally made investment in the slumping wine industry viable again.
Argentine wine export sales have doubled since 1996, to $125 million in 2000. The increases would have been greater over the last two years had it not been for a patch of bad weather, a wine glut in the Japanese market, and a strengthening dollar and weakening euro and Chilean peso. 
But analysts say Argentine wines are bound to be competitive over the long term because of improving quality and because land and labor costs here remain well below those in Europe, Australia and the United States. They note that a recent firming of the euro should help the competitiveness of Argentina's wines in the months ahead.
"Convertibility might have put us at a disadvantage the last few years," said Luis Alfredo Pulenta, president of Grupo Penaflor, "but convertibility gave us the possibility to export in the first place." 
Argentina is poised for 15 percent growth in wine exports this year, according to investors and Argentine winemakers, and that is only the beginning. They say Argentina has the annual potential to export more than $1 billion worth of wine in another decade while maintaining a domestic market for fine wines that surpasses $1 billion in annual sales. 
New pumping technology to bring irrigation to higher and drier fields has already increased Argentine vine acreage 10 percent in the last five years, to 543,400 acres, even while tens of thousands of acres of old, low-quality vines have been uprooted to make room for premium grapes. Analysts say that by 2005, when the current round of plantings bear fruit, a million acres may be harvested, with more to come in a country that is already the world's No. 5 wine producer.
There is plenty of room to grow, even with domestic consumption lagging in the current recession. Argentine wine represented only 1 percent of total wine imports last year into the United States and Britain, this country's two largest foreign wine markets. Chile, which produces about half the wine that Argentina does, accounts for 4 percent of the wine imported to the United States.
But questions remain: Will Argentine producers improve marketing skills enough to sell the expected growth in production? Or will a glut force down prices and profits? 
Argentina has long been a country of big hopes and dashed dreams, where a generally uncreative business establishment has neglected marketing and international trade. Waves of foreign investors have come and gone. Ten percent of the Argentine economy is based on foreign commerce, compared with 30 percent for Chile. 
"We bought 900,000 cases of Concha y Toro for the Japanese market in 1998," noted Junichi Toyoda, president of Mitsubishi Argentina. "Argentina won't reach that level in 20 years. The quality of Argentine wine is good relative to the price, but Chile has the marketing know-how." 
No Argentine company comes close to the reach of Concha y Toro, the giant Chilean winemaker, which has advertised heavily for years -- from Tokyo's radio airwaves to a giant billboard on the Brooklyn-Queens Expressway. But several companies here are beginning to give the Chileans a run for the international market.
Argentine wineries are introducing multilingual Web sites, employing permanent sales representatives in Europe, Asia and the United States, and organizing junkets for international wine writers and vendors to visit Mendoza. Stodgy Argentine bottle labels have been replaced by cheerful, irregularly shaped labels that look as if they belong in Napa Valley. 
The changes in marketing strategies may be summed up in a label on Allied Domecq's Balbi syrah, designed by American artists specifically for the American market, which says, "This wine is ready to enjoy tonight with casual foods such as hamburgers or pizza." Any experienced Argentine wine drinker thinks of syrah as a noble red worthy of aging in a wine cellar before serving with a barbecued steak. 
But despite the razzmatazz, Allied Domecq has been careful about blending French and American techniques at its vineyard in the town of San Rafael. Since taking over the traditional medium-size winery in 1992, it has invested $15 million in crushing machines, presses, cooling equipment and oak barrels and has torn up old vines that were good only for making cheap table wines. 
But rather than planting European or American vines, its new vines are all Argentine, and rather than rely solely on new stainless steel vats, it is still using the old concrete vats to retain traditional Argentine full-bodied tastes and aromas. Its management remains Argentine. From an initial production of 300,000 liters in 1992, production rose to 800,000 in 1995 and to an estimated 2.4 million liters this year.
"I'm looking for middle ground between the traditional and the modern," said Pedro Yanez, head of the vineyard, "while keeping a keen eye on expanding exports to the limit."
The mixing of the new and the old was amply on display at this year's Vendimia harvest festival, an extravaganza of carnival parades, strutting beauty queens and Andean folk dancing. Many wineries invited wine critics and vendors from around the world to take in the local color and taste the newest vintages. 
Sixty guests from Japan, South Korea, Hong Kong, Sweden, Peru, Brazil and Paraguay came to the Trapiche vineyard -- newly retooled with an infusion of foreign investment -- for a tango show, an elegant lunch of tenderloin steak and puffed pastries and, of course, a wine tasting under the shade of a vine arbor. 
It was a rollicking tasting, with Trapiche's ebullient winemaker, Angel Mendoza, making graphic comparisons of the aroma of his chardonnay to the smells that once wafted from his grandmother's oven as she baked apple pie. As he closed his eyes, he asked his guests to sip his sauvignon blanc and imagine it as the fragrance of a freshly cut lawn on a spring day. 
Turning serious, he added, "On this side of the Andes we have certain advantages: healthy vines and a strong sun to harvest early." He did not have to mention the country on the other side of the Andes by name to finish his point.

CORRECTION-DATE: March 15, 2001

 CORRECTION:
Because of an editing error, an article in Business Day on Saturday about Argentina's growing wine industry misstated the amount invested there by Kendall-Jackson Wine Estates Ltd. It is $15 million, not $5 million.

GRAPHIC: Photos: Jose Antonio Bravo, above, a winemaker at a Kendall-Jackson winery in Mendoza Province, Argentina, takes a sample from a vat. Below left, wine ferments in cement vats at the Balbi winery of Allied Domecq in San Rafael. (Photographs by Julio Menajovsky for The New York Times)(pg. C1); The Kendall-Jackson winery in Mendoza Province ferments wine in oak barrels. The company has put millions of dollars into Argentina. (Julio Menajovsky for The New York Times)(pg. C2) Chart: "Sleeping Giant"Argentina is the world's fifth-largest wine producer but has lagged other countries developing their wine industries for export. WINE PRODUCTION, 2000 (Millions of gallons)ARGENTINA: 365AUSTRALIA: 244SOUTH AFRICA: 238CHILE: 174 WINE EXPORTS, 2000 (Millions of gallons)ARGENTINA: 32AUSTRALIA: 91SOUTH AFRICA: 37CHILE: 68(Source: U.S. Dept. of Agriculture's Foreign Agricultural Service)(pg. C1)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: WINE (91%); WINERIES (91%); FOREIGN INVESTMENT (90%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (90%); ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGE INDUSTRY (90%); ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGES (90%); GRAPE VINEYARDS (77%); FRUITS & VEGETABLES (77%); ALLIANCES & PARTNERSHIPS (76%); EXPORT TRADE (73%); IMPORT TRADE (73%); JOINT VENTURES (71%); PRIVATE EQUITY (71%); EXECUTIVES (68%) ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGES; WINES; INTERNATIONAL TRADE AND WORLD MARKET; FOREIGN INVESTMENTS 

COMPANY: PERNOD RICARD SA (83%); LVMH MOET HENNESSY LOUIS VUITTON SA (83%); VINHOS DE PORTUGAL SA (69%); ALLIED DOMECQ PLC (69%); VINA CONCHA & TORO SA (58%); CREDIT SUISSE GROUP AG (53%)

ORGANIZATION: US DEPARTMENT OF AGRICULTURE (59%); FOREIGN AGRICULTURAL SERVICE (59%)

TICKER: RI (PAR) (83%); MC (PAR) (83%); LVMH (BIT) (83%); VCO (NYSE) (58%); CONCHATORO (SGO) (58%); CSGN (SWX) (53%); CS (NYSE) (53%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS312130 WINERIES (83%); NAICS312140 DISTILLERIES (83%); NAICS316992 WOMEN'S HANDBAG & PURSE MANUFACTURING (83%); SIC2084 WINES, BRANDY, & BRANDY SPIRITS (69%); NAICS722513 LIMITED-SERVICE RESTAURANTS (69%); SIC5182 WINE & DISTILLED ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGES (69%); SIC2085 DISTILLED & BLENDED LIQUORS (69%); NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (53%); NAICS524126 DIRECT PROPERTY & CASUALTY INSURANCE CARRIERS (53%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (53%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (53%)

PERSON: KRAUSS, CLIFFORD 

GEOGRAPHIC: CALIFORNIA, USA (93%) ARGENTINA (98%); CHILE (94%); UNITED STATES (93%); LATIN AMERICA (92%); FRANCE (76%) ARGENTINA

LOAD-DATE: March 10, 2001 



242 of 868 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 10, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section C; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 14

LENGTH: 530 words

HEADLINE: Talks on Merger of Utilities Break Down 

BYLINE:  By ANDREW ROSS SORKIN and NEELA BANERJEE 

 BODY:
Merger talks broke down late yesterday between the Public Service Enterprise Group, which operates New Jersey's largest energy concern, and Cinergy, a Midwest energy utility, executives close to the negotiations said.
 While the talks could still be revived, the executives said that was unlikely. Both companies had spent the day trying to work out the final details in hopes of announcing a deal Monday morning, the executives said. 
 The largest stumbling block may have been that the offer included virtually no premium over Cinergy's current market value, which based on yesterday's closing price was almost $5.5 billion. Executives close to Cinergy said it had been intent on completing the deal, even without a big premium, because the agreement would have given Cinergy the size and scale it needed to compete effectively in a market increasingly dominated by several major players. But, they said, price became a larger issue yesterday as the market reacted negatively to word of the deal.
But one industry expert said that the deal might have fallen through because of the role of James E. Rogers, the Cinergy chairman, would play at the new company. "There have been a number of past deals that have crashed because of Rogers's insistence on guarantees of succession," he said. "They have been to the altar a number of times since 1998 and people have walked away." 
Cinergy, which is based in Cincinnati and was formed by the merger of the Cincinnati Gas and Electric Company and PSI Energy Inc. in 1994, has been trying to sell itself for nearly four years. Mr. Rogers, has held talks with PowerGen P.L.C. and Scottish Power, among others.
An executive close to the talks said senior executives at Public Service Enterprise, parent of the Public Service Electric and Gas Company and PSEG Energy Holdings, had been rushing to complete the deal before a rival bidder could emerge willing to pay more.
Cinergy and PSEG declined to comment.
The deal would have been the latest among a half-dozen over the last eight months that point to the consolidation of the electricity business on the East Coast. Utilities have sensed that they need to be larger to compete more effectively in newly deregulated markets, and in the Eastern United States, the markets have been much more fragmented, often with electricity companies serving a relatively small region.
PSEG and Cinergy work in newly deregulated markets of New Jersey and Ohio. And both have transferred their power plants to business units that are not regulated by the state and therefore have greater profit-making opportunities. The companies are also building power plants to serve attractive markets farther afield.
Size matters in the power generation market. The two companies merged would have had about 26,000 megawatts of generation, a size analysts said would have brought savings from economies of scale. The companies would have had a mix of fuels that their power plants would be using to prevent them from being too reliant on one.
Shares of PSEG fell 84 cents, to $41.61, yesterday after The Wall Street Journal reported that it was in merger talks with Cinergy. Shares of Cinergy fell 67 cents, to $34.48. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TALKS & MEETINGS (91%); NATURAL GAS & ELECTRIC UTILITIES (91%); ELECTRIC POWER PLANTS (90%); ELECTRIC POWER INDUSTRY (90%); MERGERS (90%); POWER PLANTS (89%); HOLDING COMPANIES (89%); ENERGY & UTILITY DEREGULATION (89%); DEREGULATION (89%); UTILITIES INDUSTRY (89%); ELECTRICITY MARKETS (75%); ENERGY & UTILITY CONSTRUCTION (73%); EXECUTIVES (72%); POWER & COMMUNICATION SYSTEM CONSTRUCTION (60%) ELECTRIC LIGHT AND POWER; MERGERS, ACQUISITIONS AND DIVESTITURES 

COMPANY: DUKE ENERGY CORP (85%); DUKE ENERGY INDIANA INC (66%); POWERGEN PLC (66%); PUBLIC SERVICE ELECTRIC & GAS CO (65%); PUBLIC SERVICE ENTERPRISE GROUP INC (58%); PSEG ENERGY HOLDINGS LLC (53%)

ORGANIZATION: PUBLIC SERVICE ENTERPRISE GROUP INC; CINERGY CORP 

TICKER: DUK (NYSE) (85%); PEG (NYSE) (58%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS221112 FOSSIL FUEL ELECTRIC POWER GENERATION (85%); SIC4911 ELECTRIC SERVICES (85%); NAICS221122 ELECTRIC POWER DISTRIBUTION (66%); SIC4931 ELECTRIC & OTHER SERVICES COMBINED (65%); NAICS221210 NATURAL GAS DISTRIBUTION (58%); NAICS221111 HYDROELECTRIC POWER GENERATION (58%); SIC4924 NATURAL GAS DISTRIBUTION (58%) SIC4911 ELECTRIC SERVICES; SIC4931 ELECTRIC & OTHER SERVICES COMBINED; 

PERSON: JAMES E ROGERS (78%) BANERJEE, NEELA; SORKIN, ANDREW ROSS 

GEOGRAPHIC: CINCINNATI, OH, USA (86%) NEW JERSEY, USA (92%); MIDWEST USA (90%); OHIO, USA (86%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: March 10, 2001 



243 of 868 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 10, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 6; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1166 words

HEADLINE: BUSH ISSUES ORDER PREVENTING STRIKE BY AIRLINE UNION 

BYLINE:  By LAURENCE ZUCKERMAN 

 BODY:
President Bush issued an executive order yesterday preventing a potential strike next week by mechanics at Northwest Airlines and said he would take "the necessary steps" to block walkouts at any major carrier this year.
 "It's important for our economy; but more important, it's important for the hard-working people of America to make sure air service is not disrupted," Mr. Bush said in announcing the action during a speech on his tax-cut proposal in Sioux Falls, S.D., a state that would be crippled by an interruption of service at Northwest. 
 The country's four biggest airlines face possible strikes in the coming months. By intervening in the Northwest dispute, which he pledged to do last month, Mr. Bush becomes only the second president since 1966 to order workers at a major airline to stay on the job. President Bill Clinton ordered pilots at American Airlines back to work in 1997, minutes after their strike began. But no president in recent memory has issued a blanket statement that he would try to prevent strikes at all airlines. 
Mr. Bush's words offered relief to millions of travelers who have been inconvenienced by worker slowdowns at airlines in recent months and are concerned about disruptions in their travel plans. But he also ran the risk of further alienating organized labor, which is upset at several recent executive orders. 
"This announcement looks very antilabor," Charles B. Craver, a professor of labor law at George Washington University, said. "Whether it was meant to be, I don't know. But it certainly gives the impression that the White House is coming out in favor of management rather than being neutral."
In the case of Northwest, Mr. Bush used his power under the Railway Labor Act, which governs labor relations in the rail and airline industries, to appoint a presidential emergency board if the union and the airline do not reach a settlement by the strike deadline of Sunday midnight. Under the law, Northwest's mechanics, who are seeking a wage increase, must stay on the job for 60 days while the three-member emergency board prepares a report and makes a settlement recommendation.
If either side rejects the board's recommendation after the 60 days, the union can strike or the company can lock out its workers. But Congress also has the power to impose a settlement, something it has frequently done in the rail industry.
Mr. Bush's pledge to avert an airline strike comes as United Airlines, American Airlines and Delta Air Lines are nearing an end to contract negotiations, some of which have lasted for years. Some labor leaders complained that Mr. Bush had signaled a willingness to appoint emergency boards in each case, thereby undercutting the bargaining power of unions representing thousands of workers, including pilots, flight attendants, ramp workers, customer service agents and mechanics.
Sonny Hall, president of the transportation trades division of the A.F.L.-C.I.O., said Mr. Bush's announcement had "short-circuited the lawful bargaining process through an inappropriate use of intervention powers." 
Other leaders were more cautious. Robert Roach Jr., a general vice president at the International Association of Machinists and Aerospace Workers, which represents more than 130,000 workers at United, Trans World Airlines and other carriers, said: "I don't think we want to interpret for the president what he means and lock him into a position. Let's let things play out." 
Scott McClellan, a White House spokesman, declined to say whether Mr. Bush's words meant that he was ready to appoint emergency boards at other airlines. "The president was just making clear that he is very concerned about the negative impact an airline strike can have," he said. Asked if Mr. Bush was siding with airline management, Mr. McClellan said, "He is taking the side of the American people and our economy."
Presidential emergency boards were common in the airline industry until the mid-1960's when a consensus was reached among policy makers in Washington that they were not helpful. In addition, the White House and Congress were reluctant to become involved in labor disputes. 
They are still common in the railroad industry, where unions negotiate jointly and a strike is much more damaging to the country's economy. 
Since the 1960's, the threat of a strike in the airline industry has proved to be a good motivation for both management and labor to reach agreements, said Joshua Javits, a lawyer with Ford & Harrison in Washington and former chairman of the National Mediation Board, which oversees labor relations in the railroad and airline industries. 
"In the rail industry, where you have the expectation of an emergency board, you have less success in reaching collective bargaining agreements," he said. "That history would suggest that emergency board's hurt successful collective bargaining."
Without the ability to strike, labor leaders argue, workers will have no outlet for their emotions and will begin upsetting an airline's operations to vent their frustration. 
But airlines have grown so large in recent years and have become so concentrated at certain airports that some experts believe they are too important to the economy to be allowed to stop flying.
Many workers are already frustrated by the slow-moving bargaining process under the Railway Labor Act, which can drag negotiations out for years. That led to slowdowns at United, Delta and Northwest this summer and fall that disrupted hundreds of flights. 
At Northwest, mechanics have been waiting for a new contract for more than four years. They rejected a tentative agreement in 1998, and then voted for a new union, the Aircraft Mechanics Fraternal Association, to represent them. 
The average mechanic now earns $54,600 a year, excluding overtime. Northwest has offered an 18 percent increase, to an average of $31 an hour, from a current level of $26.25. But the union is asking for $36.84 an hour. After 100 days of mediated talks, the gap between the two sides was still so wide on this and other issues that the National Mediation Board took the unusual step last month of asking the White House to appoint an emergency board. 
Northwest said yesterday that it was prepared to accept any recommendation made by the board. 
United and American declined to comment on Mr. Bush's statement. A Delta spokesman could not be reached for comment. 
Even though Mr. Bush had previously announced his intent to prevent a strike, Northwest and the union began a marathon negotiating session in Washington on Wednesday in an attempt to reach a tentative agreement before the strike deadline at midnight Sunday. 
Paul Volker, a spokesman for the union, which represents nearly 10,000 mechanics and other workers, said the two sides had narrowed the gap on many critical issues. "We are kind of baffled that he would jump in while we were making such good progress at the table," he said, referring to Mr. Bush. "We were by no means through with our negotiating until Sunday."

GRAPHIC: Photo: President Bush said yesterday that he would use his power under a law governing transportation industries to prevent Northwest and other airline workers from striking this year. He spoke at an airport in South Dakota. (Associated Press) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: AIRLINES (93%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); EXECUTIVE ORDERS (90%); STRIKES (90%); APPOINTMENTS (89%); LABOR UNIONS (89%); COLLECTIVE BARGAINING (85%); TRANSPORTATION INDUSTRY LAW (78%); LABOR DISPUTES & NEGOTIATIONS (78%); AIRLINE EMPLOYEES (78%); AIRCRAFT PILOTS (78%); SETTLEMENT & COMPROMISE (74%); LOCKOUTS (73%); WAGES & SALARIES (73%); LABOR & EMPLOYMENT LAW (71%); TAXES & TAXATION (71%); TAX LAW (70%); TAX RELIEF (70%); LAW SCHOOLS (69%); RAIL TRANSPORTATION REGULATION & POLICY (69%); RAIL TRANSPORTATION (67%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (64%); CUSTOMER SERVICE (50%) AIRLINES AND AIRPLANES; LABOR; STRIKES; WAGES AND SALARIES 

COMPANY: DELTA AIR LINES INC (58%); NORTHWEST AIRLINES INC (58%); AMERICAN AIRLINES INC (57%); UNITED AIR LINES INC (51%)

ORGANIZATION: GEORGE WASHINGTON UNIVERSITY (54%) UNITED AIRLINES; AMERICAN AIRLINES; DELTA AIR LINES; AIRCRAFT MECHANICS FRATERNAL ASSN; NORTHWEST AIRLINES 

TICKER: DAL (NYSE) (58%)

INDUSTRY: SIC4512 AIR TRANSPORTATION, SCHEDULED (58%); NAICS492110 COURIERS & EXPRESS DELIVERY SERVICES (58%); NAICS481112 SCHEDULED FREIGHT AIR TRANSPORTATION (58%); NAICS481111 SCHEDULED PASSENGER AIR TRANSPORTATION (58%)

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (93%); BILL CLINTON (59%) ZUCKERMAN, LAURENCE; BUSH, GEORGE W (PRES) 

GEOGRAPHIC: SIOUX FALLS, SD, USA (57%) SOUTH DAKOTA, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: March 10, 2001 



244 of 868 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 10, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Editorial Desk; Pg. 13

LENGTH: 721 words

HEADLINE: Abroad at Home; 
The Golden Eggs

BYLINE:  By ANTHONY LEWIS 

DATELINE: BOSTON 

 BODY:
"The very rich are different from you and me," Scott Fitzgerald wrote. So we are being reminded these days by President Bush's tax bill.
 The rich are the main beneficiaries of the Bush bill. The richest 1 percent of taxpayers would get 43 percent of the money from its provisions. That comes to $40,000 to $50,000 per family. 
 The big gainers mostly voted for Mr. Bush and are enthusiastic about his tax bill. Nothing surprising about that -- except for one thing. The bill they support could undermine the prosperity that has brought them unexampled wealth.
The greatest economic boom in America's history -- and the world's -- came in the 1990's. What made it possible? Just about all the experts agree on the answer. President Clinton turned away from deficit spending and made it his prime objective to bring the federal budget into balance. That enabled the Federal Reserve to keep interest rates low. Result: the boom.
If all the tax cuts proposed by Mr. Bush became law, the government would likely go back into the red -- and interest rates rise. That is the unpleasant reality that he has tried to conceal by what amounts to a verbal game of three-card monte.
Mr. Bush talks about his $1.6 trillion tax cut. As my New York Times colleague Paul Krugman first pointed out, it is really $2 trillion when you count increased interest the government would have to pay on its debt. Other costs not mentioned by President Bush would bring the figure to around $2.5 trillion.
To conceal the real impact of his legislation, Mr. Bush and his budget also used fancifully low estimates of spending. He assumed there would be cuts in appropriations for such things as basic science and crime-fighting, which Congress is unlikely to make. He assumed that Congress would hold the annual growth of discretionary spending to an unrealistic 4 percent. The Economist of London pointed out that he made "no allowance for population growth, and hence his budget implies a drop in real spending per citizen."
Then there is the little matter of Social Security and Medicare. The Bush budget assumes that their reserves can be diverted for other uses instead of being there for the baby boomers as they retire.
Mr. Bush is just as slippery when he describes the effect of his legislation on taxpayers as he is when he discusses its impact on the budget.
His big theme is that the average taxpayer would save $1,600 a year. What percentage of American taxpayers would you guess would actually get less than that -- 50 percent? No, 88 percent of taxpayers would gain less than $1,600 from the Bush bill. 
The Financial Times of London, like The Economist, is a journal devoted to business and to economic realism. The paper's Washington bureau chief, Gerard Baker, wrote this week: "Instead of picking out the striving teacher in the gallery of the House of Representatives last week, it would have been more honest if Mr. Bush had identified the grinning investment banker or multi-billionaire land owner. It is the intellectual dishonesty of this approach that is most distressing."
For some conservative ideologues, the deception in presenting the tax plan is unimportant. What matters to them is starving the federal government of revenue and thus forcing it to reduce its role. They are not satisfied by the fact that federal spending as a share of gross domestic product has shrunk about 20 percent in the last decade.
Most Americans, conservative or liberal, want the federal government to do most of what it does. They would like a tax cut but give that a lower priority, according to surveys, than safeguarding Social Security, reducing the national debt and spending for domestic purposes generally. 
To me the mystery is why non-ideological conservatives, men and women who have made their way in business and the professions, should support the extravagant Bush tax plan rather than a more cautious alternative. Sure, they may save some thousands of dollars a year in the short run. But they have so much at risk in a policy that calculatedly underestimates the cost of the tax cuts and endangers the hard-won federal budget surplus that has opened the way to prosperity.
In the Greek fable, the goose laid a golden egg every day. Its owner, wanting all the treasure at once, killed the goose and looked inside. He found the inside of a goose. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TAXES & TAXATION (91%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); TAX LAW (90%); BUDGETS (90%); LEGISLATION (89%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (88%); TAX RELIEF (78%); SOCIAL SECURITY (78%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (78%); APPROPRIATIONS (77%); POPULATION GROWTH (77%); BABY BOOMERS (74%); NATIONAL DEBT (73%); BUDGET DEFICITS (73%); MEDICARE (73%); INTEREST RATES (72%); ECONOMIC NEWS (72%) TAXATION; FINANCES; BUDGETS AND BUDGETING; UNITED STATES ECONOMY 

COMPANY: FINANCIAL TIMES GROUP (60%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS511110 NEWSPAPER PUBLISHERS (60%); SIC2711 NEWSPAPERS: PUBLISHING, OR PUBLISHING & PRINTING (60%)

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (92%); BILL CLINTON (58%); PAUL KRUGMAN (54%) LEWIS, ANTHONY; BUSH, GEORGE W (PRES) 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: March 10, 2001 



245 of 868 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 10, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Editorial Desk; Pg. 12

LENGTH: 674 words

HEADLINE: The Threat of Airline Strikes 

 BODY:
Labor relations in the airline industry are notoriously turbulent, but seldom before has the nation faced the possibility of four major carriers -- Northwest, Delta, United and American -- simultaneously reaching an impasse in contract negotiations with key unions. By the time the summer travel season gets under way, at least one airline could be on strike. Or, equally ominous, disgruntled unions could be forced to stay on the job with new contracts imposed by Congressional action. We trust these scenarios can still be averted with some sensible 11th-hour negotiating.
 President Bush signed an executive order yesterday to prevent a strike by mechanics at Northwest Airlines when a 30-day cooling-off period ordered by the National Mediation Board expires tomorrow at midnight. The 1926 Railway Labor Act allows the president to name an emergency board to prevent an airline or railroad strike that threatens to disrupt interstate commerce and deprive a part of the country of essential transportation. The board then has 60 days to fashion a nonbinding settlement and have the parties consider it. If the board's proposal is rejected, Congress can force a settlement on the parties, or instead allow a strike to take place. 
 Invoking the Railway Labor Act provides presidents a great deal of latitude in an age when airlines rely so heavily on hub operations. Northwest may fly only about 10 percent of passengers nationwide, but it is by far the most important carrier at its hubs in Detroit, Minneapolis and Memphis. Still, President Clinton decided not to prevent a 1998 strike that grounded Northwest, in deference to big labor. By contrast, the previous year he ordered American Airlines pilots back to work minutes into their strike. That dispute was settled during the subsequent mediation period.
President Bush said yesterday that he would "take the necessary steps to prevent airline strikes from happening this year." His desire to avert a disruption in air travel at a fragile economic time is understandable, but having a Republican president say so far in advance that he will act to prevent strikes threatens to dissuade the airlines from negotiating in good faith. They may feel inclined to wait and rely on a pro-business White House and Congress. They already profit from stalemates, since their unions cannot automatically strike when a contract is up for renewal, and new contract terms are rarely retroactive.
Unions also engage in brinkmanship, believing that they can extract better terms when a strike is imminent, or when they are causing the airlines economic pain through legal work actions. Last year, United's pilots wreaked havoc on the airline's schedule by refusing any overtime as a negotiating ploy. They wound up with a 28 percent pay raise.
Many unions offered up significant concessions in the early 1990's, when the industry was unprofitable and Northwest was on the verge of declaring bankruptcy. Now they feel entitled to a share in the profits posted in subsequent years. But airlines are fretting about the current slowdown in business, not to mention high fuel costs.
Money is the main issue separating Northwest and its mechanics. Northwest's last known offer was an immediate 18 percent increase and the highest wages in the industry. The Aircraft Mechanics Fraternal Association, an aggressive union seeking to win over mechanics at other airlines, wants closer to a 40 percent increase. The issue of retroactive raises may offer some room for compromise, and set a precedent that dissuades future foot-dragging by management at other airlines. The outcome of these talks will surely influence United's talks with its mechanics, though Delta's pilots are next in line to reach their negotiating deadline. 
No one expects either side in this dispute to sacrifice its interests. But labor and management must realize they are approaching a point where neither side can truly win. A negotiated settlement is almost always preferable to one dictated from Washington, and will leave less bitterness. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Editorial 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: AIRLINES (94%); LABOR MEDIATION & ARBITRATION (90%); STRIKES (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); US PRESIDENTS (89%); AIRCRAFT PILOTS (89%); AVIATION SECTOR PERFORMANCE (89%); RAIL TRANSPORTATION REGULATION & POLICY (88%); LABOR DISPUTES & NEGOTIATIONS (79%); LABOR UNIONS (79%); COLLECTIVE BARGAINING (79%); OVERTIME (79%); TRANSPORTATION INDUSTRY LAW (78%); AIRLINE EMPLOYEES (78%); EXECUTIVE ORDERS (78%); PASSENGER & CARGO AIRCRAFT (78%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (77%); WAGES & SALARIES (74%); LEGISLATION (73%); INTERSTATE COMMERCE (73%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (61%) AIRLINES AND AIRPLANES; EDITORIALS; STRIKES; LABOR 

COMPANY: AMERICAN AIRLINES INC (90%); NORTHWEST AIRLINES INC (90%)

ORGANIZATION: NATIONAL MEDIATION BOARD (56%) NORTHWEST AIRLINES; AIRCRAFT MECHANICS FRATERNAL ASSN 

INDUSTRY: SIC4512 AIR TRANSPORTATION, SCHEDULED (90%); NAICS492110 COURIERS & EXPRESS DELIVERY SERVICES (90%); NAICS481112 SCHEDULED FREIGHT AIR TRANSPORTATION (90%); NAICS481111 SCHEDULED PASSENGER AIR TRANSPORTATION (90%) SIC4512 AIR TRANSPORTATION; 

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (89%); BILL CLINTON (57%) BUSH, GEORGE W (PRES) 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: March 10, 2001 



246 of 868 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 11, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 7; Column 3; Book Review Desk; Pg. 16

LENGTH: 1091 words

HEADLINE: Getting Over Our Depression 

BYLINE:  By Jeffrey Rosen; Jeffrey Rosen, an associate professor at George Washington University Law School, is the author of "The Unwanted Gaze: The Destruction of Privacy in America."

 BODY:
 The Constitution
and the New Deal
By G. Edward White.
385 pp. Cambridge, Mass.:
Harvard University Press. $45.
 With the exception of the presidential election, the most hotly contested question on the Supreme Court recently has been the constitutional status of the New Deal. Between 1942 and 1995, the court got out of the business of enforcing limits on Congress's power to regulate the economy. But during the past six years, the court has struck down all or part of more than two dozen federal laws, on the grounds that Congress or the president had encroached on states' rights or the separation of powers. The next four years could see a redefinition of the scope of federal power through the resurrection of an aggressive role for judges in policing boundaries of national government that had been dormant since the 1930's. Whether you think this is a principled exercise in constitutional restoration or a brazen display of judicial imperialism will depend on your views of the meaning of the mid-20th-century constitutional revolution that is conventionally associated with the New Deal. 
In an important and unexpectedly timely book, G. Edward White argues that the conventional account of constitutional history, which views the New Deal as the source of a new era in constitutional interpretation, is simplistic and wrong. When after 1932 the Democrats began to experiment with national economic regulation, the Supreme Court responded in 1934 and 1935
by striking down much of the New Deal. After Franklin D. Roosevelt's landslide re-election in 1936, he denounced the court for substituting its own views of laissez-faire economics for those of the people, and proposed in 1937 to expand the court if any of the existing justices remained on the bench after the age of 70. In the conventional account, even though the court-packing plan failed in the Senate, the political pressure it embodied persuaded the conservative justices to abandon their partisan objections to the New Deal. The court switched from a posture of judicial activism to one of judicial restraint, giving the president and Congress broad deference to regulate the economy in an increasingly interdependent world. 
White, who teaches law at the University of Virginia, argues in "The Constitution and the New Deal" that the court-packing plan was, in fact, "a symptom, rather than a cause," of a constitutional revolution that can't be attributed to the New Deal since it was well under way by the 1920's and not fully resolved until the 1940's. And this revolution was driven not by partisan politics but by the onset of what White calls "modernity" -- namely, the view that humans could shape their own destinies rather than be constrained by immutable legal, economic and social rules. Once the old constitutional rules were contested rather than universally accepted, White argues, the "traditional distinction between the will of the judge and the will of the law came to be seen as unintelligible."
Until the end of the progressive era in the early 20th century, the legal consensus was that judges should carefully police the boundaries between state and federal power by serving as guardians of unchanging legal principles. No legislature, for example, could enact "partial" laws that benefited one class of citizens and not the public as a whole: so maximum hour and minimum wage laws were viewed as special treatment for workers. But by the 1930's, the economic reality of the Depression had dislodged the assumption that labor and capital were able to compete on equal terms in the laissez-faire marketplace, and redistributive legislation was seen as a way of helping the public generally by preventing vulnerable workers from becoming wards of the new welfare state. The Supreme Court recognized this transformation in 1934 (three years before F.D.R.'s court-packing plan), when it upheld a Minnesota debtor-relief law allowing courts to extend the deadline for mortgage payments. While debtor-relief laws had been precisely what the framers of the contracts clause of the Constitution meant to forbid when they held that no state shall pass laws "impairing the obligation of contracts," the court concluded that the meaning of the Constitution had changed and that judges were free to recognize the change.
Far from being driven by partisan politics, White emphasizes, the justices who voted to strike down the New Deal, like those who voted to uphold it, were struggling to apply 19th-century legal categories in a world in which their analytical underpinnings had collapsed. By canonizing the judges who voted to uphold the New Deal and demonizing their conservative opponents, the partisan defenders of the New Deal were distorting a complicated, longstanding and legitimate constitutional debate for their own polemical purposes. "We can no longer afford to employ the New Deal as a standard for measuring the effectiveness of current political and constitutional theories," White concludes. "The New Deal needs to be cabined in its own time."
Nevertheless, White's revisionist account of the New Deal revolution helps us understand our current constitutional debates in a new, more complicated light. White's account will give little comfort to conservatives who see the court's response to the crisis of 1937 as a craven abandonment of immutable principles or to liberals who see the New Deal as a permanent feature of our constitutional landscape -- the equivalent of a constitutional amendment. 
Instead, White reminds us, assumptions about the nature of law and judging are inextricably connected to contemporary models of politics, economics and social organization, which changed dramatically over the course of the 20th century and are changing once again. Today, after having abandoned the effort for half a century, the Supreme Court is creating a series of new limitations on Congress's power. These attempts to translate 18th-century constitutional boundaries into the 21st century may or may not be accepted as more principled than political in an age when both parties agree that the New Deal era of big government is over. But if presidential elections can't resolve constitutional revolutions, they can help to influence them. That's why the role of our current conservative justices in choosing the president who could choose their successors was so unnerving. F.D.R.'s attempt to pack the court appears to have been less of a departure from the existing terms of constitutional debate than the court's recent attempt to pack itself. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Review 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BOOK REVIEWS (91%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (90%); SUPREME COURTS (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (89%); ELECTIONS (89%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (89%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (89%); POLITICAL PARTIES (78%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); POLITICS (78%); LITERATURE (66%) BOOKS AND LITERATURE; REVIEWS 

COMPANY: HARVARD UNIVERSITY PRESS (58%)

ORGANIZATION: HARVARD UNIVERSITY (84%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS511130 BOOK PUBLISHERS (58%); SIC2731 BOOKS: PUBLISHING, OR PUBLISHING & PRINTING (58%)

PERSON: ROSEN, JEFFREY; WHITE, G EDWARD 

GEOGRAPHIC: MASSACHUSETTS, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (92%)

TITLE: CONSTITUTION AND THE NEW DEAL, THE (BOOK) 

LOAD-DATE: March 11, 2001 



247 of 868 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 11, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 5; Column 1; Travel Desk; Pg. 27

LENGTH: 1541 words

HEADLINE: Clicking on the Side of Caution 

BYLINE:  By BOB TEDESCHI 

 BODY:
While adventure travel is reaching new heights of popularity, most people draw the line at finding their vacation adventure in a war zone. But each year, countless tourists book trips to faraway lands, only to find that when it's time to depart, their vacation spot has become the backdrop to armed conflict, social turmoil or major health risks.
 Although Israel is the most obvious example of the first category, it is hardly alone: in Indonesia, recent ethnic violence has left hundreds of people dead, while last month a clash involving the Burmese army and ethnic groups in Myanmar spilled across the border into Thailand, leaving three citizens of that country dead. 
 Meanwhile, tourists can unwittingly find themselves in dire health circumstances in places like Ukraine, where medical clinics frequently lack the most basic equipment or facilities for blood transfusions. And even in relatively secure countries like China, travelers can find themselves with front seats to an unexpected conflict, such as the government's recent crackdown against the Falun Gong. Such events pose little harm to tourists, but can swiftly quell the chatter within any tour group. 
While the Internet has been a boon to travelers who engage in do-it-yourself booking -- often at the behest of travel companies, which save money as a result -- the self-service nature of the Web leaves consumers vulnerable to getting into situations they might have chosen to avoid if they had known better.
Last month, for example, major adventure travel sites, including Adventureseek .com, Away.com and iExplore, featured tours to Ecuador, including extensive activity in and around Quito, the capital. Nowhere in the itineraries or tour descriptions was it mentioned that only days before the United States State Department had issued a Public Announcement cautioning Americans to put off travel to parts of Ecuador.
The department did not explicitly tell Americans to avoid Quito -- where violent political demonstrations and crime have been on the rise -- but did say that "extreme caution should be taken in tourist areas and crowded marketplaces, especially on the streets of south Quito, the Panecillo, Old Quito, and in transportation terminals. Backpackers are frequently targeted for criminal activity in Quito."
That advisory came from an excellent jumping-off point for travelers wishing to investigate possible trouble spots: the State Department's Bureau of Consular Affairs Web site, www.travel.state.gov. At the top of the right-hand side of the home page is a link for Travel Warnings/Consular Info Sheets. By clicking on it, users arrive at a page that lists three types of information: Consular Information Sheets, Public Announcements and Travel Warnings.
Consular Information Sheets offer basic information about 199 nations, including entry requirements, embassy addresses and phone numbers, and information on traffic safety and medical facilities.
Public Announcements, which carry preset expiration dates, have information about short-term threats to the security of American travelers.
Travel Warnings are more open-ended. In January, for example, in an update of a warning last October, the bureau again cautioned Americans to defer traveling to Israel, the West Bank and Gaza, following the latest Palestinian uprising. Americans should "exercise extreme caution and avoid shopping areas, malls, public buses and bus stops as well as crowded areas and demonstrations," the Web site said.
Christopher Lamora, a spokesman for the bureau, said the government developed such warnings after receiving information from various federal agencies, and, in some cases, with the help of local citizens.
Understandably, tourism officials often view Travel Warnings as overreactions. Noa Artzi, a spokeswoman for Israel's Ministry of Tourism (www.goisrael.com), said in a telephone interview on Feb. 13 that there had been "no special precautions tourists need to take, because everything is normal and safe here." "Tourists aren't traveling in the West Bank and Gaza anyhow, mainly because most of the attractions aren't there."
But the day after Ms. Artzi spoke, a Palestinian drove into a crowd at a bus stop south of Tel Aviv, killing eight people, and last Sunday four people were killed in a terrorist bombing north of the city.
On Feb. 27 the State Department warned Americans to put off travel to the Solomon Islands, particularly Guadalcanal. There, it said, "ethnic unrest during the last two years has devastated the economy and contributed to a general breakdown in law and order. Despite a recent peace agreement, hundreds of automatic weapons remain in the hands of former militants. The Solomon Islands' police force has been unable to restore security in the capital, Honiara."
It is, of course, true that most tourists come and go with no problem, even in regions that have become synonymous with conflict. Thousands of Americans have visited both Israel and Ecuador in the past year, and despite the October kidnapping of five American oil workers in rural Ecuador -- and the subsequent killing of one of them -- the vast majority of tourists traveled without incident.
To help accomplish that, the Web offers an increasing amount of specific advice about situations and areas to avoid. For example, on the Lonely Planet Web site, www.lonelyplanet.com, users can click on the Postcards link, which leads to an online bulletin board where they can get information about crime and practical concerns. For instance, the page devoted to South Africa recently included a posting from a woman living in the country, advising tourists who rent cars to take certain precautions, given the spate of carjackings in the country last year.
Lonely Planet doesn't vouch for the accuracy or usefulness of these missives, but again, they are worth reading for travelers who are weary, or leery, of the florid reviews in guidebooks or on the Web sites of travel operators.
For those looking for up-to-date information, Robert Young Pelton, author of "The World's Most Dangerous Places" (HarperInformation) and host of an hourlong series on the subject on Discovery's Travel Channel, recommends a Yahoo News site devoted to world news (dailynews.yahoo.com/ fc/world/).
Through this link, visitors can search for current and past news reports by country -- and, thankfully, read them in English. Following up on the carjack warning on Lonely Planet, I checked the South Africa section on Yahoo News to see if the incidents have continued this year. There a Feb. 15 article by the South African media company Woza reported that the South Africa police commissioner had found that police and customs officials were involved in major hijacking syndicates in the country.
Search engines are also handy research tools. On Google.com, type in a request for "tourists kidnapped" along with a country name, for instance, and chances are good that you will find what you are -- or aren't -- looking for.
Google is also the new home of the archives of the Usenet discussion groups (groups.google.com), which are essentially bulletin boards for people with common interests. To get to travel-related discussions, go to the rec. group, and click inside the horizontal box next to Go on the upper left side, which will let you jump to the second half of the alphabetical list. There you'll find the rec.travel group, and subgroups related to regions.
That is where Mimi Wong landed recently, while researching an April trip to Indonesia. In an e-mail message, Ms. Wong, who is from Minneapolis, noted that she might have canceled the trip had it not been for the information she gleaned from the Internet. (She said that in addition to the Usenet groups on Google.com, she scoured the Thorn Tree bulletin board on LonelyPlanet.com, which also holds archives of e-mail discussions.)
She wrote that "being able to drill down to a more detailed level and focus on a specific geographic area of Indonesia" and "get first-hand opinions from travelers has helped us make a better decision." Still, she said, "I'm taking a wait-and-see attitude."
Jerry Carlson, an executive with Delta Air Lines, used the Web to similar effect recently while researching a June trip to Bogota, Colombia, with his two children, a daughter aged 21 and a son, 26. Mr. Carlson was looking for more information on avoiding the hazards of Colombia, which is the subject of a State Department Travel Warning. After reading a posting on the Lonely Planet site and listening to colleagues at work, he was "very concerned about kidnapping, robbery, the whole range of things like that."
The Google Usenet site yielded "contradictory" information, he said, so his search will continue on other bulletin boards and news sites. "I'm looking for information on whether and how to hire a private taxi driver who stays with you around the clock, and can keep you out of bad areas and make sure you don't do anything stupid," he said. "I'm sure I'll find something on this on the Internet."
The chances are "99 percent we're going, unless we find something really bad," Mr. Carlson added. He said that after a few days in Bogota, he'll fly back with his son and put his daughter on another plane south. Her next stop: Quito, Ecuador.

GRAPHIC: Drawing (Claudia Newell) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: WAR & CONFLICT (90%); EMBASSIES & CONSULATES (89%); INTERNET & WWW (89%); STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (88%); TRAVEL WARNINGS (86%); LEISURE TRAVEL (78%); DIPLOMATIC SERVICES (78%); TRAVEL AGENTS (78%); ETHNIC CONFLICTS (78%); DEMOGRAPHIC GROUPS (76%); HEALTH CARE (74%); POLITICAL PROTESTS (73%); ETHNIC GROUPS (71%); ETHNICITY (71%); PROTESTS & DEMONSTRATIONS (70%); INVESTIGATIONS (70%); CLINICS & OUTPATIENT SERVICES (54%); BLOOD TRANSFUSIONS (53%) TRAVEL AND VACATIONS; COMPUTERS AND THE INTERNET 

PERSON: TEDESCHI, BOB 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%); MYANMAR (92%); ECUADOR (92%); INDONESIA (79%); CHINA (79%); UKRAINE (79%); THAILAND (77%)

LOAD-DATE: March 11, 2001 



248 of 868 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 11, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 6; Column 1; Magazine Desk; Pg. 78

LENGTH: 498 words

HEADLINE: Editors' Choice: Entertaining; 
The Host

BYLINE:  By William Norwich 

 BODY:
Informal polls of society people -- the best kind of poll for society people -- have determined that John Galliher is the favorite host for all seasons in New York. Everyone wants to go back to Johnny's -- his friends call him Johnny -- for lunch or dinner or Saturday-afternoon card parties. (Gin, not bridge.) 
 In boom times, or in times of recession, as well as every permutation in between, the Washington- born social grandee who, before establishing his residence in a two-bedroom flat on the Upper East Side, lived in Paris, then London, has discovered that the way to his rich friends' hearts is through their longing -- the almost touching need the rich have -- for simplicity. In all the cities of the world, "people like the simplicity of an easy entertainment," John Galliher says. 
 It was Louis XIV who apparently started the trend for round tables of six. The Sun King could dismiss his servants and attendants so his friends could dine and talk freely. Emerald Cunard favored the intimate round table for six, as did the Duchess of Windsor. So, too, does John Galliher, except he hasn't any servants to dismiss. Hence, the invention of the Basket.
As nobody ever wants to get up to clear, lest one of the six miss a morsel of conversation, about 30 years ago Galliher got the idea of clearing the dishes into a laundry basket lined with a plastic covered cloth. Later, after the guests leave, the basket is carried to the kitchen. (The current basket was a present from the interior decorator Billy Baldwin.) What about chipped dishes? "I do not have Meissen here," Galliher notes. 
The menu, consolingly, is always the same. Cold tomato souffl 1/8 or lobster salad to start. Then chicken Mica, named for a Romanian friend: large pieces of chicken stewed in a double broth of chicken consomm 1/8, wild rice, small mixed vegetables, and a bit of cream seasoned with rosemary and tarragon. It is cooked ahead of time and kept warm until served. On the table: a jar of Ritz crackers and bottles of wine; guests can pour as they like. Dessert is a homemade concoction of bitter dark chocolate with lots of Tia Maria and Kahlua. Galliher calls this Moca Melting Moments.
There's always music. Galliher makes tapes of favorite ballads and melodies, which play at a soft and pleasing volume. The sweet fragrance in the air? Galliher calls it Charity, a mixture of giveaway scents handed out at the end of charity balls that the dapper one blends in a king-size atomizer.
John Galliher will not risk offense by saying who his favorite guests are today. "But in the former days, very often we had Diana Vreeland, Babe Paley, Slim Keith, Truman Capote and Peter Glenville. Of course Babe had the best chef in town, but she loved coming here even if it was for a spaghetti, because it was relaxed and fun. And these people loved each other and really said the most amazing things because they knew it wouldn't be repeated." He pauses, and remembers: "Except Truman did." -- William Norwich

GRAPHIC: Photos: John Galliher in his Upper East Side apartment, with his great dinner-party innovation: the Basket. (Francois Dischinger); Conversation Pieces: "At a round table, conversation is shared," John Galliher says. "But if there is a shy guest, he or she is just as comfortable as the talkative one." Meanwhile, to jump-start the conversation: 1. A Tiffany silver and-ivory tankard exhibited in the 1900 Paris Exposition (and included in a Sotheby's online auction of the Pabst Brewing Company stein collection, April 12-26; estimate: $200,000 to $300,000). 2. Your new portrait by Maureen Mullarkey (www.studiomatters.com). 3. A sterling-silver Champagne-bottle bubble blower from Links of London, 535 Madison Avenue. 4. Room candles from Greg Jordan, especially his GJ No. 1 aromatic with fig pulp. (212) 570-4470. 5. A copy of the gossip read du jour "Dancing With the Devil," the story of the Duchess of Windsors romantic liaison with Jimmy Donahue, by Christopher Wilson. (1: courtesy of Sotheby's. 3,4,5: Tony Cenicola for The New York Times.) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: RECESSION (71%); ECONOMIC NEWS (71%); INTERIOR DECORATING (70%); MUSIC (63%) PARTIES (SOCIAL) 

PERSON: NORWICH, WILLIAM; GALLIHER, JOHN 

GEOGRAPHIC: LONDON, ENGLAND (90%); PARIS, FRANCE (71%) NEW YORK, USA (90%) UNITED STATES (90%); FRANCE (71%)

LOAD-DATE: March 11, 2001 



249 of 868 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 11, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 6; Column 1; Magazine Desk; Pg. 52

LENGTH: 4858 words

HEADLINE: The Suit 

BYLINE:  By George Packer; George Packer is the author, most recently, of "Blood of the Liberals."

 BODY:
In spring 1997, a wall street lawyer named Harold O. Levy was vacationing with his family on Prince Edward Island, Canada. Recently named to the New York State Board of Regents, Levy had taken along for holiday reading a data-crammed annual publication of the State Education Department known as the 655 Report. As he sat on the beach, what he read made him angrier and angrier. Finally, he jumped to his feet and began walking up and down the sand, shouting to his wife: "You gotta see this! It's unbelievable!"
 The 655 Report revealed all the ways the State of New York has financially shortchanged New York City schools for years by a formula, politically arranged between the governor and the Legislature, so byzantine that the state's education commissioner admitted that even he didn't understand it. Here is one piece of the formula, which has dozens of such pieces: 
 Building Aid Ratio = (1.000 - 1996 FV/1997-98 RWADA x .51 ) 291,500 (state average). 
Plenty of people understand abstractly the inequalities in public education. Hardly anyone reads the report and grasps the details. What Levy discovered from his beach reading, he told me recently, was that "state aid has nothing to do with need and everything to do with spoils and avarice and greed and politics." Rather than basing spending on what school districts need, the state arrives at its aid determinations based on numbers agreed upon in closed-door deals.
Back in New York, where Levy was born, grew up and attended public schools, he immediately invited a fellow lawyer named Robert Hughes to lunch downtown. Hughes was deputy director of the Campaign for Fiscal Equity, which in 1993 brought a lawsuit against the state, arguing that education financing was inadequate. Levy had been skeptical about the case, but now, converted to the cause by data, he told Hughes that the lawsuit needed political backing. In short order, Levy turned the hundreds of pages of the report into a 30-minute presentation, with flip charts and overheads, explaining how the city was routinely underfinanced. He took it on the road to civic groups, businesspeople and eventually to legislators in Albany. Levy had found an outlet for two of his strongest drives: a passion for the public good and a need to be the smartest person in any room. 
In January, in one of the more eloquent decisions on school equality since Brown v. Board of Education, State Supreme Court Justice Leland DeGrasse sided with the Campaign for Fiscal Equity and declared the state-aid formula unconstitutional, ordering the Legislature to find a new way to guarantee a "sound, basic education" to the state's children. 
Harold O. Levy now sits in the chancellor's office on the 10th floor of the Board of Education in downtown Brooklyn. A 48-year-old white Jewish New Yorker from the corporate world, with no experience as an educator or as a politician, whose own two children attend private school, is in charge of the country's largest public school system, 1.1 million children, 84 percent minority and overwhelmingly poor. While the politicians in Albany wrangle over how to answer the court ruling and Governor Pataki appeals the decision, Levy is in a unique position to create alliances that overcome the old divisions between city and upstate. 
Levy has become chancellor in a period when a number of forces are converging in a strange mix of hope and disaster. If ever there was a moment of rough consensus about education, this is it. With a few exceptions, the right, including the Bush administration with its education agenda, acknowledges the need to spend more money on the most disadvantaged schools. The left, again with a few exceptions, acknowledges the need to raise achievement levels, measure results and hold schools accountable for them. In the jargon of the education world, the consensus comes down to standards, accountability and equity. Of course, as Levy himself points out, "The Devil is in the details," and the consensus may turn out to be an inch deep. But the decision in the New York lawsuit elevates one idea to the level of law: higher standards require more spending.
"It historically has been the perception that money spent on the Board of Education goes down a hole," Levy said. "I want to put an end to that." The deal he's offering the public goes like this: I'll bring the snap of the private sector to bear on this bureaucracy, spend money efficiently, produce results. In turn, I need more money to attract better teachers, reduce class size, improve facilities and give poor city kids as much of a chance as their wealthier suburban counterparts.
Levy, who credits his predecessors for their educational initiatives, has introduced a blizzard of reforms: making bilingual education more flexible, connecting all 1,200 principals in the system by e-mail, drastically reducing memoranda and regulations, hiring teachers by alternative routes that circumvent the board's cumbersome process, reorganizing the staff offices and reassigning enough superintendents to send a message to the districts. His controversial decision to give five failed schools the option of being privatized reflects a pragmatic see-what-works approach; it also shows Levy's willingness to go along with part of Mayor Giuliani's agenda in order to get along.
The effect of all these measures on budget and structure has thus far been marginal, and any one person's ability to change what goes on in tens of thousands of classrooms is highly questionable. Levy's real success has been political. He has defused a notoriously vengeful mayor who tried to block his appointment, won the backing of powerful state legislators, kept himself constantly in the press while earning praise from editorial boards and brought some of the city's leading businesspeople into the education debate. 
Several big waves still threaten to crash over New York's schools and sweep away Levy's innovations: the possibility of large numbers of high-school students failing the tough new Regents exams, the possibility of economic downturn and fiscal austerity, the retirement during the next five years of more than half the city's 78,000 teachers, the extreme difficulty of finding talented replacements. But on the level of perception, he has answered the public's expectation of a corporate school boss.
In a managerial age that mistrusts ideological answers of left and right for social problems, Levy seems biographically and temperamentally the man for the moment. He is capable of telling both sides what they don't want to hear. Addressing an educational nonprofit group once, in a few vulgarity-laced minutes he told the members that they had wasted their money. But at another meeting, when a wealthy businessman argued for a free-market approach to education, Levy snapped: "Look, that's nonsense. You really don't understand that schools are different from every other element of our society."
"One thing you can say about Harold," said Jan Atwell of the United Parents Associations, "he's an equal opportunity offender."
Levy avoids hot-button issues like vouchers and instead talks in pragmatic terms about results. But Levy isn't a value-neutral manager. He is, in fact, a liberal -- one who seems to belong to an era before the 1960's, when it was possible to be both public-spirited and Machiavellian. Levy's values are humane; his methods can be harsh. "He's one of these progressive managerial types -- a New Deal technocrat," said Joseph Schwartz, Levy's friend from Bronx High School of Science and Cornell. "I think he really believes in being a good citizen."
In fact, Levy likes to compare his approach with the experimental pragmatism of the New Deal. His tenure as chancellor raises the question of whether urban liberalism can still be a successful governing philosophy. F.D.R., though, had 12 years. With a new mayor and Board of Education coming in next year, Levy's time could be much shorter, and his casual bluntness, refreshing to some, is already alienating sectors whose help he may need.
When Levy's name surfaced in January 2000 for interim chancellor, a lot of people, including his wife, Pat, and some of his close friends, wondered what would prompt a man with two young children and a successful corporate career to seek the job, at a fraction of his former salary, of top bureaucrat in an organization widely considered an administrative sinkhole. A job, the writer Jonathan Kozol told me, that "was invented so someone could die for our sins." A job held by six different men since 1989. Their pictures line the portrait hall outside the chancellor's office like the departed wives of Henry VIII. Why on earth would Levy want to join them?
"Homer, the 'Odyssey,"' he said to me once, with a playful smile and a bit of mischief in his eyes behind wire-rimmed glasses. "Tied to the mast."
Odysseus, refusing the wax that his men put in their ears, wanted to hear the Sirens without being lured overboard by their seductive voices. And Levy wanted to be chancellor out of a commitment to public education, but also for the exhilaration of running something so large and complex. He was casting himself as the hero of his own epic.
"I thought when he came in he was going to be eaten alive," said Carol Kellermann of Learning Leaders, a school-volunteer program. "He's not an educator, not from politics. And instead he has the system eating out of his hand."
But Chiara Coletti, who was press secretary to Levy's predecessor, Rudy Crew, used a different gastronomic analogy to warn about the speed and viciousness with which New York politics can turn on a seemingly popular chancellor. She saw her own boss crumble under pressure when Mayor Giuliani withdrew his favor. In her last months on the job, she kept a postcard of Goya's "Saturn Devouring His Son" by her desk. "We've been very lucky in our chancellors in this city," she said. "But we eat our young."
On a table in Levy's inner office, propped between bookend statuettes of "The Thinker," are these titles: "Can Business Management Save the Cities?"; "Elizabeth I, C.E.O.: Strategic Lessons From the Leader Who Built an Empire"; "How to Read a Poem . . . and Start a Poetry Circle"; the "Oresteia" of Aeschylus; Jesse Jackson Sr. and Jr.'s "It's About the Money!"; and a little red book entitled "Sayings of Generalissimo Giuliani." Next door, in Levy's main office, hangs the portrait of another chancellor, Sir Thomas More, eyes and mouth all focus and resolve -- an intellectual who rose to high position before losing his head on principle. But Levy's attraction to More has nothing to do with martyrdom: "He represents at once great principle and great maneuverability, flexibility, guilefulness, someone who could move in the political world."
Levy dresses deliberately in the uniform of investment banking, down to the white handkerchief in his breast pocket. One Thursday night he told me that he was thinking of going to work the next day in some variation of Friday casual wear; in the morning he was wearing a blue pinstriped suit -- So the press doesn't get distracted," he explained. "I don't want to send the wrong message."
The message is businesslike confidence; he is always in character, and the press seems to love it. Spend a few days or weeks with Levy, as I did in the late fall and winter, and you find yourself trying to keep up with a man who moves from task to task with breathtaking briskness. When I asked him whether it was wise to antagonize the people at that meeting of the nonprofit group, he replied, "I knew precisely what I was doing, and I made the decision in advance because I think that was misspent money." Levy had a way of drawing me into his confidence with an often caustic candor. After exchanging pleasantries with one colleague, he murmured to me, "I don't think much of him -- and he knows it." Levy has a reputation for both brilliance and arrogance, but beneath these lies a muted insecurity the public doesn't see. More given to self-projection than self-scrutiny, twice during our conversations he stopped me to say, "This is very self-indulgent, talking about myself." 
"I don't think he internalizes opposition," said Norm Fruchter, the director of N.Y.U.'s Institute for Education and Social Policy. "Crew internalized everything. Cortines internalized the mayor's antagonism. Levy is impervious. I think he's got a suit of brass armor."
Levy's parents were Jewish refugees from Hitler's Germany, and the tension between their religion and their homeland expresses itself in Levy's character: on the one hand, mastery of detail, respect for institutions; on the other, what he calls (citing Isaiah Berlin) "the inherent subversiveness of the Jewish home."
"Judaism is a part of my identity," Levy said. "My family is German too. And if one takes that seriously, one has to begin thinking about the conflicting notions that that suggests. The Ashkenazic Jew has all kinds of marvelous tensions that are not considered in any rational way. When I went to Oxford, there were many things that I thought about myself as being Jewish and found, no, in fact, it's German."
Joseph Schwartz summed Levy up in this two-word paradox: "establishment outsider."
Levy's maternal grandparents died in the camps. Neither of his parents had a university education. In Germany, his father, Hugo, had been a small-town textile merchant, and in New York he owned a hardware store on East 59th Street. German was spoken in the Levys' lower-middle-class home, on the second floor of a five-story tenement in Washington Heights. Levy grew up an only child; a sister died before he was born. He was not, by his own account, a natural student. When his third-grade teacher told his mother that her son didn't read well, Alice Levy imposed a regime of reading aloud for an hour every night. "She had an egg timer," Levy recalled, his voice rising on a vaguely George Costanza shtick. "And I sat there hating that egg timer for the first three or four months, and by the last three or four months I didn't need it."
He was a student leader at every level of his education, from the monitors squad at P.S. 189 right through the most tumultuous years of the Vietnam War. He was elected student body president at Bronx Science on a civil liberties platform, against a policy of searching lockers. When the Kent State killings prompted a student march through the Bronx in May 1970, Levy argued against shutting down the school and for using class time to do electoral work and letter-writing. When Schwartz and other students occupied Cornell's engineering building in 1972, Levy shuttled between the sit-in and the administration to help negotiate a peaceful end.
It is interesting to note what Levy might have become in those crucial years and didn't: a radical, a neoconservative or a careerist disenchanted with politics altogether. Instead, he became what he remains today: a liberal who believes in institutional reform but not revolution -- a rare species among teenagers in the late 60's. 
Coming from an immigrant family with all the underlying anxiety of a striver, Levy seems to have felt one down through much of his schooling. (Even now there are traces of the precocious teenager who cites a couple of quotes that show he did the reading, but not very deeply.) He first went to Cornell one summer during high school for an Advanced Placement program; he wept when it was time to go back to Washington Heights, and even in recalling the experience in a speech to Cornell alums, Levy's voice broke. "I never thought I would see a place as beautiful as that," he told me. "What it said to me was: Here's a line where I will not be able to overstep. Here's a door I cannot open. I'm allowed to sit at the table for the appetizer only."
When he was accepted to Cornell's School of Industrial and Labor Relations, Levy thought, Now I'll be found out. Instead, he came into his intellectual own. As a freshman he sought out Milton Konvitz, whose "Bill of Rights Reader" had inspired Levy in high school and who introduced Levy to the great ideas of the Western secular and religious tradition, including More's "Utopia." "He gave Harold an intellectual language and integrity," Konvitz's wife, Mary, said. "Harold had no model." When Levy received a scholarship to Oxford over a more polished candidate, an administrator told him, "You need it more."
He received a law degree from Cornell, intending to become a civil rights lawyer. But over time he came to feel that, in that arena, "the great issues had already been resolved," and he decided to learn litigation. He went to Wall Street -- first working at Skadden, Arps, Slater, Meagher & Flom, later at Salomon Brothers, which became a part of Citigroup. He rose steadily through the ranks, ending up as Citigroup's director of global compliance, charged with keeping the company's overseas offices in line with laws and regulations and overseeing a staff of about 1,500. "It always struck me as anomalous that he was in compliance," said Levy's friend Lewis Bernard, a retired Morgan Stanley executive. "He has a great free-ranging intellect, and he's a blithe spirit. Compliance is a nightmare, a set of regulatory prescriptions that you must meet. It's not an area where you can embroider much on the margin. You're trying to restrain the appetite of capitalism."
At the same time, Levy was traveling on a parallel path of nonprofit work that went far beyond the typical lawyer's pro bono services and introduced him to some key political and business figures. In 1995, Chancellor Ramon Cortines asked Levy to head a commission on the physical state of school buildings. Close friends told him that it was a lose-lose proposition, but the report made headlines with accounts of coal-burning furnaces and falling chunks of concrete. Going back to the scene of his own primary education, P.S. 189 in Washington Heights, and finding windowed walls collapsing into classrooms had the effect of a moral revelation on Levy. "For our city's schoolchildren," he wrote, "the lesson these buildings and this school system teach them about their future in the world is clear . . . they have no future, that we do not care about them, that they should fend for themselves and find the shortest way out."
His work on the commission and on the board of University Settlement House on Manhattan's Lower East Side introduced him to Sheldon Silver, the Democratic speaker of the State Assembly. It turned out that Silver's father, a hardware wholesaler on Ludlow Street, had done business with Levy's father. "I'd been cleared to the second generation," Levy said. In early 1997, Silver secured Levy's appointment to the state Board of Regents.
At Christmas 1999, the chancellorship became vacant when Giuliani forced out his former cigar-smoking buddy Rudy Crew. Levy, eager for a new challenge in the public eye, let the president of the Board of Education know that he was interested. On a Saturday morning in January, Silver opened the paper and read that Giuliani was opposed to Levy's candidacy because he was "friendly with Sheldon Silver." This was enough to prompt Silver to make a few calls on Levy's behalf. Over the mayor's strenuous opposition, the Board of Education voted 4 to 3 to make Levy interim chancellor.
On his first day in the 10th-floor office at 110 Livingston Street, Levy was hanging up several suits on hangers collected during his previous incarnation in the corporate world. He noticed the first-class insignia: Mandarin Hotel, Hong Kong; Burgenstock Hotel, Lucerne; Stafford Hotel, London. He went to the window, gazed through the curtain of construction netting down at the traffic chaos of Brooklyn and asked himself, What the hell am I doing here?
For Levy's first couple of months on the job, Giuliani refused to speak to him. But by steering clear of issues that would bring down the mayor's ire and staying neutral on Giuliani's drive to put the Board of Education under mayoral control, Levy managed, with his businesslike approach, to get along. In June, he was unanimously voted permanent chancellor. There is now a "grudging respect" between these two lawyers, Levy told me. "I did what I said I'd do, and he did the same." He smiled. "I'm not saying he wouldn't push me down a flight of stairs if he had a chance."
Levy's early years had seemed a preparation for public service, and when he stayed on Wall Street some old friends were surprised. But Robert Hughes, who helped bring the lawsuit against New York State, pointed out that if education is this generation's civil rights issue, "Harold didn't escape being a civil rights lawyer after all." 
A sleety January morning, predawn dark, the Hudson flowing past the train under trapezoidal slabs of ice: Levy, dressed in uniform, and four aides are putting the finishing touches on testimony he will give to a joint finance committee of the state Legislature in Albany. "I can't say this," he announces, and reads aloud from a tortured paragraph on need-wealth-ratio deciles. "Put this way, it's gibberish. Is the city putting out its fair share? I don't know. What I do know is, I need more. Over to you guys." He rewrites the conclusion, making it tougher. "The message I want to give is, The whole world is watching," he tells me. "I want to say that the judge's decision has changed the moral landscape."
In his State of the State address a few weeks before, Governor Pataki said, "Let's leave the old convoluted school-aid formula on the ash heap of history," and Levy wants to work this into his testimony. "As the governor quoted Karl Marx . . . ," he improvises. "I'm not sure I can restrain myself from that display of intellectual knowledge." One-upmanship is a readily available mode of relating with Levy, and I offer that it was Trotsky, but he won't have it: "It's from the 'Manifesto'!"
At the Board of Education's Albany office, Levy pulls from his briefcase "Plunkitt of Tammany Hall," a gift on behalf of his political education from the real-estate developer Jack Rudin, recording the practical philosophy of the Gilded Age's king of "honest graft." Levy has taken the book along for moral support, and he starts reading aloud with zest from Chapter 2, titled "New York City Is Pie for the Hayseeds": "Did you ever go up to Albany from this city with a delegation that wanted anything from the Legislature? No? Well, don't. The hayseeds who run all the committees will look at you as if you were a child that didn't know what it wanted, and will tell you in so many words to go home and be good and the Legislature will give you whatever it thinks is good for you."
Fortified by Plunkitt and the DeGrasse decision and characteristically high-spirited, Levy heads over to the Hamilton Hearing Room with his team. The room is unusually crowded with legislators and the press. "In the past, the question was, Is the city getting enough?" Levy begins. "And now that debate is over, in my judgment, for all time." He seconds Pataki's remark about getting rid of the old formula, and then, sure enough, he can't resist adding, "Thereby paraphrasing Karl Marx, which I thought was a very sweet moment." Levy skips most of his prepared text and ad libs, warming to his subject, passionate and witty and blunt. After a few minutes, his remarks have had the mental effect of breaking open a few windows in the stuffy room. 
But then something goes wrong. Suddenly Levy is saying: "It does not mean that no oxen will be gored. There will be some who will have to give up money. And I would say to you that that is on the basis of years of accumulated need gone unaddressed. I know that's not a popular thing to say, but it is the truth."
But it's not a truth Levy came before the Legislature to offer. It cuts against the entire rationale of the lawsuit, which argued for leveling the poorer districts up. And by suggesting a zero-sum solution, it undermines the politically delicate task of assembling a coalition of New York City, suburban and upstate legislators to work out a response to the judge's decision. Afterward, under questioning from the press, Levy reiterates the point and then begins to hedge. A few reporters follow him upstairs to Silver's office, where Levy stands by quietly and, it seems to me, slightly chagrined, as Silver, the political pro, explains that the chancellor meant only that he needed more money.
As Levy leaves Albany, what awaits him back downstate are headlines screaming about robbing the rich to give to the poor, suburban legislators circling their wagons, backers of the lawsuit gnashing their teeth that in two minutes Levy had undone all his hard work. "I don't know whether it's self-destructive or some manic confidence," says Norm Fruchter of N.Y.U. "It may be contempt for the official line of things -- he's tired of piety, people are going to have to face this." But on the evening train back to the city, Levy seems just as assured as ever. If he knows he made a mistake in Albany, he's not looking back. "I make decisions and move on," he once said. "I don't second-guess myself. I don't lie awake at night. I sleep at night."
"What I see when I look at you tonight are destroyers of children's dreams," says the black woman in the white robe standing in the Board of Education's meeting room. "You lie, and you lie with a smile on your face as if it's a good thing. I don't think I should even call you human. You're subhuman."
Harold O. Levy -- tied to the mast with board members up on the dais -- listens implacably as New Yorkers take turns denouncing the schools and those who oversee them. At these public meetings, anger catches and spreads like prairie fire, and though the target is failing schools, the unspoken subject of race is "barely submerged," according to a senior member of Levy's staff. But it is Levy's class, not his race, that the parents I talked with said they feel puts him at a distance -- a feeling that Levy has not lessened by keeping his children in one of the city's most exclusive private schools, Dalton, and by demanding a $10,000 monthly housing allowance in lieu of moving out of his Upper West Side residence into the Brooklyn Heights brownstone reserved for chancellors.
Levy is pre-multicultural: in the way he addresses everyone in the same tone, you sense his faith that under our skin we are all basically alike. One evening last month at the Board of Education, he sat down with a group of black elected officials and community activists who were upset at the board's contract with the Edison Project to privatize five failed public schools. Levy heard them out, didn't lose his cool and without giving in managed to establish a degree of good will. "This is family," he told the group. "At the end of the day, we all have to go out and fight the fight of public education."
But Levy's tone doesn't play equally well with all audiences, and if he has a public relations problem, it's less the color of his skin than what one critic calls the "breezy corporate geniality" of his manner, which strikes some as overbearing smugness. His harshest critics are the longtime representatives of parent, community and education groups, who claim that they are ignored, if not despised, while Levy cultivates relationships with the powerful. Robin Brown, the chairwoman of his own Parent Advisory Council, says, "We never know until we read the newspapers what's going on."
"His body language is great for the upper classes and really terrible for working-class and poor people," says Noreen Connell of the Educational Priorities Panel, whose smoky voice and command of fact suggest a woman who has seen chancellors come and go. "I think they're used to chancellors who speak on a symbolic level as well. And Chancellor Levy probably sees it as empty rhetoric. And parents rely on symbolism just to keep hope alive. Because it's really pretty depressing being a poor parent."
Levy was brought to the job for his managerial skill, yet he was never really a manager in the corporate world. He is, however, a very quick study and master of detail who focuses on solving the problem at hand. When a city employee came to him for career advice, saying she wanted to improve public education, he waved away her long-term idealism: "Work to get the State Senate under Democratic control. Do something you can achieve in a couple of years."
Above all, he wants numbers. His hunger for data is so voracious that I once told him he could end up as the Robert McNamara of the urban education war. At 4 one afternoon, Levy calls Andrew Rein into his office: "I want a quick and dirty analysis of data on attendance and performance. I don't want a dissertation." Rein, a senior policy adviser Levy recruited from the Independent Budget Office (one of nearly a dozen new talented, six-figure hires), stays up until 11 running numbers that group the city's schools into quintiles to show a tight relation between high rates of absenteeism and low test scores. The next morning at 10:40, Levy is given three pages of color-coded bar graphs that superintendents can use to lean on schools with poor attendance rates. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: EDUCATION DEPARTMENTS (90%); EDUCATION SYSTEMS & INSTITUTIONS (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); PUBLIC SCHOOLS (87%); SUITS & CLAIMS (86%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (78%); SUPREME COURTS (78%); LITIGATION (78%); SCHOOL BOARDS (77%); SCHOOL DESEGREGATION (77%); BEACHES (76%); POLITICS (74%); SCHOOL DISTRICTS (72%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (60%) 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%); ALBANY, NY, USA (79%) NEW YORK, USA (94%); PRINCE EDWARD ISLAND, CANADA (73%) UNITED STATES (94%); CANADA (92%)

LOAD-DATE: March 11, 2001 



250 of 868 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 11, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 6; Column 1; Magazine Desk; Pg. 48

LENGTH: 3440 words

HEADLINE: Advertisements for Themselves 

BYLINE:  By John Leland; John Leland is a Style reporter for The Times.

 BODY:
In their low-slung Denver living room last fall, Robert Schneider and Hilarie Sidney were talking about what it means for musicians to sell out. Robert sat on the carpet, jittery and animated under a wisp of sandy hair; his wife, Hilarie, who was eight months pregnant with their first child, offered cookies. The day the Beach Boys sold "Good Vibrations" for a soft-drink ad, they agreed, was one of betrayal and ruin. "That was the Beach Boys at their wildest and most psychedelic," Robert says. "For a long time after that, it was hard for me to take the song out of the Sunkist commercial."
 For the past eight years, the couple, both 30, have been playing in a five-member band called the Apples in Stereo. Robert sings and plays guitar; Hilarie plays drums. The Apples consider themselves "a cross between the Beach Boys and the Velvet Underground," Robert says, breezy but, by ethos and tribe, "totally punk rock, indie rock." Their three albums for the independent label SpinART have gotten good reviews and sold about 20,000 copies apiece. 
 In late summer 1999, the band got a call from their friend Tim Barnes, who lives in New York. Tim plays drums in a couple of underground bands and lets the Apples stay with him whenever they play in New York or Hoboken. But mostly, Tim designs sound and suggests music for commercials. At the time, he was working on an ad for Sony being done by Young & Rubicam and thought the Apples in Stereo's song "Strawberryfire" would be perfect. The agency was offering about $18,000. Was the band interested?
Here was a critical moment. Hilarie could still remember the breathless thrill of discovering her favorite band, Pavement, and the loss she felt when they became popular, available to just anyone. She thought of the indie-rock purists who felt betrayed when the Apples released an album instead of just cult-friendly singles. Didn't the band owe something to these believers? At the same time, even after the record company took its cut, it was more money than the band cleared in a year of recording and touring -- all work occasional jobs to eke out a living. When Robert put the question to the rest of the band, he says, "Everyone's reaction was, right away, 'It's cool."' They took the offer. So began their odyssey in the new economy of pop music, where radio, MTV, touring and even record sales are no longer the only means of getting over. 
Fourteen years after Nike outraged Beatles fans, and the surviving Beatles, by using "Revolution" in a sneaker ad -- Michael Jackson controlled the publishing rights to the song -- the revolution is over, and the advertisers have largely won. Bruce Springsteen famously refused a reported $12 million to license his song "Born in the U.S.A." to Chrysler in 1986 and remains one of the handful of high-profile holdouts. (Others include Neil Young and Tom Petty.) But such opposition appears to be in retreat. "Artists no longer feel stigmatized about being used by corporations," says Cyndi Goretski, artists-and-repertoire manager in the licensing division of Warner Music. Counterculture anthems by the Who or Jimi Hendrix now sell cars. When Sting couldn't get airplay for his recent song "Desert Rose" or for the video, which featured him riding in a Jaguar, he licensed the video to the company to turn it into an ad. The exposure helped "Brand New Day" become his top-selling solo album.
But increasingly, agencies are looking beyond middle-of-the-road pop like Sting's and building brand identity for their clients with hip curios like the Apples. If you want to hear interesting, ambitious, challenging pop music these days, the place to turn is not mainstream radio but television -- and not MTV but commercials for establishment products like banks, phone companies and painkillers. As pop radio has constricted around a handful of slick teen acts, commercials screech and thump with underground dance music and alternative rock, selling products whose reach extends way beyond that of the musicians. 
Alternative musicians, once shielded by the cocoon of their modest ambitions, suddenly face a new field of opportunity and of ethical quandary. Putting an obscure song in an ad may be different from using a well-known hit, which hints of endorsement. But it still confers the music's flavor to a brand or product. When the ad world gets this hip, where lie the parameters of selling out? "We're putting money back into that fringe of popular culture," says Barnes, who has sold advertisers on such odd fellows as the Sea and Cake, Faust and the experimental jazz drummer Milford Graves, besides the Apples. "We're able subversively to put some of these groups into the living rooms of America. Certain fans may get upset. But I don't really know how to answer that."
By the time Robert and Hilarie and their band mates had to make their decision, the ad world was already a jukebox for just the sort of band the Apples considered themselves. "The Lilys had done two commercials," Robert says. "Spiritualized and Stereolab were on ads for Volkswagen. They were putting all this really cool music where there used to be just lame, sub-Top 40 jingles."
In theory, commercial licensing gives musicians a way around the gatekeepers of the music business. Musicians traditionally need record companies to manufacture, distribute and promote their work. The rise of Napster and MP3, which allow music to be distributed over the Internet, already threatens the need for manufacture and distribution. Licensing, in turn, can provide operating money and blanket exposure -- through commercials, film and television soundtracks, even toys and video games. This means freedom not just from record companies but also from the boundaries of radio and MTV. 
The trailblazer along this new path is Richard Hall, better known as Moby, the electronic musician (and descendant of Herman Melville) whose album "Play" proved the power of advertising to sell not just soap but CD's as well. When it first came out in June 1999, the album's beguiling mixture of electronic beats and old gospel and blues recordings drew great reviews, but radio and MTV didn't have a spot for it. 
Blocked at the conventional routes, Moby started to license songs for commercials, movies and television shows. Suddenly, his music was everywhere: on sitcoms and movie trailers, on ads for Nordstrom and American Express. The label made deals for every song on the album. "It was very short-lived, but we made a lot of money," says David Steel, head of special projects, including licensing, at Moby's label, V2. In all, Steel says, they signed more than 100 licenses in North America alone, for which Moby's cut is approaching $1 million. More important, the exposure opened doors at radio and MTV, pushing sales of the album past seven million copies worldwide.
But there was also a downside to the success. Since the campaign, some advertisers have cut the prices they're willing to pay for songs, figuring that the musicians profit from the exposure. Steel says he recently licensed a song for half what he could have charged before the Moby juggernaut.
Robert and Hilarie had always imagined that advertising meant striking a Faustian deal with a soulless corporation. But when the call came, it was nothing like that. It was their friend Tim, a fan of the band. He had directed its first video. He was as indie as the band was, as genuinely interested in music. This made a big difference. "You imagine that it's a crass process," Robert says. "But it's not like Sony used our song in the commercial, which is how it looks to the indie kid. It's just one guy who liked our music."
Ad agencies, particularly the creative departments, tend to be filled with people in their 30's with adventurous, nonmainstream tastes -- exactly the kind of people who might listen to Moby or the Apples in Stereo. Barnes, 33, is a perfect example: a musician and former college radio disc jockey who came of age during the 1990's success of alternative rock and remains convinced that underground tastes can translate to the masses. The music in any ad has to establish an emotion, but it does not have to sell itself, to triumph as foreground. This opens the door to music that could never thrive in the marketplace, and so to the idiosyncrasy of personal taste -- increasingly, to the tastes of people like Barnes. When the creative directors on the Sony ad planned to commission music from a commercial jingle house, Barnes suggested the Apples, a cheap alternative.
Robert and Hilarie found their conversations with Barnes a surprising education in the ad world, how different it was from the bureaucracy of the music business. A creative director who liked Moby or the Apples in Stereo could just put them in the mix. The contrast hit Robert hard: "Radio is controlled by this huge industry. Ads are controlled by a few creative people. They probably did art in college. Maybe they were college radio programmers."
And there was another, broader view: no matter how punk you thought you were, so much of what you did was about selling, whether yourselves or your T-shirts. Even the band's Web site, its 24-7 connection with the community of its fans, ran ads. Why was this any worse? "It's more of a sellout to go to a commercial radio station and kiss someone's expletive ," Robert says. "It's more of a sellout to do cheesy meet-and-greets for some major label. And having to work another job that takes all your energy from your music is even more selling out."
To understand how entangled the connections between underground music and advertising have become, consider the Volkswagen commercial that used the ethereal ballad "Pink Moon," by Nick Drake, an obscure English folk rocker who died in 1974 after an overdose of antidepressants and who in the 1990's developed a cult following among indie-music fans. The Volkswagen campaign, created by a Boston agency called Arnold Worldwide, has been among the most adventurous in its use of obscure or forgotten music, pulling songs from performers as disparate as the jazz iconoclast Charles Mingus and the German new wave band Trio. To shoot the Drake spot, the agency hired Jonathan Dayton and Valerie Faris, who are known for their trippy, award-winning music videos for the alternative bands Korn, Smashing Pumpkins and Red Hot Chili Peppers. Such crossovers between making videos and making ads are common, further blurring the distinction between the two. 
The original plan was to use the song "Under the Milky Way," by the Australian post-punk band the Church. But Lance Jensen and Shane Hutton, the writers, couldn't get "Pink Moon" out of their heads. During the edit, they tried it with the film. It clicked. The agency put the ad on the VW.com Web site, with a link for people to buy Nick Drake's CD online. Sales of the album jumped from 6,000 copies a year to 74,000. "He sold out without knowing it," Faris says.
Any discussion of the nuances of selling out should rev.finally get down to money. The finances of a working rock band like the Apples in Stereo are far from glamorous. The Apples do not have a manager, and after a brief flirtation with a major label, they record solely for SpinART, a tiny label in Manhattan. For their most recent album, they received an advance of $30,000 to cover the costs of recording and pay the band. Though rock fantasies are made of truckloads of royalties, in reality musicians more often live off their advances, beholden to their labels by paper debt. Royalties kick in only after the label recoups the advance, plus assorted other expenses.
From the advance, they spent $13,000 on a vintage tape machine to get the right sound for the album. The band members each took $1,000 for living expenses. The rest went to buy equipment and record the album. On tour, the band plays about 100 shows a year and makes between $250 and $2,500 at each, or about enough to break even, plus whatever they can pick up selling CD's and T-shirts at the gig -- on average about $100. They keep their touring costs low, and live on meatless Big Macs. "The fans must think we're making hundreds of thousands of dollars," Robert says. In truth, Robert and Hilarie had been doing temp jobs and telemarketing to help pay their $825-per-month rent for one-half of a two-family house. They still cannot afford the Sony Wega television for which their song was used. 
For some musicians, ads can be a windfall. Songs by major acts fetch up to several million dollars; even acts you've never heard of can negotiate as much as $250,000, if the advertiser wants the song badly enough. "There is no menu of prices for music," says Alan Pafenbach, executive vice president and group creative director at Arnold Worldwide. "It's what the people who own the music think it means to you." 
In practice, though, breakthroughs like Moby's are rare. For the Apples in Stereo, the money was more stopgap and the exposure of limited value. To hear 15 seconds of an unidentified song during a break in "Friends" is not necessarily to fall in love. But from the ad came more offers: from J. C. Penney and Bank of America; from the TV series "Roswell," an ABC after-school special and the animated series "The Power Puff Girls." This all amounted to about another $19,000 for the band. It was free money, unsolicited, for which they didn't have to play a gig or do an interview. It allowed them to carve a little comfort even if they were selling just 20,000 albums. 
"There's a music industry stereotype that bands are going to thrive or burn out," says Beth Urdang, a former bass player and ad executive who recently started her own firm, Agoraphone, to find obscure, affordable, cool music for ads and films. "All this soundtrack and advertising work creates a musical middle class that's not dependent on selling records at all."
To license a recording, advertisers have to pay for two copyrights: the composition and the performance itself, or master. If musicians own these copyrights, licensing can be exceptionally lucrative. More often, though, the copyrights are held wholly or in part by bigger companies -- music publishers on the one hand, record companies on the other. In each case, musicians sign away their future rights for cash up front; they get further payments only after this advance has been recouped. Depending on the contract, publishers can generally license compositions without the writers' permission, but acts can often veto use of their master recordings.
Under this setup, "it's very hard for an artist to pocket the cash" from an ad, says Richard Grabel, a lawyer who represents alternative musicians, including Sonic Youth and Liz Phair. Though recording and publishing contracts usually call for splitting any "third party" revenues with performers, Grabel says, in reality, the band probably owes more than its cut against its advance. Performers have to wheedle for a cut from the record company, Grabel says, in exchange for granting permission on the masters. The Apples in Stereo never signed a publishing deal, so they were able to keep the publishing payments. But they had to split the master royalties with the record company to pay back various advances. 
Then the ads hit the fans. Bands on the level of the Apples in Stereo take pride in keeping little distance between themselves and their audiences -- hanging out after shows, sometimes crashing on someone's couch. Even before the ads, Hilarie says, it had gotten so she didn't like to read the comments posted by fans on Internet message boards. This was their community, the nurturing pool of its shared values and aspirations, but it could feel small-minded and mean, the hothouse zealotry of adolescence. Their sense of righteous grievance ran so deep and was so easily tweaked. "They criticized every move," she says. After the J. C. Penney ad ran, they got a letter from a fan wondering how they could be that desperate; did they need the money for an operation or something?
And the thing was, Hilarie says, she and Robert used to be just like that. They could understand. If she had ever turned on the television and seen a commercial using a Pavement song, she says, "I would have had a violent reaction. I'd have been nauseous. My gut reaction would be, that makes me sick." That's why the criticism from fans stung so much, she says. "You feel guilty." But at the same time, Robert says, "you know the person who wrote that letter is 18. And they're right, from that point of view. It's part of the sadness of bands getting bigger. You understand it better as you get older. Our band might not be able to keep going if we couldn't do this."
As they moved through the ad world, the Apples in Stereo drew some limits. They recently turned down an offer to do an ad for Corona beer, even though they liked the guy who called. "We made an agreement we wouldn't do anything that promotes cigarettes or alcohol," Hilarie says. Robert ticked off a couple other restrictions. Leather. Meat. The military. As he saw it, J. C. Penney and Sony were different. "Hilarie bought all her maternity clothes at J. C. Penney," he says.
But beyond these easy no-nos, is there a line in the sand, a point at which a performer or a song becomes cheapened by the commercial experience? It is a fan's romantic whimsy to think of musicians as aloof from the business of selling. Those days are over, if they ever existed. "Now artists are very focused on business issues -- how they're marketed, how they're visually being presented," says Nancy Berry, vice chairman of Virgin Music Group Worldwide. "That's across the board. Every artist is so hands on." With all this intermingling of art and commerce, when does a sellout become a sellout?
When they started as filmmakers, Jonathan Dayton and Valerie Faris did not like the idea of music videos; the specificity of the imagery, they felt, put limits on the song and listener. But they developed a visual vocabulary that was suggestive rather than definitive. A good video, Dayton says, "is an invitation to hear the song in a fresh way." The same standard might be applied to the use of songs in ads. In the Nick Drake spot, Dayton saw the song more as something the people in the ad might be listening to, reflecting on the characters, not on the car. "It's acknowledging the place music has in people's lives," he says. "It's not meant as an endorsement. As opposed to Nike's 'Revolution,' which is taking the idea of revolution and applying it to a shoe."
But in a broader sense, both ads work the same sleight, transferring the good will created by or around a piece of music to a brand. "What is a brand?" asked Lance Jensen, who recently left Arnold to start his own agency, Modernista! "Is a brand products? I think it's a set of ideals, an aesthetic sensibility. Branding advertising is not about, 'Come on down, on sale now.' " To establish a brand is to establish a tribe around the brand, a tingle of shared pleasures.
This is true of indie rock, or electronic dance music, as well. The Apples in Stereo and Moby offer not just songs but also membership in the tribe. As listeners, we invest songs with associations -- where we were when we first heard them, what sort of people we share the songs with. Ads insinuate the brand among these associations. For a small payoff, Sony becomes the third presence in the room with the music and the listeners. It will be harder, marginally, for the Apples in Stereo to be alone with their listeners again. Even the hippest ads compromise the listeners' intimate relationship with the music. 
Robert and Hilarie bring a more pragmatic rationale to bear. The day after they got the nasty letter from the fan, Robert's stepfather called to say how proud he was. "And that had never happened before," Robert says. However compelling the principles, there had to be life beyond the rigid censoriousness that sometimes settled over the indie-rock world. Recently, the couple were looking at baby furniture in a Denver store but didn't have the money to pay for it. The baby was coming. The same day they got a call from their record company: Sony wanted to license "Strawberryfire" for another season. 
Again, the fee was small, but with their share, Robert and Hilarie were able to buy the baby furniture after all and to shed a small slice of financial worry. Their son, Maxwell Alexander Schneider, born Christmas Day, has a nice new crib and parents not too stressed, for the moment, by the call of their work. Perhaps a few of their fans won't like it. But it was time to grow up and out of it. If this was selling out, they were ready to buy in. 

GRAPHIC: Photos: Ad: Sony Wega, Artist: Apples in Stereo; Ad: American Express, Artist: Moby; Ad: Apple Computer, Artist: Minus 8; Ad: Levi's Dockers, Artist: Thievery Corporation; Ad: Volkswagen, Artist: Nick Drake; Robert and Hilarie with Maxwell. Ad income didn't make them rich, but it helped buy a crib (Justine Kurland) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MUSIC (91%); POP & ROCK (90%); SINGERS & MUSICIANS (90%); MUSICAL INSTRUMENTS (90%); MUSIC INDUSTRY (89%); ARTISTS & PERFORMERS (78%); MUSIC GROUPS & ARTISTS (78%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING AGENCIES (76%); SALES FIGURES (76%); RECORD RELEASES (73%); STRINGED INSTRUMENTS (73%); PREGNANCY & CHILDBIRTH (72%); BEACHES (72%); SOFT DRINKS (71%); PUBLISHING (64%); NEW ECONOMY (60%); ETHICS (60%) ADVERTISING; MUSIC; ETHICS; BIOGRAPHICAL INFORMATION 

ORGANIZATION: APPLES IN STEREO (MUSIC GROUP) 

PERSON: BRUCE SPRINGSTEEN (54%) LELAND, JOHN; SCHNEIDER, ROBERT; SIDNEY, HILARIE 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (87%) UNITED STATES (87%)

LOAD-DATE: March 11, 2001 



251 of 868 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 11, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 6; Column 3; Magazine Desk; Pg. 21

LENGTH: 957 words

HEADLINE: The Way We Live Now: 3-11-01; 
A Hazard of Good Fortunes

BYLINE:  By Gregg Easterbrook; Gregg Easterbrook, a senior editor at The New Republic, is working on a book about whether life is getting better.

 BODY:
Ten years ago America won the cold war, and now, with a significant tax cut very likely, is about to declare victory on the domestic front too; things are well enough under control that government can reduce its claim on our income, giving most people more money to spend. And why not declare victory? By almost every measure, life in the United States today is the best it has ever been: ever-rising living standards; rising life expectancy and falling rates of disease; low unemployment; declining rates of crime, pollution and poverty; low risk of war; unlimited supplies of just about everything; personal freedom never greater. This is America's Golden Age.
 So if things are so great, why don't we seem pleased? Poll data show that the percentage of Americans who describe themselves as "happy" has not increased since the 1950's. Incidence of unipolar depression -- the disorder in which a person always feels bad -- has increased tenfold in the United States in recent decades, and the causes don't appear biological. Contemporary American public discourse consists almost exclusively of complaints, often at near-hysteria pitch. Formula No. 1A of modern movies and books is that society is going to hell in a handbasket, even as almost everything -- including the fortunes of the people making the movies and writing the books -- continues to improve. 
 Standard American conversation today often boils down to: bitch, bitch, bitch. There's too much traffic; the cable bill went up; the service isn't perfect; etc., etc. People are even complaining about the coming tax cut -- complaining about getting a tax cut. In the last few days, how many times have you heard someone express gratitude or happiness, versus complain? How many times have you expressed gratitude or happiness, versus complaining? Recently, with my kids at a Burger King, I found myself mumbling under my breath about the wait for our order. Fast food takes too long, I complained. It may seem incredible that America has constructed a society in which people can think such a thought, but admit it, you've entertained this gripe, too, haven't you? Circumstances just keep getting better, and Americans just keep complaining. Future historians may someday categorize the progression of society into agricultural age, manufacturing age, grousing age.
Psychological research shows that people rapidly adjust their perceptions of life circumstances. As standards rise, most men and women almost immediately begin taking gains for granted -- what were yesterday's luxuries really do become today's necessities. Already a 2,230-square-foot, 2.5-bath home (the median figures for new homes built last year) doesn't seem like a reward for which we should be appreciative but rather just the launching pad for the next level of middle-class acquisition angst. Those big new houses start feeling cramped as we fill them up with stuff, and once a certain critical mass is achieved, something always breaks, creating perpetual irritation. Excess materialism can also cause people to generate their own complaints, even on a big budget. One of the few trend lines about contemporary American life that isn't favorable is the national savings rate. Spending every dollar rather than saving a few embeds anxiety in daily life, a point raised by Juliet Schor, a Harvard economist.
Meanwhile it is the movement in living standards, not the standards themselves, to which most people are keenly attuned. As David Myers, a social scientist, wrote in 1999 in "The Pursuit of Happiness," "Better than a high income is a rising income," since it is the rising rather than the money that engenders the sense of gain. And though real income for the typical American has almost tripled in the postwar period, the rate of rise has slowed in recent years, except for the top quintile. Thus it's common to hear people assert they are "worse off than their parents were" when objectively they are much better off, just not gaining as rapidly as parents once did, relative to their parents' more modest starting position.
Skewed perceptions also reveal themselves in the widespread conviction that Americans are time-stressed in a historically unprecedented way. This may be true for some individuals, especially in two-income families with small children, but for society as a whole, the time-bind notion is an urban myth. As John Robinson of the University of Maryland and Geoffrey Godbey of Penn State University have demonstrated, today typical Americans have more leisure time than at any point in the nation's history. As a nation we've gained almost one extra hour of leisure per person per day since the early 1960's, and this figure holds even for working mothers. 
So why doesn't America seem appreciative of its state? To a certain extent, grumbling amid plenty is simply human nature: as Jacques Brel sang, "Sons of the rich, sons of the saint/where is the child without complaint?" Complaining also serves as a psychological self-defense mechanism. Many fear that the good times cannot continue, and subconsciously inoculate themselves against bad luck by refusing to feel too pleased. Plus we all know that complacency leads directly to disaster. And if there is one thing stressed-out, hardworking, complaining Americans surely are not, it is complacent. The American character may be so fundamentally entwined with striving that we will grouse no matter how much better circumstances get.
There's reason to be concerned about this auto-complaint syndrome, of course. If we're dissatisfied and in many cases even feel sorry for ourselves when times are good, what might happen if trends reverse and hardship lies ahead? Imagine if Americans really had something to complain about. 

GRAPHIC: Photo (Merry Alpern) Chart: "IF YOU CAN'T SAY ANYTHING NICE: "A Primer to a Neighbor Although this letter may come as a surprise and perhaps an annoyance, I hope that you will view it as a nonconfrontational form of communication between us. I do not wish to alienate or insult you in any way, but I must confide the following to you. . . . Our houses are attached, and we share common walls. For the past few months there has been an unusual amount of noise late in the evening (after 10:30 p.m.) coming from your bedroom. The TV sounds like it is in my bedroom, and there seems to be some moving of furniture. I don't mean to pry, but since this is a fairly recent thing, I am wondering if you are having some problems. If so, I am offering to help you in any way that I can. If not, I am asking you to please be aware of the disturbance this is causing me. . . . -- Sample letter from Dear Miss Gripe.com, a letter-writing service ("for all of your life's journeys and challenges").

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TAXES & TAXATION (90%); COLD WAR (90%); DISEASES & DISORDERS (89%); HISTORY (78%); LIVING STANDARDS (77%); REAL ESTATE (76%); DEPRESSION (75%); CRIME RATES (72%); TRENDS (71%); POVERTY & HOMELESSNESS (70%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (70%); PSYCHOLOGY (60%) SOCIAL CONDITIONS AND TRENDS; MENTAL HEALTH AND DISORDERS 

PERSON: EASTERBROOK, GREGG 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (99%) UNITED STATES

LOAD-DATE: March 11, 2001 



252 of 868 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 11, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 6; Column 3; Magazine Desk; Pg. 30

LENGTH: 414 words

HEADLINE: The Way We Live Now: 3-11-01: The Old Economy; 
Pain and Gain

 BODY:
 A new study from Amnesty International, titled "Stopping the Torture Trade," reports that over the last 10 years the United States has been the world's biggest exporter of high-tech restraint devices. The market is now dominated by electronic devices like stun guns, stun batons, stun shields and stun belts -- nonlethal devices that are used by law-enforcement officials all across this country. Amnesty International has provided the following sample of recent products and manufacturers or exporters. The human rights group is careful to note that none of these companies are involved in the production or export of torture equipment -- merely that this type of equipment has been used for torture, and that its trade should be more closely regulated.

Arianne International, Palm Beach, Fla.
Produces Myotron "Checkmate" pulse weapon.

Armas No Mortales, Miami
Has sold Sabre tear-gas key rings, Paralyzer shock weapons.

D&D Security Products, Rochester, Minn.
Sells 200-, 300-, and 500,000-volt stun batons, pocket-guard stun guns, Muscle Man stun guns, Security Plus stun guns, Z-Force stun guns.

Defenders Network, Mobile, Ala.
Has sold Tactical High Voltage Stun Batons and Electrified High-Voltage Anti-Riot Shields (up to 150,000 volts) "to maintain peace and order without drawing blood or endangering lives." Exports to Saudi Arabia, Singapore and Malaysia.

Hiatt Thompson, Bedford Park, Ill.
Has sold Heavy Duty Legcuffs, Hardened Belly Chain. Exports to Australia, the Caribbean and Western Europe.

Nova Products, Cookeville, Tenn.
Sells Electronic Capture Shields and Telescopic Electronic Restraints.

Premier Crown Corporation, Raleigh, N.C.
Exported 26-inch shock batons with "hot centers" to Saudi Arabia.

Electronic Defense Technology (formerly Stun Tech), Cleveland
Produced and marketed a remote-control electronic stun belt, which delivered a 50,000-volt shock to the kidneys for eight seconds. Now offers a similar device for the leg or arm, said to be more convenient and to provide a more direct fit over muscles.

Tamiami International Equipment, Miami
Introduced the Stunbrella, an electronic defense weapon in the shape of a folded umbrella. (No longer available.)

Taser International Inc, Scottsdale, Ariz.
Produces and exports the Air Taser, which fires two darts -- attached to metal wires -- that lodge in flesh or clothing and deliver a powerful electric shock that "jams" the central nervous system.

Valor Corporation, Miami
Has exported tear gas and stun guns to Argentina.

GRAPHIC: Photo (Robin Ballantyne/Omega Foundation)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TORTURE (90%); EXPORT TRADE (90%); HUMAN RIGHTS ORGANIZATIONS (90%); HUMAN RIGHTS VIOLATIONS (90%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (78%); HUMAN RIGHTS (78%); RIOTS (77%); MILITARY WEAPONS (77%); POLICE MISCONDUCT (77%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (76%); DEFENSE INDUSTRY (75%); MISCONDUCT (74%) POLICE; TORTURE; POLICE BRUTALITY AND MISCONDUCT; INTERNATIONAL TRADE AND WORLD MARKET 

COMPANY: TASER INTERNATIONAL INC (81%)

ORGANIZATION: AMNESTY INTERNATIONAL (93%) AMNESTY INTERNATIONAL 

TICKER: TASR (NASDAQ) (81%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS332994 SMALL ARMS, ORDNANCE & ORDNANCE ACCESSORIES MANUFACTURING (81%); SIC3484 SMALL ARMS (81%)

GEOGRAPHIC: MIAMI, FL, USA (92%); RALEIGH, NC, USA (78%); ROCHESTER, MN, USA (55%); MOBILE, AL, USA (54%) FLORIDA, USA (92%); ALABAMA, USA (79%); NORTH CAROLINA, USA (79%); TENNESSEE, USA (79%); ARIZONA, USA (79%); MINNESOTA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (92%); SAUDI ARABIA (92%); CARIBBEAN ISLANDS (79%); MALAYSIA (79%); SINGAPORE (79%); EUROPE (79%); ARGENTINA (79%); WESTERN EUROPE (79%)

LOAD-DATE: March 11, 2001 



253 of 868 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 11, 2001
Correction Appended 
 Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 6; Column 1; Magazine Desk; Pg. 30

LENGTH: 428 words

HEADLINE: The Way We Live Now: 3-11-01: Salient Facts: Airlines; 
In-Flight Distractions

 BODY:
 Because airline delays are worse than ever, various bills are gaining momentum in Congress to protect the rights of passengers -- one would require airlines to compensate customers for late flights and cancellations. A slowdown by American Airlines' mechanics has disrupted schedules, while rocky contract negotiations between Delta Air Lines and its pilots could lead to further delays. Industry consolidation continues to raise the ire of consumer advocates. Rising fuel prices are squeezing profits. So what's a poor airline to do? Cookies, anyone?

TASTES GREAT, LESS AGGRAVATING
Well, at least Midwest Express delivers freshly baked chocolate chip cookies to the homes of disgruntled passengers. Last year the airline sent 51 boxes, compared with 34 the year before. "That says they're good about sending out apologies," says Michael Wascom from the Air Transport Association, an industry group representing the largest carriers. Other airlines are placating customers during flights with a variety of tailored meals to distract them from the headaches -- real or anticipated -- of delays. United offers low-purine food (no anchovies, sardines or kidneys) for people with special dietary needs as well as obento Japanese meals on certain flights to the Far East. If you're flying Northwest, you could choose either a sulfite-free or a soft diet dish, like pureed vegetables. Delta serves three kinds of vegetarian entrees (ovo lacto, Asian or vegan).

CREATURE COMFORTS
Other "distractions" of convenience include five more inches of legroom in American Airlines' economy class. (A few rows of seats were removed from the coach section.) Continental now offers larger overhead compartments, so you'll be able to sneak that much more carry-on luggage on board. If you miss a connection while in the air, America West will rebook you before your plane lands.

BAND-AIDS FOR ALL
But do these perks really matter to passengers? "Cosmetics are just that," says Dean Headley, co-author of The Airline Quality Rating. "If a person needs to get from Point A to Point B within a certain time frame and they don't, food is not going to make any difference." With all-day delays and canceled flights, passengers have come to expect the worst. "Airlines know they've stretched the zone of tolerance," Headley says. "It used to be that if someone didn't get there within 15 minutes of the scheduled arrival time, he would complain. Most people I talk to now say if their flight gets there within an hour and a half, they're happy. Some people even say they're O.K. with the same day!"

CORRECTION-DATE: March 11, 2001

 CORRECTION:
A byline is omitted on Page 30 of The Times Magazine today for an article about flight delays and airlines' efforts to make planes more comfortable. It is by Hope Reeves.

GRAPHIC: Photo (Hutton Getty/Photo Archive) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: DELAYS & POSTPONEMENTS (92%); AIRLINES (92%); PASSENGER RIGHTS (90%); MEAT FREE DIETS (90%); AIRCRAFT PILOTS (78%); CONSUMER PROTECTION (78%); BUSINESS & PROFESSIONAL ASSOCIATIONS (76%); INDUSTRY CONSOLIDATION (76%); COSMETICS (72%); PRICE INCREASES (71%) AIRLINES AND AIRPLANES; DELAYS (TRANSPORTATION); MERGERS, ACQUISITIONS AND DIVESTITURES 

COMPANY: DELTA AIR LINES INC (91%); AMERICAN AIRLINES INC (58%); AIRLINES FOR AMERICA (56%)

TICKER: DAL (NYSE) (91%)

INDUSTRY: SIC4512 AIR TRANSPORTATION, SCHEDULED (91%); SIC8999 SERVICES, NEC (56%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: March 11, 2001 



254 of 868 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 11, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 2; Column 1; Arts and Leisure Desk; Pg. 15

LENGTH: 1707 words

HEADLINE: FILM; 
Lives of Scavengers In a World of Plenty

BYLINE:  By LESLIE CAMHI; Leslie Camhi, a writer and critic based in New York, writes about film, art and books.

 BODY:
MODERN art, so frequently dismissed as garbage, finally came to embrace rubbish as an artistic medium all its own. For Charles Baudelaire, the Parisian ragpickers were poets who found inspiration in the city's teeming, trash-filled streets. Eugene Atget photographed their hovels, cobbled together from odd scraps of tin and lumber. Later, Picasso's Cubist collages, incorporating bits of newspaper and packaging, helped usher in the art of the 20th century.
 Agnes Varda's "Gleaners and I," which opened Wednesday at Film Forum and introduces a three-week retrospective of her work, is a warmly engaging and humorous documentary about people who collect and live off the refuse of our over-consuming society. It is also a whimsical tour through art history and a self-portrait by a radically independent filmmaker, who has worked for five decades outside the French mainstream. 
 "I only make films when something touches me very deeply," said Ms. Varda, who is 72. "Here, I began to notice that at the close of day in open-air markets, after the tables are folded and the trucks are loaded, but before the ground is swept, there's about half an hour during which a whole host of people arrive, who do their marketing once the market is over. I watched a very old woman with a cane, who was bending down, so slowly, just to pick up an orange. 
"Around the same time, I saw a report on television about new harvesting methods," she continued. "A young farmer boasted about his machine, that it doesn't lose a single grain of wheat. Well, I thought, then what's left for the others? The pride of that young man, and that old woman who lived from garbage, began to work in my head."
Her film takes part of its inspiration from "The Gleaners," an 1857 painting by Jean-Francois Millet, which shows three women bending to pick up grain in a field suffused with amber light. Though today we glean facts or information, Ms. Varda reminds us of the word's agricultural origins. Gleaners were allowed to follow the harvest and claim as their own whatever the reaper had left behind.
Contemporary gleaners may do their scavenging in abandoned vineyards or curbside trash bins. Yogurt that has passed its expiration date, tomatoes too close to the ground for machines to harvest, oysters that have strayed from their beds and broken refrigerators are all fair game.
Crisscrossing France, Ms. Varda interviews an unemployed, alcoholic truck driver who gleans from economic necessity; a chef who gathers herbs and fruit from the fields around his two-star restaurant; an ecological activist who feels a moral imperative to eat what others throw away, and artists who find inspiration in cast-off materials.
A lawyer in black robes standing in a cabbage patch reads from the penal code asserting the legal right to glean "between sun-up and sundown." Ms. Varda enjoys the absurdist contrast between his abstract language and the florid vegetables surrounding him. She never refuses an interesting digression. She is charmed to learn that one wine grower is an accomplished Lacanian psychoanalyst; another, a descendant of the photographer Etienne-Jules Marey. And she makes room for the ad hoc surrealism of daily life -- a dog on the road, for example, mysteriously adorned with a boxing mitt. Her film is pieced together from these seemingly useless bits.
In an empty lot, she discovers mountains of irregularly shaped potatoes, discarded by growers as unfit for commerce. A man quickly stuffs a few bags with them. Like those oddly formed tubers, he's ill fit for consumer society. He lives in a trailer without plumbing or hot water and supplements his companion's welfare checks by picking through supermarket dumpsters. Yet he's proud of his cunning and filled with quiet dignity. "We're not afraid of getting our hands dirty," he says. "Hands can be washed."
Individualism and self-reliance have also marked Ms. Varda's career making films, 28 of which will be shown at Film Forum starting Friday. The retrospective is one of many honors this year: French critics recently awarded "The Gleaners and I" the Melies Prize for best French film of the year. And on Feb. 24, Ms. Varda received an honorary Cesar (the French equivalent of the Oscar).
"It's the kind of award they give you when you're either dying, or very old, or they don't know what to do with you," said Ms. Varda, a grandmother and devoted avant-gardist who remains alarmingly energetic. Last fall, when "The Gleaners and I" was shown at the New York Film Festival, she bustled feverishly around her hotel suite, offering fruit and coffee and showing off stills from her film, which was shot with a digital camera. This small, hand-held device allowed her to film the diaristic, intimate self-portrait of what she calls her "new life as an old woman." Time, after all, reaps its harvest. What remains to be gleaned after its work is done? In the film, she inventories her graying hair, the leaks in her ceiling and the deep crevices of her flecked hands.
She was born in Brussels to a Greek father and a French mother. During World War II, Ms. Varda's family fled to the South of France and later to Paris, where she studied art history at the Ecole du Louvre and photography at a night school on the Rue de Vaugirard.
She had no cinematic training and had seen only a handful of films when she made her first feature, using actors from the Theatre Nationale Populaire, where she worked as the house photographer. Short on money, she distributed shares in the production to the cast and crew, including Alain Resnais, who served as the film's editor. Set in a poor fishing village, "La Pointe Courte" (1954) tells parallel stories, about fishermen struggling for their rights and a couple on the brink of separation. Five years before the New Wave took hold, Ms. Varda's oblique storytelling technique and her use of nonprofessional actors and outdoor locations stood in stark contrast to the confines of the French studio system.
"They called me 'The Ancestor of the New Wave,' " she recalled with some amusement. "But I was only 30."
In 1958, Ms. Varda met her future husband, the director Jacques Demy. (They married four years later and had two children, Rosalie, a costume designer, and Mathieu, an actor.) Through him, she met the emerging filmmakers and critics associated with Cahiers du Cinema, a group that included Jean-Luc Godard, Claude Chabrol and Francois Truffaut. But unlike them, she was no cinephile, and her work remained closer to the socially engaged spirit of documentaries by Mr. Resnais and Chris Marker.
Seven years went by before she made her second feature. "Cleo From 5 to 7" (1961), an international hit, was shot in real time and follows the spiritual evolution of a spoiled young singer (Corinne Marchand), who wanders the streets of Paris while awaiting the results of a biopsy. It was the first of Ms. Varda's many vivid portraits of women seeking to exist on their own terms, beyond definitions imposed by men and society.
"She hasn't had a traditional career as a filmmaker," said Laurence Kardish, the film curator who organized a 1997 retrospective of Ms. Varda's work in New York at the Museum of Modern Art. "Rather than having some producer call her up, her films seem to evolve naturally out of her own experience." So, returning from Cuba in 1963, she animated 1,800 photographs she had taken there to make "Salut les Cubains!," a charming short about cha-cha and revolution. 
"Le Bonheur" (1964) was a surprisingly sinister film for a newlywed director -- a sugarcoated but ultimately chilling fable about a young man who enjoys the double affections of a happy family life and a loving mistress. "It's a film about how everyone is unique but replaceable in our society," Ms. Varda said. "It's like a beautiful fruit with a worm inside." It's also a remarkably early portrayal of the anonymity of women's domestic labor.
Twenty years later, the haunting "Vagabond" centered on Sandrine Bonnaire's shattering performance as an aimless, homeless drifter. Like her most recent work, "Vagabond" is a vision of society as seen through the eyes of its outcasts, but its tone is much darker.
" 'Vagabond' was about a woman who says no, constantly," Ms. Varda said. "It's a film about the impossibility of aiding someone who refuses to be helped. While 'The Gleaners' is not a film about failure, it's about an ill society, that does a poor job of sharing its bounty -- but the very people who are living through that difficulty point the finger and teach us about it."
Ms. Varda encourages emerging filmmakers to take control of their work. The actress Jane Birkin starred in Ms. Varda's "Jane B. par Agnes V." and "Kung-fu Master" (both made in 1987), the latter from Ms. Birkin's script about a grown woman's love for a 14-year-old boy. "When I wanted to make my own film, Agnes said, you have to do it yourself completely, otherwise you'll always feel betrayed," Ms. Birkin recalled by telephone from Paris.
In 1977, Ms. Varda founded her own production company, Cine-Tamaris, which allows her the freedom to shape her material like a sculptor. "I shoot, I begin to edit, I write some commentary, I realize I'm missing something, I wait a while and then go after it," she said. "It's a kind of artisanal production. The film is woven from these strands. If we hadn't been chosen for the Cannes film festival," she added, where "The Gleaners and I" was shown last May, "I would have kept filming through the harvest, all the way to the cherries and melons."
Since Mr. Demy's death in 1990, Ms. Varda has completed "Jacquot de Nantes," a lyrical portrait of his youth in a provincial French city, and several documentaries devoted to his work. Cine-Tamaris is also engaged in the restoration of his films. "The Umbrellas of Cherbourg" and "The Young Girls of Rochefort" have already been rereleased; "Lola" and "The Bay of Angels" are forthcoming.
Yet despite this work of preservation, Ms. Varda seems without an ounce of nostalgia.
"The older you are, the more free you are," she said. "I'm like those old painters, who don't bother to make sketches, or ask permissions. They don't give explanations. They just go ahead and do it." In fact, she's always done just that.

GRAPHIC: Photos: Agnes Varda in Manhattan last October. She crisscrossed France, at one point filming her own hand framing trucks on the highway, for her documentary "The Gleaners and I." (Chester Higgins Jr./The New York Times); (Zeitgeist Films) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: FILM (90%); WRITERS (78%); VISUAL ARTISTS (78%); HISTORY (76%); INTERVIEWS (76%); MOVIE RELEASE DATES (75%); DOCUMENTARY FILMS (75%); ARTISTS & PERFORMERS (73%); ART HISTORY (73%); FARMERS & RANCHERS (71%); TRUCK DRIVERS (71%); RESTAURANTS (71%); FRUITS & VEGETABLES (69%) MOTION PICTURES 

PERSON: VARDA, AGNES; CAMHI, LESLIE 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%) NEW YORK, USA (79%) FRANCE (87%); UNITED STATES (79%)

TITLE: GLEANERS AND I (MOVIE) 

LOAD-DATE: March 11, 2001 



255 of 868 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 11, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 2; Column 1; Arts and Leisure Desk; Pg. 33

LENGTH: 1687 words

HEADLINE: ART/ARCHITECTURE; 
Puerto Rican Art Moves Outward, And More Inward

BYLINE:  By LUISITA LOPEZ TORREGROSA; Luisita Lopez Torregrosa, an assistant national editor of The New York Times, is writing a memoir about Puerto Rico.

DATELINE: SAN JUAN, P.R. 

 BODY:
NO one calls it a revolution, but in the last decade, especially in the last few years, young Puerto Rican artists -- men and women in their 40's, 30's and younger -- have been pulling away from the island's insularity and traditional art forms and reaching out. They've mounted experimental installations and other provocative works in galleries and alternative spaces in parks and streets. The boundaries, they say, are being torn down.
 It's "a very special hour," says the San Juan artist Charles Juhasz-Alvarado, a 35-year-old Yale graduate whose large structures are receiving attention in Madrid, Barcelona and New York. 
 Michelle Marxuach, a San Juan art promoter, concurs. "A lot of things are beginning to happen," she says. "There are more spaces. You can see more. There are no more closed channels." 
If anyone should know, it is Ms. Marxuach. She is one of a handful of major engines driving Puerto Rican art, marketing it overseas and finding young talent. After 10 years of struggle, she says, she is enjoying some recent successes, notably an international project she organized, called Puerto Rico '00, which turned San Juan's parks, bridges and galleries into a stage for performance and conceptual art last October.
What's happening here -- at a time when, not coincidentally, Caribbean art has come into vogue -- has not gone unnoticed in New York. "There is a renewed energy, new possibilities," says Deborah Cullen, 35, a curator at El Museo del Barrio in Manhattan, who was visiting here. "This generation is more optimistic about showing their work outside. They have a lot of contact with Europe and the United States, and there's more effort now in Puerto Rico to bring in artists from outside." Ms. Cullen, who is married to the 33-year-old artist Arnaldo Morales, has organized a show of installations by six San Juan artists (her husband is not among them), which opened at the museum last month.
Looking back at Puerto Rican art of the last 30 years, Ms. Cullen mentions the postmodern pioneers Antonio Martorell and Pepon Osorio, but goes on to say: "Today's younger group is very conversant with postmodern artists all over the world. They deal with Caribbean topics with more complex themes, breaking boundaries, exploring sexual identity and liberation from geopolitical borders." 
To the tall, genteel Haitian-born Maud Duquella, who with Ms. Marxuach is one of the stronger voices in the arts in Puerto Rico, the roots of the flowering art scene here are, in part, economic. "People travel more, and with the prosperous economy more people are buying art," she says, "so that some artists -- not all, but some -- are able to live off their work."
As the co-owner of Galeria Botello, the premier gallery in Puerto Rico, and the manager of scores of artists from the long-established to the new, Ms. Duquella has considerable influence and can at times turn an unknown into a demi-celebrity. That is what happened to Arnaldo Roche, Maria de Mater O'Neill and Mr. Morales. "They're the best of their generations," Ms. Duquella said. 
As she was speaking one morning in the sitting room at Galeria Botello, Mr. Roche came in. He's a kinetic 45-year-old with an 18-year-old's face and a genial manner far different from the darkness of his paintings -- autobiographical works laced with self-doubt, questions of sexual identity and an unsparing dissection of his family. "We are in the best era of the arts here," he says, bounding into a leather chair. "More styles. More artists of quality. We're being recognized." 
Pointing at a large canvas in his latest exhibit at the gallery, he describes his technique: he lays a blackened canvas on a human body or object, scratches the surface and makes an imprint of the figure underneath. "I want to touch first, to feel the object, the body," he says. He speaks with big gestures, his hands reaching out and grabbing the coffee table in front of him for emphasis. His paintings have been exhibited in the Americas and in Europe, and his success is such that he can afford to hire assistants in his workshop. A manic worker, he says he rarely socializes but keeps up with all his friends in the art world. He mentions Mr. Juhasz ("brilliant") and Ms. O'Neill ("in transition") but keeps the focus on himself, on his work.
As in every art world, there are circles within circles here, large and small planets orbiting one another, and in no time one finds the rivalries and connections. In such a tiny sphere, Ms. O'Neill says, there are "not six degrees, but zero degrees, of separation." 
Everyone knows everyone. Mr. Juhasz is married to the artist Ana Rosa Rivera Marrero, both of whom have exhibits at the Museo del Barrio. The Cuban-born Rosa Irigoyen, a close friend of Ms. O'Neill's, is Ms. Duquella's latest discovery. The artist Teo Freytes and his wife, Yrsa Davila, live in a crowded loft above Mr. Juhasz's, in Old San Juan. Most days, they can be found drinking El Presidente beer, in clouds of smoke, around the Freytes-Davila dining table or in Mr. Juhasz's loft, where his work and that of others takes up much of the space. 
It isn't that much different from the days in the late 1980's, when Mr. Freytes, a digital artist, and Ms. Davila, a promoter and manager, ran one of the first alternative spaces in San Juan, where anyone could perform, recite, paint, play music. It was a crazy place with no rules, no restrictions, no fees. It lasted five years. Good work came out of it and much that was bad, but many installation artists and experimental painters found solace there (and held parties there), and though 10 years have passed since they closed their gallery, Mr. Freytes and Ms. Davila still figure in Puerto Rico's art scene. 
But no one is at the center of anything, Ms. O'Neill says sharply, as is her way, walking in old sandals in her 1910 house, her cats curling around her legs, her hair falling on her face. It is a weekday afternoon and she has been touching up a window sill on the porch. Her latest painting hangs barely dry on a wall in her workshop (in another house it would be the dining room), a strand of cat hair still stuck to the canvas. She has been working with thick, heavy, luminescent oils, which she imports from Europe, and the subject of this painting -- rooms of her house, cats and all -- is almost irrelevant to what she has been trying to do, she says, and that is to create new textures and colors and light.
The painting, which she finished in December, had already been sold to a collector who had never seen it. Few artists can sell a painting sight unseen, but she can, such is the place she occupies in this small world -- at the center, sometimes quietly, sometimes not so quietly, and she has been there for about 10 years, since she was 30.
The list of her achievements is long. A graduate of Cooper Union in New York, winner of the grand prize at the international biennal in Ecuador, the only Puerto Rican included in a traveling exposition of Latin American women artists, she has shown her work in Majorca, Barcelona, Buenos Aires and several cities in the United States, where she has been an artist in residence at Rutgers University. Her paintings, which range from surreal self-portraits to explorations of Puerto Rican identity, hang in museums and galleries in San Juan and abroad, and now she has been invited to speak in Italy in May. Traveling is not something she does happily, and after having lived in New York City for 10 years she rarely goes back.
Mari Mater, as everyone calls her, is no shrinking violet, and last year she caused something of a sensation with "Fin de Juego" ("End of the Game"), a set of lithographs and oils in comic-strip style that depict San Juan as a metropolis in chaos, futuristic, sterile. "It seemed to me," she says, "that painters in Puerto Rico were still working with an old social vision of an agrarian Puerto Rico, a vision that was no longer pertinent in our times." She made her protagonist a woman -- not any woman, but a lesbian -- and the works sold out.
That was quite a diva's re-entry after several years' absence from the scene, years when she stopped painting, partly out of mourning. "Before I was 30 I was very innocent," she says. "After 30, I wasn't so innocent. People started to die. I lost friends in New York to AIDS. My mother died. I think that now I'm recuperating, and I feel more comfortable, and now I paint whatever I want."
While not painting, she wasn't idle. She founded a cyber-arts magazine, Cuarto de Quenepon, a quarterly journal that uses the Internet to disseminate information about Puerto Rico's art scene and publishes the work of local and international filmmakers, performers, artists and writers. With Quenepon, which she designs and edits in the back room of her house, she has, she says, distanced herself from her own stardom and the commercial art world. But in fact it seems that Quenepon has helped establish her further, as something of a nucleus, a voice in the arts beyond painting. 
"Mari Mater is not only a tremendous artist," says Dr. Carmen Ruiz Fischler, the director of the new $55 million Museo de Arte de Puerto Rico, "but she is helping others through Quenepon. She's perhaps the one who has most helped young artists think globally."
She is not so kind to herself. "I am a question mark in the art world," Ms. O'Neill says. "I am always a promise I've not fulfilled with myself. I am the controversial, the problematic."
Biting her nails, chewing her lip, she talks about numerous preoccupations, and few are as compelling to her as the question of Puerto Rican identity, a question that nearly every artist here confronts. "I am very ambitious," she says, "but I believe I have to contribute to the community of Puerto Rico. I have to paint here, and I have to work here. People who want to understand my work have to know Puerto Rico, have to know of its historic moments, have to understand my reality."
It is a reality that the young artists of Puerto Rico are struggling with and transcending with work that is no longer just homegrown but Caribbean, Latin American, worldly.

GRAPHIC: Photos: A lineup of young Puerto Rican artists: front row, from left, Teo Freytes, Charles Juhasz-Alvarado, Yrsa Davila; rear, from left, Rosa Irigoyen, Ana Rosa Rivera Marrero and Maria de Mater O'Neill. (Laura T. Magruder for The New York Times); "Strike a Pose" (1988), by Ana Rosa Rivera Marrero.; Maria de Mater O'Neill's "Classify This," from the set of lithographs "End of Game"(1999); left, Rosa Irigoyen's installation "Intimate Interference" (1999), composed of light boxes, digital images, sound, water, wood, fabric and cables; below, "The Eye," a digital work by Teo Freytes (2000). (Photographs courtesy of Galeria Botello) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ARTISTS & PERFORMERS (90%); MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (89%); VISUAL & PERFORMING ARTS (78%) ART 

PERSON: LOPEZ TORREGROSA, LUISITA 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); BARCELONA, SPAIN (79%) NEW YORK, USA (92%); CATALONIA, SPAIN (56%) PUERTO RICO (95%); UNITED STATES (92%); CARIBBEAN ISLANDS (90%); EUROPE (73%); SPAIN (71%) PUERTO RICO

LOAD-DATE: March 11, 2001 



256 of 868 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 11, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 2; Column 1; Arts and Leisure Desk; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 900 words

HEADLINE: DANCE; 
The Low-Tech Illogic of Humor in Daily Life

BYLINE:  By APOLLINAIRE SCHERR; Apollinaire Scherr contributes to "Goings on About Town" in The New Yorker.

 BODY:
MEMBERS of low-budget dance-comedy-puppet troupes aren't usually the idols of high school girls. But when the flabby men and fit men, tall men and short men, men who can dance and men who, adorably, really can't, appear on the Tokyo stage in nerdy schoolboy uniforms as the Condors, the girls show up in droves and shriek happily.
 About every six months since 1996, the 14-member, all-male company puts on a new variety show for an audience that is either wary of modern dance, with its reputation for portentous sobriety, or simply unaware of it. The Condors seamlessly blend dance numbers with video, puppetry and physical theater. The individual segments are held together not by a theme but by a sense of humor so odd that the audience spends the evening giddy. 
 The troupe will present its latest work, "Conquest of the Galaxy: Jupiter -- Love You Live," on Friday and Saturday at the Japan Society in Manhattan (in a co-presentation with Dance Theater Workshop) and on March 23 at the Japan America Theater in Los Angeles. 
Ryohei Kondo, the troupe's 32-year-old artistic director, christened his group the Condors because he thought it sounded like the name of a baseball team. His team of dancers, actors, musicians and comedy writers in their 20's and 30's is also meant to be sporty fun. "I want to eliminate the elements of contemplation from my works," Mr. Kondo told the Japanese newspaper Yomiuri Shimbun in a bold assertion of his distance from the country's No. 1 dance export, butoh. 
Ankoku butoh ("the dance of darkness") evolved in the 60's in the shadow of the atom bomb. Featuring a primal body that moves as slowly as rust, with gnarled, pigeon-toed feet and crossed eyes, the idiom countered prevalent Western notions of progress and beauty. The Condors' frothy satire and deliberately off-key mimicry matches the tone of its own, less stark moment of creation. 
Last year's show, "Light My Fire," began with a video spoof of corporate promotional shorts, in which the "corporation" is a bunch of men in tights. Their day starts at the ballet barre, moves on to the massage table and ends with a Condor vacuuming his apartment. In a live sketch from another show, a trembling crowd of white-collar workers watches a muscleman in a tiny thong rise out of the floorboards holding a huge red ball overhead. After a pause, this virile patriot uses the risen sun to bowl the men over like pins.
Other segments are inspired less by history or convention than by visual possibility: one guy is the proud driver of a compact car while another mimics the stick shift, growling faster and louder as his perfectly shiny knob of a head is pushed front, back, right and left.
The dance sections are mainly storyless, consisting of large group numbers in a style somewhere between martial arts, hip-hop and bunny hop, set to folksy guitar rambles, classic rock and goofy xylophone. 
With the Condors' comedic logic as intriguingly random as the Japanese cartoon style called anime -- and their personas just as cute -- it's obvious that they have affinities with Japan's thriving popular culture. In that respect, the troupe resembles several other emerging Japanese companies. 
The groups Dumb Type and Leni-Basso and the solo performance artist Tanno Ken'ichi create dance-animation convergences that evoke an urban grid ruled by mechanical anomie, an unstoppable techno beat and, often, dark humor. The spectacular all-female dance company H. Art Chaos, which had its United States debut last year at the Joyce Theater, takes up Japanese pop's embrace of hypercharged and often violent sexuality. 
Why this sudden explosion of new dance forms? 
In the flush 80's, foreign companies toured regularly to Japan. They proved to underexposed local choreographers that nearly anything was possible -- with adequate financial support, that is. Japanese corporations substantially underwrote the foreigners' visits. 
T HEY were treated like Michael Jackson," Mayumi Nagatoshi, a prominent dance producer and the curator of the Japan Society's annual Contemporary Dance Showcase, said in a phone interview. "For local groups, it was like gazing on heaven from jail."
In the early 90's, government grants to local companies increased. Meanwhile, the country slid into a severe recession that has gradually undermined many long-held values and government policies, from how children are to be educated to the traditional subordination of individual desire to collective plan. "We'd been believing we were a really unified nation," Ms. Nagatoshi said with a sigh. "Pop culture has come out of each small change."
So has a new dance ethos. "It used to be only a certain thing was modern dance in Japan," Ms. Nagatoshi said. "A certain kind of music, costume, lighting. Now, you do what you want. You want to use animation, you can use it. If you want to use computer games, you do. In the last five years, dance has become very, very updated in Japan." But updated Japan is still largely homogenous. The emerging companies generally do formal and abstract work loaded with video screens. And everyone is very serious. 
Except the Condors. The troupe addresses the times not allegorically or abstractly but through story, and it is adamantly low-tech. "Tokyo is the most digital place in the world," Mr. Kondo said. "So I want to work in analog. Using analog in a digital world is like finding humor in daily life."

GRAPHIC: Photo: Members of the Condors, an all-male Japanese dance group, performing "X-Men" in Toyko last month. They will be at the Japan Society this weekend. (Haruki Nakagoshi) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: DANCE (91%); THEATER & DRAMA (90%); THEATER (90%); DANCE COMPANIES (90%); CONFERENCES & CONVENTIONS (79%); BALLET (78%); ACTORS & ACTRESSES (78%); ARTISTS & PERFORMERS (78%); DANCERS (73%); BASEBALL (65%); MUSIC (65%); WRITERS (65%); EYE DISORDERS & INJURIES (61%); SINGERS & MUSICIANS (50%); BOMBS & EXPLOSIVE DEVICES (50%) DANCING 

ORGANIZATION: DANCE THEATER WORKSHOP (55%) JAPAN SOCIETY 

PERSON: CONDORS (DANCE CO); SCHERR, APOLLINAIRE 

GEOGRAPHIC: TOKYO, JAPAN (88%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%) NEW YORK, USA (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (70%) JAPAN (88%); UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: March 11, 2001 



257 of 868 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 11, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 2; Column 1; Arts and Leisure Desk; Pg. 15

LENGTH: 1650 words

HEADLINE: FILM; 
African Cinema's Main Man Celebrates Women

BYLINE:  By STUART KLAWANS; Stuart Klawans is the author of "Film Follies: The Cinema Out of Order" (Cassell).

 BODY:
WHEN the interview is over and the tape recorder is shut off at last, a grateful Father of African Cinema declares himself free to smoke. The filmmaker, Ousmane Sembene of Senegal, loosely draped in a striped cotton shirt and trousers, starts to becloud his Park Avenue hotel room with the aid of a gnarled, bent-stem pipe. He's warming up a reply, it seems, to the question he has evaded for an hour: What price has he paid for his career in films?
 Now a vigorous 78, Mr. Sembene (pronounced sem BEN) has spent decades creating his own remarkable films and, simultaneously, the cinematic infrastructure of sub-Saharan Africa. He has trained technicians, established a distribution network, made ordinary citizens into actors, mentored other filmmakers. When an interviewer asks him to look back, he politely refuses to discuss his headaches: the run-ins with two governments (of Senegal and France), the necessities of self-financing and shipping film overseas for processing, the long gaps between productions. But, with a heavy fragrance hovering in the hotel room, he chuckles at the memory of a physical threat. 
 The danger, encountered during the shooting of his 1992 film, "Guelwaar," could easily have come from a religious group. He had made light of the friction between Senegal's Muslim majority and the country's Roman Catholics, yet no harm arose from those quarters. Nor was Mr. Sembene bullied by the Francophone elite (a frequent butt of his satire) or by the particular target of "Guelwaar," the profiteers who fatten themselves on Western handouts to Africa. The attackers, who surrounded him in a rural village, were bees. While on location, Mr. Sembene recalls, he lit his pipe under just the wrong tree and brought down a swarm on his head.
So he finally owns up, with a laugh, to a bruising share of "everyday heroism" -- the sort of valor practiced by the title character of his new film, "Faat-Kine."
Opening March 28 at Film Forum -- its run will overlap with a nine-film Sembene retrospective there (April 6 to April 26) -- "Faat-Kine" glows with the high spirits of a woman who has overcome half a lifetime of abuse. Born in 1960, the year of Senegal's independence from France, Faat-Kine (Venus Seye) is seduced and abandoned on two separate occasions, barred from school, and disinherited. Her father tries to set her on fire; her mother prays for her death; and after she nevertheless lives to see 40, Faat-Kine suffers fresh wounds from her grown daughter, who belittles the way she earns her living.
Having risen from a job as a gasoline pump jockey, Faat-Kine now manages a Dakar service station. It's a place that "symbolizes the energy of life," Mr. Sembene says, while also suggesting "a man's world, where the language is very crude." By working there -- and not just working, but ruling from behind a spotless desk -- "Faat-Kine subverts the society of the past."
"She establishes her own independence," Mr. Sembene adds, and does it so well that the film ends with a close-up of her feet in bed, toes wiggling with pleasure.
In each scene leading to that happy ending, Faat-Kine demonstrates yet another aspect of Mr. Sembene's conviction that "Africa's society and economy are held together today by women."
"But how can women have these responsibilities and yet be denied the same privileges as men?" he says. "That's the problem."
It's a problem that has evidently touched Mr. Sembene's audience. When "Faat-Kine" opened in Dakar, Senegal's capital, last May, he says, "All the women came."
"Whether in Senegal or Gabon, Cameroon, Chad, Cote d'Ivoire, it was women who patronized the film. They told me that my depiction didn't begin to reach the level of suffering of African women. And for a month, women came flooding to see me. Some of them even brought along their husbands!"
Can the continent's most celebrated filmmaker be so accessible?
"Why should I hide, after I've made my films? Everybody knows where I live. I don't have a housekeeper in Dakar. My house doesn't have a gate.
"You see, every one of my projects begins with research -- because how can I know anything, unless people tell me? 'Faat-Kine' required a lot of this research, since there are three generations in the film: the mother, who symbolizes traditional society, the daughter, who is modernity, and Faat-Kine herself at the confluence. To understand the experience of women in African society, the contradictions in their lives between past and present, I had to talk with people -- because, after all, I'm not a woman."
For similar reasons, Mr. Sembene personally takes his films to cities and villages throughout Senegal, "because it's very important to talk with the public wherever the film goes," he said.
"It's what I call the traveling cinema. You don't make a lot of money out of it, but at least you get ideas. I have to be with the public -- because, if I claim to speak on behalf of the people, then I have to be accountable to them."
Out of this desire for conversation grew Mr. Sembene's career in film -- and with it a large part of the cinema of sub-Saharan Africa.
Born in 1923 in the Casamance region, Mr. Sembene left school at 15, supported himself in Dakar as a plumber and bricklayer and at 19 enlisted in De Gaulle's forces, with which he fought in France and Germany. It was not the last combat he was to see. After the war, he spent a decade as a union activist and Communist militant in Senegal and France.
With the publication of his books "The Black Docker" (1956) and "God's Bits of Wood" (1960), Mr. Sembene left behind manual labor and claimed his place as an important African novelist. But he was a novelist working in French, in a new nation where the most popular tongue, Wolof, was only starting to take written form and where most of the population could not read at all. Calculating that a book could speak to 10,000 people at most, whereas a movie might reach 1 million, Mr. Sembene left for Moscow and a year's training at the state film school. By 1963, he was back in Senegal, 40 years old and ready to start the major part of his career.
Since then, Mr. Sembene has made a handful of shorts and eight features, counting "Faat-Kine." These include delicious urban satires, overflowing with incidental characters and local color ("Mandabi" and "Xala"); a modern-day political murder mystery, set in a shady village ("Guelwaar"); rural period pieces, done in quasi-folkloric style, about the early and late colonial eras ("Ceddo" and "Emitai"); and even a based-on-a-true-story epic of David Lean dimensions, "The Camp at Thiaroye," about a French massacre of African troops at the end of World War II.
If these films seem astonishingly varied in style, period and setting, they also share certain strategies that date from silent movies, or for that matter the era of hieroglyphics. Wanting to convey legible ideas about his society and needing to communicate them across language barriers, Mr. Sembene constructed a cinema in which gestures, props and settings are all made to speak. 
His first feature, "Black Girl" (1966), told its story not only through the protagonist's voiceover narration but also, and more emphatically, through elements like her choice of clothes. (In defiance of her white, French employers, the title character insists on wearing a fancy outfit while doing housework, to show she's more than a maid.) "Faat-Kine" finds Mr. Sembene still deploying these strategies -- for example, by showing women in traditional dress parading through concrete high-rises, bearing brightly colored plastic buckets on their heads.
USED by a lesser artist, such hieroglyphs would be just that: inanimate stick figures. But Mr. Sembene's cinema of conversation brings irrepressible life to his characters; and in retrospect, the loving attention he's devoted to the women among them is fully evident. The modern, educated daughter of Faat-Kine has her counterpart in the outspoken young daughter of a bureaucrat in "Xala," and in the princess who solves her village's problems more directly than any man would dare in "Ceddo."
The "everyday heroism" of Faat-Kine herself can be traced back to the widow in "Guelwaar," addressing a bitter monologue to her husband's empty clothes; to the scuffling wives in "Mandabi," working around their improvident husband as best they can; to the rebellious village women of "Emitai," standing up (as the men will not) to murderous French authority; and even to the wife in a short film, "Borom Sarret," who tartly assures her husband that he'll eat tonight -- exactly how, he'd rather not know.
What's new in "Faat-Kine" is a wholehearted endorsement of its heroine's entrepreneurship. Isn't she a bit like a filmmaker -- at least, the kind of filmmaker who raises money on his own and tours the countryside with his movies?
Mr. Sembene turns aside the suggestion, as he does all other hints about his own brave persistence. But before the interview ends, he willingly goes on the record about political change:
"Forty years ago, we had nothing -- no doctors, no engineers, no writers. We had no university. We thought a flag and a national anthem were enough for independence; and we thought we could count on the government. That is now a thing of the past. One has to count on the people. And despite all the problems, success for us is a certainty. Every day we're working hard, because we're dreaming of a better quality of life. And that is Faat-Kine -- someone who wins out through a daily struggle."
The proof? During the presidential run-off election last March, when Abdoulaye Wade of the Senegalese Democratic Party, an opposition party leader for 26 years, unseated Abdou Diouf of the Socialist Party of Senegal, "It was the women who changed the entire order of things," Mr. Sembene says. "When they held a protest march in the streets, everything was frozen. It's a new power for women in our society."

GRAPHIC: Photos: A scene from Ousmane Sembene's 1971 film "Emitai." (Film Forum/New Yorker Films)(pg. 27); The Senegalese director Ousmane Sembene in New York last fall. His new film, "Faat-Kine," with Mariama Balde, at left, and Mame Ndoumbe, will be shown at Film Forum. (New Yorker Films); (Fred R. Conrad/The New York Times)(pg. 15) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: FILM (93%); VISUAL ARTISTS (90%); MOVIE RELEASE DATES (78%); INTERVIEWS (78%); MOVIE INDUSTRY (78%); GAS STATIONS (76%); GASOLINE (71%); RELIGION (70%); CHRISTIANS & CHRISTIANITY (69%); CONTUSIONS (68%); WOUNDS & INJURIES (67%); CATHOLICS & CATHOLICISM (65%); MUSLIMS & ISLAM (65%) MOTION PICTURES; BIOGRAPHICAL INFORMATION 

PERSON: KLAWANS, STUART; SEMBENE, OUSMANE 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (91%) SENEGAL (92%); AFRICA (92%); UNITED STATES (91%); SUB SAHARAN AFRICA (79%)

TITLE: FAAT-KINE (MOVIE) 

LOAD-DATE: March 11, 2001 



258 of 868 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 11, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 2; Column 2; Arts and Leisure Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 3296 words

HEADLINE: Open Windows On Distant Worlds; 
In Iran, Expressions Of a Country's Soul

BYLINE:  By ELAINE SCIOLINO; Elaine Sciolino is a senior writer of The New York Times and the author of "Persian Mirrors: The Elusive Face of Iran."

DATELINE: TEHRAN, Iran 

 BODY:
LIGHTS! Camera! Let's go!" Marzieh Boroomand barks at her crew between drags on a Marlboro. Then she focuses on her star, a boy of 11. "Don't sit. Just stand. Don't shake your head so much. Cut, cut, cut!"
 At a rundown teahouse rented out on a stiflingly hot afternoon last fall, Ms. Boroomand is shooting a scene for her latest film, "Sweet Jam," a low-budget comedy about jars of jam that won't open and the campaign of a young boy to seek justice from the factory that made them. 
 Hers is an uphill struggle. She works with only one camera, two klieg lights, big debts and a cast and crew of two dozen. Curious residents of the neighborhood, a quiet middle-class corner of north Tehran, wander on and off the set, and the black flies that call the sticky plastic tablecloths home buzz in front of the camera lens, distracting the cameraman, who bumps into cases of empty Iranian cola bottles stacked along a wall. 
"I work with old equipment, the wrong kind of film and censorship," Ms. Boroomand says as she sips scalding hot tea during a break. "I can't show a married couple in the privacy of their bedroom, so I stay away from love stories. Instead, I try to entertain."
Iran's cinema is a world unto itself, the most creative expression of the country's imagination, so much so that it has earned a reputation as one of the most vibrant and prolific cinemas in the world. As filmmakers scoop up more and more prizes at international festivals, filmmaking has become one of the most popular professions for young people in Iran. They are buying cameras, writing scripts and competing for both the few places at film schools and the privilege of working on the sets of famous directors.
Several film magazines and newspapers are published in Iran, including a slick English-language quarterly, Film International, full of interviews, reviews, news and four-color advertisements. When Bahman Ghobadi, the Iranian Kurdish filmmaker, visited the United States last fall to promote his first feature, "A Time for Drunken Horses," he acknowledged that his primary goal of the film was to win international acclaim.
For many Americans, the Iranian cinema is the most direct glimpse into this complicated culture. More than any other medium, film has helped to break down the dominant Western images of Iran as a country of dour, repressed women swathed in black and bearded young men chanting "Death to America!" -- as a nation powerless to challenge a ruling class of men in turbans and cloaks. The popularity of Iranian films is evident in the number being shown in New York in the next month or two alone. Among them are Jafar Panahi's "The Circle," which is banned in Iran; "The Day I Became a Woman," directed by Marziyeh Meshkini; and a retrospective series, Iran Through the Eyes of Children, beginning March 23 at the Screening Room in Manhattan.
"Films have been transformative in terms of changing the views most Americans have of Iran, especially of the negative image from news reporting of the revolution and the hostage crisis," said Hamid Naficy, associate professor of film and media at Rice University and author of several books on Iranian film and television. "These films are very important in terms of countering the image of Iranians as intolerant and fanatical, and of capturing universal themes -- that it is human to love your children, that people in Iran face some of the same problems that other people face."
The cinema is one of several cultural and political battlefields inside Iran. Along with the press, television, the courts, the universities, Parliament and even the clerical seminaries, the cinema is a place where an ideological guerrilla warfare is being waged between those who want to reform the episodically repressive Islamic system and those who want to adhere to the strict Islamic interpretation that has prevailed for a generation.
Yet the films are not fully representative of life in Iran. And some of the films that are most popular outside Iran, including nostalgic renderings of an idealized past or sentimental films about children, do much less well at home. "Stereotypical impressions are created, that Iran is a harsh place where people struggle for the smallest things in life, where children are prematurely turned into adults," Mr. Naficy said. "Then there is the use of landscape, in a way that gives a highly romantic impression of Iran as primarily rural and traditional, when the largest populations live in urban centers."
Majid Majidi's "Children of Heaven," for example, is set amid flower-filled fields that exist in only a small part of Iran and for only a few weeks. And despite the tundralike setting in "A Time for Drunken Horses," it snows hard in Iranian Kurdistan only a few weeks of the year.
The Iranian cinema has come a long way from the revolution 22 years ago. Ayatollah Ruhollah Khomeini, the father of the revolution, railed against the cinema, putting it in the same category as theater, dancing and sexually integrated swimming. The day after he returned from exile in 1979, he said, "The cinema is a modern invention that ought to be used for the sake of educating the people, but as you know, it was used instead to corrupt our youth."
But his lieutenants quickly realized the importance of film for propaganda, if not for entertainment. In 1982, Iran formally banned films that were judged to encourage wickedness, corruption and prostitution.
That policy began to change in the late 1980's, when, as part of a scheme to liberalize the arts, Mohammad Khatami -- then the Minister of Islamic Guidance and Culture, now president -- declared that "cinema is not the mosque." More conservative clerics resisted, and in 1992 Mr. Khatami resigned, writing that he would rather "fight ignorance and backwardness" on his own.
But his election as president in 1997 -- and his call for tolerance and the rule of law -- signaled an even bolder cultural explosion. In a speech that fall, Mr. Khatami proclaimed, "Our cinema is a vivid and clear reflection of the greatness of our culture, people and Islamic revolution." And although a cultural crackdown a year ago shut down most of Iran's reformist newspapers and put many of its best journalists behind bars, most of Iran's filmmakers have been left alone, in part because they have helped burnish the image of Iran around the world.
Today, Iranian films fall into a number of categories. One is the commercially popular junk film -- the slapstick comedy or adventure film about murders or mummies. Another is the propaganda film, the kind that is shown on government-owned Iran Air's foreign flights and that invariably depicts a character gone wrong who is redeemed through prayer and the power of the Islamic Republic.
A third type is the film about innocent children, often in a rural or village setting, with a combination of sentimentality, exotica and unreality that is easy to get past government censors. Jafar Panahi's "White Balloon" (1995), about a little girl trying to buy a goldfish for a New Year's celebration, was a breakthrough film, winning an award at the Cannes International Film Festival and earning nearly $1 million in its United States release.
Still another kind is the emotionally direct film that explores the tensions, restrictions and grimness of everyday life. This type deals with the gritty: suicide, murder, war, mental illness, divorce, infertility, polygamy, tribal oppression, unemployment, adultery, cross-dressing, social inequality, mixed-sex parties, drug addiction, wife-beating, child abuse and, recently, prostitution. Abbas Kiarostami's "Taste of Cherry" (1997) deals with suicide; Dariush Mehrjui's "Leila" (1997) with infertility and polygamy (although I have yet to find an Iranian woman who found this tale of a modern, educated, infertile woman insisting that her husband take a second wife plausible).
"In some ways these films are mirrors as well as sounding boards," said Farideh Farhi, an Iranian-born political scientist who is writing a book about civil society in Iran. "The act of making them represents the will to speak the truth about contradictions besieging Iranian society and reveal in an entertaining way what everyone already knows in their hearts. The audience goes to these films to bear witness, and to gain affirmation for their daily experiences."
Each time filmmakers explore the underside of Iranian life, they risk censorship by the Ministry of Islamic Guidance and Culture -- or worse. Last November, Rakhshan Bani-Etemad and her crew were forced to flee the city of Rasht after they were physically threatened by thugs who objected to her latest film, "Under the Skin of the City," which deals with drug-trafficking and wife-beating among other issues.
But unlike more authoritarian states, this is a world where there are few rules governing what is and is not permitted and where filmmakers defy both the system and their own fears in their quest to create. Still, the necessity to adhere to "Islamic values" means that on one level, there remains an unreality about the portrayal of everyday life in Iranian films.
To comply with the strictures of the Islamic Republic, there can be, on screen, no public affection between men and women, no dancing, no female singers, no sensual music. Female characters must always keep their heads covered and hide the shape of their bodies. Husbands and wives are not allowed to touch, and parents cannot show physical affection to their children once a daughter is 9 and a son is 13. It is thought that such actions might inflame the passions of male viewers.
Yet in reality family life in Iran is extremely intimate. Even the most religious women unveil in private in the company of close male relatives and other women. Husbands and wives touch, and parents and children are affectionate with one another. While Iranians are aware of the distortions of "Islamic filmmaking," foreign viewers often are not.
Some directors, like Mr. Kiarostami, solve the problem by casting few women in important roles and having few scenes inside the home. Others have come up with creative ways to deal with the restrictions. In his 1996 film "Gabbeh," Mohsen Makhmalbaf avoided violating a ban on depicting a woman giving birth on the screen by donning a skirt and playing the role himself. Several filmmakers have begun to use actors who are close relatives, to allow them to show men and women touching.
"The cinema has lots of tricks, and we've had 22 years of the Islamic Republic to learn them," said Parviz Sabri, as he took a break last fall on the set of the most recent film he is directing, "Mani and Neda." "In my last film I was able to show a man and wife asleep in their beds, but I couldn't put them in their pajamas. I had to put them in street dress."
Mr. Sabri's assistant director, Shahin Babapour, said he used three questions to test for every scene: "Is there a scene that can be considered an insult to Islam? Is there a scene that is insulting to the country's folk culture? And are the women wearing too much makeup and showing too much hair?"
The compromises can be particularly frustrating for the actors. "I once played an aspiring singer in a film called 'Help Me,' " said Mahaya Petrossian, a 30-year-old film star who earns enough money to live on her own in an apartment (unusual for single women in Iran) and drive a BMW. "The only problem was that all the scenes of me singing had to be cut."
In "Unforgiven," in which Ms. Petrossian played a young woman confronted with her dying father, "there is a scene in which I'm crying and begging him to forgive me and I couldn't touch him," Ms. Petrossian recalled. "I had to use my expressions and my voice instead. It dupes the audience because in real life a father and daughter would touch." In "Nasreddin Shah, the Movie Actor," a film about the 19th-century Iranian king, lavish period costumes solved the dress problem.
On another level, Iranian filmmakers are relentlessly testing the limits of what is permissible in a largely controlled cultural environment. The Ministry of Islamic Guidance and Culture, which provides considerable financing for Iranian films, can be complicitous in the guerrilla war. Sometimes when a film is banned inside Iran, it is screened at a film festival abroad, creating pressure on the censors to reverse themselves. (That happened with "Taste of Cherry" and Ms. Bani-Etemad's "The May Lady.") Sometimes a film is shown at a private screening once or twice to test the waters. Or a banned film might be shelved for a few months, then submitted to a more lenient censor.
"We Iranian filmmakers are like trapeze artists swinging back and forth without a net," said Mr. Mehrjui, a U.C.L.A.-educated filmmaker. "One of the great contradictions of our cinema in Iran is that we have all these films shot in bizarre places with exotic people that are usually done to hit the foreign market, and they don't do at all well here because they're absurd fantasies. But the government loves them because they are filled with innocent children, free of sin, that challenge nothing in society."
Inside the country, the fluidity of Iran's censorship system was evident one summer evening in 1998 at Tehran's House of Cinema, a private film club, where an invitation-only screening of a movie about the aftermath of the Iran-Iraq war was being held. This was no glittery Hollywood party. No refreshments were served. The auditorium was hot and cramped, the film shown on a small screen from a noisy projector.
"Siavash," the low-budget film being shown, was the first feature film by Saman Moghadam. The Ministry of Islamic Guidance had not approved his film, but it allowed it to be shown just once. The film dealt with the generation gap between the loyal warriors who sacrificed for the revolution and the war with Iraq, and their children who longed for happy lives unburdened by their country's recent history. The film broke a number of barriers: the hero, a young composer and musician in a rock band, played the sort of lively music that would not be allowed in a real-life concert in Iran. And even though the behavior would be technically forbidden, he openly socialized with his girlfriend, a photojournalist who led an independent life. 
"I tried to show the huge divide between the fervent believers and the tired, young generation of today that wants a normal, peaceful life," Mr. Moghadam explained after the screening.
THE censors eventually approved the release of "Siavash," and it played in Tehran's movie houses. It was panned. One review called it "naive, trite and, worst of all, boring."
The tyranny of tradition in a patriarchal society is also a theme that resonates deeply with Iranian audiences, particularly women. "Two Women," directed by Tahmineh Milani, became the biggest box office hit in Iranian history when it was released in the summer of 1999, and it was shown as part of last year's New Directors/New Films Series in New York.
The film tells the story of two college friends, Fereshteh, a poor woman trapped in a loveless marriage, and Roya, a successful career woman with a loving husband. After Fereshteh is forced into marriage by her parents, her husband turns cruel, reneging on his promise to allow her to continue her studies, forbidding her to read books, locking the telephone and accusing her of having a lover.
When Fereshteh seeks a divorce, the judge asks whether her husband stays out all night, beat hers, has bad companions or gambles.
"He humiliates me," she says.
"These are not good reasons," the judge declares.
Never before had the oppression of women by men in authority -- whether husbands or judges -- been so starkly revealed on the screen in Iran, and the film radicalized usually docile women.
Last September, the most popular film in Iran was "Bride of Fire," by Khosro Sinaee, the story of a young, beautiful medical student who is in love with her professor but engaged by her family to a cousin, a rough, illiterate petty trader in a poor tribal area of south Iran.
When the young woman tries to break off the relationship, her fiance tells her: "You have come here and you must follow all the traditions. It's not you or I who decides your life. It's the law of the village." After the wedding ceremony, the bride douses the bridal bed and herself with kerosene and sets the room on fire. At the same time, as the bridegroom is about to enter the bridal chamber, one of the bride's aunts, who married a man she didn't love, shouts, "Congratulations! Congratulations!" as she stabs and kills the groom.
The film, one of the first portrayals of tribal marriage rituals, sparked protests in Iran's small Arab community, including a mysterious fire in a movie theater in the southwestern provincial capital of Ahwaz.
During the 1980-1988 border war with Iraq, the Islamic Republic funded dozens of films and documentaries. Since then, a few filmmakers have dared to take on the trauma of the war and the inability of the Islamic Republic to heal the wounds. The unresolved tensions are dramatically captured in a deeply moving but troubling film screened during Iran's 1999 Fajr Film Festival.
"The Glass Agency," directed by Ibrahim Hatami-Kia, tells the story of Abbas, a soft-spoken war veteran with shrapnel lodged in his neck. After a doctor tells him his condition is life-threatening, Abbas's war buddy Haji, a taxi driver, springs into action. Haji raises enough money for Abbas to travel to London for special treatment. It isn't that easy. At a travel agency in Tehran, the two men are told there are no tickets. 
Enraged, Haji takes the agency -- and everyone in it -- hostage. He demands a ticket. Instead of sympathy for the two men, there is resentment of the privileges war veterans enjoy in Iranian society. At one point, one hostage remarks that veterans indeed are burdened -- by the scholarships, televisions and refrigerators they get from having served at the front. At another, the exasperated policeman negotiating the hostages' release tells Haji: "For a decade we listened to you. It was enough. Now it is a new decade for stability."
Paradoxically, the Islamic Republic as a topic rarely filters into the films. Clerics are seldom featured, except as peripheral characters. "The cleric is one of the taboo issues we can't touch, unless you make him a hero," said Mr. Mehrjui. "Tolerance of the clerical class is so low. One of my dreams is to shoot a film in Qom," the holy city whose major industry is producing clerics. "I'd love to show the clerical class, the clerical culture -- from the inside," he added. "But it's a risky job and I'm afraid I could put a lot of energy into it, only to have it banned."

Through Iranian Eyes
 Many Iranian films will be shown in the New York area in the coming weeks. Following is a selection:

MARCH 23 THROUGH APRIL 5 -- Iran Through the Eyes of Children: a series of films about children at The Screening Room, 54 Varick St., including Jafar Panahi's "White Balloon" and Majid Majidi's "Children of Heaven."

MARCH 23 -- "Friendly Persuasion," also at The Screening Room. A new documentary about Iranian filmmakers, directed by Jamsheed Akrami.

APRIL 6 -- "The Day I Became a Woman," directed by Marziyeh Meshkini, about three generations of Iranian women. Loews State, 45th Street and Broadway.

APRIL 6 -- "Smell of Camphor, Fragrance of Jasmine," directed by Bahman Farmanara, who also stars as a middle-aged Iranian filmmaker. Lincoln Plaza Cinemas, 63rd Street and Broadway; Quad Cinema, 34 West 13th Street; Clearview Roslyn Quad, 20 Tower Place, Roslyn, N.Y.; Cinema Arts Center, 423 Park Avenue, Huntington, N.Y.

APRIL 13 -- "The Circle," directed by Jafar Panahi, about the lives of Iranian women. Lincoln Plaza Cinemas, 63rd Street and Broadway.

GRAPHIC: Photos: A scene from Marziyeh Meshkini's "The Day I Became a Woman" (2000), top at left; Niki Karimi and Marila Zare'i in Tahmineh Milani's "Two Women" (1999), Iran's biggest box office hit, above at left; and Mahaya Petrossian in "Nasreddin Shah, the Movie Actor" (1992), directed by Mohsen Makhmalbaf, above at right. (Film Society of Lincoln Center); (Maysam Makhmalbaf/Shooting Gallery)(pg. 24); INTERNATIONAL AUTEURS -- Tahmineh Milani, above, seen on the set of her film "Half Hidden" in Tehran last year, made Iran's biggest hit, "Two Women," in 1999. Gaston Kabore, top at left, made "Buud Yam," the most popular African film ever in his native Burkina Faso. "In African cinema, we're always looking for our place between tradition and modernity," Mr. Kabore said. (Ghogha Biat/CinemaIran.com)(pg. 1) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MOVIE INDUSTRY (89%); ACTORS & ACTRESSES (78%); INTERVIEWS (78%); VISUAL ARTISTS (76%); FILM DIRECTORS (76%); CENSORSHIP (76%); MOVIES & SOUND RECORDING SECTOR PERFORMANCE (76%); FILM SCHOOLS (71%) MOTION PICTURES; POLITICS AND GOVERNMENT; CULTURE 

COMPANY: WESTERN IMAGES (51%)

INDUSTRY: SIC7819 SERVICES ALLIED TO MOTION PICTURE PRODUCTION (51%)

PERSON: SCIOLINO, ELAINE 

GEOGRAPHIC: TEHRAN, IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (90%) NEW YORK, USA (79%) IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (97%); UNITED STATES (93%); IRAN (90%); BURKINA FASO (79%) IRAN

LOAD-DATE: March 11, 2001 



259 of 868 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 11, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 14LI; Column 1; Long Island Weekly Desk; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 996 words

HEADLINE: At Avis, Employees Weigh Their Options 

BYLINE:  By ELISSA GOOTMAN 

DATELINE: EAST GARDEN CITY 

 BODY:
FOR most of Barbara Martin's working life, going to the office has meant driving a mile or so to the squat camel-colored building at 900 Old Country Road in East Garden City, the world headquarters of Avis, the car-rental giant.
 Ms. Martin, 51, started at the company as a secretary and has spent the last 29 years working her way up the corporate ladder to her current post as a supervisor in the claims division. 
 A week and a half ago, Ms. Martin and her 700 colleagues learned that Avis would be moving its headquarters to Parsippany, N.J., where some of its operations will be consolidated with those of its new owner, the Cendant Corporation, the travel and real estate franchiser whose brands include Ramada, Howard Johnson, Century 21 and Coldwell Banker. 
"It's heartbreaking," Ms. Martin said. "So many of us have been here for so long." She that if she is offered a position in Parsippany, some 50 miles away by road, she doubts she will take it. Her husband, a management consultant, has business ties to Long Island, and she was born and raised on the Island. 
Since Avis, founded in Detroit in 1946, moved its headquarters from Boston to Nassau County in 1962, it has loomed large in the consciousness of corporate Long Island. Newsday has ranked Avis Group Holdings as the fourth-largest company on the Island in terms of revenues, $4.2 billion last year. The company has about 20,000 employees worldwide. 
On March 1, Cendant bought the 82 percent of Avis Group Holdings it did not already own. Cendant has 700 employees who also work at 900 Old Country Road, and they will not be affected by the move to Parsippany. 
For financially troubled Nassau County, the news that Avis was leaving comes as a blow.
"For those of us in county government who are busy trying to turn the corner on the problems here, the last thing we need are businesses that pick up and leave and start to go other places," said Lisanne G. Altmann, a county legislator. "Everybody's peeking out the window waiting for the economic downturn to hit here, too. You keep crossing your fingers that this isn't the beginning of it." 
Others argue that changes to the Island's symbolic landscape, significant though they be, may not necessarily have real economic repercussions.
Pearl M. Kamer, the chief economist at the Long Island Association, said this of Avis: "It's been a pre-eminent company on Long Island for many, many years, just as Grumman was. It tends to be a bit disquieting to lose some of our major companies that have long been associated with Long Island."
But while Avis may mean the world to Barbara Martin, Dr. Kamer said that Long Island would probably be no worse for the loss. "I wouldn't read anything more into it in terms of its basic impact on the economy," she said. 
Vincent M. Polimeni, the chairman of the Polimeni Organization in East Garden City, a developer of shopping centers and office buildings, was even more sanguine about news of the move. "Ten years ago it would have been a disaster," he said. "Now, it's really a non-happening."
Avis employees who want to stay on Long Island should have not trouble finding jobs, he said. "There's plenty of work if they want to work," he said. 
Nonetheless, Mr. Polimeni, whose can see the Avis Building from his office on Old Country Road, has his own sentimental bond to the company: his wife was working there as leasing agent when they started dating, and Mr. Polimeni would court her from the other side of the counter. 
"She was cute -- they had those little uniforms, those little red and white uniforms," he recalled. 
Avis plans to phase out its Long Island headquarters in the next year to year and a half. This month, each employee will be called into a supervisor's office to discuss the possibility of working in Parsippany. 
"We're going to ask everyone to come, understanding that everyone isn't going to be able to come," said Robert Salerno, the president and chief operating officer of the Avis Rent a Car System. Those who do not, he said, will be offered "enhanced severance" packages, which will negotiated individually. These packages can include bonuses, outplacement help, training in new job skills, tips on preparing resumes and assistance in making the transition to retirement.
Because the packages are still being negotiated, most employees would speak only on condition of anonymity, fearing that whatever they said could jeopardize their job or bonus prospects. 
"The company was sold, and the big shots got their millions and millions of dollars," said one nine-year employee. "We're all left doing all the work that allowed the stock to do well, and we don't get any of the rewards."
"They said they're going to offer something so that people just don't jump ship now," said the man, who deemed it "highly unlikely" that he would take a job in Parsippany. His children are in school on Long Island, he said, and he called the commute between Long Island and Parsippany "impossible."
A woman who has worked for Avis for 19 years does not plan to move, either. "I was born and raised and will die here," she said. "I'm not moving to Parsippany." 
"I always wanted to work for a major corporation," she said. "I thought it would be more stable. Little did I know, 19 years later . . . ," she said, her voice trailing off. 
Another Avis worker said that as a single mother, she would consider moving if it meant keeping her job. And besides, she could use a change of scenery. 
"I would like to get out of New York, but I don't know about New Jersey," she said. "I've never really been. I got lost in New Jersey one time while traveling, and the part of Jersey I saw I wasn't too keen on." 
For the Avis employees considering the move, Cendant plans to help bridge the psychological gap between East Garden City and the Garden State. 
"We realize this is going to be a stressful transition for some," said Ted Deutsch, a Cendant spokesman. "They're joining a bigger company with broader career options."

GRAPHIC: Photo: About 700 people at Avis headquarters in East Garden City will be affected by the move to Parsippany, N.J. (Phil Marino for The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: HOLDING COMPANIES (90%); COMPANY RELOCATIONS (90%); RELOCATIONS (90%); CAR RENTAL AGENCIES (90%); REAL ESTATE (78%); FRANCHISING (77%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (76%); COUNTY GOVERNMENT (76%); EMPLOYEE RELOCATIONS (75%); MOTOR VEHICLES (72%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (72%); ISLANDS & REEFS (71%); MANAGEMENT CONSULTING (71%); COUNTIES (70%); REAL ESTATE AGENTS (69%); CONSULTING SERVICES (66%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (60%); FRANCHISORS (54%); ECONOMIC NEWS (50%) AUTOMOBILES; RELOCATION OF BUSINESS; RENTING AND LEASING; LABOR; RELOCATION OF PERSONNEL; RELOCATION OF BUSINESS 

COMPANY: AVIS BUDGET GROUP INC (70%); AVIS GROUP HOLDINGS INC (54%)

ORGANIZATION: AVIS RENT A CAR SYSTEM; CENDANT CORP 

TICKER: CAR (NASDAQ) (70%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS532111 PASSENGER CAR RENTAL (70%); SIC7514 PASSENGER CAR RENTAL (70%); NAICS532120 TRUCK, UTILITY TRAILER & RV (RECREATIONAL VEHICLE) RENTAL & LEASING (70%); SIC7519 UTILITY TRAILERS & RECREATIONAL VEHICLE RENTAL (70%) SIC7514 PASSENGER CAR RENTAL; 

PERSON: GOOTMAN, ELISSA 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW JERSEY, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (92%) GARDEN CITY (NY); LONG ISLAND (NY); PARSIPPANY-TROY HILLS (NJ)

LOAD-DATE: March 11, 2001 



260 of 868 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 11, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 11; Column 1; Real Estate Desk; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 1204 words

HEADLINE: YOUR HOME; 
The Rules Of 'Luxury Decontrol'

BYLINE:  By JAY ROMANO 

 BODY:
 AROUND this time of year, landlord-tenant lawyers say, rent-regulated tenants in apartments renting for $2,000 or more a month will probably find an envelope from their landlord in their mailboxes. Inside that envelope will be a form that asks the tenant whether the combined annual income of the occupants of the apartment exceeded $175,000 in each of the last two years. 
 How the tenant responds to that question -- indeed, whether the tenant responds to that question -- could mean the difference between paying a regulated rent or being thrust into the world of free-market rentals.
Marcia Hirsch, general counsel for the Division of Housing and Community Renewal, the state agency that administers the rent laws, said that under the high-rent, high-income deregulation -- or "luxury decontrol" -- provisions of those laws, rent-regulated tenants whose rent is $2,000 or more a month, and whose total annual household incomes exceed $175,000 a year for two years in a row, can lose their regulated status. Between 1994 and 1998, the only years for which figures are available, Ms. Hirsch said, about 1,959 apartments were deregulated in this manner. 
Ms. Hirsch said that this form of deregulation should not be confused with high-rent vacancy deregulation, which occurs when the maximum legal rent that can be charged for a vacant apartment is $2,000 or more. Since the landlord is not required to register deregulated apartments, Ms. Hirsch said, it is not possible to determine with certainty how many apartments have lost their regulated status in this way.
Ms. Hirsch said that for the division to issue an order of deregulation under the high-rent, high-income rules, the property owner must demonstrate to the agency -- either through admission by the tenant or through evidence ultimately provided by the State Department of Taxation and Finance -- that the income of the apartment's occupants exceed the threshold.
The process begins, she said, when the owner sends the tenant an income certification form sometime between Jan. 1 and May 1. 
The form requires the listing of tenants and co-tenants named on the lease, whether or not they occupy the apartment as their primary residence, as well as all others who use the apartment as their primary residence. 
The form also requires the tenant to indicate whether the annual income of all tenants and occupants combined was more than $175,000 in each of the two preceding years.
"It's a 'yes' or 'no' question," Ms. Hirsch said. "You don't have to say how much your income is or even provide us with Social Security numbers," she said, adding that the term income is defined by law as the amount reported on the tenant's or occupant's New York State income tax return as "federal adjusted gross income." 
Completed income certification forms must be returned to the landlord within 30 days. 
Once the form is returned -- or if the tenant fails to return the form within 30 days -- the ball is in the landlord's court.
Peter Schwartz, a Manhattan landlord-tenant lawyer, said that if the tenant acknowledges income in excess of $175,000 for the two preceding years, the landlord is entitled to an order of deregulation. 
In cases where the tenant fails to return the form in 30 days, or when the tenant returns the form and the landlord disputes the information on it, the landlord can contest the certification with the Division of Housing and Community Renewal.
For a landlord to get an order of deregulation, or to contest a tenant's income certification, Mr. Schwartz said, the landlord must file by June 30 what is known as a petition by owner for high income rent deregulation.
In cases where the owner contests the tenant's income certification, Mr. Schwartz said, the Division of Housing and Community Renewal sends a notice to the tenant requiring verification within 60 days of the information in the original certification. When that information is received, he said, the division contacts the State Department of Taxation and Finance and asks that agency to check its files to see if the income listed on the tenants' and occupants' New York State tax returns match the incomes listed on the certification. 
If they do, and the total is below $175,000 for each of the two years, the landlord's petition is denied. If they do not, and if the tax information discloses income in excess of $175,000 for the last two years, an order of deregulation is issued.
Mr. Schwartz said, however, that the procedure used to verify the income of tenants with the Department of Taxation and Finance is far from foolproof.
"If the tenant doesn't indicate his name and mailing address on the income certification form in the same way he indicates it on his tax return, or if the tenant hasn't filed current tax returns, the Department of Taxation and Finance may not be able to make a match," he said. "And if there's no match, the D.H.C.R. denies the owner's application."
Ms. Hirsch said that to help avoid that problem, her agency recently started requiring tenants to provide a photocopy of the mailing label on their tax returns, with the Social Security number crossed out. She said the division would consider holding open cases for tenants who have requested additional time to file their tax returns.
Errol Brett, a Manhattan real estate lawyer, said that the certification procedures have at times caused confusion among tenants. Mr. Brett said that since the verification form sent to the tenant by the Division of Housing and Community Renewal is similar in appearance to the income certification form sent by the landlord, tenants sometimes fail to return the second form because they believe it is merely a duplicate of the first.
That, however, can have severe consequences.
"Failure to respond to the petition from D.H.C.R. is considered a default that can lead to deregulation," Mr. Brett said. 
In fact, he said, since the landlord can appeal decisions made by the Division of Housing and Community Renewal, the process can easily stretch out over a year or more, resulting in a second year's batch of certifications and verifications being sent to a tenant even before a final determination has been made on cases from the preceding year.
"And when these things start crossing in the mail, people start to get confused," Mr. Brett said.
Ms. Hirsch said that as a result of recent court cases addressing that problem, the division no longer automatically enters an order of deregulation when a tenant fails to file a form on time. Instead, she said, disputes are decided on a case-by-case basis after the tenant has been given an opportunity to provide reasons for the failure to file.
But William Gribben, a Manhattan lawyer who represents tenants, said that notwithstanding the court cases and the division's new policy, tenants should be extremely diligent about completing and filing every form.
"You might get a break if you didn't file on time because there was a fire in your apartment, but you may not be so fortunate if you failed to file because you just lost track of the paperwork," Mr. Gribben said. "I can tell you I've had people sitting in front of me with tears in their eyes after their apartment was deregulated because they missed a filing deadline."

GRAPHIC: Drawing (Tom Bloom) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: RENT CONTROL (94%); RESIDENTIAL RENTAL PROPERTY (92%); DEREGULATION (92%); LEASE AGREEMENTS (90%); LANDLORD & TENANT LAW (90%); RENTAL PROPERTY (90%); REAL ESTATE (90%); LAWYERS (89%); PROPERTY VACANCIES (78%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (74%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (74%); CORPORATE COUNSEL (73%); PERSONAL & FAMILY INCOME (72%); TAX AUTHORITIES (69%); TAXES & TAXATION (65%); URBAN DEVELOPMENT (56%); ECONOMIC NEWS (56%) HOUSING; RENT CONTROL AND STABILIZATION; RENTING AND LEASING; PRICES (FARES, FEES AND RATES) 

PERSON: ROMANO, JAY 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (67%) NEW YORK, USA (90%) UNITED STATES (90%) NEW YORK CITY

LOAD-DATE: March 11, 2001 



261 of 868 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 11, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 14WC; Column 1; Westchester Weekly Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 731 words

HEADLINE: COUNTY LINES; 
A Chef's Dream Withers

BYLINE:  By MAREK FUCHS 

 BODY:
RICHARD DiGIACOMO, a chef, has a phone that won't stop ringing. Sometimes it's Con Edison demanding money; other times it's just a wrong number. "If all the rings were reservations," Mr. DiGiacomo said, "I'd be a millionaire." 
 Mr. DiGiacomo owns his own restaurant, a dream to which he's devoted his life. A former liquor salesman, he took a job as a waiter because this particular restaurant let waiters cook meals at the tables. He saved enough money to send himself to the Culinary Institute of America. Then he worked in other people's kitchens as everything from sous-chef to banquet cook, but there was always his dream. 
 So he patched together $70,000 in financing from friends, family and personal savings. To economize, the 37-year-old even moved back in with his mother, which "isn't great for the dating life," he said. The money allowed Mr. DiGiacomo to take over the lease of a restaurant in Harrison and all its equipment, right down to the spatulas. He was left with $25,000 in working capital, thinking he'd never have to touch it.
He renamed the restaurant Bistro Two Three Five (it's at 235 Harrison Avenue) and threw the doors open. Those first two nights, the restaurant teemed with friends and family. Crowds equaled bliss, because Mr. DiGiacomo was wagering not only all his money, but also his sense of self.
That's why he was tense on night three, when the crowd was light. And had a knot in his stomach by the third week. Then there was the problem with the liquor license. The previous owners had lost theirs, and Mr. DiGiacomo was surprised at what a "foot-dragging process" it was to get a new one.
Though he couldn't sell wine, he didn't want to disappoint people, so he gave it away. "But some people took advantage," Mr. DiGiacomo said. "They'd drink the equivalent of two bottles."
Mr. DiGiacomo's real problem, however, was his lack of business experience. "Not being a good businessman, you just write checks," he said. "There's the insurance bill, the this bill, the that bill." After two months, he went to the bank to get money to pay the dishwasher and saw that he had only $200 left. 
"I thought we were finished," he said. His credit cards, though, kept him going.
"I used to have A credit," he said, "and now it's a Z." In front of customers though, he always had to be cheery: "They can't know I might be on my last leg," he said. 
The food Mr. DiGiacomo offers is good and the portions generous, but with funds so limited, time wasn't a friend and advertising was out of the question. He resorted to a series of promotions, none of which proved a magic bean. Mr. DiGiacomo teamed up with a local liquor store to offer a wine tasting and four-course meal for $35, "but if I made more than 50 cents a person, I'd be surprised." Jazz night drew people, but not enough to pay the musicians. He had successful private parties, but didn't feel right booking too far in advance, not knowing what the future held. 
It is this sort of inherent decency, coupled with a slightly befuddled quality, that seems to make Mr. DiGiacomo a magnet for mothering. A customer brought flower pots to decorate the entry and though they promptly blew down the street, she was not discouraged. When Mr. DiGiacomo wrote up a Valentine's Day menu called "The Main Event," she told him that bachelors should never be allowed to write Valentine's Day promotions and rewrote it herself as the "Aphrodisiac Dinner," with appetizers like "Love and Envy Salad" and an entree called "Fulfillment Filet Mignon." 
An investor even offered to wait tables and, thankfully, Mr. DiGiacomo gets some leeway on the rent because "my landlord and landlady like the food here," he said. In addition to sinking more money into the restaurant, his mother comes in to set flowers on the tables, and takes home the napkins and hand towels to wash and fold. 
Recently, two years after opening, Bistro Two Three Five was full a few times, but the next night just four people would show. Friends know how badly Mr. DiGiacomo feels and offer to meet him for a beer, but he doesn't go.
"I hate to admit why," he said, "but it's a combination of no money and being depressed." At this point, his biggest fantasy is simply "breathing room." He has reluctantly started to read the Help Wanted ads.
But for today, at least, that long-held dream to own a restaurant is one Mr. DiGiacomo is living, as best he can.

GRAPHIC: Drawing (Nancy Doniger) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: RESTAURANTS (92%); ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGES (89%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (73%); CULINARY SCHOOLS (73%); LIQUOR LAWS & LICENSING (71%); WORKING CAPITAL (69%) RESTAURANTS 

COMPANY: CONSOLIDATED EDISON INC (58%)

ORGANIZATION: BISTRO TWO THREE FIVE (HARRISON, NY, RESTAURANT) 

TICKER: ED (NYSE) (58%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS221210 NATURAL GAS DISTRIBUTION (58%); NAICS221122 ELECTRIC POWER DISTRIBUTION (58%); SIC4924 NATURAL GAS DISTRIBUTION (58%); SIC4911 ELECTRIC SERVICES (58%)

PERSON: DIGIACOMO, RICHARD; FUCHS, MAREK 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%) HARRISON (NY)

LOAD-DATE: March 11, 2001 



262 of 868 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 11, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 11; Column 2; Real Estate Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 2674 words

HEADLINE: COMMERCIAL PROPERTY; 
To Boutique Hoteliers, Small Is Beautiful

BYLINE:  By JOHN HOLUSHA 

 BODY:
 A VISITOR to New York with literary affinities might find congenial surroundings at the Library Hotel at the corner of 41st Street and Madison Avenue. Drawing its theme from the New York Public Library's main branch, a block away, the entire 60-room hotel is organized with the Dewey Decimal System as its inspiration. 
 Each floor in the hotel is dedicated to one of the major categories of the Dewey system, including technology, religion and history, and the designation of each floor is projected onto the wall facing the elevators. Every room on a floor is labeled with a subcategory, like Slavic languages or Native American religions. The rooms are even numbered according to the system, with a bit of literary license taken, with Slavic languages in 400.001 and Native American religions in 1200.005.
And, yes, there are books on the chosen subject in each room. 
While library science may not be to every traveler's taste, the hotel is an indication of the lengths to which owners are willing to go to distinguish their properties from others in a crowded market. The Library is one of a wave of so-called boutique hotels that have emerged in Manhattan in recent years, with more on the way..
About half a dozen boutique hotels have opened over the last year or so, adding about 1,000 rooms to Manhattan's base of about 70,000 rooms. Among the nonboutique hotels that have opened in the same period are the Embassy Suites in Battery Park City, the Sofitel on West 44th Street and the Hilton Times Square. 
Projects already under way are expected to add another 1,800 rooms this year.
These new rooms are coming to market at a time that the seemingly relentless upward surge in occupancy rates seems to have come to a halt and the rate of increase in nightly room rates has been slowing. 
According to figures compiled by PricewaterhouseCoopers, the accounting and consulting firm, the occupancy rate in January was 3.3 percentage points below a year earlier and February was down 4.9 percentage points. The average room rate was up just 0.7 percent in February over the same month a year ago, after growing 6.9 percent in the fourth quarter of last year, to an average of $259.39 a night.
Boutique hotels are different from the large hotel companies with well known brands like Marriott and Holiday Inn, which offer standard rooms and services and have a national reservation system to direct travelers from city to city.
The boutiques are largely owned by individuals or groups of investors and operate independently, relying on their style and level of service to attract visitors grown tired of standardized hotels. They tend to be more expensive, as well, with a small room with a double bed at the Library renting for $295 a night and a larger room with a queen-sized bed costing $325 a night.
These rates are before combined city and state taxes that amount to 13.25 percent plus a surcharge of $2 a night, according to the Hotel Association of New York City.
Although both the big companies and the boutique operators rent rooms by the night, they are not really in the same business, said John A. Fox, a senior vice president of PKF Consulting, a company that specializes in hotels.
"I define a boutique hotel as one with less than 200 rooms with a high degree of design and a high degree of service," he said. "They are intended for more sophisticated travelers who are more willing to take a chance with their travel experience."
COMPANIES like the ones that operate Hilton or Holiday Inn hotels built their reputation on the basis that the rooms and services would be almost the same, no matter where a property was located, much like fast food franchises, Mr. Fox said. But he said, many affluent travelers are looking for alternatives to chains and seeking out independent hotels for the same reason they try to find little-known ethnic restaurants: something new and different.
"A boutique hotel is like a small restaurant where the maitre d' recognizes you," said Henry Kallan, owner of the Library and operator of three other boutique hotels in Manhattan: Elysee, at 60 East 54th Street; Casablanca, at 147 West 43rd Street; and Giraffe, at 365 Park Avenue South. "If you stay at a place like that three or four times, the staff gets to know who you are, and they don't need a computer to do it."
Computers, of course, are a key to the ability of high-end hotel chains to keep track of customers' individual preferences, like a certain newspaper or type of breakfast, so that they can be provided when a customer checks in, even if it is for the first time at a specific location.
"When people come to New York, they have a desire for design; they want something different," said Lawrence Pomeranc, whose Pomeranc Group recently opened 60 Thompson, a 100-room hotel at that address on Thompson Street between Spring and Broome Streets in SoHo. "People want something more than standard, even if it is a high standard."
The development of boutique hotels -- the name irritates many hotel operators, but it has stuck -- is credited to Ian Schrager at properties like the Morgans and Royalton hotels in the 1990's. These properties combined compact, highly styled guest rooms with public spaces and restaurants that attracted people from some of the city's more fashion-conscious industries, like publishing.
Mr. Schrager has since extended the boutique concept to other cities in America and Europe and has also developed properties like the Hudson on the West Side of Manhattan as a lower-cost alternative to Midtown hotels. 
The 60 Thompson is in a part of the city that was not considered a prime market for hotels until Hartz Mountain Industries successfully opened the SoHo Grand Hotel four years ago at 310 West Broadway and followed it with the TriBeCa Grand at 2 Avenue of the Americas early last year.
Emanuel Stern, the president of Hartz Mountain, said the hotel market had softened in terms of its occupancy rate since the beginning of the year in Manhattan. "The SoHo Grand is off 6, 7, 8 points compared to last year," he said, adding that the TriBeCa Grand had not been open long enough to make year-to-year comparisons.
He said that the Manhattan hotels had been budgeted for an increase in room rates this year, but that it might not be possible in the current atmosphere. "I will be satisfied if I can hold the rate this year," he said.
Unlike many other boutique hotel developers who have had to adapt existing office buildings to hotel use, the Pomeranc Group was able to put up a new building at 60 Thompson Street, on what had been the site of an ornamental metal shop. "We bought the site, got some air rights and designed the building," Mr. Pomeranc said.
As a result, the 100 guest rooms at 60 Thompson are larger than some in buildings on more constricted sites. The operators are trying to make that a marketing advantage, by including a couch in each room, in addition to the bed and chair. "It used to drive me crazy when I had to lie on the bed to watch television," Mr. Pomeranc said. "Now I can sit on the couch."
Mr. Pomeranc and his brother Jason, the designated hotelier for the Thompson property, said they tried to make the design distinctive, but understated. Three different colors of marble were used for the bathrooms, which Jason Pomeranc said are one of the signatures of the property. Wood was used on the floor of the lobby, which because of zoning rules is on the second floor of the building.
"It gives a warm feeling, but it is not very practical," Jason Pomeranc said.
Morris Moinian, the developer of the Dylan hotel at 52 East 41st Street, between Madison and Park Avenues, had to work with an existing building, but said the property's history made it easily adaptable to a 108-room boutique operation. The building was erected about 100 years ago to house the Chemists Club, and many of the turn-of-the-last-century touches have been preserved.
"This was a glamorous private club, so we have hand carved plaster, stained glass windows, a grand staircase and a ballroom," he said. Mr. Moinian said he added four stories to the original 10 in the Beaux-Arts building as part of the renovation.
Because of its origins as a private club, Mr. Moinian said, Dylan's rooms are larger than those found in some boutiques. "Every room in the hotel has a foyer," he said. "There are so many hotels in New York where you open the door and it hits the bed. At Dylan there is a vestibule."
And the ballroom would be difficult to duplicate in a renovation of a more conventional building. "The ballroom has a 35-foot ceiling and a 6-foot fireplace," he said. "You just don't see that in an office conversion."
History of a different sort is being preserved at the Bryant Park Hotel, across 40th Street from the park, which is just to the west of the Public Library. The hotel is in the old American Radiator Building, a 26-story landmark whose facade of gold and black and black bricks fired in manganese had to be preserved.
The developer is Philip Pilevsky, an early financial backer of Mr. Schrager in the Morgans and Royalton projects. Now operating the Philips Hotel Group, Mr. Pilevsky said the Bryant Park Hotel would be marketed to "people who want the cutting edge of style and service." They are expected to pay about $500 a night.
The property is expected to attract people in the entertainment industry, for whom a 73-seat screening room was built in the subbasement by digging 45 feet into the bedrock under the building. Also below ground will be the Cellar Bar, one of three bars in the hotel.
The building has been converted to a 130-room hotel, including 20 suites and two penthouses. Making use of the building's location, 11 of the rooms have terraces overlooking Bryant Park. Some of the public spaces and a few guest rooms have already been opened; the hotel is expected to be completely in operation by the end of the month, Mr. Pilevsky said.
IN a particularly challenging conversion, Mr. Kallan had to shoehorn the Library into a vacant office building that is just 25 feet wide and 100 feet long. He said many hotel operators were reluctant to bid on such a structure, but said "finding a building in the right location in Manhattan is not easy to do." 
"You have to have a vision and an understanding of what can be done in limited space," he said.
Space limitation notwithstanding, he said every bathroom in the hotel includes a bathtub in addition to a shower. "Some boutique designers think Americans are so busy they only take showers," the Czech-born Mr. Kallan said. "As far as I'm concerned, if the bathrooms only have showers, it is not a full service hotel."
The location near the Public and Pierpont Morgan libraries suggested the name of the hotel and Mr. Kallan credits Jordan Jacobs, the son of the architect Stephen B. Jacobs, with developing the Dewey Decimal theme."We ended up spending $85,000 on books, which is a little crazy, not to mention all the labor involved," Mr. Kallan said.
Operators of boutique hotels say service is as important as style in persuading travelers to pass up even luxury chain hotels for their operations. "We tried to fix all the things that bothered us when we traveled," Lawrence Pomeranc said. "When someone calls the hotel, they should not have to wait through 20 rings on the phone -- it should be answered by the second ring," he said. "Nobody wants to wait 40 minutes for room service; 20 minutes should be the maximum."
Long lines to check in and out of convention hotels are irritating to many travelers, boutique hotel operators say, as are voice mail systems that require callers to push button after button to reach the right department. "In our hotels, check-in takes two minutes, so no one has to stand in a line cordoned off by a rope waiting to check in," Mr. Kallan said. "And they speak to people, not voice mail."
The appeal of boutique hotels has grown to the point that some giants of the hotel industry are trying to grab a share of the market. In the last two years Starwood Realty Trust, the owner of the Sheraton and Westin brands, has established a line of W hotels in existing, converted and new properties.
The W hotels are not necessarily boutiques, said Guy Hensley, Starwood's senior vice president for W hotels, but they are more highly styled than some other properties. "They are for customers who are more discerning about style," he said. "These are the people who shop at Pottery Barn and Restoration Hardware, and they don't want to stay in a hotel so standardized they don't know what city they are in."
There are 13 W hotels nationally. In New York, two former Doral hotels on Lexington Avenue near 39th Street have been converted to the W Court and W Tuscany, and the W New York is at Lexington and 49th Street. The former Guardian Life Building on Park Avenue South at 17th Street has been converted to the W Union Square. And the new building at 47th Street and Broadway that was originally planned as a Planet Hollywood hotel will open as the W Times Square later this year.
Mr. Hensley said that because the W hotels are part of Starwood, with its national reservations system and frequent traveler incentive programs, they have a better chance of economic success than stand-alone operations. "It's tough to make money with a 100-room independent hotel," he said.
Most boutique hotels include a restaurant, which usually provides room service for the guest rooms as well. The restaurant space and attendant services are usually leased to a restaurant operating company or a noted chef and, in keeping with boutique style, a simple steakhouse will not do.
"Restaurants in flag properties are all the same," said Lawrence Pomeranc, referring to chain hotels, whose brand names are referred to as flags by those in the business. "Regardless of which one it is, you get basically the same experience."
Boutique hotels, he said, "incorporate a restaurant that is more quality oriented and with an ethnic spin." The spin at Thom, the restaurant at 60 Thompson will be Vietnamese-American, developed by Jean-Marc Houmard and Michael Callahan, who were previously responsible for the restaurants Indochine, Republic and Bond Street.
At Dylan, the restaurant is named Virot after its chef and owner, Didier Virot, who was formerly associated with Jean Georges. The Library will have an Italian theme at its first-floor restaurant, Bottega di Vino, which will feature an extensive wine cellar and hundreds of books about wine.
HOTEL operators and analysts are divided about the outlook for the boutique hotels entering the market in recent months. Although bookings have softened since the end of last year, they are coming off record highs and remain strong historically.
Bernard Goldberg, whose Gotham Hospitality Group developed five boutique hotels before selling them in 1998, said some owners are trying to lock in their gains by selling hotels. "There is a lot of product on the market now that was not available before," he said. "It looks like some people are trying to cash in."
He said one attraction of the hotel business is that in good times it is the best use of real estate in terms of income per square foot. But, someone else noted, in the hotel business, you have to re-lease your space every night.
Independent boutique hotels may lack a national reservations system, but they have a fatter profit margin than some chain operations, noted Sean Hennessey, director of the New York hotel practice for PricewaterhouseCoopers.
He said that the city average of revenue per available hotel room, a standard measure of income, was $186 last year. But for boutique hotels the figure was $216, perhaps as a result of higher room rates and lower corporate overhead.
Boutique hotels opening now "will face more challenges than when the W hotels opened into a strong market last year," Mr. Hennessey said. Over all, he said, the boutiques opening now "will not be dramatically worse off" than those that opened earlier, but he said he expected some of the independents "to convert to a national flag over the next year."

GRAPHIC: Photos: At the Library Hotel at Madison Avenue and 41st Street, floors, room numbers and bedside reading are inspired by the Dewey Decimal System.; The Bryant Park Hotel on 40th Street is in the old American Radiator Building.; The lobby of 60 Thompson, a 100-room hotel in SoHo, is actually on the second floor. (Photographs by Philip Greenberg for The New York Times)(pg. 1); The Library was created in a vacant office building at Madison Avenue and 41st Street that is just 25 feet wide and 100 feet long. Despite the limited space, designers gave every guest bathroom a bathtub in addition to a shower. (Philip Greenberg for The New York Times)(pg. 8) Chart: "Lodging for the Night: More Choices"New hotels in Manhattan Opened Within the Last YearHudson HotelLOCATION: 356 West 58th StreetROOMS: 960 Embassy SuitesLOCATION: 102 North End AvenueROOMS: 463 Hilton Times SquareLOCATION: 234 West 42nd StreetROOMS: 444 Thirty ThirtyLOCATION: 30 East 30th StreetROOMS: 400 Hotel SofitelLOCATION: 45 West 44th StreetROOMS: 388 W Union SquareLOCATION: 17th Street and Park Avenue SouthROOMS: 270 TriBeCa Grand HotelLOCATION: 2 Avenue of the AmericasROOMS: 210 Red Roof InnLOCATION: 6 West 32nd StreetROOMS: 171 The MuseLOCATION: 130 West 46th StreetROOMS: 170 Bryant Park HotelLOCATION: 40 West 40th StreetROOMS: 129 The DylanLOCATION: 52 East 41st StreetROOMS: 108 60 ThompsonLOCATION: 60 Thompson StreetROOMS: 100 Chambers HotelLOCATION: 15 West 56th StreetROOMS: 78 The LibraryLOCATION: 299 Madison AvenueROOMS: 60Under ConstructionWestin New York @ Times SquareLOCATION: SE Cor. 43rd Street & 8th AvenuePLANNED OPENING: Jan. '03 W Times SquareLOCATION: Broadway & 47th StreetPLANNED OPENING: Sept. '01 Ritz-Carlton Battery Park CityLOCATION: 17 North Battery PlacePLANNED OPENING: Oct. '01 Ritz-Carlton Central Park SouthLOCATION: 50 Central Park SouthPLANNED OPENING: Jan. '02 The Park South HotelLOCATION: 122 East 28th StreetPLANNED OPENING: Spring '01 Best WesternLOCATION: 522-24 West 38th StreetPLANNED OPENING: 2002 Comfort InnLOCATION: West 36th Street between 8th & 9th Aves.PLANNED OPENING: 2002(Sources: PricewaterhouseCoopers; Lodging Econometrics)(pg. 8)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: HOTELS & MOTELS (91%); LITERATURE (90%); LIBRARIES (90%); REAL ESTATE (90%); PUBLIC LIBRARIES (90%); HOTEL OCCUPANCY (89%); LODGING INDUSTRY SECTOR PERFORMANCE (89%); RENTAL PROPERTY (87%); COMMERCIAL RENTAL PROPERTY (87%); COMPUTERIZED RESERVATION SYSTEMS (78%); DESTINATIONS & ATTRACTIONS (78%); RELIGION (76%); NATIVE AMERICANS (74%); LIBRARY SCIENCE (73%); COMMERCIAL PROPERTY (72%); CONSULTING SERVICES (69%); ACCOUNTING & AUDITING FIRMS (66%) HOTELS AND MOTELS; PRICES (FARES, FEES AND RATES) 

COMPANY: PRICEWATERHOUSECOOPERS (56%); BOUTIQUE HOTELS (51%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS541211 OFFICES OF CERTIFIED PUBLIC ACCOUNTANTS (56%); SIC8721 ACCOUNTING, AUDITING, & BOOKKEEPING SERVICES (56%)

PERSON: HOLUSHA, JOHN 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (95%) NEW YORK, USA (95%) UNITED STATES (95%) MANHATTAN (NYC); NEW YORK CITY

LOAD-DATE: March 11, 2001 



263 of 868 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 11, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 9; Column 2; Society Desk; Pg. 10

LENGTH: 239 words

HEADLINE: WEDDINGS; 
Debbie Genn, Jonathan Rulnick

 BODY:
Debbie Shulamit Genn and Jonathan Amichai Lev Rulnick are to be married today in Woodbury, N.Y., by the bridegroom's father, Rabbi Arthur D. Rulnick, at the Woodbury Jewish Center, where he is the spiritual leader. The bride's uncle, Rabbi Daniel Epstein, is also to take part in the ceremony. 
 Mrs. Rulnick, 28, works in New York for United Jewish Communities, an organization formed through the merger of the United Jewish Appeal, the Council of Jewish Federations and the United Israel Appeal. She is the assistant to the director of Partnership 2000, an economic, educational and social development program in Israel. She graduated from Hebrew University in Jerusalem. 
 Her mother, Rena Genn of Karkur, Israel, is an educational administrator at Pardess Hanna Agricultural High School in Pardess Hanna, Israel. The bride's adoptive father, Reuven Genn, teaches Jewish history there. He is also an information analyst at Comverse, a telecommunications company in Tel Aviv. The bride's father, Eli Michael Solomon, was killed while serving in the Israeli Army during the Arab-Israeli war of 1973. 
Mr. Rulnick, 25, is the director of student affairs at the Israeli Consulate in New York and a candidate for a master's degree in Near Eastern studies at New York University. He graduated from Emory. His mother, Dr. Adrienne Rulnick, and father live in Syosset, N.Y. Dr. Rulnick is the director of university alumni relations at N.Y.U. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: WEDDINGS & ENGAGEMENTS (92%); CLERGY & RELIGIOUS (90%); JEWS & JUDAISM (90%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (75%); HIGH SCHOOLS (75%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS (71%); ISRAELI-PALESTINIAN CONFLICTS (70%); ALUMNI (69%); ARMIES (67%); INTERNATIONAL ASSISTANCE (55%) WEDDINGS AND ENGAGEMENTS 

ORGANIZATION: COUNCIL OF JEWISH FEDERATIONS (57%); UNITED ISRAEL APPEAL (57%); UNITED JEWISH APPEAL (57%)

PERSON: GENN, DEBBIE SHULAMIT (DEBBIE SHULAMIT RULNICK); RULNICK, JONATHAN AMICHAI LEV 

GEOGRAPHIC: JERUSALEM, ISRAEL (79%); TEL AVIV, ISRAEL (79%) NEW YORK, USA (94%) ISRAEL (97%); UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: March 11, 2001 



264 of 868 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 11, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 14; Column 1; The City Weekly Desk; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 1347 words

HEADLINE: CITY LORE; 
The Kingdom of the Map

BYLINE:  By ANDREW FRIEDMAN 

 BODY:
YOU would think that Alice Hudson, chief of the map division at the New York Public Library, would have an inflexible view of New York City geography. Maps are color-coded rulebooks, after all. Monitoring them must be like being on solitary border patrol.
 With a single map, that may be true. But when one is charged with looking after more than 400,000 maps, they mock the need for order. History in Ms. Hudson's incredible map room becomes layered, shifting. 
 Sitting in her office in the back of Room 117, a modest wood place with stone ornament and a view of bustling Fifth Avenue, Ms. Hudson may at any time say something like: "This is the old reservoir. We're sitting inside the old reservoir." 
What she means is that, according to her maps, the 42nd Street library was built in 1911 on the site of the old city reservoir. One starts to have a kind of vertigo then, realizing that Canal Street used to be a real canal, that part of Central Park supplanted an established black and Irish community, and that scores of other sites had pasts far different from their presents.
"I can remember driving in Westchester once and saying, 'All of Manhattan used to be like this,' " Ms. Hudson said. "Rooks and rills and brooks and dirt roads and gardens and farms. On the old maps you can see, the city is just a pink triangle. The Bowery was lined with old, beautiful farms."
Ms. Hudson keeps some of her maps in rows of gray cabinets with thin flat shelves, each with its own two silver handles. Other cases are military green and locked. She calls them recycled World War II tanks. They protect rarities like the vellum-bound Dutch maps of the world from the 1660's. There are also maps made of sticks and shells, maps on cloth and maps on silk scarves given to soldiers in the field. There are maps of airports and sewers, of firehouses and bulkheads. Some of the maps are beautiful, some ugly. 
For Ms. Hudson, who has become a poet of place, the history of all these maps is the history of New York.
"Sometimes it's the sameness of the city that strikes me," she said. "There were ethnic neighborhoods early on clustered together in the same places they are now."
Ms. Hudson, who supervises a staff of eight, has lively eyes, an irreverent wit, blond hair and two perfect shocks of gray at her temples. She talks of maps with great gusto. She has a bumper sticker that says, "Without geography, you're nowhere."
Since taking over as chief of the division in 1981, she has worked tirelessly to promote the collection, which was founded in 1898 but only became its own library division during World War II, when it played a significant military role. 
Now, 7,000 people use the room each year. The collection, the largest in any public library in the country with the exception of the Library of Congress, has doubled during her tenure. It now includes 24,000 atlases and books, with maps from across the world, although the focus is strongly New York City.
In recognition of her accomplishments, the Fund for the City of New York will present Ms. Hudson with its annual Sloan Public Service award this week. Seven other city workers will also receive the honor.
Raised in Oak Ridge, Tenn., Ms. Hudson, 53, visited New York the same summer, 1964, the Beatles stormed into the city. A teenager, she worked as a page during that time in the bowels of the Donnell Library Center, on 53rd Street.
Her love of maps started during her school years. She loved them not only for their information but also for their beauty. "They're so visual," she said. "I'm a television baby."
She leans down and slides open a drawer. "This is a rule," she said, balancing big, weather-beaten sheets in one hand as she digs carefully in the drawer with the other. "Whatever you want is always in the bottom folder."
Finally she finds it, Egbert Viele's water map from 1874, one of her most popular. "People from construction sites will come in and wonder why they're standing in a lake," she said, spreading the map on a wide reading table. The answer is that Manhattan has lots of landfill.
"As of 1874 a huge piece of landfill was already there," she said, tracing a sizable area on the map marked "made land" with her finger. "It started with the Dutch. They brought their experience from Holland."
In 1970, at 23, Ms. Hudson started to work for the map division, a place where curiosity can sweep one away. She is not immune. A recent project is to compile maps of the shoreline. "So much of our experience of the harbor in New York is negative, going through it, over it, going somewhere else," she said. "I started thinking about carefully pursuing a map of the shoreline of all the boroughs." Similarly, she says, "There are a lot of underground waterways in Manhattan and no one knows they're there."
Ms. Hudson has also started a list of prominent African-American historical sites, as revealed by early city maps. There is Weeksville, for instance, a vibrant 19th-century community of freed slaves in Bedford-Stuyvesant, as well as a thriving black area on West 99th Street in Manhattan that disappeared when a two-block stretch of West 99th was swept away in the 1950's to build Park West Village. 
Maps of the American West are another enthusiasm. Ms. Hudson's division will display some of these maps in an exhibition called "Heading West: Mapping the Territory," that is to run through May 19 at the 42nd Street library.
Ms. Hudson's maps help unlock the mysteries of the city. An obscure parallelogram created by Christopher, Bank, Greene and Hudson Streets in the West Village turns out to follow the lines of Madame Warren's farm, as outlined on an 1874 map. Oddly shaped buildings near Columbia University and in Lower Manhattan are products of property lines of old farms drawn to give access to roads to Boston and the Hudson River. 
Old place names also float back to the surface on these maps -- Great Barn Island for Wards Island, Brookland for Brooklyn and Montgomerie's Ward, which cut across Lower Manhattan in 1730.
 SOME sloping streets used to be gentle hills that had their own windmills. An 1811 map shows a never-built military parade ground and arsenal that was to have occupied the swath from 23rd to 34th Streets, between Third and Seventh Avenues. The Harlem Marsh ran along 106th Street from Fifth Avenue to the East River.
Ms. Hudson's maps can even revive questions of historic justice: an 1856 map shows the homes, roads, churches and gardens of Seneca Village, a black and Irish working-class community between 81st and 86th Streets that was destroyed to build Central Park.
Ms. Hudson's visitors include novelists, television people, urban archaeologists, conspiracy theorists decoding the World Trade Center bombing, amateur detectives searching for buried tunnels, construction men, railroad enthusiasts looking for old lines, earthquake hobbyists looking for fault lines and families hunting for the name of the church their grandparents attended.
Builders, architects and developers are among the regulars. In fact, Ms. Hudson said, she and her staff have a front-row seat to most development battles in the city, from the West Side Highway to waste-transfer stations. Often both sides use the same maps to reach drastically different conclusions. She must remain neutral. 
"That's New York," Ms. Hudson said. "It wants to be new. We just give them the maps and they have to fight it out."
As she walks around the room, Ms. Hudson likes to run her fingertips fondly over old fabric maps. "It's like these maps are alive," she said. "Modern maps are not the same." She stops at a cloth one. "This will be in better condition than we are in 200 years," she said.
By the time one leaves the map room, it is clear that, bewildering as it seems at first, all these maps do faithfully represent New York. After all, this is a city that shifts for a living. In the end, that is what the vertigo is, knowing that all those cities are still out there, piled on top of one another.
"You could write a novel with these maps, short stories," Ms. Hudson said. "They tell me wonderful stories."

GRAPHIC: Photos: Alice Hudson has been chief ofthe map division at the New York Public Library since 1981. The collection includes 24,000 atlases and books, containing maps from across the world. (Photographs by Ruby Washington/The New York Times) Chart: "Honor Roll: Local Heros"The Fund for the City of New York will present Sloan Public Service awards to seven other city workers besides Alice Hudson this week. H. Hardy AdaskoA city planner with the Economic Development Corporation, he takes on about 15 new projects a year. One of his achievements is the redevelopment of downtown Brooklyn. Esther CoupetShe navigates a group of agencies on deadline to ensure quality home care for 1,500 Bellevue patients a year. Michael GreenmanA geological whiz with the Department of Design and Constuction, he keeps buildings on their feet and stores soil and rock data for 70,000 spots in the city. Parnel LegrosA former Olympian, he is a guilding light at Gateway I.S. 364 in Starrett City, Brooklyn, where he teaches physical education and runs a popular after-school judo club. Alan Leidner, Wendy Dorf and Richard SteinbergThese three workers, respectively from the Departments of Information Technology and Telecommunications, Environmental Protection and City Planning, were the primary architects of NYCMap, a vast, minutely detailed map of the city.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PUBLIC LIBRARIES (90%); LIBRARIES (89%); LIBRARIANS (78%); WRITERS (73%); BORDER CONTROL (72%); PARKS & PLAYGROUNDS (72%); TERRITORIAL & NATIONAL BORDERS (72%); WORLD WAR II (68%); ARMED FORCES (63%) LIBRARIES AND LIBRARIANS; GOVERNMENT EMPLOYEES; AWARDS, DECORATIONS AND HONORS; MAPS 

ORGANIZATION: FUND FOR THE CITY OF NEW YORK 

PERSON: HUDSON, ALICE 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (97%) NEW YORK, USA (97%) UNITED STATES (97%) NEW YORK CITY

LOAD-DATE: March 11, 2001 



265 of 868 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 11, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 14; Column 1; The City Weekly Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 798 words

HEADLINE: COPING; 
Cry From the Past As Times Get Harder

BYLINE:  By WILLIAM McDONALD 

 BODY:
PLEASE help me I'm hungry. Please help me I'm hungry. Please help me I'm hungry."
 The little old woman went on like that, over and over, to anyone and everyone marching by in the long, cheerless walkway between the shuttle platforms and the East Side subway lines at Grand Central. But no one stopped. No one gave her anything, not so far as I could see. 
 This was a tough crowd. Almost everyone wore the stone face common to the subway: a neutralizing mixture of resignation and anticipation, of self-absorption and auto-pilot alertness. In the subway you want to be aware of your surroundings only as much as you need to be to get to the surface as quickly as possible. Thus it was this evening rush hour. People wanted to go home, to dinner, maybe to a restaurant. It had been a long day. Please. We were, it's fair to say, famished.
"Please help me I'm hungry."
The woman had a preturnaturally high-pitched voice, almost childlike. She stood no taller than five feet and looked almost stout -- amply fed, one might think -- bundled up in her long, woolen gray coat buttoned to the neck. She wore a kerchief about her head, tight as a tourniquet, reminding me of the grim photographs of the Bosnian refugees, the ones of women with devastation in their eyes. All she said was, "Please help me I'm hungry," mechanically, making almost no eye contact with anyone. I'm sure I wasn't the only one who thought she might be a little touched in the head, possibly not even hungry.
But haven't we been here before? Didn't we deal with "the plight of the homeless" in the 80's and early 90's, before the market boom?
Back then the homeless were everywhere. An army of the wretched camped in our midst in boxes. Good citizens were dismayed and disgusted. There were news articles about them, too, about their outrage, compassion, guilt, fear, anxiety, indifference.
We were told, as if we needed to be told, how people would choose to give or not give on the basis of an on-the-spot calculation, weighing sympathy against risk, inconvenience and the chance of being conned.
So, yes, we have been through this before. The news, if it even is news, is that none of it ended, not with a boom, not with a whimper. If you are hearing a whimper, it is coming from the 10,000 children who are still homeless in this city, sleeping in miserable shelters, eating poorly, missing school. Maybe it's a sign that the joy ride is gearing down when children who live out of a bag make the front page again, as they did in this paper recently, under the headline "Homeless Shelters in New York Fill to Highest Level Since 80's." Children are one of two groups with the biggest increases, the article said. The other is women.
"Please help me I'm hungry."
Maybe the old woman is someone's mother. Maybe she once had a young girl's sunny hopes and expectations, and look what awaited her. You wonder about these lost souls. Or sometimes you do. More often, probably, you walk on. You can't give to every panhandler. Besides, you've written checks to charities. And if you do drop some change into a cup, you don't have to pay the person much more mind. You've done your part, helped someone get through the night and, not incidentally, unburdened your conscience. Acting humanely has its satisfactions.
Yet this is yesterday's news, too. And because it is, that's telling. New Yorkers, except for the thoroughly insulated, have become so habituated to the rituals of reaching out to the homeless or steering clear of them that no one seems to talk about such things anymore. A kind of hopeless public acceptance has become as entrenched as the homeless themselves, as rote as the old woman's spiel. The subway car intrusions go on, illegal or not. The blanket-shrouded men still sleep on the grates. The gaunt, mangy fellow I pass almost every day is still cadging quarters down the street after, what is it now, a decade? And for all the times I've reached into my pocket, I still feel a small piece of myself dying when I shrug off an appeal for help, no matter how I rationalize.
"Please help me I'm hungry."
The old woman's plea stayed with me after I had hurried to make the uptown No. 6. I should have given her something, I thought, even allowing for the not-so-remote possibility that she was not as desperate as she seemed, that she had been mouthing a time-tested line guaranteed to extract pity and spare change.
So, gullible or not, I resolved to do right the next day. I even put some dollars in my coat pocket beforehand so that I wouldn't have to fumble with my wallet in plain view. Well, the next day came, the shuttle pulled in, the crowd spilled out and, as people funneled into the walkway, I began searching for the woman in the kerchief. She was not there, of course. And I have not seen her since.

GRAPHIC: Drawing (Mark Matcho) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CHILDREN (88%); URBAN RAIL SYSTEMS (72%); RESTAURANTS (68%); HOMELESSNESS (67%); TRENDS (66%); ECONOMIC NEWS (59%) HOMELESS PERSONS; ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS 

PERSON: MCDONALD, WILLIAM 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%) NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%) NEW YORK CITY

LOAD-DATE: March 11, 2001 



266 of 868 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 11, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 3; Column 1; Money and Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 2598 words

HEADLINE: Nafta's Powerful Little Secret; 
Obscure Tribunals Settle Disputes, but Go Too Far, Critics Say

BYLINE:  By ANTHONY DePALMA 

 BODY:
THEIR meetings are secret. Their members are generally unknown. The decisions they reach need not be fully disclosed. Yet the way a small group of international tribunals handles disputes between investors and foreign governments has led to national laws being revoked, justice systems questioned and environmental regulations challenged. And it is all in the name of protecting the rights of foreign investors under the North American Free Trade Agreement.
 The corporations -- American, Canadian and Mexican alike -- that directly invest in neighboring countries are thrilled that Nafta provides some protection. But foes of the trade pact say some of their worst fears about anonymous government have become reality. And as Western economies move toward more free trade and globalization, environmentalists, consumer groups and anti-trade organizations are increasingly worried about how the tribunals influence the enforcement of laws. The groups are gearing up for a fight at the Summit of the Americas next month in Quebec, where President Bush will be pushing a vast new Free Trade Area of the Americas, which would provide for similar tribunals. 
 Protesters will attack the sweeping powers and broad impact of the tribunals, along with their very nature -- ad hoc panels drawn from lists of academics and international lawyers almost unknown outside their highly specialized fields. 
"What we're talking about here is secret government," said Joan Claybrook, president of Public Citizen, a consumer watchdog group in Washington that has been critical of Nafta and other trade agreements. Ms. Claybrook said the 16 Nafta cases that have been filed so far in the United States, Canada and Mexico showed how corporations were using Nafta not to defend trade but to challenge the functioning of government. "This is not the way to do the public's business," she said.
The tribunals have been used in Nafta disputes for only a few years, but the complaints they have handled have already had many repercussions, including these:
* The Canadian government lifted restrictions on manufacturing an ethanol-based gasoline additive that it considered hazardous after an American manufacturer said that the ban hurt its business. 
* A tribunal ordered Mexico to pay an American company $16.7 million after finding that local environmental laws prohibiting a toxic-waste-processing plant that the company was building were tantamount to expropriation.
* A Canadian-based funeral company is asking the United States government for $725 million in compensation after a Mississippi jury found the company guilty in 1995 of trying to put a local funeral home out of business, and levied $500 million in damages. The company contends that the jury sought to punish it because it is foreign. If the tribunal awards compensation, critics say, all jury awards involving foreign investors may be challenged.
* United Parcel Service, the package-delivery company, has filed a complaint contending that the very existence of the publicly financed Canadian postal system represents unfair competition that conflicts with Canada's obligations under Nafta. Critics worry that if the tribunal upholds the U.P.S. claim, government participation in any service that competes with the private sector will be threatened.
IT is clear that investors have gained a shield far more powerful than almost anyone had imagined when Nafta was written in the early 1990's. "There is no doubt that these measures represent an expansion of the rights of private enterprises vis-a-vis government," said Prof. Andreas F. Lowenfeld, an international trade expert at the New York University School of Law. "The question is: Is that a good thing?"
The international tribunals are authorized under a Nafta clause called Chapter 11, dealing with investments. Investors who believe they have suffered a loss because of a breach in Nafta rules can bring a claim against the government of the country where they made their investment. They can have the complaint heard under one of two existing sets of rules -- one from the United Nations, the other from an independent office of the World Bank.
These off-the-shelf mechanisms adopted by Nafta have commonly been used to resolve private disputes between corporations, and are thus intended to provide a great degree of confidentiality. Both critics and proponents agree that the provisions run headlong into demands for openness and accountability when public issues are involved.
"The fact that the drafters of Nafta chose this secretive process to resolve these disputes is further evidence that they weren't foreseeing matters of broad social concern coming before these panels," said Martin Wagner, director of international programs for the Earthjustice Legal Defense Fund, an environmental group in San Francisco.
Critics say the corporate victories have spawned even bolder and broader challenges, each one further undermining public policy. In a recent case that critics consider one of the most worrisome, the Methanex Corporation of Vancouver, British Columbia, is challenging California's decision to phase out the use of a gasoline additive containing methanol, which Methanex makes. The state considers the additive, MTBE, which was originally intended to reduce air pollution from motor vehicle emissions, to be a health hazard when it enters the water supply. Santa Monica, Calif., with 93,000 residents, had to shut down most of its municipal wells when gasoline containing MTBE leached into the drinking water a few years ago.
METHANEX contends that MTBE poses absolutely no health hazard and that the state's action would effectively destroy its market. "The work that was done to make the decision to move forward with the ban wasn't extensive enough to draw the conclusion that MTBE is hazardous," said Bradley W. Boyd, director of investor relations at Methanex.
The company recently amended the claim to include accusations that a decision by Gov. Gray Davis of California to ban the additive might have been politically motivated and linked to more than $200,000 in campaign contributions by the Archer Daniels Midland Company, which makes a competing product. A spokesman for the governor, Gabriel Sanchez, called the accusations "ludicrous."
Mr. Boyd said Methanex was not asking for the ban to be lifted, but rather for Methanex to be compensated if it was prevented from doing business in California because of the ban. The company wants $970 million in compensation, which rankles many Californians.
"It's the height of corporate moxie," said Michael Feinstein, an environmental activist who is the mayor of Santa Monica. He said he was worried that a precedent would be set if the MTBE phase-out was undermined. Even if the tribunals have no power to overturn laws, he said, a decision in Methanex's favor "would have a devastatingly chilling effect on all such future laws and standards because of the belief that they would not stand up to challenge."
The United States government, named as a defendant in the Methanex complaint, is also concerned that the case stretches Nafta beyond recognition. In a statement to the tribunal, the government contends that "Methanex's claim does not remotely resemble the type of grievance for which the states parties to the Nafta created the investor-state dispute mechanism."
Mr. Wagner has asked the tribunal to consider breaking with tradition and accepting written statements from third-party groups like the Bluewater Network, a citizens' environmental organization. The three-person tribunal hearing the complaint is unusual in that its members include former Secretary of State Warren Christopher. The tribunal determined in January that it had the right to accept written arguments, and said it would decide later whether to do so in this case.
Mr. Wagner said he was able to keep abreast of the proceedings by filing periodic Freedom of Information requests that force the United States government, when named as a defendant, to release the documents. Other advocates who obtain the filings this way post some on a Web site -- www.naftaclaims.com. Canada also has a public access information law, but Mexico does not.
Officials who oversee the tribunals say that they understand concerns about the less-than-public aspects of the panels' work but that anything that opens the proceedings would undermine the promise of confidentiality that corporate investors consider essential. That, they say, would undermine the primary purpose of the arbitration mechanisms -- to help foster commercial development. 
"The whole thing here was to have a mechanism to give a base level of comfort to foreign investors," said Ko-Yung Tung, vice president and general consul of the World Bank and secretary general of its International Center for Settlement of Investment Disputes, which handles Nafta claims. He said that forcing more disclosure could drive corporations away from the established dispute-resolution process.
"If increased foreign investment is the prime goal in this, then making public these proceedings may be less important" than protecting investors, Mr. Tung said.
The center occupies a small suite of offices inside the World Bank's modern headquarters in Washington. With seven lawyers and four members of its support staff, it now oversees eight Nafta cases. There are also 29 other disputes on the center's docket that arise from some of the more than 1,400 bilateral treaties involving more than 130 nations that have signed an international convention to abide by the World Bank's investment rules.
For 20 years after the center was created in 1966, it established panels that heard on average no more than one case a year. Now, officials said, about one case is filed every month.
THE center's primary responsibility is to appoint the arbitrators to the panels, choosing from a list of internationally recognized experts who are paid $1,500 a day for their work. The center is bound by strict confidentiality rules, and only investors can say whether documents should be made public.
"It's unfair to call this a closed or secret process," said Antonio R. Parra, deputy secretary general of the International Center. "While it's clearly not on all fours with a court proceeding, I don't think it is something that is shrouded in secrecy."
Under the center's rules, proceedings can be made public if both the investor and the involved government agree. But the Nafta proceedings are never opened to the public, nor have third parties until now been allowed to submit briefs. Corporations want the proceedings to remain closed.
"The majority of claimants in these cases are not large multinational corporations but small- to medium-sized companies," said Clyde C. Pearce, a California lawyer who represented one such company, the Metalclad Corporation, in a complaint against Mexico over the construction of a toxic-waste-processing site. Mr. Pearce said the obligation of responding to briefs submitted by third parties could overwhelm corporate lawyers, who are already outmatched by the governments they are bringing the claims against.
"If others want to weigh in on these cases, they have access to their governments and should use that route to get their views across, not the tribunals," he said.
The other set of rules governing Nafta tribunals was devised by the United Nations Commission on International Trade Law, based in Vienna. "Arbitration is really private justice," said Jernej Sekolec, its secretary. Mr. Sekolec says the commission's rules for handling disputes are routinely written into commercial contracts between investors and, increasingly, agreements that let private investors bring complaints against a foreign government.
But he said the commission itself never became involved in a dispute in any way, not even to select the arbitrators. "Our overall mission is to streamline and facilitate negotiations and conclusions of contracts," he said. 
Typically, the parties in a dispute each name one tribunal member and agree jointly to a third. Each panel is unique, and critics say this lack of continuity makes it hard to establish clear legal precedent.
That is especially important because a tribunal decision technically cannot be appealed. It can be submitted to a local court for review, to ensure that there was no corruption or gross misinterpretation of the rules. Mexico has recently filed such a review in the case won by Metalclad. Another appeal was filed recently by the Canadian government in a case won by S. D. Myers Inc., an Ohio waste-disposal company that said it was hurt by a Canadian law banning the export of PCB's.
Barry Appleton, a Canadian trade lawyer involved in several claims before Nafta tribunals, said critics were so driven by their opposition to globalization that they were overstating the power of the tribunals, which he contends are nothing more than dispute-resolution panels with no power to overturn any laws. "What they're doing," he said of the critics, "is scaremongering."
Mr. Appleton said the arbitration panels were meant to provide a nonpolitical alternative to resolving disputes in court. But he said controversy had arisen because the drafters of Nafta appeared to assume that the investor-protection provisions would be used by Canadian and American investors to protect their investments in Mexico from outright expropriation.
"The Canadian and American governments thought this was not going to apply to them," Mr. Appleton said, "and now they're disappointed."
THE lack of a traditional appeal process, transparency and legally binding precedent, along with the wide scope of what can be challenged under the free-trade investment rules, have made many people wary in all three nations, including government officials. Pierre Pettigrew, Canada's minister of international trade, has written to his counterparts in the United States and Mexico to begin a process of what he calls "clarifying" the limits of Nafta's investment protections and perhaps amending the agreement before negotiations begin in earnest on the Free Trade Area of the Americas.
Activists planning to go to the Summit of the Americas in Quebec said they would protest the idea of adopting similar tribunals in a hemispheric free-trade pact. "This is an example of the excessive powers enjoyed by corporations under Nafta that should not be expanded," said the Alliance for Responsible Trade, in a critique of the United States position on the proposed trade pact.
Critics also object to President Bush's campaign to gain approval of a so-called "fast-track authority," which expired after Nafta was passed in 1993. Mr. Bush has said he needs it to present the hemispheric trade pact to Congress for a vote without possibility of amendment. The critics contend that the scope of Nafta's investment-protection chapter was not well understood because the fast-track process denied Congress the chance to evaluate the agreement thoroughly.
The clash between investor rights and public policy is expected to grow more intense, even within the agencies entrusted with keeping aspects of the cases secret.
"The demand for a more transparent process will cause tension with the more traditional concept of confidentiality -- it's inevitable," said Margrete L. Stevens, senior counsel of the International Center for Settlement of Investment Disputes. She said she believed that there was room to adjust, to open the process in keeping with such expectations throughout the world today -- but only, she said, if "the parties have come under pressure in their own countries to do this."

GRAPHIC: Photos: Allowing Nafta jurisdiction over a case affecting his city's water supply would set a bad precedent, asserts Mayor Michael Feinstein of Santa Monica, Calif. (Kim Kulish/Saba for The New York Times); At the International Center for Settlement of Investment Disputes, part of the World Bank in Washington, Nafta filings are stamped and filed. (Photographs by Paul Hosefros/The New York Times)(pg. 1); Antonio R. Parra, right, deputy secretary general of the International Center for Settlement of Investment Disputes, leads a discussion of a trade case under consideration.; Margrete L. Stevens, the International Center's senior counsel, says the dispute process could be more open. (Photographs by Paul Hosefros/The New York Times)(pg. 13) Chart: "Powers That Be"When the North American Free Trade Agreement was drafted in the early 1990's, it included three options -- one not yet of any use -- for resolving investment disputes: INTERNATIONAL CENTER FOR SETTLEMENT OF INVESTMENT DISPUTESStarted by the World Bank in 1966. A claim would be submitted to the center, which would establish a three-member tribunal from its standing list of 350 arbitrators. This option is not yet available, though, for Nafta disputes. That is because the United States has agreed to it, but Mexico and Canada have not and both sides in a dispute must do so. But it is important because it is the basis for the next option. I.C.S.I.D. ADDITIONAL FACILITYSimilar to the above but with one important difference. Only one participant in a dispute must have agreed to participate. Therefore any complaint involving the United States can be heard under these rules, but not a complaint involving both Canada and Mexico. UNITED NATIONS COMMISSION ON INTERNATIONAL TRADE LAWEstablished by the United Nations in 1966 to foster international investment. This is the only option available in all disputes, including those involving Canada and Mexico. There is no administrative oversight. Tribunals are selected by participants or by other arrangement.(pg. 13) Chart: "A Cross-Border Dispute, Step by Step"Metalclad, based in California, used an arbitration provision of Nafta to handle a dispute over an investment it made in a central Mexican state. 1991 -- Metalclad, an est-ablished American waste-handler, opens dozens of waste-manage-ment sites around Mexico. 1992 -- The company receives approval from the Mexican government to build a plant that can handle 360,000 tons of hazardous waste a year at an existing landfill it bought in San Luis Potosi, in central Mexico. Metalclad is told that it needs approval only from Mexico City, not local officials. 1995 -- After roughly $20 million is spent, the plant is complete. Local residents protest, and their governor blocks the opening, saying the project acks local approval. 1996 -- The company notifies Mexico that it will file a claim under a Nafta disputesettlement process. 1997 -- A threeperson tribunal is set up to hear the complaint. Mexico tries to keep some documents and details secret. 1998 -- Mexico and Metalclad ask the tribunal for additional time to prepare their cases. 1999 -- Official hearings are held in Washington. 2000 -- The tribunal orders the Mexican government to pay Metalclad $16.7 million, calling the denial "tantamount to expropriation." 2001 -- Mexico asks for the tribunal's ruling to be reviewed by a court in Canada, as a neutral third party. The outcome is uncertain.(pg. 13)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Chronology 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TRADE TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (92%); FREE TRADE TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (92%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (91%); FOREIGN INVESTMENT (90%); SETTLEMENT & COMPROMISE (90%); TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (90%); INTERNATIONAL LAW (90%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE LAW (90%); ENVIRONMENTAL LAW (89%); CONSUMER PROTECTION (89%); JURY TRIALS (89%); CONSUMER LAW (89%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (89%); VERDICTS (84%); DAMAGES (84%); GLOBALIZATION (78%); INTERNATIONAL COURTS & TRIBUNALS (78%); US ENVIRONMENTAL LAW (77%); RESTRAINT OF TRADE (77%); FUNERAL HOMES & SERVICES (77%); TRADE DEVELOPMENT (76%); LAWYERS (74%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (72%); US PRESIDENTS (72%); ENVIRONMENTALISM (72%); ENVIRONMENT & NATURAL RESOURCES (72%); POSTAL SERVICE (69%); ALCOHOLS (61%); FUEL ADDITIVES (61%); ETHANOL (61%); COURIERS & PACKAGE SERVICES (60%); PACKAGE SHIPPING (60%); TOXIC & HAZARDOUS SUBSTANCES (50%) INTERNATIONAL TRADE AND WORLD MARKET; NORTH AMERICAN FREE TRADE AGREEMENT; FOREIGN INVESTMENTS 

COMPANY: UNITED PARCEL SERVICE INC (50%)

ORGANIZATION: NORTH AMERICAN FREE TRADE AGREEMENT (94%); THE INTERNATIONAL CENTER (91%); UNITED NATIONS (84%); FREE TRADE AREA OF THE AMERICAS (55%); PUBLIC CITIZEN (54%)

TICKER: UPS (NYSE) (50%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS541614 PROCESS, PHYSICAL DISTRIBUTION & LOGISTICS CONSULTING SERVICES (50%); NAICS488510 FREIGHT TRANSPORTATION ARRANGEMENT (50%); NAICS484121 GENERAL FREIGHT TRUCKING, LONG-DISTANCE, TRUCKLOAD (50%)

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (54%) DEPALMA, ANTHONY 

GEOGRAPHIC: MEXICO CITY, MEXICO (79%) CALIFORNIA, USA (92%); QUEBEC, CANADA (57%) UNITED STATES (99%); MEXICO (99%); CANADA (96%); NORTH AMERICA (94%); LATIN AMERICA (79%); NORTH & SOUTH AMERICAS (71%) CANADA; MEXICO

LOAD-DATE: March 11, 2001 



267 of 868 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 11, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 3; Column 2; Money and Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 742 words

HEADLINE: FIVE QUESTIONS/for DAVID J. COCHRAN; 
Making Workplace Safety Good for Business

BYLINE:  By MARY WILLIAMS WALSH 

 BODY:
LAST week, the House and Senate voted to repeal new regulations meant to curb the injuries suffered by employees who perform repetitive physical tasks like carrying parcels or typing on keyboards. 
 Repetitive stress causes an estimated one million workplace injuries each year, at a cost to the economy of at least $50 billion. The Occupational Safety and Health Administration, which had issued the regulations, had hoped to reduce the yearly toll by about 460,000. 
 But business groups opposed the regulations, saying OSHA had seriously underestimated the cost of compliance and was imposing a one-size-fits-all solution to a multifaceted problem. The groups' victory on Capitol Hill has angered organized labor, which has pushed for ergonomics standards for more than a decade. 
Labor Secretary Elaine L. Chao issued a statement on Tuesday saying she hoped to heal the rift, finding a "comprehensive approach" to repetitive stress injuries. David J. Cochran, a University of Nebraska industrial engineer who helped OSHA draft the rejected regulations, discussed some possibilities. MARY WILLIAMS WALSH

Q. Given Congress's rejection of the regulations, and the business community's general opposition to a mandatory ergonomics standard, what other methods might the Labor Department use to guard against repetitive stress injuries?

A. OSHA can do some positive things without a standard. They can issue voluntary guidelines. They can work on developing different tools that employers can use to evaluate jobs. They can compile a database of the jobs where ergonomics have been addressed, and the solutions that have worked. They can work on specific guidelines for specific industries, like grocery warehouses. People working in those jobs pick up somewhere around 40,000 pounds a day.
I know that in the past, OSHA did something with one of the food industry trade associations, but that study was never published.

Q. OSHA did issue one voluntary ergonomics guideline already, for companies that process red meat. How effective has this been?

A. The meat-packing guidelines were put out in 1990. They do have some specifics in them for things like knife-sharpening, but the amazing thing is, now they're being used in every industry I have ever been in -- retail, automotive manufacturing, electronics manufacturing, and elsewhere. People in these other sectors have picked up the meat-packing guideline and said: "We can use this. This will help us develop our own ergonomics program." The guidelines give a kind of structure to ergonomics programs, generic examples of solutions.

Q. If OSHA does move forward with other voluntary guidelines, what will that do for the workers whose employers choose not to put them into effect?

A. The general duty clause of the OSHA Act says that every employer shall provide a hazard-free place of work. So, by law, every complaint to OSHA from somebody in the working world has to be investigated.
As a practical matter, though, OSHA doesn't have a lot of inspectors. They can't go into every workplace and they can't enforce everything that's out there. They have to select what to emphasize. And ergonomics issues are very, very labor intensive for OSHA. They have to document that there was a hazard present, that the employer should have known about it, and that there was something the employer should have done. 

Q. Some employers have set up ergonomics programs with little or no prodding from Washington. Is this practice likely to spread?

A. A lot of companies have looked at ergonomics and said, "This is good for our business." They know they'll get a better worker if there's less stress in the workplace. They save money on workers' compensation costs. And they almost invariably find that they get improvements in the quality of the products or services that they are delivering.

Q. If some businesses have found value in ergonomics, why was there such resistance to the regulations?

A. Most of the companies that are doing really good work on ergonomics sat on the sidelines during the recent debate, and some of them fought the standard tenaciously, which is kind of strange. If you're already in compliance, what's to fear? I think industry is going to fight any kind of new regulation.
Of course, I'm disappointed that this standard won't come in, but ergonomic problems aren't going to go away just because the government isn't going to address them. Industry is going to have to address them.

GRAPHIC: Photo: David J. Cochran 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Interview 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: WORKPLACE HEALTH & SAFETY (93%); REPETITIVE MOTION DISORDERS (93%); WOUNDS & INJURIES (92%); OCCUPATIONAL HEALTH & SAFETY AGENCIES (91%); HEALTH DEPARTMENTS (90%); ERGONOMICS (90%); AGENCY RULEMAKING (90%); ANIMAL SLAUGHTERING & PROCESSING (85%); LABOR DEPARTMENTS (78%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); LABOR UNIONS (78%); LEGISLATION (78%); WORKPLACE ACCIDENTS (78%); OCCUPATIONAL ILLNESS & INJURY (78%); BUSINESS & PROFESSIONAL ASSOCIATIONS (76%); ENGINEERING (74%); EMPLOYERS EMPLOYEE LIABILITY COVERAGE (73%); ELECTRONICS (71%); FOOD & BEVERAGE (69%); FOOD & BEVERAGE TRADE (68%); FOOD INDUSTRY (64%); INVESTIGATIONS (61%); AUTOMOBILE MFG (60%); COMPUTER & ELECTRONICS MFG (60%); AUTOMOTIVE MFG (60%) LABOR; REPETITIVE MOTION DISORDERS; ACCIDENTS AND SAFETY; LAW AND LEGISLATION; ORGANIZED LABOR; MEDICINE AND HEALTH; INDUSTRIAL AND OCCUPATIONAL HAZARDS 

ORGANIZATION: OCCUPATIONAL SAFETY & HEALTH ADMINISTRATION (84%); UNIVERSITY OF NEBRASKA (56%) OCCUPATIONAL SAFETY AND HEALTH ADMINISTRATION 

PERSON: ELAINE CHAO (58%) WALSH, MARY WILLIAMS; COCHRAN, DAVID J 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEBRASKA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: March 11, 2001 



268 of 868 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 11, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 3; Column 1; Money and Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 10

LENGTH: 936 words

HEADLINE: INVESTING WITH/Thomas W. Laming; 
Buffalo USA Global Fund

BYLINE:  By CAROLE GOULD 

 BODY:
YOU never know who you will find in the kitchen at McDonald's. It may be Thomas W. Laming, who runs the $54 million Buffalo USA Global fund.
 "I was in charge of condiments, putting on extra pickles or holding the onions," said Mr. Laming, who worked in a McDonald's in Leawood, Kan., a Kansas City suburb, one day in late 1999. "Working there gave me a better feel for how the company operates. Seeing their 'made for you' system firsthand helped me understand how easy it would be to customize the McDonald's menu and take it overseas." 
 In Norway, McDonald's customers order "McLaks," grilled salmon sandwiches with dill sauce. Uruguayans can choose a "McHuevo," a hamburger topped with a poached egg. A best seller in Japan is "chicken tatsuta," a fried chicken sandwich with soy sauce and ginger.
Mr. Laming's hands-on approach, and his enthusiasm for overseas exposure in his fund, have paid off for investors. The fund returned 13.2 percent a year, on average, for the three years through Thursday, compared with 6.1 percent for its peer group of large blend funds and 7.6 percent for the Standard & Poor's 500-stock index, according to Morningstar Inc.
The fund owns shares of American companies with foreign operations, thus giving investors exposure to the global economy. Borders have become porous: the portfolio companies derive at least 40 percent of their sales or income overseas.
Some companies in the fund, like Microsoft, Intel and Applied Materials dominate worldwide technology. Some have globally recognized brands, like McDonald's and Coca-Cola. "Why go to Malaysia to find a good soft-drink company when there's a better one based in Atlanta that does more business in Asia than local companies?" Mr. Laming said. "We speak the same language as the people in Georgia, and use the same accounting methods, and we think trading on U.S. exchanges is cheaper and safer." 
Amid investor impatience with its performance, Coca-Cola has gone through extensive restructuring in the last year. But Mr. Laming said the prospects for Coca-Cola's stock were strong over the next three to five years.
Mr. Laming, 42, works with nine analysts to pick the 35 or so stocks in the fund. They start by finding trends that they see as benefiting certain companies over the next three to five years. A current theme is economic development, especially in Asia. 
"Coca-Cola consumption rises along with a country's gross domestic product," he said. Americans, on average, drink 425 eight-ounce servings of Coca-Cola products a year, he said, compared with 7 in China.
Mr. Laming said McDonald's had barely dipped its toe in the Chinese market. In the United States, he said, there is one McDonald's restaurant for every 21,000 people; in China, there is one for every four million.
Another theme is the growing use of semiconductors in consumer electronics. The fund is 42 percent invested in technology, in part a reflection of the domination of the sector by American companies; Intel, Microsoft and Cisco Systems all derive more than half of their revenue abroad. He views the recent battering of the technology sector as a buying opportunity for more established companies with proven business models.
Mr. Laming's technology focus owes much to his background. He earned a graduate degree in aeronautics and astronautics at the Massachusetts Institute of Technology and worked for seven years as a spacecraft design engineer.
After he finds companies that can benefit from his themes, he takes a close look at valuations. He wants companies at the low end of their five-year average for price-to-earnings and price-to-sales, relative to the Standard & Poor's 500. "We don't look like a growth fund from the standpoint of valuation," he said.
He sells shares when prices approach the high end of historical valuation ranges, or when a company is no longer benefiting from the trends he sees. Turnover averages a relatively low 35 percent a year.
Mr. Laming recently added shares of McDonald's; he first bought the stock in June 1995 at an average price of $22. The stock, now at $28.95, trades near a 10-year low relative to the S.& P. 500 based on price-to-sales ratios.
"McDonald's has always been a good stock, but it goes through bad periods," he said. "People don't like it now," he added, partly because of slow growth in its United States operations. There are also worries about the overall beef market.
While McDonald's domestic business is growing 3 to 5 percent a year, he said, he expects international sales to grow 10 to 12 percent a year over the next three to five years. He says he expects earnings growth of 10 to 15 percent a share, annualized, over the same period.
HE also bought more shares recently in Applied Materials, the semiconductor equipment maker in Santa Clara, Calif. His initial purchase was in August 1996, at $6 a share. The stock, which closed on Friday at $46.75, is now cheap, he said, "because everyone is so focused on an overstocked inventory in semiconductor chips and the slowing economy."
Nonetheless, he says he expects high growth rates for semiconductors, especially in consumer electronics, and predicts that the company's earnings will grow 25 percent, annualized, over three to five years.
Valuations were also depressed, he said, for National Semiconductor, also based in Santa Clara. The fund first bought shares in 1995 at $26; it now trades at $23.32. The company should flourish, he said, as electronics manufacturers demand multiple features on a single semiconductor chip. 
He says he expects earnings to grow 25 percent, annualized, over the next three to five years.

GRAPHIC: Photo: As part of his hands-on approach to picking stocks, Thomas W. Laming spent a day working at McDonald's. (Denise N. Minet) Chart: "Buffalo USA Global"Category: Large blendNet assets: $54 millionInception: May 1995Manager: Thomas W. Laming since inceptionMinimum purchase: $2,500 ($250 I.R.A.)Portfolio turnover: 35% 3-year annualized returnthrough March 8: 13.2%Category average: 6.1% SECTOR BREAKDOWN Other: 10%Finance: 8%Consumer staples: 16%Technology: 42%Health care: 18%Consumer cyclicals: 6% FEES Front-end load: NoneDeferred load: None12b-1 fee: NoneExpense ratio: 1.04% (Sources: Morningstar Inc.; company reports)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: FOREIGN INVESTMENT (90%); FAST FOOD (90%); STOCK INDEXES (90%); MUTUAL FUNDS (89%); SOFT DRINKS (88%); GLOBALIZATION (77%); FOOD & BEVERAGE (77%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (77%); SOFT DRINK INDUSTRY (76%); BONDS (72%); TRENDS (70%); ECONOMIC NEWS (69%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (69%); GROSS DOMESTIC PRODUCT (69%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (67%); DRINKING PLACES (63%); BRANDING (50%) STOCKS AND BONDS; MUTUAL FUNDS 

COMPANY: MCDONALD'S CORP (91%); MORNINGSTAR INC (67%); MICROSOFT CORP (54%); INTEL CORP (54%); COCA-COLA CO (53%)

TICKER: MCD (NYSE) (91%); MORN (NASDAQ) (67%); MSFT (NASDAQ) (54%); INTC (NASDAQ) (54%); KO (NYSE) (53%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS722513 LIMITED-SERVICE RESTAURANTS (91%); SIC5812 EATING PLACES (91%); NAICS511120 PERIODICAL PUBLISHERS (67%); SIC7375 INFORMATION RETRIEVAL SERVICES (67%); SIC2721 PERIODICALS: PUBLISHING, OR PUBLISHING & PRINTING (67%); NAICS511210 SOFTWARE PUBLISHERS (54%); SIC7372 PREPACKAGED SOFTWARE (54%); NAICS334413 SEMICONDUCTOR & RELATED DEVICE MANUFACTURING (54%); NAICS312111 SOFT DRINK MANUFACTURING (53%); SIC2086 BOTTLED & CANNED SOFT DRINKS & CARBONATED WATER (53%) SIC5812 EATING & DRINKING PLACES; 

PERSON: GOULD, CAROLE; LAMING, THOMAS W 

GEOGRAPHIC: ATLANTA, GA, USA (79%) KANSAS, USA (90%); GEORGIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (96%); CHINA (92%); ASIA (87%); MALAYSIA (79%); JAPAN (79%)

LOAD-DATE: March 11, 2001 



269 of 868 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 11, 2001
Correction Appended 
 Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 3; Column 5; Money and Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 2879 words

HEADLINE: Red Face For the Internet's Blue Chip 

BYLINE:  By SAUL HANSELL 

 BODY:
IT tu, Yahoo?
 If there is an Internet blue chip, Yahoo is it. Lesser Web sites have come and gone. Amazon.com loses money by the crateload. Industry titans that rushed to e-themselves are now retreating. 
 But Yahoo was one company that seemed to have it figured out. In six years, it transformed itself from a student's list of cool Web sites into a sprawling network serving 185 million people a month. Few companies on the planet have that many customers.
Yahoo's brand is known and liked. Its managers are seasoned and disciplined. Its bank account is overflowing with cash. And its accounting statement -- most rare for an Internet company -- shows a profit. 
But suddenly, Yahoo is reeling, too. On Wednesday, the company said it was looking to replace its chief executive, Timothy A. Koogle, who said he would give up that position but remain as chairman.
The reason was clear in the numbers. Yahoo's revenue will be $170 million to $180 million in the first quarter. At the start of the year, $320 million was expected. Look closer and the picture is worse. Yahoo had a backlog of $117 million in previous commitments for this quarter. That means that it foresees no more than $63 million in new sales.
Yahoo's management will not venture a guess about its full-year results. But analysts now forecast sales of $800 million for the year, down (that's right, down) from $1.1 billion in 2000. Profits are unlikely.
The company's $1.7 billion in cash will keep it in business through the tough times. Its problem, simply put, is to figure out what business it wants to be in.
No longer can Yahoo rely on easy multimillion-dollar deals from other dot-com companies. It is scrambling to find new sources of revenue. And it must find ways to sell both the traditional "banner" advertising and creative new formats to skeptical big companies. It boasts of a range of innovative experiments, like the "Yahoo Grape" Slurpee soft drink that 7-Eleven tied to an online promotion. But in many cases, including that one, the advertisers have paid little or no cash. 
"They are so dependent on online advertising that we don't think they will grow that much until they change the form of their advertising to attract more traditional companies," said Anthony Noto, an analyst at Goldman, Sachs.
In January, Yahoo slipped from second to third in the monthly ratings by Media Metrix, a research concern that tracks the popularity of Web sites in the United States, behind AOL Time Warner and Microsoft's MSN. But with 55 million domestic users, 65 percent of the total audience, Yahoo's problem is not attracting users. It is finding a way to make money from them. 
Indeed, if Yahoo cannot discover how to thrive with its huge audience and all its other advantages, then the future is dire for the myriad smaller companies -- and divisions of larger ones -- that hope to build a media business on the Internet.
There have been many ideas about how to use the ubiquity of the Web to provide information, entertainment and smart little conveniences. Their creators figured that if they attracted users, and many did, they would pay the bills by selling advertising. But the dollars did not come.
IT is not that the Internet is not proving to be a powerful place to market most everything from cars to cream rinse. It is that advertisers are finding that building their own Web sites and e-mail lists is far more effective than placing their messages on sites where people go to check their e-mail or the weather.
"If anyone can be a successful in the portal business, it's Yahoo," said Michael E. Porter, the Harvard Business School strategy expert. "But Yahoo is in a box they may not be able to get out of."
Publishers, he said, gave Yahoo free access to information, or even paid it to carry their products, just to get exposure as the Internet was young. And advertisers, too, "paid rates that were not economically justified because they didn't care if the ads worked." 
Mr. Porter has just published an article in the Harvard Business Review that aims to challenge many new-economy tenets, including the theory, epitomized by Yahoo, that a site that attracts many "eyeballs" can profit by carrying advertising. Web sites, he argued, should find ways to charge subscription fees to users. But at Yahoo, he said, "now that their users have become accustomed to getting the service free, it's not clear that they will be able to charge real money for their product."
In fact, Yahoo has tried to add services that can earn some fee income. One service lets corporations put conference calls and meetings online. Another creates custom Web sites for internal company networks. And Yahoo is working on services to sell to consumers, like bigger e-mail accounts and vanity Web names.
Analysts praise these moves as fine extensions of Yahoo's business. But few expect them to be big enough to offset the company's revenue shortfall.
Goldman, Sachs has calculated that Yahoo would need $372 million in fee-based services to keep its revenue in 2001 the same as in 2000. But Goldman has also estimated that Yahoo's take from such new services will be less than half that figure. 
THE story of advertising on the Internet is hardly over, but it is clear that it is not a fairy tale. It is at least a thriller -- and maybe even a tear-jerker.
In Yahoo's story, as in that of so many other Web companies, there is also that element so common in tragedy: hubris. Mr. Koogle, whose trademark black turtlenecks and white shock of hair effected a jazz-club sort of cool, tried to restrain the cockiness at Yahoo, even as the company's market value soared to $150 billion, double the value of Walt Disney at the time. With its shares now at $17, Yahoo has a market value of $9.4 billion.
But in some important ways, people inside and outside Yahoo said, Mr. Koogle failed to realize how much the bubble that was inflating in Silicon Valley distorted Yahoo's world view and kept it from making the hard decisions it needed to make.
In retrospect, Yahoo was far too dependent on selling ads to other Internet companies, a gusher of cash that has all but dried up. Goldman, Sachs estimates that Yahoo's revenue from other dot-com companies will fall to $111 million this year from $459 million in 2000.
Advertising from established companies is not filling that deep hole. Goldman has calculated that traditional ad spending on Yahoo, which had been expected to rise, will now fall to $521 million this year from $545 million in 2000.
Yahoo attributes its financial performance to economic uncertainty and a decline in advertising in general. Indeed, traditional media companies like the News Corporation and The New York Times Company have told Wall Street that ad sales this quarter have been far weaker than they expected.
But Yahoo's problems go deeper, because even when the economy does pick up, it is not clear what the Yahoo site would offer that advertisers like Procter & Gamble or General Motors would pay money for -- or much money for, in any case.
During the Internet boom, advertising on Yahoo and America Online was part of an aggressive effort by dot-com start-ups to establish quickly the appearance of legitimacy.
"The more money you gave Yahoo, the more money you could raise from investors," said David W. Kenny, chief executive of Digitas, a strategy and advertising firm.
Now Yahoo's advertisers are moving from conspicuous consumption to coupon clipping. The big marketers want to see some evidence that what they are buying is effective. 
The problem is that five years of experience shows very limited value for the sort of ad that Yahoo and other sites sell most -- the ubiquitous rectangular banner. Those banners, it seems, are not as entertaining as TV, not as informative as print and not as personal as direct mail. 
"A banner is nothing more than a highway billboard, a reminder message," said Richard V. Hopple, a former ad agency executive and now chief executive of Unicast, an advertising technology firm. "We know what outdoor is worth -- $2 per thousand." By contrast, prime-time television advertising sells for $17 per thousand audience members, according to The Myers Report. Yahoo recently dropped its list price for general banner ads from $16 to $8 per thousand impressions, although ads in certain high-demand places can go for as much as $80 a thousand.
Indeed, that gap defines one of Yahoo's challenges. Some aspects of its service create valuable spots for advertisers. The very idea of a search engine can be quite valuable, because users identify their interests. If someone types in "fly fishing," the odds are better than in nearly any other medium that the user wants what L. L. Bean has to sell. And brokerage firms are still eager to advertise on Yahoo's stock-quotation pages. 
But for every area where demand is hot, there are many others where space goes unsold. Indeed, a study by AdRelevance, a New York research firm, found that in February, three-quarters of Yahoo's advertising impressions were unpaid ads for Yahoo itself, known in the media industry as house ads. That is actually an improvement from December, when only 15 percent of its ads were paid.
How much the advertisers paid is another question. Yahoo, like all publishers, says it sticks to its published rates. But several advertisers said they were offered "packages" in which they were forced to buy banner ads (at radically discounted prices) in order to secure placement in more valuable areas, like Yahoo's main shopping page. (This tactic, too, is no different than that of a television network that requires an advertiser buy time on a lower-rated show in order to get a commercial on that year's hit.)
Still, for several years, Yahoo has been trying to move beyond banner advertising with a concept that it calls "fusion marketing" -- mixing banners with electronic mail advertising and other types of promotion. But these offerings are catching on slowly. And Yahoo can hardly offer an advertiser as many options as the sprawling AOL Time Warner.
Advertisers, especially the sort that found TV a great way to create an emotional image for their products, are in a quandary, as more and more of their valuable younger customers trade their remote controls for keyboards.
"We are losing people on TV as they are going to the World Wide Web," said David Burwick, vice president for marketing at the Pepsi-Cola Company. 
Pepsi, in fact, is an advertiser that Yahoo often boasts about. It helped create a rewards program in which buyers of 20-ounce soft drinks could type code numbers printed inside bottle caps into a Web site and earn prizes. Using the Internet for such a promotion is far cheaper than counting bottle caps mailed in by consumers, as Pepsi has done in the past. And the program let Pepsi gather e-mail addresses that it could use to communicate directly with customers -- something that packaged-goods companies have only begun to do.
But most of those benefits flowed from Pepsi's own site, not from Yahoo's advertising reach. Most of the customers who participated in the promotion, Mr. Burwick said, were drawn by Pepsi's TV ads and by the bottle caps themselves. 
Yahoo, he said, was good at making the promotion site easy to use, and its name added an extra dimension to the program.
"Yahoo is a pre-eminent brand on the Internet that is very youthful and a nice complement with Pepsi and Mountain Dew," he said. 
But what made the proposition attractive to Pepsi, Mr. Burwick noted, was its economics. In return for featuring the Web site in its offline advertising and on 1.5 billion soda bottles, Pepsi paid very little cash for the program. And it is not clear that Yahoo will be able to show anything from this experience that will gain it more paying clients in the future.
"If we had to pay cash for this, we may or may not have done it," Mr. Burwick said. "It certainly would not have provided as good a return on investment for us."
INDEED, that is the same conclusion that 7-Eleven reached after its purple Slurpee promotion.
Yahoo had been calling on 7-Eleven for a year, said Nancy Smith, vice president for marketing at 7-Eleven, now part of Ito-Yokado, a Japanese retailer. But she was skeptical. The decision to pull over for a hot dog and a bag of chips is made on impulse -- so the company typically gets the best results by appealing to drivers with radio ads and with big signs in windows.
Finally, the companies came up with a joint promotion for September, when sales of 7-Eleven's trademark drink generally decline as the weather cools. The stores introduced a Yahoo Grape Slurpee -- in Yahoo purple -- and served in a cup that promoted the Yahoo site. And Yahoo created a feature that let users send an online greeting card (with a coupon for a free Slurpee) to a friend.
Ms. Smith says she is happy with the program. Some 100,000 cards were sent and 13,000 coupons redeemed. And she said she thought Yahoo's brand helped it with some customers. But none of that means that she is willing to open the checkbook.
"Yahoo has an appeal to teenagers, but I can't say a Yahoo Slurpee is as good as one with a top sports figure," she said. "We got real learning out of the experience. But I'm not convinced it would be a good use of our media dollars to do it again."
Clearly, some advertisers are finding Yahoo a good value. "Over the last two years, Yahoo has come to understand shopping," said Chris McCann, president of 1-800-Flowers.
And Robert O. Bethge, marketing director of Datek Online, the online stock broker, said, "No one can compete with Yahoo in terms of the number of customers they can deliver." 
But even Yahoo agrees that it will have to find other revenue sources beyond advertising. It has a few offerings aimed at corporations: when it bought Broadcast.com in 1999, for example, it got into managing employee meetings and investor presentations through online audio and video feeds.
It also has a new product, called Corporate Yahoo, that companies can use to blend internal announcements and information on the same page as news, weather and stock quotations from Yahoo. Sales have been brisk to clients like McDonald's, because companies find that many employees prefer Yahoo as their home pages rather than typically dull corporate sites. 
Analysts estimate the fee for the service at $1 to $2 per employee a month. Moreover, if the idea takes off, it could tie millions of workers even more closely to Yahoo. (The corporate pages carry no advertising, but once a user clicks a link to a news report or another Web page, the customary ads are there.)
"Over time, Corporate Yahoo could let it become ubiquitous on the desktop, like the Windows operating system," said Mr. Kenny at Digitas.
But the revenue from Corporate Yahoo, though growing, remains small.
A bigger question is whether Yahoo can earn any fees from consumers. 
It was not so long ago that people were spending 75 cents a minute calling "900" numbers to obtain weather forecasts or stock quotations. Now Yahoo offers an infinitely broader array of information, but the culture of the Internet and the myriad of competitors still standing has kept Yahoo from charging for its basic service.
"We can't say to people, 'Now that you like using Yahoo Calendar, it will cost you 22 cents to look up what you are doing on Sunday,' " Yahoo's president, Jeffrey Mallett, said in an interview in January.
The company hopes that it can profit by creating add-on services for which consumers will pay. For example, it puts its brand on a bill-paying service provided by Checkfree and a photo-developing service from PhotoWorks.
Mr. Mallett promises a flurry of new offerings, like pay-per-view streaming movies, a music subscription service and souped-up chat and messaging services.
This year, the company's attempt to increase its fee income from auctions has backfired. Yahoo had become the No. 2 auction site, behind eBay, in number of listings because, unlike its competitors, it did not charge a fee to sellers. Once it imposed fees in January, its listings dropped by 90 percent, as sellers concluded that if they were actually going to pay for auctions, they may as well be on the larger eBay site.
ANALYSTS say Yahoo is no longer more attractive than America Online, which had long been ridiculed because it combines Internet access -- seen as a low-margin business -- with an advertising-laden site.
"Yahoo has wonderful margins and does great when advertising is abundant, but they have nothing to fall back on when advertising contracts," said Lowell Singer, an analyst at Robertson Stephens in San Francisco.
And it is easier for AOL to tack on new services to its customers' existing bills than for Yahoo to convert a free relationship into a paying one.
How well Yahoo handles that challenge will show a lot about the future of the Internet. It is easy to create sites that people like to read, use for chatting and managing their calendars, especially if there are millions of dollars available to pay for writers and programmers.
But consumers have not yet had to decide how much they really want any of these new sites, because they have not been asked to pay for them.
"At some point, if content on the Internet isn't worth paying for," Mr. Kenney said, "it is going to have trouble surviving."

CORRECTION-DATE: March 18, 2001

 CORRECTION:
An article last Sunday about Yahoo misstated the percentage of advertising space on its Web pages that represented unpaid ads for Yahoo itself during February and December, as measured by AdRelevance, a New York research firm. The firm found that a quarter of Yahoo's space in February was unpaid, not three-quarters; and 15 percent was unpaid in December, not 85 percent.
A picture caption misstated Jeffrey Mallett's first role with Yahoo. He was recruited as chief operating officer in 1995 from Novell, where he had been a vice president. He did not help start Yahoo while he was a student.

GRAPHIC: Photos: Yahoo began as a compilation of Web sites that intrigued Jerry Yang, left, and Jeffrey Mallett, right, when they were students. Timothy A. Koogle stepped down as chief executive last week, but remains chairman. (Monica Almeida for The New York Times); Mr. Koogle's stewardship of Yahoo won high marks in a Dec. 11, 2000, assessment by Forbes. (pg. 14) Chart: "Going Down With the Dot-Coms"Yahoo, whose market value once hit $150 billion, has seen its shares plummet as its advertising from other Internet companies has dried up. Graphs show WEEKLY SHARE PRICES from 1997-2001 fourth quarter and REVENUE from 1st quarter 1997-2001 fourth quarter. ChartREVENUE SOURCES (Millions of dollars) TRADITIONAL ADVERTISERS2000: $545.42001: $521.0 DOT-COM ADVERTISERS2000: 459.12001: 111.3 OTHER BUSINESSES AND SERVICES2000: 105.72001: 167.7 (Sources: Goldman Sachs; Bloomberg Financial Markets)(pg. 14)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: INTERNET & WWW (90%); ONLINE MARKETING & ADVERTISING (89%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING (86%); ONLINE ADVERTISING (78%); BUSINESS FORECASTS (77%); COMPANY PROFITS (75%); BANKING & FINANCE (75%); EXECUTIVES (75%); ANNUAL FINANCIAL RESULTS (74%); FINANCIAL RESULTS (74%); SALES PROJECTIONS (72%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (72%) COMPUTERS AND THE INTERNET; ADVERTISING; FINANCES; SUSPENSIONS, DISMISSALS AND RESIGNATIONS; COMPANY AND ORGANIZATION PROFILES 

COMPANY: YAHOO! INC (95%); AOL INC (60%); AMAZON.COM INC (58%); GOLDMAN SACHS GROUP INC (57%); 7-ELEVEN INC (52%); MICROSOFT CORP (50%)

ORGANIZATION: YAHOO INC 

TICKER: YHOO (NASDAQ) (95%); AOL (NYSE) (60%); AMZN (NASDAQ) (58%); GS (NYSE) (57%); MSFT (NASDAQ) (50%)

INDUSTRY: SIC7375 INFORMATION RETRIEVAL SERVICES (95%); NAICS519130 INTERNET PUBLISHING & BROADCASTING & WEB SEARCH PORTALS (95%); NAICS517110 WIRED TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (95%); SIC7373 COMPUTER INTEGRATED SYSTEMS DESIGN (95%); SIC7379 COMPUTER RELATED SERVICES, NEC (60%); NAICS454111 ELECTRONIC SHOPPING (58%); SIC5961 CATALOG & MAIL-ORDER HOUSES (58%); NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (57%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (57%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (57%); SIC6289 SERVICES ALLIED WITH THE EXCHANGE OF SECURITIES OR COMMODITIES, NEC (57%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (57%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (57%); NAICS447110 GASOLINE STATIONS WITH CONVENIENCE STORES (52%); NAICS445120 CONVENIENCE STORES (52%); SIC5411 GROCERY STORES (52%); NAICS511210 SOFTWARE PUBLISHERS (50%); SIC7372 PREPACKAGED SOFTWARE (50%) SIC7372 SOFTWARE PUBLISHERS; 

PERSON: JERRY YANG (58%) HANSELL, SAUL; KOOGLE, TIMOTHY A 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (70%)

LOAD-DATE: March 11, 2001 



270 of 868 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 11, 2001
Correction Appended 
 Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 4; Column 1; Week in Review Desk; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 1022 words

HEADLINE: Ideas & Trends: Down for the Count; 
Why Some Numbers Are Only Very Good Guesses

BYLINE:  By GINA KOLATA 

 BODY:
SOCIETY runs on numbers: the number of people residing in the United States, the number of people in Florida who voted for each of the presidential candidates, the number of unemployed, the percent chance of a crippling blizzard. 
 Those who come up with these all-important digits know they aren't perfect, even if it sometimes comes as a surprise to the public. And some diehard believers in progress cling to the hope that technology will fix our numbers problem. 
 But some numbers just can't be fixed. 
In some cases, the expectation of endless improvement has faltered before the Law of Unintended Consequences. What looks like a slick solution to a technical problem can introduce new problems, sometimes just as bad as the original ones. Instead of getting a better number, the result is a different number, with its own inaccuracies.
The census is a case in point. The Census Bureau's own estimates show that 3.3 million Americans were missed in its count for 2000. So why not use science -- statistical adjustments -- to put them back in? 
An expert panel of the Census Bureau recommended that the census not be adjusted, but its decision neatly sidestepped Democratic arguments about its failure to fully count minorities and poor people and Republican defenses that the Constitution calls for an "actual enumeration." 
The panel's reasoning: it could not conclude that an adjustment would bring the census any closer to the truth. 
The commerce secretary, Donald L. Evans, said he relied on the panel's conclusion in deciding last week that unadjusted census figures would be used to draw up Congressional districts and distribute federal money to the states. 
The reason it is hard to make the census more accurate is because methodological improvements have already lifted accuracy nearly as high as it seems able to go, said David Freedman, a statistics professor at the University of California at Berkeley. 
In 1990, the national population count was 98 to 99 percent accurate, he said, and in 2000 it was even better. To improve further, scientists have to work within the remaining margin of error, using statistical methods to get better estimates of the number of people who were not counted, but should have been, and those who were counted, but should not have been. 
"What they do is take a sample of 25,000 blocks sprinkled around the country," Dr. Freedman said. "In an ordinary size city, it's a city block. In New York City, you might split a block. In rural Montana, you might take acres." 
Census workers go to those areas and seek out every resident. They compare their data with those obtained in the original census and ask, whom did they find who previously was missed? And whom did they miss who previously was found? From that information, the idea is to use statistics to project the error rates to every one of the seven million blocks (or their acre equivalents) in the country.
BUT the census workers who go back will make their own errors in counting and in matching up their people with those found before, Dr. Freedman said. The new numbers will be different, but not necessarily better, he said. Instead of making progress, he said, the counts may be just "going sideways." 
The nation's suddenly notorious voting problem is similar. After the Florida election, cries went out to improve the accuracy of voting by getting rid of the old punch cards with their fickle chads. Less error-prone machines, like touch-screen versions, are expensive -- Sequoia County in California just spent nearly $14 million on 4,250 machines. But you can't accidentally vote twice, and there should be no ambiguity about whom you voted for. Over all, accuracy tends to go up. 
But, as with any computer solution, the problem is that not only can the machines introduce errors but the errors can be much harder to detect, Peter Neumann, a computer scientist at SRI International in Menlo Park, Calif., warned. 
What if there is a tiny glitch in the software or the hardware? How would you know if 1 out of every 100,000 votes goes to someone other than the intended candidate? What if the misdirected votes were created by programmer sabotage? 
"There is no guarantee that your vote goes into the computer the way it looked on the touch screen," Dr. Neumann said. One thing is sure: with touch-screen computers, there is no chance for a recount.
Last week, after jamming supermarkets and lining up at gas stations to fill their tanks in preparation for a monster snowstorm that essentially missed them, New Yorkers were amused, disappointed, and, in some cases, angry. Can't the weather forecasters get it right? 
No, said Bob Gall, the lead scientist for the United States Weather Research Program. "The error we're seeing in the forecast of something like the storm on the East Coast is probably close to the limit of technology today," he said. It is impossible, because of measurement errors, to perfectly specify atmospheric conditions at any one time, he said. And once the conditions are plugged into a computer program, any tiny error gets compounded. The bulk of a storm can -- did -- end up in Connecticut, not Manhattan. 
"If you go out six hours, it can be pretty accurate," Dr. Gall said of weather projections. "Two days can be problematic. At 10 days, you can get almost anything."
 ONE historian, Edward Tenner, now a visiting researcher at Princeton, who keeps a file on counting problems, says the census and the voting quandaries are typical of what always occurs when people try to change a way of formulating a number. The trick, he said, is either to learn to live with known inaccuracies or to be sure that any new number is really an improvement.
The issue reminds him of the unopened packs of cigarettes bartered in Europe after World War II. "Everyone knew they were probably stale, but as long as no one opened them, you couldn't be sure," he said. "A lot of numbers are like that. As long as you accept them at face value, they work. They are based on a common suspension of inspection." But, he said, the moment that stance is abandoned, "you have a very hard time agreeing again on another standard."

CORRECTION-DATE: March 18, 2001

 CORRECTION:
Because of an editing error, an article last Sunday about the difficulty of improving the accuracy of various kinds of statistics numbers misidentified a county in California that recently spent $14 million for new voting machines. It is Riverside County, not Sequoia. 

GRAPHIC: Photo: One, two, three, four, six, seven. . . . No, wait. one, two, four, five. . . . (Associated Press) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CENSUS (92%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (91%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); TRENDS (90%); STATISTICAL METHOD (89%); POPULATION SIZE (78%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (78%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (78%); ELECTORAL DISTRICTS (78%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (78%); ELECTIONS (78%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (78%); POPULATION & DEMOGRAPHICS (77%); NEWS BRIEFS (74%); COMMERCE DEPARTMENTS (68%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (50%) MATHEMATICS; POPULATION; CENSUS; PRESIDENTIAL ELECTION OF 2000; WEATHER 

ORGANIZATION: US CENSUS BUREAU (83%)

PERSON: KOLATA, GINA; TENNER, EDWARD 

GEOGRAPHIC: SAN FRANCISCO BAY AREA, CA, USA (79%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%) FLORIDA, USA (93%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (93%) FLORIDA

LOAD-DATE: March 11, 2001 



271 of 868 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 11, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 4; Column 1; Week in Review Desk; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 1007 words

HEADLINE: The World; 
China Sends Its Army Money, and Taiwan a Signal

BYLINE:  By CRAIG S. SMITH 

DATELINE: SHANGHAI 

 BODY:
CHINA announced its biggest military budget increase in 20 years last week, making generals from Washington to Tokyo sit up. Certainly the 17.7 percent jump to $17.2 billion this year is intended to send the message that China is serious about modernizing its 2.5-million-man armed forces in order to give the United States pause if it thinks of operating unchallenged in Asia. But military analysts say the focus for now remains a limited one: Taiwan.
 Shen Dingli, a Chinese military expert at Shanghai's Fudan University, described the logic in a way that parallels what Western experts say: "We're increasing our military capability in order to ensure that Taiwan doesn't declare independence. But what China is adding to its arsenal is far from what's necessary to challenge the United States in the Asia-Pacific." 
 That said, China's increased spending signals a basic shift in how the country perceives itself in the world, a perception that began changing in 1996 after Taiwan's first democratic presidential elections.
For more than a decade before that, China had let its military drift, following Deng Xiaoping's assessment that 20 years of peace would allow the country to pursue economic development unharassed. As a result, the People's Liberation Army suffered years of shrinking budgets in real terms. Even the 10 to 12 percent increases of the early to mid 1990's were cut by inflation.
Then came Taiwan's elections, an indication that the island was moving farther from Beijing's grasp. China fired missiles into the sea off Taiwan's coast to warn the island's government against moves toward outright independence. The United States responded by sending an aircraft carrier through the Taiwan Strait. That infuriated Beijing and humiliated the People's Liberation Army, highlighting its lack of options.
Anxiety over the state of the military increased when Japan passed revised guidelines for defense cooperation with the United States in 1997 and decided to join the United States in co-research of a theater missile defense system that could potentially be used to protect Taiwan. Then President Lee Teng-hui of Taiwan characterized the island as a state equal to China in 1999, and Taiwan elected the independence-minded Chen Shui-bian as Mr. Lee's successor.
After that came the North Atlantic Treaty Organization's bombing campaign in Kosovo, which posed the question in China: "Will the U.S. use its unbridled power to someday intervene in Taiwan, Tibet or Xinjiang?"
NATO's errant bombing of China's embassy in Belgrade only punctuated those concerns, allowing the army to open a debate over the continued validity of Deng Xiaoping's analysis.
Domestic politics, meanwhile, converged to lend the army support. Growing corruption in the military, which had become increasingly involved in commercial pursuits to supplement its meager budget, had raised alarm, and President Jiang Zemin forced it to divest all of its businesses beginning in 1998. He promised to make up the lost revenue through budget increases later on.
The debate dominated the discussion at 1999's annual summer leadership conference at the northern seaside resort of Beidaihe, where the decision to increase military spending was made. A White Paper on China's military a year later reflected the new assessment:
"In view of the fact that hegemonism and power politics still exist and are further developing, and in particular, the basis for the country's peaceful reunification is seriously imperiled, China will have to enhance its capability to defend its sovereignty and security by military means."
For those who had followed this chain of events, the increased budget came as no surprise. The question now is where China will spend the money.
Much of it is expected to finance training exercises, maintenance and force restructuring. There are plans to cut the army's size, but even that will be expensive because demobilized soldiers must be relocated and retrained. China is also expected to spend more on its missile modernization program, thanks to American missile defense initiatives. 
Most of the spending, according to Mr. Shen and others, is intended to enhance the country's ability to intimidate Taiwan. "For Taiwan, to deter separatists, we need third-generation fighters, missiles and precision-guided weaponry, amphibious landing equipment, electronic warfare equipment, all of which can be domestically manufactured," said Mr. Shen.
Because China lacks a huge high-tech arms industry, developing new weapons is slow and expensive. "Although R. & D. spending will eventually produce something, given the inefficiencies of the Chinese system this might be one of the least threatening areas for them to spend defense dollars," said Phil Saunders, director of the East Asia Nonproliferation Program at the Monterey Institute of International Studies.
Even then, the money will be thinly spread. In announcing the budget increase, Finance Minister Xiang said much of it would go to boost officer's salaries. Some, too, is earmarked as compensation for revenue lost when the military gave up its businesses.
OF course, the announced budget is only part of China's military spending. Some analysts put the total at double or even quadruple the budgeted amount, including money used to buy arms abroad, which are paid for from a separate, undisclosed hard-currency fund. But even at a multiple of three, China's defense spending is far outdistanced by that of the United States.
"If the concern is that China will challenge U.S. interests, that is a long, long way off," said Evan Medeiros, a senior research associate at the Monterey Institute's nonproliferation program. "But if the concern is that they will make the U.S. more cautious in their operations in the Asia-Pacific region, that's more realistic."
David Finkelstein, deputy director of CNA Corp.'s Center for Strategic Studies, put it another way: "They want to be the regional hegemon, so that no Asian-Pacific nation can make serious decisions without taking China into account."

GRAPHIC: Photo: Military delegates arrive at Beijing's Great Hall of the People for this month's National People's Congress. (Agence France-Presse) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: DEFENSE SPENDING (91%); ARMIES (90%); BUDGETS (90%); SEPARATISM & SECESSION (89%); BOMBINGS (89%); ELECTIONS (89%); MILITARY WEAPONS (89%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (89%); ARMED FORCES (78%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (78%); MISSILE SYSTEMS (77%); NEWS BRIEFS (74%); DEFENSE ELECTRONICS (73%); MILITARY VESSELS (73%); NAVAL VESSELS (73%); POLITICS (71%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (71%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (71%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (71%); MISSILE DEFENSE SYSTEMS (68%); ECONOMIC NEWS (65%); EMBASSIES & CONSULATES (50%) ARMAMENT, DEFENSE AND MILITARY FORCES 

PERSON: SMITH, CRAIG S 

GEOGRAPHIC: BEIJING, CHINA (93%); SHANGHAI, CHINA (91%); BELGRADE, SERBIA (79%); TOKYO, JAPAN (73%) NORTH CENTRAL CHINA (93%); EAST CHINA (92%); NORTHWEST CHINA (79%); SOUTHWEST CHINA (79%); XINJIANG, CHINA (59%); XIZANG, CHINA (59%) TAIWAN (98%); CHINA (98%); UNITED STATES (97%); ASIA (93%); SERBIA (79%); KOSOVO (79%); JAPAN (79%); TIBET (79%) CHINA; TAIWAN

LOAD-DATE: March 11, 2001 



272 of 868 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 11, 2001
Correction Appended 
 Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 4; Column 1; Week in Review Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1182 words

HEADLINE: The World: What's in a Name?; 
Redefining Minority

BYLINE:  By SUSAN SACHS 

 BODY:
IT'S official, at least according to raw numbers from the 2000 census. Latinos are on the verge of becoming the nation's biggest minority group, just about to edge out blacks.
 The news comes as no surprise to politicians from California to New York, who have been courting Latinos, or to analysts who have tracked the Latin inroads into popular culture and mass marketing. 
 Still, the rise of a specific Latino identity challenges many traditional American conventions about what a minority group will demand of society as a whole and how it defines itself. 
The term Latino is itself a recent construct, born on American soil, to define its members as something other than mainstream Americans. But relying on a classic view of minority to understand this robust, diverse and politically fickle group is risky. Indeed, the sheer concentration of Spanish-speaking immigrants in some states, like California and Texas, and in some cities like New York and Miami, turns the image of minority status inside out. 
"In California, we are not using the word minority much anymore," said Juelle Taylor Gibbs, a retired University of California at Berkeley professor and the author of "Preserving Privilege: California Politics, Propositions and People of Color," a book on California Latinos due out this month. 
The book examines the vibrant growth of the population, its influence on state culture and how statewide ballot propositions to ban bilingual education and eliminate social services for illegal immigrants helped create Latino political solidarity in the 1990's.
"Latinos are now the largest ethnic group in California other than whites," Dr. Taylor Gibbs said. "One out of three people speaks Spanish or is of Spanish descent. By 2021, they will be the largest ethnic group in California. So they don't feel much like a minority. There's a very, very strong sense of empowerment."
Political scientists and immigration experts have long debated just how to think about this population that the census-takers, for only the last 30 years, have categorized ethnically as Hispanics. Is it a minority group in the meaning typically applied to blacks, that is, an oppressed group with common historic grievances against white society? Or is it simply another immigrant group, with its own characteristics, that will eventually lose its cohesion in pursuit of a place in American society? 
Even Latino scholars do not answer with one voice.
"There are forks in the road for the Hispanic community," said Harry P. Pachon, director of the Tomas Rivera Policy Institute. "It all depends on how absorptive American society is to Hispanics. If there is upward mobility, that group identity loses its hold."
Certainly, Latinos are united by an intimate affinity for the Spanish language. But they include people on vastly different trajectories, some already successful and some mired in the economic underclass. They are also divided by national origin, historical memory, shades of skin color and religion -- just about every element that has bound other immigrant and racial groups in their formation of a shared identity.
Numerically, of course, Latinos are by definition a minority in a nation still dominated by non-Hispanic whites. But here, too, they defy the classic political and social meaning of the term. Public policies toward minorities, including affirmative action and school desegregation, were undertaken to redress historic wrongs done to African-Americans whose ancestors arrived as slaves rather than voluntarily. 
Still, nurturing the idea of Latinos as a politically and socially aggrieved minority has helped the diverse components of the population -- people from every country in the Spanish-speaking Caribbean, Central and South America and Mexico -- find a unified voice on the national stage. 
To do so, many national pan-Latino advocacy groups that became active in the past decade adopted the blueprint of the black civil rights movement. They maintain that Mexicans (the largest component nationally of the overall Latino population) experienced wide-ranging exploitation like African-Americans, that dark-skinned Latinos suffer racial discrimination, that Latinos are negatively in the media stereotyped in ways similar to blacks and that anti-immigrant laws target them as an entire ethnic group.
"The national Latino organizations take the view that the legacy of the civil rights movement is to redress issues of discrimination and if you are a person of color, you need to be protected from that as well, even if you just got here yesterday," said Angelo Falcon, a senior policy executive at the Puerto Rican Legal Defense and Education Fund in New York City.
"You have people who come here and say, 'I don't know what this Latino and minority stuff is all about. I'm Colombian,' " he said, "Then one day you wind up in the wrong neighborhood." At the first insult denigrating Latinos, "all of the sudden you're a minority."
Besides African-Americans, anyone with an Irish or Jewish or Italian grandparent who came to the United States in the early 20th century heard of similar ethnic and racial slurs directed against their ancestors. American history has no lack of examples of discriminatory laws against specific immigrant groups. Indeed, the principal determinant of who was allowed into the country for decades, until the laws changed in 1965, was white European ancestry. 
IMMIGRATION experts say Latinos -- and others -- respond differently to such experiences today because they are different from those earlier waves in significant ways. True, some have fled civil war and repression, but many more feel free to move back and forth between their native land and new homeland. The United States, with its historic links to the Spanish-speaking world, also feels less foreign to Latino immigrants. 
And American society and its demands on immigrants have changed. Though multiculturalism is often criticized for diluting American identity, it is also more acceptable now to retain a distinct ethnic identity. 
Ethnic solidarity, the traditional wedge that immigrants used to clear a space for themselves to become Americans, is now celebrated for its own sake.
Whether it will persist as an identity as opposed to a political grouping is not so clear. 
Studies of immigrant children in general show that the impulse to assimilate is still strong, as it has been for more than 100 years. But they also show that today's Latinos are more sensitive to perceived discrimination than earlier immigrants and the desire to become an unhyphenated American can be crippled when youngsters believe that mainstream society judges them by ethnicity, race or national origin. 
"Ethnicity is a subjective feeling as well as an imposed category," said Dr. Pachon of the Tomas Rivera institute. "If it's imposed, because people make assumptions about you if you are dark-skinned and speak with an accent, then you have no option but to consider yourself Hispanic."
"In the Latino community now, there is a selective assimilation going on," he added. "But acculturation is also very strong."

CORRECTION-DATE: March 18, 2001

 CORRECTION:
An article last Sunday about census results showing that Latinos are on the verge of becoming the nation's largest minority group misspelled the name of an author and referred incompletely to the topic of her book. She is Jewelle Taylor Gibbs, not Juelle; the book, "Preserving Privilege: California Politics, Propositions and People of Color," is about legislative initiatives involving varied minority groups, not just Latinos.

GRAPHIC: Photo: Sampling ethnic food at the legendary Grand Central Market in Los Angeles. (Kim Kulish for The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CENSUS (90%); POLITICS (90%); LANGUAGE & LANGUAGES (90%); ETHNIC GROUPS (89%); ETHNICITY (89%); DEMOGRAPHIC GROUPS (89%); HISPANIC AMERICANS (89%); IMMIGRATION (88%); BILINGUAL EDUCATION (78%); POPULATION GROWTH (78%); NEWS BRIEFS (77%); MULTILINGUALISM (76%); FOREIGN LANGUAGE EDUCATION (73%); POLITICAL SCIENCE (72%); HUMANITIES & SOCIAL SCIENCE (71%); ILLEGAL IMMIGRANTS (68%); REFERENDUMS (66%); WRITERS (66%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (52%) HISPANIC-AMERICANS 

ORGANIZATION: UNIVERSITY OF CALIFORNIA (55%)

PERSON: SACHS, SUSAN 

GEOGRAPHIC: SAN FRANCISCO BAY AREA, CA, USA (79%); LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (79%) CALIFORNIA, USA (94%); NEW YORK, USA (93%); TEXAS, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (95%)

LOAD-DATE: March 11, 2001 



273 of 868 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 11, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 3; Column 3; Money and Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 17

LENGTH: 188 words

HEADLINE: DataBank; 
Could the Market Slide Be Ending?

BYLINE:  By DYLAN LOEB McCLAIN 

 BODY:
Blue-chip stocks bucked a downward trend last week as investors and Wall Street analysts turned optimistic, predicting that the worst market slide in years might be nearing an end.
 Technology stocks were battered again, though, as Intel and Yahoo issued profit warnings. 
Intel also said that it would eliminate some jobs. 
 The employment report on Friday, which showed that the economy was still creating jobs at a rapid clip, also caused the markets to take a step back as investors worried that the news would dissuade the Federal Reserve from cutting interest rates when policy makers meet next week.
 For the week, the Dow Jones industrial average ended at 10,644.62, up 178.31 points, or 1.7 percent. The broader S.&P. 500 index finished off slightly at 1,233.42, down 0.76 points, or 0.1 percent. The Nasdaq composite index was the big loser, ending at 2,052.78, down 64.85 points, or 3.1 percent.
 The job report reversed a modest rally in the bond market, sapping momentum built up earlier in the week. The yield on the bellwether 10-year bond finished at 4.94 percent, unchanged from the week before. DYLAN LOEB McCLAIN

GRAPHIC: Charts: "STOCKS IN THE NEWS" Barrett ResourcesNYSE: BRRThe natural-gas producer rejected Royal Dutch/Shell's $1.8 billion unsolicited takeover bid and said its board planned to explore "strategic alternatives."Friday's Close: $62.52Week'S Change: +39.99%EST. '01 P/E: 15.47 AMRNYSE: AMRTrans World Airlines accepted a takeover bid from American Airlines' parent after it raised the initial offering by $242 million, to $742 million.Friday's Close: $36.45Week'S Change: +9.53%EST. '01 P/E: 7.91 Coca-ColaNYSE: KOThe soft-drink maker's president and chief operating officer resigned, and the company said it planned to reorganize itself into four business units to revive sales.Friday's Close: $51.50Week'S Change: -2.00%EST. '01 P/E: 30.91 Amazon.comNNM: AMZNThe S.E.C. is investigating the February stock sales of Amazon.com's chairman, Jeffrey P. Bezos, who sold before a Wall Street firm released a negative research report.Friday's Close: $12.25Week'S Change: +22.50%EST. '01 P/E: -- Yahoo!NNM: YHOOThe large Internet company's chief executive resigned as it warned that sales in the first quarter would be far worse than even its pessimistic prediction in January.Friday's Close: $17.00Week'S Change: -21.61%EST. '01 P/E: 309.09 IntelNNM: INTCFor the second time in six weeks, the chip maker warned that its profits this quarter would fall short of expectations. It also said it would eliminate 5,000 jobs by year-end.Friday's Close: $29.44Week'S Change: +0.43%EST. '01 P/E: 28.36 GenentechNYSE: DNAThe Food and Drug Administration canceled an expected April 26 review of a highly anticipated asthma and allergy drug being jointly developed by Genentech, Novartis and Tanox.Friday's Close: $47.00Week'S Change: -9.96%EST. '01 P/E: 63.43 AOL Time WarnerNYSE: AOLAOL Time Warner's co-chief operating officer, Robert W. Pittman, said the company stood by its 2001 financial goals despite the tenuous near-term outlook for the Internet media sector.Friday's Close: $42.87Week'S Change: +1.93%EST. '01 P/E: 35.05 (Source: Bloomberg Financial Markets)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: STOCK INDEXES (95%); BONDS (91%); TRENDS (90%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (78%); BUSINESS FORECASTS (78%); BOND MARKETS (77%); GOVERNMENT BONDS (77%); LABOR SECTOR PERFORMANCE (76%); PUBLIC POLICY (76%); TREASURY SECURITIES (74%); PUBLIC DEBT (74%); PROFIT WARNINGS (73%); PUBLIC FINANCE (73%); COMPANY PROFITS (72%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (71%); JOB CREATION (71%); INTEREST RATES (69%); ECONOMIC NEWS (69%) STOCKS AND BONDS; FINANCES; GOVERNMENT BONDS; NASDAQ COMPOSITE INDEX; DOW JONES INDUSTRIAL AVERAGE; STANDARD & POOR'S 500-STOCK INDEX; INTEREST RATES; CREDIT 

COMPANY: INTEL CORP (58%)

ORGANIZATION: FOOD & DRUG ADMINISTRATION (59%)

TICKER: INTC (NASDAQ) (58%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS334413 SEMICONDUCTOR & RELATED DEVICE MANUFACTURING (58%)

PERSON: JEFFREY P BEZOS (59%) MCCLAIN, DYLAN LOEB 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%) UNITED STATES

LOAD-DATE: March 11, 2001 



274 of 868 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 11, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 3; Column 1; Money and Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 11

LENGTH: 174 words

HEADLINE: PERSONAL BUSINESS: DIARY; 
Credit Card Issuers Toughening Terms

BYLINE:  By Vivian Marino 

 BODY:
If you pay your credit card bills on time, all of the time, this probably will not apply to you. But if you are among the millions of Americans who sometimes carry a balance, and even make a late payment now and then, a recent survey may prompt you to reassess your bill-paying habits. 
 Consumer Action, an advocacy group based in San Francisco, looked at 109 credit cards issued by 45 companies in January and found a trend toward tougher credit terms. The results were released last week. 
 The group found that credit card companies were imposing higher interest rates and late fees. Rates averaged 15.16 percent, one-quarter of a point above the 1999 average. (Part of the increase may be attributed to a higher prime lending rate.) Every bank surveyed charged a late fee, averaging $26, up from $25.50. Nearly 70 percent said they would raise rates if payments were late.
The tighter restrictions come as Congress prepares to pass legislation making it harder for people to use bankruptcy to ease credit card and other debts.
 Vivian Marino


LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CREDIT CARDS (91%); PAYMENT CARDS & SERVICES (90%); INTEREST RATES (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (88%); LEGISLATION (88%); POLLS & SURVEYS (87%); TRENDS (87%); PRIME RATES (68%) CREDIT AND MONEY CARDS; INTEREST RATES; PRICES (FARES, FEES AND RATES) 

ORGANIZATION: CONSUMER ACTION (ORGN) 

PERSON: MARINO, VIVIAN 

GEOGRAPHIC: CALIFORNIA, USA (90%) UNITED STATES (90%)

LOAD-DATE: March 11, 2001 



275 of 868 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 11, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 1; Column 1; Foreign Desk; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 660 words

HEADLINE: Japan's Chief Sends Signal He's Prepared To Step Down 

BYLINE:  By HOWARD W. FRENCH 

DATELINE: TOKYO, March 10 

 BODY:
After a week of resignation rumors and steady denials, Prime Minister Yoshiro Mori met with senior members of his party today to signal his intention to step down next month.
 Mr. Mori's decision involved no public statements, and could not be officially confirmed, although senior members of the Liberal Democratic Party were widely quoted in the Japanese press acknowledging that the resignation was in the works. 
 Party officials said that Mr. Mori, who through nearly 11 months in office has suffered a steep and unrelenting erosion in popular support, would give the first public hint -- but probably only a hint -- of his intentions at a convention of his Liberal Democratic Party on Tuesday. 
The prime minister and his allies want to avoid turning Mr. Mori into an outright lame duck before the Liberal Democrats can begin a serious effort to select his successor, and especially before meetings scheduled between Japan and the United States, on March 19, and Russia, later in the month. 
Mr. Mori's private signaling of his intention to step down in early April neatly mirrored his secretive selection as prime minister in a late-night meeting of party barons nearly a year ago, following a stroke that debilitated and ultimately killed his predecessor, Keizo Obuchi.
Deliberately cultivated ambiguity is a long-honored tradition in Japan's often kabuki-like politics. But critics within the party and outside it were quick to attack the elaborate and secretive transition choreography that began today. 
"The process of naming the successor is more important than who will succeed Mori," said one reform-minded leader of the Liberal Democrats, Koichi Kato. "The person should not be chosen through back-room deals." 
Mr. Mori's term as prime minister has seen a sharp acceleration in the decline of support for the Liberal Democrats, who have ruled for all but a few months since 1955.
At first, voters seemed to take offense at the elaborate deception by party leaders to mask the gravity of Mr. Obuchi's stroke until a new leader could be selected. Once in office, Mr. Mori quickly became trapped in a spiral of scandals and gaffes. 
Three of the prime minister's cabinet members have had to resign over allegations of financial improprieties, while the foreign ministry has been embroiled in accusations of fraud and misuse of official funds. 
Last week, Masakuni Murakami, one of the powerful Liberal Democratic Party figures who helped guide Mr. Mori's selection as prime minister, was forced to resign over his suspected involvement in yet another bribery and embezzlement scandal involving public funds.
Perhaps the biggest blow to Mr. Mori's credibility, however, came in his reaction to the news of the sinking of a Japanese fishery school vessel by an American nuclear submarine off Hawaii on Feb. 9.
Mr. Mori was playing golf when aides informed him of the accident, in which 9 of the 35 Japanese aboard the ship disappeared. Rather than interrupting his game, he continued for two more hours before returning to his residence. While public anger at his reaction increased, Mr. Mori defended his actions, generating yet more criticism. "Why is this an issue of emergency management," Mr. Mori asked one reporter. "It is an accident, isn't it? I think I exercised my leadership." 
Mr. Mori's troubles and the uncertainty over leadership coincide with a worsening of Japan's most serious economic crisis in more than a generation. 
This week, the political confusion seemed to bleed more than ever into the country's economic management. With consumer demand depressed and bankruptcies and unemployment at or near record highs, Japan's banking system is widely seen as teetering. 
On Thursday, Finance Minister Kiichi Miyazawa stunned many here when he said that Japan's finances were "very near collapse." Hurrying to soften those words the next day, he told reporters that what he had intended to say was "that Japan will have a hard time reforming." 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); RESIGNATIONS (90%); PRIME MINISTERS (90%); TALKS & MEETINGS (90%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (90%); POLITICS (89%); SCANDALS (89%); FRAUD & FINANCIAL CRIME (87%); CONFERENCES & CONVENTIONS (78%); POLITICAL PARTY CONVENTIONS (77%); STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (73%); FISHERIES (71%); GOLF (66%); EMBEZZLEMENT (64%); BRIBERY (60%); NAVAL VESSELS (60%); EMPLOYEE TERMINATION (50%) POLITICS AND GOVERNMENT 

PERSON: FRENCH, HOWARD W; MORI, YOSHIRO (PRIME MIN) 

GEOGRAPHIC: TOKYO, JAPAN (57%) HAWAII, USA (79%) JAPAN (94%); UNITED STATES (92%) JAPAN

LOAD-DATE: March 11, 2001 



276 of 868 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 11, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 1; Column 4; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 39

LENGTH: 1389 words

HEADLINE: The Neediest Cases; 
A Record Gift Helps Make It a Record Year for Giving to the Neediest Cases Fund

BYLINE:  By AARON DONOVAN 

 BODY:
The final figures are in. The New York Times Neediest Cases Fund received $8,033,582.22 in the 2000-01 appeal, topping the previous record-setting campaign, 1998-99, by more than $1.3 million.
 A year ago, the fund raised $6,113,279.70. The record amount for this campaign was the result of a confluence of factors, including the generosity of a New York philanthropic foundation, said Jack Rosenthal, president of The New York Times Company Foundation, which administers the fund. "Obviously a huge part of this was the remarkable generosity of the Starr Foundation with its record single gift of $1 million," he said, "but that accounts for only about half of the improvement." 
 Donations from several sources increased during this campaign, Mr. Rosenthal said, including gifts made online via CharityWave.com and an annual fund-raising effort on Wall Street. This year, the Wall Street effort sent the fund $229,716.01, the largest amount raised by the group in the 10 years that records of its donations have been kept. 
Though the economy is softening, the just-completed campaign benefited from the strength of last year's economy, with larger gifts from trusts, estates and foundations that support the fund. "There was enhanced endowment income because of increases in the market last year," Mr. Rosenthal said.
The final total reflected an adjustment of almost $140,000 deducted last month, after the fund's accountant discovered that revenue for the advertising department had been mistakenly credited to the Neediest Cases Fund last summer.
In addition to those factors, a significant increase came from individual readers of the Neediest Cases series, which for three months described the lives of New Yorkers who had been helped by the fund. "The bottom line is that more people gave and the average gift went up," Mr. Rosenthal said. Last year the fund received 10,776 donations.
This year the fund recorded 12,291 donations including one from a third-grade class at the Chatsworth School in Larchmont, N.Y. "We've been collecting pennies and other coins since Thanksgiving and we got $80.55," said a note signed by the class. "We asked relatives, kept shopping change, looked under cushions, and used pennies saved at home."
In the coming weeks, the money collected by the fund will be given to seven of the oldest and most respected social services agencies in New York. Because of the increased size of the fund this year, officials said, the agencies will be able to help more struggling families in the coming year than in years past.
"Hopefully we'll be able to stabilize more families and prevent more people from becoming homeless," said Megan E. McLaughlin, executive director of the Federation of Protestant Welfare Agencies.
Officials from the agencies said that prevention of homelessness was one of the most important and frequent uses of money from the fund, but not the only one. John Ruskay, chief executive of UJA-Federation of New York, said, "We will provide more cash assistance, more food and rent, be able to provide emergency shelter to greater numbers, increase bereavement counseling, grow services to victims of domestic violence and support job counseling and placement for former substance abusers."
While this year's campaign will help ease the burdens of those struggling, their struggles will continue. "It's gratifying to be able to extend our programs for those most in need," Dr. Ruskay said. "However, I visit the communities throughout our city and the agencies that serve the poor, and I sit face to face with the enormous numbers of people who still need help. So it's a cup half full, but a great deal of work remains."
While the agencies have their work cut out for them for the coming year, for a moment, anyway, it is possible for a city to look back at a successful campaign with a touch of pride. "We hear a lot about people not caring," Dr. McLaughlin said. "This really demonstrates that we still have a caring community."

Donations From Estates and Trusts
The New York Times Neediest Cases Fund has issued a list of trusts and estates that have contributed to its 89th annual campaign, which ended March 5. Donations from these sources totaled $1,876,502.01, compared with $1,638,791.92 a year ago. Following are the trusts and estates that took part:

TRUSTS

Elisabeth S. Andriesse
Phil A. Bali
Joseph Berk
Rita Bodenheimer
Philip W. Bonsal Trust
A. E. Bradford
Joan Breibart Revocable Trust
Ada Brentano
Edwin Bruns
Edwin G. Bruns Jr.
Clara C. Burr
Carson Family Trust
Constance Coleman
Credit Suisse First Boston Foundation
Katherine Packard Crispell
Reuben B. Crispell
Rosa F. Dale
Evelyn Y. Davis
Evelyn Y. Davis Foundation
William Detmold
Dryfoos Charitable Trust
Elsworth Eliot Jr.
Lee Feinberg Revocable Living Trust
Fleisig Family Foundation Charitable Trust
Amy Frank
Emmanuel Frank
Desiree L. Franklin
Lilly J. Freeman
Esther Friedenheit
L. W. Frohlich Charitable Trust
Gargian Trust
Sol Goldman Charitable Trust
David Haas Memorial Fund
Jack and Elizabeth Haase
Maude Harkness
Helen Harris
Fred M. Hechinger
Joseph S. Heil
Viola L. Hendrickson Trust
Joyce B. Huber Trust
Eleanor Rice Hunt
Mary J. Hutchins Foundation
Iremonger Trust
Flora Isenberg
Percival E. Jackson
Carola Jacoby
Eleanor Flynn Johnson Trust
J. P. Morgan Charitable Trust
Hattie Joseph
Stanley E. Kapp
Serge Kotlarsky
A. Stanley Kramer and Edith R. Kramer Trust
Sidney & Judith Kranes Charitable Trust
Henry Krumb
Tilly Evelyn Lash
Marc & Linda Lawrence Family Trust
I. Montefiore Levy
Hanna Lewis
Anson Lichtenstein
Elisa Lieberman
Julius Loeb
Martha Lovenheim Siegel Charitable Trust
Elizabeth M. Lyman Declaration of Trust
James A. MacDonald Foundation
Carolyn Fiske MacGregor
Florence T. May
Maybaum Memorial Niche Trust
Maybaum Brothers Memorial Fund
Bernard H. Mazure
Matthew T. Mellon Foundation
Hoyt Miller
Madge & Hoyt Miller Trust
Madge Miller
Sophia Miller
J. P. Morgan Services Inc.
Samuel J. Mortiz
Bert Nachman
William J. Nagle
National Philanthropic Trust
Elsie and Walter Naumburg
The New York Community Trust
Jacob Nusbaum
Adolph S. Ochs
Nannie Ochs
George W. Ochs-Oakes
Rosa Petschek
Walter and Franziska Petschek Family Trust
The Peixotto Trust
Margaret J. Plant-Graves
Louise B. Poppe
Helen B. Post
Frank H. Rank
The Abraham & Pearl Reinfeld Charitable Trust
Oscar and Eyhel B. Reiss
Max Richter
John Roach Trust
Jack & Leslie Ronder
Rae Marie Schloss
John W. and Eva A. Schulz
Harry Sices
Augustus I. Siesel
The Pierre F. Simon Charitable Trust
Harriet A. Simons Revocable Living Trust
George V. and Jean A. Smith Charitable Trust
Charles F. Speare
Florence W. Sprague
Franklin K. Sprague
Vicki Steinhardt Living Trust
Hertha Stern
Jane L. Stitt
Peter Stobereck
David Straus
Solon E. Summerfield Foundation
Madelon Sundheimer for Jane Sydney
James and Sophie Sylvester
Edwin Tassel
The Tebil Foundation
James and Emma Valentine
Robert O. Veit
Elizabeth Walker
Henry L. Walker Jr.
Roberta Waxman
Albert Louis Weschler
Weingarten Memorial
Wilbur Trust
Louis Wiley
Henrietta S. Wolf
Mabelle Allen Wood
Stephanie Sylvester Wurtzel Charitable Remainder Trust
The Marjorie Wyman Charitable Annuity Trust

ESTATES

Tillye B. Aaronson
Fred Abmeier
Dorothy Ackerman
Gladys Adler
William L. Agress
B. Carnelia Alverson
Rose Angstreich
Eugene Bascho, Est. Sophie L. Bascho
John L. Blackman Sr.
Myra A. Blum
Nellie Blum
Elizabeth H. Bryant
Iris De La Torre Bueno
Walter H. Bunke
Salle Kroll Caro
Katharina Coste
Constance Cutner
Edward Engel
Edward Faraldo
Shirley Fastenberg
Madeline J. Foley
Stephen Friedman
Ferdinand Glantzlin
Adolph M. Glueck
Audrey Gottschalk
Eric Grave
Milton Greenblatt
J. Stanley Gross
Anita Guterman
Harriet A. Harburg
Blanche G. Haltzel
Herbert K. Hayes
Ruth A. Heller
Robert Heroz
Agnes Hoffar
Rita D. Hornstein
Elsie Hummel
Jessica Ruth Jacobs
Joane Karr
Fred J. Kalb
Ludwig Klauber
Elsa W. Koestler
Albert G. and Alison R. Lanier
Jeanne Lautman
Arthur Ledman
Essie E. Lee
Marie A. Mahoney
Ruth H. Markowitz
George Martin
Ethel R. Mayorg-Rivas
Elizabeth M. McCrudden
Frederic A. McRae
Cleo L. Mitchell
McKnight Mitchel
Helen Willens Moose
Dorothy F. Moress
Maria L. Moretti
Warren Newman
Joseph A. Palisi
Theodore Phillips
Florence Pollack
Ilse Redlich
Lucy Retailliau
Wells Richardson
Evelyn Rittenhouse
Michael J. Ruberto
Celia Russel
William Salloch
Salvatore Saraceno
Walter Schwab
Alfred Marc Serex
Jack E. Shelby
Janet A. Slone
Julien E. Strauss
Franklin A. Sprague
Hertha Stern
Beatrice R. Swaab
Conrad Taff
Jacob Wallach
Liselotte Wollmann
Rose Wollstein
Lawrence Zirinsky

GRAPHIC: Chart: "KEEPING TRACK: Nearly Nine Decades of Giving"Annual donations to The New York Times Neediest Cases Fund. Adjusted for inflation, in 2000 dollars. Graph tracks annual donations.(Sources: The New York Times Company Foundation, The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CHARITIES (78%); FUNDRAISING (78%); FOUNDATIONS (78%); PHILANTHROPY (76%); EXECUTIVES (76%); HOMELESSNESS (60%); THANKSGIVING (50%) NEW YORK TIMES NEEDIEST CASES FUND; RECORDS AND ACHIEVEMENTS 

COMPANY: NEW YORK TIMES CO (84%)

TICKER: NYT (NYSE) (84%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS519130 INTERNET PUBLISHING & BROADCASTING & WEB SEARCH PORTALS (84%); NAICS515210 CABLE & OTHER SUBSCRIPTION PROGRAMMING (84%); NAICS511110 NEWSPAPER PUBLISHERS (84%) SIC2711 NEWSPAPER PUBLISHERS; 

PERSON: DONOVAN, AARON 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: March 11, 2001 



277 of 868 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 11, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 1; Column 2; Metropolitan Desk; Second Front; Pg. 37

LENGTH: 1568 words

HEADLINE: An Appetite for Construction; 
New Jersey Cries Sprawl, but Lets Suburbs Swell

BYLINE:  By ANDREW JACOBS 

DATELINE: WEST WINDSOR, N.J., March 9 

 BODY:
If New Jersey residents had any illusions that the 2000 census might ease their state's reputation as an ever-growing tangle of vinyl-sided mansions, discount superstores and free parking, they were surely disappointed by figures that showed the continued triumph of suburbanization over urban revitalization.
 Sure, a handful of cities within Manhattan's golden orbit logged respectable population gains, but most of the 578,176 people who arrived in the state since 1990 headed straight for the pastoral beauty that can still be glimpsed in places like this rapidly growing suburb of Princeton. 
 Lured by low crime, big new houses and proud schools, affluent baby boomers raced to New Jersey's new frontier, the so-called wealth belt that stretches across the state's waistline. Over the years, Warren Jones, 71, has watched and winced as look-alike subdivisions spread across West Windsor's wheat fields and orchards, doubling the township's population to 21,907 in 15 years. 
"It's a disgrace what's happened to the land," said Mr. Jones, a retired banker who moved here in the early 1960's. "The young folks think they're getting away from regular suburbia. But the more of them that come, the more it's going to look like the other suburbs." 
Such anguished cries can be heard all across the Garden State, which has been losing 18,000 acres of greenery a year to commercial and residential development, according to state planning officials. But despite the public hand-wringing and endless talk about smart growth, New Jersey cannot seem to stop itself from gobbling up the woodlands and fields that once dominated a bucolic landscape that stretched from western Bergen County to southern Cape May County.
Although an increasing number of municipalities are trying to slow the juggernaut by acquiring open space and requiring large lots for construction, local officials are still obsessed by the never-ending pursuit of development they hope will offset property tax increases that were largely caused by earlier residential growth. 
In recent years, West Windsor, for one, voted to pay for an ambitious farm preservation program. But the township also granted permits for two million square feet of office space and housing that is expected to draw more than 3,000 new residents. "Nobody wants a community that doesn't grow," said the mayor, Carole Carson. "If a town doesn't grow, it dies."
With its robust economy and booming population, New Jersey is not about to die. Although old industrial cities like Camden, Trenton and Newark are still struggling and many rural hamlets in the southernmost counties lost population, the 1990's were remarkably good to New Jersey. The state, the nation's most densely populated, with the highest median income in the country, has been creating about 73,000 jobs a year since 1996, nearly three-fourths of them in the wealth belt, a six-county region that is host to corporate behemoths like AT&T, Johnson & Johnson and Aventis.
But environmentalists and planning experts say that prosperity came at a price. "The census shows that New Jersey is entering a land use crisis," said Jeff Tittel, director of the state's Sierra Club chapter. Overdevelopment is contaminating public water supplies and increasing the frequency of catastrophic floods, he said. Wildlife is struggling to survive on fragmented patches of forest, and half of the state's rivers and streams are considered polluted by the federal Environmental Protection Agency. New Jersey ranks 49th among the states in air quality.
"Nature is sending us a wake-up call," Mr. Tittel said. "If we don't do something now, the environmental consequences are going to be devastating."
Nerve-jangling traffic jams snake through even the most countrified settings, and commuters here spend more time driving than those of any other state in the country. Sprawl, the rallying cry, has roused the concern of the state's most free-market-oriented Republicans and even a few developers. "All this uncontrolled growth is really short-sighted," said Steve Pozycki, chairman of S.J.P. Properties, the state's biggest builder of office space. "Wouldn't it be nice to keep a little green belt before it all gets paved over?"
The problem is that the state's political leaders do nor seem to be ready to do the heavy lifting that would wrest zoning decisions from the state's 566 towns. The state Development and Redevelopment Plan, a painstaking guide for growth, calls for steering development into cities, existing suburbs and rural New Jersey's designated town centers. Adopted in 1992 and revised last month by the State Planning Commission, it remains a well-meaning set of suggestions. 
"The plan is a joke," said Mr. Tittel of the Sierra Club. "The State Planning Commission is like the dance band on the Titanic."
The gubernatorial candidates, Acting Gov. Donald T. DiFrancesco and Bret D. Schundler, both Republicans, and James E. McGreevey, a Democrat, are unlikely to turn New Jersey into another Oregon, a state that dictates strict development rules for every municipality. While all three support reining in sprawl and encouraging the redevelopment of urban areas, they stop short of calling for the kinds of restrictions on rural development that environmentalists have been urging.
The land use lawyer for the New Jersey League of Municipalities, Stuart Koenig, said local governments feared that a mandatory plan would lead to unreasonable costs. "I don't think there's anyone who views sprawl as a positive thing," he said. "But how much are people willing to back it up with their wallet? That remains unknown."
Ask New Jersey residents, and their responses are full of conflict. Like most of his neighbors in fast-growing Somerset County, Karl Hammerdorfer complains about the vanishing countryside and the creeping congestion. But as a house painter, he also loves the additional business from a boom that created 20,000 new houses in 10 years. "I've got so many job offers, I have to turn most of them away," he said. 
Frank Moramarco, 43, a postal worker, said he disliked the soulless tracts of housing that overtook his town, Hillsborough. "There's nothing to do here, no town center, no town spirit," he said Thursday as he made his rounds through a development called Crestmont Manor. But asked if he favored a building moratorium, Mr. Moramarco shrugged. "I guess it's not really fair to say, 'Now that I'm here, no one else should come in,' " he said. 
The construction industry agrees, saying so-called smart growth does not appeal to home buyers. "People say they don't like sprawl, but by and large, they want a suburban lifestyle," said Joanne Harkins, a land use expert for the New Jersey Builders Association. "There are certain times when people prefer urban living, but the vast majority of citizens prefer a detached single-family house on a lot of their own. That's what we build because that's what people want."
Builders and environmentalists agree that New Jersey's municipalities will continue to court development as long as the state's property tax system remains the primary source for financing schools and services. In New Jersey, 98 percent of local revenues come from property taxes, compared with the national average of 75 percent. The pursuit of tax revenues is driving sprawl, said Susan Burrows, a spokeswoman for New Jersey Future, an organization that promotes more controlled growth. "We have to make a change."
Of course just about every candidate for governor in recent years has promised to reform the state's tax system. But after a new governor takes office, the political obstacles to change have proved insurmountable. 
With 900,000 newcomers projected by state planners in the next 20 years, cynics say New Jersey can expect more of the same. But others, like James W. Hughes, dean of the Edward J. Bloustein School of Planning and Public Policy at Rutgers University, see change in the wind.
Demographics, he said, may ultimately do the work for opponents of sprawl. The affluent generation that fed New Jersey's home-building bonanza in the 1980's and 1990's will one day become empty-nesters, he said. Those in the leading edge of that great population bulge, he pointed out, are starting to reach their mid-50's. "Once they find themselves rattling around in their McMansions with time on their hands, they're going to make different housing choices," he said.
In the coming decade, he predicted, aging baby boomers will turn away from the subdivisions that nurtured their children and flock to cities and traditional towns. "Some of them will want to be near entertainment, restaurants, places where you can walk," he said. 
Of course there are optimists who think the changes will happen much sooner.
James Gilbert, a Merrill Lynch executive and former chairman of the State Planning Commission, said the political pressure for a solution is becoming unavoidable. After 17 years of living in the Bergen County city of Englewood, Mr. Gilbert recently moved west to Morristown, to escape an increasingly onerous commute to his suburban office.
"Sprawl," he said. "is catching up with all of us." As popular discontent grows, Mr. Gilbert said, New Jersey's elected officials will be forced to turn the state plan into a mandate.
"It will take an aggressive governor to really put his shoulder to it," he said. "But the way things are going, I think we're almost there."

GRAPHIC: Photo: Across New Jersey, areas that environmentalists call fragile have sprouted subdivisions, like the Ramapo River Reserve in Oakland, which the Sierra Club has criticized. (Demitrius Balevski for The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: SUBURBS (91%); RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (89%); CITY LIFE (89%); POPULATION GROWTH (89%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (78%); CENSUS (78%); POPULATION SIZE (78%); ZONING (77%); CITY GOVERNMENT (77%); POPULATION DENSITY (77%); LAND USE PLANNING (77%); CITIES (77%); REAL ESTATE (76%); COMMERCIAL & RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (75%); RESIDENTIAL CONSTRUCTION (75%); REAL ESTATE DEVELOPMENT (73%); CONSTRUCTION (73%); URBAN DEVELOPMENT (72%); ECONOMIC NEWS (72%); DISCOUNT & CLUB STORES (72%); MAYORS (72%); BABY BOOMERS (71%); PROPERTY TAX (70%); COMMERCIAL PROPERTY (69%); ENVIRONMENTAL & WILDLIFE ORGANIZATIONS (65%); OFFICE PROPERTY (61%) HOUSING; LAND USE POLICIES; ZONING; SUBURBS 

ORGANIZATION: SIERRA CLUB (84%) SIERRA CLUB 

PERSON: JACOBS, ANDREW 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEWARK, NJ, USA (79%); TRENTON, NJ, USA (79%) NEW JERSEY, USA (96%) UNITED STATES (96%) NEW JERSEY

LOAD-DATE: March 11, 2001 



278 of 868 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 11, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 4; Column 1; Editorial Desk; Pg. 14

LENGTH: 380 words

HEADLINE: The Lax Habits of America's Banks 

 BODY:
When a large and reputable American bank receives millions of dollars from a financial institution that is little more than a laptop computer on a Caribbean island, one might hope that its staff would be curious about the origins of the money. Yet top officials in some of the nation's leading banks recently acknowledged that their employees too often failed to question such accounts, thereby unwittingly abetting money launderers. 
 Representatives of the Bank of America, Citibank and J. P. Morgan Chase said at a Senate hearing earlier this month that their staffs had failed to adequately monitor the accounts of Caribbean offshore banks that were found by Congressional investigators to have laundered millions of dollars in proceeds from organized crime. Their admissions gave credence to a disturbing Congressional report that found that some of the nation's leading banks are providing a gateway for "rogue" foreign banks to deposit and disguise money that is generated by criminal activities abroad. 
 The report, published by the Democratic staff of the Senate investigations subcommittee, said leading American banks have facilitated money laundering through their so-called correspondent accounts for high-risk foreign banks. Correspondent banking relationships allow foreign banks to establish accounts at American banks, giving them access to America's banking network. These include shell banks that have no physical presence in the countries in which they are licensed. A dozen offshore banks identified in the report as having a history of suspicious accounts moved billions of dollars through correspondent accounts in the last several years. 
After the Asian and Russian financial crises and the Bank of New York scandal, in which Russian oligarchs moved billions of dollars through accounts at the bank, the Clinton administration took the lead in highlighting the dangers that money laundering can present to global financial stability. Banks are wary of new laws governing their activities. Some banks named in the report say they have already taken steps aimed at preventing abuses of their correspondent bank accounts. But banks will need to do more to strengthen their own money-laundering safeguards if they are to be spared legislative intervention. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Editorial 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: INVESTIGATIONS (90%); MONEY LAUNDERING (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); LAPTOP COMPUTERS (78%); BANKING & FINANCE REGULATION (78%); ORGANIZED CRIME (74%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (73%); LEGISLATION (70%) BANKS AND BANKING; EDITORIALS; MONEY LAUNDERING; ORGANIZED CRIME 

COMPANY: BANK OF AMERICA CORP (90%); BANK OF NEW YORK MELLON CORP (90%); JPMORGAN CHASE & CO (90%)

TICKER: BAC (NYSE) (90%); BAC (LSE) (90%); 8648 (TSE) (90%); BK (NYSE) (90%); JPM (NYSE) (90%); JPM (LSE) (90%); 8634 (TSE) (90%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (90%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (90%); SIC6712 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (90%); NAICS523999 MISCELLANEOUS FINANCIAL INVESTMENT ACTIVITIES (90%); SIC6022 STATE COMMERCIAL BANKS (90%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (96%); CARIBBEAN ISLANDS (93%) CARIBBEAN AREA

LOAD-DATE: March 11, 2001 



279 of 868 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 11, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 4; Column 6; Editorial Desk; Pg. 14

LENGTH: 158 words

HEADLINE: Next Move for Turkey 

 BODY:
To the Editor:
 "Turkey's Economic Troubles" (editorial, March 4) is correct to point out the homegrown problems facing the Turkish economy. In addition to rampant corruption and poor monetary policy, Turkey's economy is in crisis largely because of its out-of-control military spending. 
It is also sapped by the propping up of a corrupt and economically anemic regime in northern Cyprus. 
 Moreover, you state that Turkey deserves credit because it "has developed constructive military relations with Israel." With threats of war or blockade against virtually all of its neighbors a perennial feature of Turkish foreign policy, one is hard pressed to imagine how "constructive" an enhanced Turkish military will be in an already volatile area. 
The Bush administration and the International Monetary Fund would be well advised to withhold further financial assistance until Turkey binds its own wounds.

PAUL J. KUTSCERA
Bayside, Queens, March 6, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (91%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); INTERNATIONAL ASSISTANCE (90%); ECONOMIC POLICY (90%); FOREIGN POLICY (88%); BANKING & FINANCE (88%); PUBLIC POLICY (88%); CORRUPTION (88%); DEFENSE SPENDING (87%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (74%); MONETARY POLICY (71%); TRENDS (70%); WAR & CONFLICT (53%) UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; FOREIGN AID; FINANCES; ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS 

ORGANIZATION: INTERNATIONAL MONETARY FUND (83%) INTERNATIONAL MONETARY FUND 

PERSON: KUTSCERA, PAUL J 

GEOGRAPHIC: TURKEY (95%); CYPRUS (92%); UNITED STATES (92%) TURKEY

LOAD-DATE: March 11, 2001 



280 of 868 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 11, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 3; Column 4; Money and Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 1015 words

PERSON: Kay Koplovitz 

HEADLINE: Private Sector; 
Shaking the Venture Capital Tree

BYLINE:  By SUZANNE MacNEILLE

 BODY:
SITTING in her office in Midtown Manhattan, Kay Koplovitz took a break from talking about venture capital and women in the workplace and described her recent vacation in Patagonia. The highlight of the trip, Ms. Koplovitz said, was having herself hooked up to a spidery arrangement of straps and pulleys and cables and then dangling for a few suspended moments between the walls of a gorge that rose high above the rapids of the Futeleufu River.
 "I enjoy high-risk adventure," Ms. Koplovitz said. It was a statement that could be applied to many aspects of her life. 
 Two and a half years after stepping down as president and chief executive of USA Networks, Ms. Koplovitz, now 55, has wasted no time in seeking new business challenges.
Ms. Koplovitz is now chief executive of Working Woman Network, which includes Working Woman and Working Mother magazines, as well as workingwoman.com, which she hopes will emerge from the economic weakness afflicting the dot-com industry to become the principal Internet site for women in the business world. She is also chairwoman of Broadcast Television Network, a fledgling pay-per-view cable venture that features taped productions of live Broadway shows. 
And since 1998, Ms. Koplovitz has been head of the National Women's Business Council. (This spring, she will likely give up that post, to which she was appointed by former President Bill Clinton.)
One project that appears to absorb much of Ms. Koplovitz's time these days is called Springboard, a nonprofit series of investment forums intended to link venture capitalists with female entrepreneurs, primarily in high-growth technology and health-related businesses. 
Springboard was started a little more than a year ago by Ms. Koplovitz and several associates. The effort has had noticeable success, generating more than $400 million in venture financing for businesses led by women.
"Springboard has helped tremendously in putting women business owners on the radar screens of equity investors," said Sharon Hadary, executive director of the National Foundation for Women Business Owners, a Washington-based group that tracks how women have financed businesses. In the venture capital financial networks, Ms. Hadary said, women have been virtually invisible. "Equity markets work through referrals, and women have just not been part of that referral system," she said. "When Kay Koplovitz was planning this out, I don't think she ever envisioned that Springboard would be as successful as it has become." 
If Ms. Koplovitz was unaware at the start -- which seems doubtful, given her self-professed confidence in her ideas -- she certainly is not any more. Springboard's rapid success, she said, points to its necessity.
"When I first started studying the relationships between women-owned businesses and venture capital in 1998, I was shocked that the year before, only 1.5 percent of the $20 billion of venture capital raised had gone to women-run businesses," she said. More recent figures, provided by VentureOne, a venture capital research firm, show that 4.43 percent of the $68.8 billion in venture capital raised last year went to companies whose chief executives were women.
In Ms. Koplovitz's view, this lack of access to sources of capital funds is not so much a matter of blatant discrimination as "a total disconnect" between the male-dominated world of venture capital and female executives.
These days, such disconnects have become Kay Koplovitz's calling. She sees them as a gap that must be bridged, a network that must be built.
"It may seem obvious, but in the world of finance, who you know counts for a lot," Ms. Koplovitz said. "That's something I've known my entire business life." 
She acknowledged that her business life had taken some unexpected turns since she stepped down from USA Networks in mid-1998. After spending 20 years building USA Networks from scratch -- and, in the process, developing a reputation as one of the most powerful and headstrong women in the cable television industry -- it was difficult for colleagues to imagine her anywhere but the cable business.
But when Barry Diller acquired USA in a $4.1 billion deal, it was inevitable that Ms. Koplovitz would leave her post. "She was a first-rate executive," Mr. Diller said, "but I had to tell her, 'The reality is, you functioned as the C.E.O., and I really think the amount we paid for this gives me the right to take on that responsibility.' "
Some associates were disappointed that she left the business.
"I was concerned about the departure of another role model for women, and mildly surprised," said Susan Ness, a member of the Federal Communications Commission. "But she is an entrepreneur, and there are many outlets for someone with her exceptional talents."
Ms. Koplovitz was vague when asked how she felt about leaving USA Networks.
"There's really not a one-word description," she said. "If there is, it's, 'Next.' "
In recent weeks, she has been focused on a Springboard forum to be held in Manhattan on Tuesday. Twenty-five entrepreneurs -- all women -- will have 12 minutes each to convince an audience of more than 200 venture capitalists that they should invest tens of millions of dollars in the women's businesses.
Like all Springboard participants, the women, who have been chosen from hundreds of applicants, have been coached by mentors -- investors, lawyers, accountants and others -- about what works and what does not in the art of financial persuasion.
Joan Wilbanks, chairman of SecureWorks, an Internet security company in Atlanta, who raised $20 million at the Springboard forum last year in Washington, says the coaching is rigorous. 
"They made it clear right from the beginning: 'You'll do it our way, or you're out.' " she said. "The first time I tried out my presentation, they ripped it apart; I had to do it over and over again."
Ms. Koplovitz, who has endured more than a few sloppy, rambling business presentations at more traditional investment forums, says coaching is essential. "Men can get away with embarrassingly inadequate presentations," she said, "but women cannot."

GRAPHIC: Photo: Kay Koplovitz, former chief executive of USA Networks, at her apartment in Manhattan. She now spends part of her time organizing investment forums for women who are entrepreneurs. (Frances Roberts for The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Biography 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: WOMEN WORKERS (91%); WOMEN (90%); VENTURE CAPITAL (90%); WOMAN OWNED BUSINESSES (89%); EXECUTIVES (89%); VENTURE CAPITAL APPLICANTS & RECIPIENTS (78%); ENTREPRENEURSHIP (78%); US PRESIDENTS (74%); BUSINESS & PROFESSIONAL ASSOCIATIONS (74%); TELEVISION INDUSTRY (74%); WORKING MOTHERS (73%); INTERNET & WWW (72%); APPOINTMENTS (71%); BROADCASTING INDUSTRY (69%); NONPROFIT ORGANIZATIONS (69%); PAY PER VIEW (66%) Terms not available from NYTimes. 

BILL CLINTON (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (93%) NEW YORK, USA (93%) UNITED STATES (93%)

CATEGORY: Business and Finance 

LOAD-DATE: April 18, 2001 



281 of 868 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 11, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 6; Column 1; Magazine Desk; Pg. 40

LENGTH: 4989 words

HEADLINE: The Claritin Effect; 
Prescription for Profit

BYLINE:  By Stephen S. Hall; Stephen S. Hall is a contributing writer for the magazine. He is working on a book about the molecular biology of aging.

 BODY:
It had been yet another miserable, nose-dripping, red-eyed spring a couple of years ago, when I finally went to see an allergy specialist. I've been battered by seasonal allergies all my life but relied on family doctors and, more recently, "primary-care physicians" for relief. In a kind of a pharmaceutical version of playing catch with Dad, my father and I shared his hay-fever pills when I was growing up. They were smooth, round yellow tablets, etched with a tiny red corporate symbol that was as delicate as a Chinese ideograph. At a time before people routinely gobbled down a half dozen medicines a day, those pills held a kind of mythic power for me, not only because they could make the misery of allergies disappear but also because they were prescription drugs -- inherently more powerful, more inaccessible, more special.
 Those yellow pills were called Chlor-Trimeton, manufactured by the Schering-Plough Corporation, first as a prescription drug and then, after 1976, as an over-the-counter medication. It definitely worked, but it knocked me out. I remember days when I felt glazed by sleepiness. Even as the high tide in my nose and throat subsided, I felt mentally waterlogged. 
 For the most part, I managed to get by with over-the-counter medications until that spring in 1999, when I decided I needed something stronger. After rummaging through a cabinet in the examining room, my new allergist handed me a week's supply of Claritin, also made by Schering-Plough. Claritin was, and still is, the most frequently dispensed drug sample in the United States, part of the nearly $8 billion worth of free drug samples that pharmaceutical companies distribute to doctors annually. I had seen the ads on TV -- who hadn't? I figured I'd give it a try.
Claritin had several other distinctions: it was by then the best-selling antihistamine in the United States, indeed the most profitable antihistamine of all time, with annual sales of more than $2billion. And it was the most aggressively marketed drug to American consumers. Claritin is a drug for our time: designed to relieve symptoms and improve "quality of life," hardly lifesaving or even curative, expensive as hell. A month's supply of Claritin currently costs about $80 or $85 in the United States, even though it is an over-the-counter drug in dozens of other countries, where it usually costs $10 or $15. The high domestic price is paired with an enormous potential market: an estimated 35 million Americans suffer seasonal allergies, and many of us will be feeling that first tickle of dread later this month, when spring tree pollen begins to barge into our air passages like molecular roustabouts.
So I went home and tried it. The little white pill was easy to swallow and had to be taken only once a day. There was just one problem: it didn't work. It didn't relieve my runny nose and red-rimmed, gunked-up eyes. When I told my allergist, he didn't seem particularly surprised. Only about 30 to 40 percent of his patients, he said, found the drug helpful. And, he added, that estimate was "generous." I was surprised, perhaps naively, by this remark. I figured a "blockbuster" drug would be efficacious in more than 50 percent of the people who took it. The percentage he mentioned, incidentally, is certainly debatable; in fact a debate broke out later between my allergist and his partner, who thought 50 or 55 percent was more like it. Even so, it made me wonder: $80 for a drug that works only half the time? 
Claritin has been singled out as a prime example of greed by the American pharmaceutical industry, notably last summer by Al Gore during his presidential campaign, and there has been a constant stream of negative press about Schering-Plough's efforts to get the basic patent on Claritin extended beyond its 2002 expiration. Schering-Plough has argued that the patent should be extended because the Food and Drug Administration review of Claritin was unusually "protracted" (which, in fact, it was). To press its case in Washington, the company has paid millions of dollars in political contributions and assembled a high-powered, strange-bedfellows team of lobbyists (including the former senators Howard Baker and Dennis DeConcini, the Gore confidant Peter Knight and Linda Daschle, wife of the Senate minority leader, Tom Daschle); it has also encouraged repeated attempts by Congressional supporters to insert language favorable to Schering into legislation at the last instant.
Claritin's 77-month odyssey through the F.D.A. approval process was indeed lengthy, as a General Accounting Office report, issued last August, documents. That report prompted me to read through the transcripts of old F.D.A. meetings, obtain other documents through Freedom of Information requests and speak to doctors about allergy medications in general. As I learned more about the approval of Claritin, I realized that the biography of this one drug reveals a great deal about why prescription drugs cost so much to bring to market, and also why health-care economists like Uwe E. Reinhardt of Princeton University argue that we are paying premium prices for new drugs like these without actually knowing if they are better than the drugs they've replaced. The Claritin story is an unauthorized biography, in the sense that Schering-Plough declined to grant any interviews and responded only to written questions.
It is above all a case study of how a drug company creates a blockbuster. There are no villains, no broken laws -- just an enormous expenditure of money, a highly sophisticated understanding of food and drug laws, daring marketing, a great deal of luck. Making it all possible is a financial system that ultimately passes along the high price of a modest drug to third-party payers -- and you. 
Claritin's journey from lab bench to marketplace was nearly epic in the time it took, the vicissitudes encountered and the plot twists along the way. In June 1980, when Schering filed a patent for the group of chemical compounds that included the drug that would eventually be known as Claritin, the world of drug development was quite different. It typically cost a pharmaceutical company roughly $200 million to $250 million to develop a new drug; that cost is estimated to be closer to $500 million today, a figure that also accounts for failures along the way. A patent lasted 17 years from the date it was issued; it now lasts 20 years from the date the application is filed. And the effective patent life of a new drug -- the amount of time a company can expect to enjoy an exclusive run in the marketplace -- was about eight years; the average effective patent life of a drug has nearly doubled since then. The Schering patent, issued Aug. 4, 1981, stated that the compounds, including the future Claritin, were "useful as antihistamines with little or no sedative effects." Pharmaceutical companies rarely disclose the cost of bringing a specific drug to market, but it's a safe bet that it took at least several hundred million dollars to deliver on the promise of those nine words.
Loratadine (pronounced "low-RAT-a-deen") -- the generic name for Claritin -- was one of several second-generation antihistamines that emerged from drug-company laboratories in the 1980's. They worked by essentially the same simple mechanism as the first-generation antihistamines developed immediately after World War II, like Chlor-Trimeton. When pollen bumps into certain immune-system cells just beneath the lining of the nose, eyes or respiratory passages, it provokes an immunological overreaction in susceptible people. Thus perturbed, these "mast cells" shudder with the molecular equivalent of uncontrollable weeping; they churn out at least 15 different inflammatory molecules, many of which contribute to the allergic reaction. One of those molecules, unleashed instantaneously, is called histamine.
When these roving histamine molecules attach to receptors on nearby nerve cells, you feel an itch or a sneeze or a scratchy, ticklish palate. When they dock onto receptors in nearby blood vessels, the vessels become porous and leaky, and fluids begin to ooze into the tissues of your nose and eyes. Antihistamine drugs work because the active ingredient is a molecule that fits like a cap onto the histamine receptor, blocking the signal that causes itchy, watery symptoms.
Everyone agrees these drugs are effective, but just how effective is very difficult to say. All the antihistamine drugs, new and old, are plagued by high placebo effects. "It's a question of how bad a placebo effect you have," says Dr. Peter S. Creticos, head of the allergy and clinical immunology division at the Johns Hopkins University School of Medicine. "The placebo effect can be anywhere from 20 to 40 percent."
Complicating the process of determining efficacy is how the data are gathered: patients in these trials typically assess their own degree of symptom relief, which many allergists concede makes the data somewhat subjective.
Then there's the sponsorship of the science. Because the placebo effect is so high, large numbers of patients must be enlisted in clinical trials to achieve a robust, or statistically "significant," result, which means that only drug companies can afford the expense. Studies sponsored by drug companies tend to show an advantage for the company's own products. Zyrtec, an antihistamine produced by Pfizer, for example, has been shown to be more potent than other drugs in its antihistamine effect -- in a study sponsored by Pfizer. Desloratadine, currently awaiting F.D.A. approval as the next generation "super-Claritin," is said to relieve nasal stuffiness, unlike other antihistamines -- in a study done by Schering. And Allegra, produced by Aventis, was recently shown to be equal to Zyrtec -- in a study sponsored by Aventis. "They're going to take that study all the way to the bank," one academic allergist chuckled. Which is precisely the point. Scientific studies of these drugs serve as marketing tools, providing drug-company salesmen with their best lines.
The first-generation antihistamines, now sold over the counter as Chlor-Trimeton, Benadryl, Tavist and others, are still considered pretty effective medicines. In fact, many allergists told me that they are at least equivalent in medical potency to newer drugs like Claritin and Allegra. But the first-generation molecules cross the blood-brain barrier and get into the central nervous system, causing drowsiness. The second-generation drugs have been medicinally engineered to stay out of the brain. As a result, they cause little or no sedation.
A nonsedating antihistamine was clearly a desirable drug, and Schering-Plough had been looking for one since the 1960's. In fact, the company thought it had one in a compound called azatadine. The drug is still sold as Optimine, and if you've never heard of it, that's because the compound looked deceptively nonsedating when it was tested in cats and showed its true, somnolent colors only during human testing. Next came loratadine. Following years of testing, Schering formally submitted what is known as a New Drug Application, or N.D.A., to the Food and Drug Administration on Oct. 31, 1986, seeking approval of loratadine.
Schering was not the first company to knock on the F.D.A.'s door with a nonsedating antihistamine. Seldane (terfenadine), manufactured by Marion Merrell Dow, had been approved the year before, and Hismanal (astemizole) was already under F.D.A. review. Because a similar nonsedating antihistamine was already on the market, the F.D.A. assigned Claritin its lowest priority for review -- it was considered, according to an F.D.A. classification system no longer in use, a drug that "essentially duplicates in medical importance and therapeutic usage one or more already marketed drugs, offering little or no therapeutic gain over existing therapies." Technically, Claritin started out as a "me too" drug.
Schering-Plough doggedly pursued the approval of Claritin, spurred, no doubt, by the phenomenal success of Seldane. But it wasn't easy. Over six and a half years, Schering filed 37 major amendments to its application. The company decided to switch the formulation from capsules to tablets, and it took more than two years to show that the capsules used in clinical trials were pharmacologically identical to the tablets it intended to sell. Among the many obstacles Schering had to overcome, the first was to convince F.D.A. reviewers of the drug's main selling point: that it could be effective without causing drowsiness.
To approve a new drug, the F.D.A. must be convinced that it is both safe and effective. As a practical matter, that often means arriving at a balance between potency and side effects. Drug companies routinely submit notebooks of dictionary girth full of experimental results establishing a drug's safety profile, first in animals and then in human subjects. In establishing the effectiveness of a new drug, however, a company has only to show in well-designed trials that a drug is more effective than a sugar pill, and if there is already an equivalent drug on the market for the same use, that it is at least equally effective. 
The effectiveness of loratadine had been an area of F.D.A. concern as early as January 1987, just months after Schering filed its application. Dr. Sherwin D. Straus, the F.D.A. medical officer assigned to review the drug, told the company that a 10-milligram dose of Claritin -- the amount marketed today -- did not appear to be very effective. He reiterated that point in public on Oct. 23, 1987, when the F.D.A.'s Pulmonary-Allergy Drugs Advisory Committee met at the agency headquarters in Rockville, Md., to consider Schering's application for loratadine. (This panel of outside experts doesn't formally approve new drugs, but makes influential recommendations to the agency.)
Establishing a drug's safety and efficacy is not a pretty business. A parade of Schering representatives described a staggering amount of data from animal tests in mice, rats, guinea pigs, cats and monkeys, including the "mouse-paw edema test" (in which mice have their paws cut off and weighed to see how successfully an antihistamine inhibits swelling). In several studies, extremely high doses of the drug, consumed daily for up to two years, produced borderline evidence of liver-tumor formation in rats and male mice, but otherwise loratadine appeared very clean. Indeed, the company maintains that the drug's "excellent safety profile is well established" by 10 billion "patient days" of experience in the marketplace.
After preclinical animal tests, Schering began to test loratadine in thousands of human patients, first to establish its safety and then to prove its effectiveness. The company ultimately submitted three so-called "pivotal" clinical trials to support the drug's safety and efficacy. Schering conducted what is considered the gold standard in drug testing -- randomized, double-blind trials pitting Claritin against both placebo and one of several already approved antihistamines -- and the results reveal just how vexing the placebo effect can be. In one study, for example, people taking Claritin experienced a 46 percent improvement in symptoms at the end of the trial; patients taking a placebo reported 35percent improvement. In another trial, Claritin produced 43 percent improvement versus 32 percent on placebo. As part of these same studies, physicians examined the patients and, unaware of which treatment each had received, assessed their condition; these doctors concluded that anywhere from 37 to 47 percent of patients taking the sugar pill showed a "good or excellent response to treatment."
When it was his turn to speak, Straus engaged in a little bureaucratic soft-shoe, complimenting the Schering team's presentations as "a tough act to follow." Then he tried to demolish the heart of Schering's application. Straus didn't doubt that loratadine worked as an antihistamine, he said; he just doubted that it worked at the 10-milligram dose. In fact, at one point he claimed that "10 milligrams is not very different than placebo clinically." The reason the dose was so low, he argued, is that evidence of sedation began to crop up at higher, more effective doses.
What he didn't say -- but what everyone understood -- is that using a higher, more effective dose of Claritin would affect how the drug was described on the label. The term "nonsedating" was considered a critical marketing point. A single adjective or phrase contained in the F.D.A.-approved label -- no more sedating than a sugar pill," for example -- can form the basis of claims made by company salesmen to doctors, the basis of words that throb in the bold type of advertisements, even the basis of lawsuits filed against competitors. Those seemingly eye-glazing, hairsplitting distinctions provide the foundation for multimillion-dollar marketing campaigns. 
The clash over effectiveness was crystallized in one edgy exchange between Straus and Dr. Anthony Nicholson, a British neuroscientist, one of the Schering-sponsored clinical researchers, over the interpretation of a study that compared loratadine to a sedating antihistamine called tripolidine. "We are not actually in the business of saying one drug is better than the other," Nicholson told Straus. "We are in the business of saying whether a drug is acceptable in terms of its performance profile."
"But how can you say it is acceptable in terms of its performance profile," Straus replied, "without comparing it to what else is out there?"
"We compare it with placebo," Nicholson said.
"So you compare it to nothing."
"Yes."
"And it is better than nothing."
"Yes."
"All right," Straus said. "I can't argue with that."
The Schering representatives gave as good as they got. One suggested that Straus was guilty of statistical mischief; he had selectively looked at variables, subsets and time points, "and this is, as I am sure everybody in this audience knows, the perfect method of proving any claim one wants." Dr. William Darrow, a senior vice president at Schering, acknowledged that Straus's concerns were legitimate, "but for us the question is whether we have demonstrated consistently superiority and adequate efficacy over placebo by the 10-milligram dose. And we stand on our data there."
In a sense, they were both right. Schering had shown, according to the requirements of the law, that a 10-milligram dose of loratadine was more effective, and no more sedating, than placebo. And Straus had argued, to the satisfaction of at least some people on the committee, that while the drug might be more effective than placebo, it was not a whole lot more effective. 
Perhaps the most startling assertion made at that 1987 meeting came not from Straus, however, but from Leslie Hendeles, a pharmacology professor at the University of Florida, and it is as relevant to allergy sufferers today as it was back then. He suggested that most of the patients in Schering's Claritin studies would have been better off being treated with a different class of allergy medication altogether -- steroid nasal sprays. "Certainly, in this kind of patient that was selected for this study," he said to the gathering, "most clinicians would probably use intranasal steroids to provide very prompt and sustained relief, rather than antihistamines." To treat full-blown allergy symptoms with an antihistamine, he continued, was "pharmacologically irrational."
Hendeles and other experts made a similar point to me recently: steroid nasal sprays, like Flonase and Schering's own Nasonex, shut off an allergic reaction that's already under way. In 1998, the Annals of Allergy, Asthma and Immunology published treatment guidelines stating that these nasal sprays "are the most effective medication class for controlling symptoms" of allergies. The popular antihistamines are valuable at preventing an allergy attack from getting under way if taken ahead of time and seem to be effective against eye symptoms, but they rarely bring quick and substantial relief of nasal symptoms once histamine has already begun to wreak havoc. "We don't use these medicines correctly," said Peter Creticos of Johns Hopkins. "As I tell patients, by the time the process starts, the horse is already out of the barn in terms of the antihistamines. You turn the process off by using a nasal steroid."
Although the F.D.A. advisory committee recommended approval of loratadine, Straus remained skeptical. In the conclusions of a 321-page "medical officer review" dated Nov. 9, 1987, he described the proposed 10-milligram dose of Claritin as "minimally effective versus placebo" and added that 40 milligrams appeared to be "the minimum effective dose." He also argued that the label "must include sedation as an adverse reaction and include warnings to this effect." A former F.D.A. official, who requested anonymity, said that the agency informally asked Schering to test a higher dose of loratadine but lacked the regulatory authority to mandate it.
By May 1988, however, the F.D.A. had come to the conclusion that the 10-milligram dose was no more sedating than a placebo pill, and by July 1989, as the General Accounting Office report puts it, "a consensus had developed at F.D.A. that 10 milligrams was effective." It is impossible to determine whether Sherwin Straus had changed his mind. Around the time he was assessing loratadine, according to former colleagues, he developed multiple sclerosis and became seriously ill, eventually dying of the disease. 
"Schering-Plough always believed that loratadine was safe and effective at the 10-milligram dose," William O'Donnell, a company spokesman, wrote in reply to a question, "and felt that the clinical studies that were done fully supported that conclusion."
Pharmaceutical executives rarely talk about luck as a feature in the process of drug development, but in 1989 alone, Claritin's fortunes were buffeted like a grain of pollen in an early spring breeze. In September of that year, the acting division director at the F.D.A., reviewing the drug's status, concluded that all outstanding issues regarding safety, efficacy and the equivalence of tablets and capsules had been resolved. Claritin should have been nearing approval. But earlier in the year, as part of an F.D.A. reorganization, the Claritin application was transferred to a different division within the F.D.A.; with the transfer came a new pharmacology reviewer. This reviewer revisited some toxicology issues Schering thought had been settled.
Around this time, according to Schering, tests on other products being conducted at the F.D.A.'s National Center for Toxicological Research in Jefferson, Ark., were showing that high doses of doxylamine, an antihistamine and sleep aid, produced liver tumors in rodents. These findings apparently prompted the F.D.A. to reconsider results of animal experiments with both loratadine and cetirizine (the active ingredient in Zyrtec); they, too, had shown increases in liver adenomas, abnormal growths that were then considered to be a "larval" form of malignant tumor.
The stakes for Claritin were high. If a prescription drug caused cancer in animals but was of medical importance, and if no satisfactory alternative existed, the usual procedure would be to approve the drug and describe the findings on the drug's label, said Paula Botstein, then a deputy F.D.A. director, at a 1991 meeting. But if similar drugs were already on the market and were not carcinogens, she said, the F.D.A. would "ordinarily" not approve a new drug if it caused cancer in animals. Both Seldane and Hismanal were already on the market, and neither caused cancer in animals. Because of this situation, said a former F.D.A. official who asked not to be named, the Claritin approval was "certainly" in doubt -- even after an advisory panel concluded that it was unlikely to pose a cancer risk to humans. (The other two drugs, doxylamine and cetirizine, were also cleared of suspicion.) Nevertheless, the F.D.A. still insisted on further tests, which eventually convinced agency officials that the drug was safe. Schering-Plough has always insisted that Claritin is not a carcinogen. 
While these safety concerns were being investigated, a fateful new chapter in the Claritin story began to unfold. On a night in November 1989, in what first looked like an unrelated event, a 39-year-old woman was brought to the National Naval Medical Center in Bethesda, Md., after fainting while driving on the Washington Beltway. She had lost consciousness four times in a two-day period. She was taking the antihistamine Seldane (not for allergies but for a sinus condition) and then began using an antifungal drug, ketoconazole, to prevent a vaginal yeast infection. "And that turned out to be a deadly combination," recalled Dr. Brian P. Monahan, who treated the woman for potentially fatal cardiac arrhythmias.
As doctors investigated this unusual case, they uncovered previous reports of dangerous irregularities in heartbeat among Seldane patients. Later they found that risk in Seldane patients to be associated with ketoconazole or erythromycin, a widely used antibiotic. In August 1990, at the F.D.A.'s urging, Seldane's manufacturer, Marion Merrell Dow, sent letters to doctors warning of these potentially fatal drug interactions, and in 1992 the F.D.A. ordered warning statements, outlined by a prominent black box, to appear at the top of the label and packaging on Seldane and Hismanal. 
This turned out to be very good news for Claritin. Because of growing concerns about the two other nonsedating antihistamines, the F.D.A. "started to believe that it would be beneficial to have Claritin for sale," according to G.A.O. investigators. (Schering said in a statement, "We do not believe that loratadine was the result of a balancing of product-safety issues.") 
In the span of several years, therefore, Claritin had gone from being a me-too drug, to one that looked possibly unapprovable, to the only game in town. This regulatory roller coaster finally came to a rest in April 1993 when, 77 months after Schering applied, the F.D.A. approved loratadine.
At least one analyst, Mara Goldstein of C.I.B.C. World Markets, estimates that Schering-Plough lost $4billion in revenues because of the delay. But I heard
a different view from a pharmacologist who, although insisting on anonymity, was familiar with these unfolding events. "I think they've grossly benefited from the delay at the agency," this researcher told me. "Because terfenadine" -- the generic name for Seldane -- was getting blasted, they looked like a good alternative, and I think they actually got a much larger share when they hit the market because of it."
Since Claritin's approval, the marketing campaign for the drug has rewritten the rules for pharmaceutical promotion. The brand is ubiquitous: watching the World Series in 1999, viewers frequently saw Claritin proclaimed the "official allergy medication of Major League Baseball"; the bag the pharmacist gives you when you fill almost any prescription suggests that you "ask your pharmacist about Claritin-D 24 Hour." 
The direct-to-consumer ads seen on TV and in magazines are only the tip of the iceberg. The bulk of pharmaceutical marketing goes on behind closed doors, where drug salesmen tout their products to doctors, and pharmaceutical companies now spend more than $13 billion a year on such promotion, according to I.M.S. Health, a company that tracks the pharmaceutical business. The language of those presentations is constrained by the language on the F.D.A.-approved label -- in other words, all the battles over efficacy and sedation at those obscure F.D.A. meetings in the 1980's define the sales vocabulary of the 1990's.
Once again, Claritin was the beneficiary of some lucky timing. In August 1997, the F.D.A. relaxed its rules governing television advertising; rather than having to run the same fine print required in magazine ads, commercials could satisfy F.D.A. rules by giving a toll-free number, mentioning a magazine advertisement and instructing viewers to "ask your doctor" for more information. In a daring move closely watched by the rest of the industry, Schering-Plough poured $322 million into pitching Claritin to consumers in 1998 and 1999, far more than any other brand, according to the National Institute for Health Care Management Foundation, a nonprofit group in Washington.
"That campaign was a landmark," says the group's Steven D. Findlay. "The Claritin campaign, along with Viagra, Prilosec and a few other high-profile drugs, was very influential. Claritin was clearly the most visible, the most expensive and skillfully executed, and the bottom-line results were immediately apparent. It had a huge impact, because everybody is watching everybody else very closely." Drug companies spent an estimated $2.5 billion on consumer advertising in 2000; these ads may have brought in as much as a $5-to-$6 return for each dollar spent. 
Yet critics point out that direct-to-consumer advertising illustrates an embarrassing paradox: marketing may be most indispensable in categories where new drugs may actually be less innovative. "Marketing is meant to sell drugs," Marcia Angell wrote in an editorial in The New England Journal of Medicine last June, "and the less important the drug, the more marketing it takes to sell it. Important new drugs do not need much promotion. Me-too drugs do."
But promotion works. Sales in the United States of the entire Claritin family -- not just the 10-milligram tablets, but a syrup, quick-dissolving RediTabs and both 12-hour and 24-hour Claritin-D versions with a decongestant -- which stood at $1.4 billion in 1997, jumped to $2.6 billion by 2000. It accounts for nearly 30 percent of Schering-Plough's annual revenues.
Schering had a magnificent cash cow. Now the trick was to milk it as long as possible.$ 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PRESCRIPTION DRUGS (91%); PHARMACEUTICALS INDUSTRY (90%); PHYSICIANS & SURGEONS (90%); IMMUNOLOGY (90%); HAY FEVER (90%); ALLERGIES (90%); OVER-THE-COUNTER DRUGS (90%); PHARMACEUTICAL PREPARATION MFG (89%); FAMILY PRACTICE (78%); SALES FIGURES (68%) 

COMPANY: MERCK & CO INC (84%)

TICKER: MRK (PAR) (84%); MRK (NYSE) (84%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS325414 BIOLOGICAL PRODUCT (EXCEPT DIAGNOSTIC) MANUFACTURING (84%); NAICS325412 PHARMACEUTICAL PREPARATION MANUFACTURING (84%); SIC2834 PHARMACEUTICAL PREPARATIONS (84%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: March 11, 2001 



282 of 868 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 11, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 3; Column 1; Money and Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 14

LENGTH: 652 words

HEADLINE: A Cautious Sibling Waits to See What Works 

BYLINE:  By MIKI TANIKAWA 

DATELINE: TOKYO 

 BODY:
YAHOO Inc. may be stumbling, but its younger Japanese sibling has been doing relatively well. Part of the reason is that the Yahoo Japan Corporation has learned a few things from its American counterpart's mistakes.
 Amid global turmoil in the Internet sector, Yahoo Japan has emerged a ruler of the Internet here. For the quarter that ended on Dec. 31, Yahoo Japan reported a 152.5 percent increase in profits on a 130 percent increase in revenue. Many analysts expect that pace of growth to continue, given Yahoo Japan's relatively low dependence on dot-com advertising and its growing revenue from old-economy advertisers like travel agents and restaurants. 
 Founded in 1996 by Yahoo and the Softbank Corporation, Yahoo Japan moved into a largely untapped market. Although Yahoo's American rivals, like Infoseek, Lycos and Excite, have operations here, they lag far behind Yahoo Japan.
According to Nippon Research Center, a marketing research company based here, Yahoo Japan has an access rate of 87 percent, meaning that 87 percent of the 20 million Web users in Japan will see a Yahoo page in a month. That is an impressive level, given the 46 percent rating for the second-place goo.ne.jp, a local Internet portal administered by the NTT group, Japan's biggest telecommunications company. Yahoo Japan's Web pages get nearly as many hits as its nine biggest competitors put together. 
"No media has ever achieved that level of pervasiveness," said Makoto Ueno, an analyst at the Daiwa Institute of Research in Tokyo. "The exception might be People's Daily of China and Pravda of Russia." 
That reach and dominance give Yahoo Japan enormous leverage as an advertising medium. "Yahoo Japan's business model from the profitability standpoint is much better than in the U.S.," said Toby Rodes, an analyst at Nikko Salomon Smith Barney in Tokyo. It remains unclear how the drastic drop in expected first-quarter revenue at Yahoo, as well as the resignation of its chief executive, may affect Yahoo Japan. But historically, the Japanese company has tried to avoid Yahoo strategies that have not worked.
For example, Yahoo started an e-commerce operation that Mr. Rodes said proved a "disaster." Yahoo Japan then chose to simply list about 100 big-name retailers on its site and collected real estate fees from them. The Japanese company also waited to see how Yahoo's introduction of Yahoo Women and Yahoo Senior would fare. When they flopped because users did not want to be categorized, Yahoo Japan avoided making the same mistake.
Masahiro Inoue, chief executive of Yahoo Japan, readily acknowledged the wait-and-see approach. "We see how something goes in the U.S., and then we import them once they are proven successful," he said. "This may sound cunning, but it's a sure way to succeed."
Some successful Internet services in the United States have translated directly to Japan, he said. An example is auctions, which he called an "explosive success" here.
Another plus for Yahoo Japan is that it relies relatively little on advertising from dot-coms, which has declined precipitously in the United States and is a major source of Yahoo's revenue shortfall.
During the last quarter in Japan, advertising revenue from restaurants, retailers and other service companies rose just as demand from the Internet customers declined. Mr. Rodes of Nikko Salomon estimated that only 25 percent of Yahoo Japan's ad revenue was from Internet clients; the comparable rate for Yahoo was 47 percent at the height of the Internet frenzy, he said. 
STILL, Yahoo Japan faces risks of its own. The Japanese economy again appears to be lapsing into a deep slump. And Yahoo Japan is almost totally dependent on ad revenue -- analysts say it accounts for 94.6 percent of all revenue.
So the company is working to build revenue from other sources. Mr. Inoue said, for example, that the company was studying ways to charge auctioneer fees.

GRAPHIC: Chart: "Still Growing in Japan"Yahoo Japan, created after its American counterpart, followed a different business model and continues to build its revenue. Graph shows REVENUE and NET INCOME from 1997-2001.(Source: Bloomberg Financial Markets)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: INTERNET & WWW (90%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (89%); RESEARCH INSTITUTES (89%); WEB SITES & PORTALS (78%); ONLINE CONTENT & INFORMATION SERVICES (77%); IMPORT TRADE (77%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS (77%); COMPANY PROFITS (77%); NEW ECONOMY (77%); ONLINE MARKETING & ADVERTISING (77%); COMPUTING & IT SECTOR PERFORMANCE (77%); COMPANY REVENUES (76%); INTERIM FINANCIAL RESULTS (76%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING (75%); MARKET RESEARCH FIRMS (75%); MARKET RESEARCH (75%); MARKET RESEARCH & ANALYSIS (75%); ELECTRONIC COMMERCE (72%); EXECUTIVES (70%); RESTAURANTS (69%); SEARCH ENGINES (68%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS SERVICES (65%); TRAVEL AGENTS (55%) COMPUTERS AND THE INTERNET; ADVERTISING; COMPANY AND ORGANIZATION PROFILES 

COMPANY: YAHOO JAPAN CORP (96%); YAHOO! INC (95%); SOFTBANK CORP (91%); DAIWA INSTITUTE OF RESEARCH LTD (54%); SMITH BARNEY HOLDINGS INC (53%)

ORGANIZATION: YAHOO JAPAN CORP; YAHOO INC; SOFTBANK CORP 

TICKER: 4689 (TSE) (96%); 4689 (JASDAQ) (96%); YHOO (NASDAQ) (95%); 9984 (TSE) (91%)

INDUSTRY: SIC7375 INFORMATION RETRIEVAL SERVICES (96%); NAICS454112 ELECTRONIC AUCTIONS (96%); SIC8999 SERVICES, NEC (96%); SIC5961 CATALOG & MAIL-ORDER HOUSES (96%); NAICS519130 INTERNET PUBLISHING & BROADCASTING & WEB SEARCH PORTALS (95%); NAICS517110 WIRED TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (95%); SIC7373 COMPUTER INTEGRATED SYSTEMS DESIGN (95%); NAICS551112 OFFICES OF OTHER HOLDING COMPANIES (91%); SIC6719 OFFICES OF HOLDING COMPANIES, NEC (91%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (53%) SIC7375 ON-LINE INFORMATION SERVICES; SIC7372 SOFTWARE PUBLISHERS; 

PERSON: TANIKAWA, MIKI 

GEOGRAPHIC: TOKYO, JAPAN (88%) JAPAN (98%); UNITED STATES (94%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (53%) JAPAN

LOAD-DATE: March 11, 2001 



283 of 868 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 11, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 3; Column 5; Money and Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 805 words

HEADLINE: ECONOMIC VIEW; 
Down Goes The Market. Is the Surplus Next?

BYLINE:  By TOM REDBURN 

 BODY:
WITH the nonpartisan Congressional Budget Office projecting a budget surplus of $5.6 trillion over the next decade, Alan Greenspan, the Federal Reserve chairman, has taken to warning repeatedly that the federal government could end up paying off nearly all publicly held debt within a few years. That justifies a big tax cut, he argues, because otherwise Washington would accumulate so much excess cash that it would have no choice but to start buying big chunks of American companies.
 My guess is he can stop worrying about that problem. Indeed, before too long, he could again be raising the specter of the return of budget deficits. 
 Lots of people have questioned the budget office's estimates of the surplus under current policies. The agency itself acknowledges that its projections -- which lawmakers use to evaluate the impact of their budget plans -- are subject to great uncertainty. Under normal circumstances, though, the budget office's figures are just as likely to be too low as they are to be too high.
But these are not normal circumstances. For nearly a decade, the United States has enjoyed not just a robust economy but also an extraordinary stock market boom. Strong growth, low unemployment and greater fiscal discipline have helped eliminate the old deficits. But it was the market, by generating tremendous taxable profits for investors and option-holding employees, that accounted for the lion's share of the unexpectedly large surpluses of recent years.
You may have noticed that the boom has stopped. So have three of the smartest economists I know -- Mark Zandi, chief economist at Economy.com; Robert J. Barbera at Hoenig & Company; and David Levine, who retired not long ago from Sanford C. Bernstein & Company.
O.K., it doesn't take a genius to see that the market has fallen. But all three experts have also come to the conclusion that the end of the boom will translate -- probably not this year but soon afterward -- into a big plunge in tax revenue from capital gains and other market-related sources of income. And that's worth paying attention to.
For example, Mr. Zandi, without changing any of the budget office's economic assumptions, estimates that instead of accumulating a 10-year surplus of $5.6 trillion, the government will have no more than about $2.9 trillion to spare for tax cuts and higher spending. The Bush administration and leaders in Congress already plan to use that up and much more. If Mr. Zandi is right, those moves will wipe out all of the remaining surplus and plunge the federal budget back into the red.
In contrast to the budget office forecasts, Mr. Zandi looks at what might happen if the market stays about where it is for the next couple of years. He calculates that profits from capital gains and income from stock options will probably shrink by half within the next two or three years.
As a government entity, the Congressional Budget Office justifiably makes no effort to predict the market. Instead, it starts with last year's estimated level of capital gains realizations of $652 billion and projects that they will only gradually fall as a share of the economy, stabilizing at over $550 billion around mid-decade.
"C.B.O. is assuming these extraordinary capital gains revenues are here to stay," Mr. Zandi said. "That's fundamentally where they've got it wrong."
Mr. Barbera goes further. "Given current swelled coffers, a substantial tax cut will certainly be enacted," he wrote in a recent report, but "estimates of revenues will prove to be greatly exaggerated."
"In combination," he added, "less equity-market-driven tax receipts, slower growth and a large tax cut will prevent any flirtation with paying off U.S. Treasury debt."
Nobody is accusing Congressional estimators of deliberate error. Somebody has to produce an honest budget score sheet and the agency does the best job that it can.
"Producing a budget outlook is an art, not a science," said Melissa Merson, the budget office's communications director. "There's always an enormous degree of uncertainty, but we feel our forecast is very reasonable."
Still, if the critics are right, the consequences of relying on today's forecasts could be severe. And if the economy fails to recover soon, it would get a lot worse.
"I think most people are about to be very surprised," Mr. Levine said. "Should it prove true, which is possible, that we are entering a recession, the swing in the budget over a two-year period could easily reach $400 to $500 billion. Even without a recession, the surplus could easily disappear."
Mr. Zandi fears the worst. "We've had years of stock-juiced surpluses at all levels of government," he said. "But a flat equity market will quickly weigh on government's good fiscal fortunes. Policy makers will be sorely disappointed and the economy's long-term performance will suffer."

GRAPHIC: Graph shows personal income tax and nontax receipts as a share fo G.D.P. from 1990-2010 (projected).(Source: Hoenig & Co.; Congressional Budget Office)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BUDGETS (95%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (92%); TAXES & TAXATION (91%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); NATIONAL DEBT (90%); TAX LAW (90%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (90%); CAPITAL GAINS TAX (89%); STOCK OPTIONS (87%); BUDGET PLANNING & MANAGEMENT (78%); BUDGET DEFICITS (78%); BONDS (72%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (66%) TAXATION; TAXATION; CAPITAL GAINS TAX; UNITED STATES ECONOMY; STOCKS AND BONDS; BUDGETS AND BUDGETING 

COMPANY: HOENIG & CO LTD (66%); HOENIG & CO INC (66%); SANFORD C BERNSTEIN & CO LLP (65%)

ORGANIZATION: CONGRESSIONAL BUDGET OFFICE (91%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS525920 TRUSTS, ESTATES & AGENCY ACCOUNTS (65%); NAICS525110 PENSION FUNDS (65%); NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (65%)

PERSON: ALAN GREENSPAN (73%) REDBURN, TOM 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (95%)

LOAD-DATE: March 11, 2001 



284 of 868 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 11, 2001
Correction Appended 
 Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 9; Column 1; Style Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1906 words

HEADLINE: The Boys Of Summer Get Younger All the Time 

BYLINE:  By DOUGLAS CENTURY 

 BODY:
SPRING is just around the corner, and baseball fans everywhere are focused on Florida's Grapefruit League, where Derek Jeter, the Yankees' newly minted $189 million man, is nursing a tender shoulder, and the Mets' Mike Piazza is still fielding questions about the vicious beaning he suffered last season at the hand of Roger Clemens, the Rocket. 
 Meanwhile, in subfreezing Wyckoff, N.J., at the Bergen Thunder's indoor spring-training camp, Chris Hogan is perfecting a Rocketlike fastball, and Kyle Lustenberger is blasting moonshots that might sail 300 feet if they were not snagged by the heavy green netting of the batting cage. Some players sport Cuban link necklaces with glittering pendants bearing their uniform numbers. But the Bergen Thunder has one thing the Mets and Yankees don't have: algebra homework. 
 That is because the Thunder, one of the best youth baseball teams in the country, is made up of junior high school boys 13 and under. They play in the pressure-cooker world of travel baseball, all-star squads that tour the country, often by airplane, and cram as many as 100 games into a summer. 
Forget the headline-making heroics of the world-class Little League team from Toms River, N.J. In contrast to Little League, travel baseball has no league at all. Instead, coaches accept invitations to dozens of tournaments across the country in a throwback to the days of barnstorming, a form of baseball that vanished with the passing of the Negro leagues. 
Often derided as elitist -- called rich kids' baseball -- this is a world of boys who fly to Steamboat Springs, Colo., or Cocoa Beach, Fla., for tournaments. Some teams, particularly in the South, have mid-six-figure budgets, raised from corporate sponsors or a wealthy team father. The Georgia Stars, one of the country's best under-13 teams, arrive for tournaments in matching silk jackets and Rawlings batting gloves embroidered with each player's nickname. 
"We were playing the Georgia Stars in a tournament in Connecticut last year, and they ran out of pitching," recalled Art Clyde, 44, a former New Jersey state trooper turned fitness trainer, who is the Thunder's head coach. "Their manager gets on his cellphone, calls down to Georgia. Georgia called a kid in Texas. He was on the private jet that night, and he pitched in the tournament the next day."
Critics of travel baseball question whether its expense and all-consuming nature represent an out-of-control indulgence by parents. They also caution that the intense physical training will cause career-ending injuries and that, emotionally, boys of 12 and 13 are not ready for such competitive pressures. They wonder whether parents are driving sons too hard, looking ahead to college scholarships or major league careers. 
"We're taking children and making them professionals," said Dr. Alvin Rosenfeld, a child psychiatrist and the author of "The Overscheduled Child," to be published next month as a Griffin paperback. "We're stealing their childhood. Childhood was supposed to be a preparation, not a full performance."
"It's definitely not for everybody," said Mr. Clyde, who can seem travel baseball's most articulate critic. "There are some things about travel ball that are healthy and some things that are unhealthy. Do I think that a kid should have to get cut from a team at 12 years old? No. But we had 60 kids coming to try out last year for two open slots. You get accused of all kinds of things, of only taking wealthy kids or friends of friends, because it's such a glamorous thing for a little kid to be involved in."
Travel baseball is part of the acceleration in skills of schoolboy athletes, in which the National Basketball Association has reached into high school for basketball stars, and the XFL, the creation of the World Wrestling Federation, plans to draft teenage football players next season. 
Millions of suburban parents are familiar with the scheduling demands of all-star travel teams in soccer, hockey and basketball. But those squads usually travel at most a few hours by car. Travel baseball, with its jet trips and 100-game seasons, is arguably the most extreme example of a move toward pre-teenage hypercompetitiveness.
All-star squads like the Thunder, which are also known as Amateur Athletic Union teams, because that organization sanctions some tournaments, routinely crush even solid Little League teams by scores of 34-2. Parents of travel team boys dismiss Little League as "town ball." 
"Each of the guys on my team is the best kid in his town," Mr. Clyde said. "Our guys play on a college field. You take the star who's hitting 200-foot homers in a Little League park, and he's suddenly hitting 225-foot pop-ups in A.A.U. games."
Little League baseball requires local chapters to draw players from a population base no bigger than 20,000. Mr. Clyde's squad comes from communities throughout the New York area. Little League guarantees every child a place. On the Thunder, parents drive their boys three hours for an invitation-only tryout, swinging at fastballs thrown by grown men who played in the minor leagues. Parents of players pay $1,000 for basic team expenses, a figure that climbs with airfares, hotels and tournament fees.
The Thunder is an anomaly: a blue-collar team in a sport generally reserved for the economic elite. It is also a mix of white, Hispanic and black players. "We only have one kid whose family could even be called well-to-do," said Mr. Clyde, whose father, also named Art Clyde, played third base for the Black Yankees of the Negro leagues. "Of the 10 guys on my team right now," he said, "three are from West New York, N.J., which is an inner-city population, and the parents really have to struggle to pay the $1,000."
Inside the Garett Teel baseball center in Wyckoff last weekend, the crack of aluminum bats on red-stitched horsehide echoed like firecrackers as the Thunder practiced. Parents of players stood shivering and sipping their extra-tall Dunkin' Donuts coffees.
"There is a lot of pressure on the guys," said David Rentas of River Edge, N.J. Stephen Rentas, his son, joined the Thunder in the middle of last season. "But I think it's the adults who are looking at it with this high level of seriousness. The kids aren't talking about possible college scholarships down the road. They're still looking at it as a game. When the game's over -- "
"They go right back to being kids," interjected Anthony Maio, a computer programmer of Fair Lawn, N.J., watching Mike Maio, his son, take his whacks in the batting cage.
The Thunder -- ranked ninth in the country last year by Triple Crown Sports, a national body that sponsors high-profile tournaments -- are at a disadvantage with squads like the San Diego Stars, the Miami Dream Team or Alabama's Boys of Baseball. Almost all top travel teams are based in warmer regions, allowing them to compete 10 months of the year. 
Since the Thunder can't shag flies outdoors year-round, the boys lift weights together all winter, to stay in shape and to "bond as a team," Mr. Clyde explained. He's the owner of Art of Fitness, a gym on West 56th Street in Manhattan, whose clients include N.B.A. stars. With a shaved head and sporting silver Oakley eyeglass frames, he runs his weight room for his young charges with equal doses of drill sergeant and scoutmaster. One moment he is barking out that his boys all owe him push-ups, the next he is speaking in soft tones about improving their fielding technique.
Unlike corporate-backed rivals like the Pepsi Bandits of New Bern, N.C., or the TPX Florida Prospects of Lakeland, Fla., the Thunder players raise their own expense money. From his celebrity gym clients, Mr. Clyde coaxes autographed sports memorabilia or Madison Square Garden luxury box seats, and the team sells them through raffles or auctions on eBay. 
Though Mr. Clyde makes it plain that his players have only a slight chance of ever making it to the majors, it is clear that the parents of some players see the game as a path to a better off-the-field future. "If my son was just playing Little League baseball in the Bronx, he would never be exposed to these opportunities," said Edgar Rivera, the father of Justin, who at 190 pounds and 5 feet 10 already has the physique of an adult. 
Mr. Rivera, who grew up in the Webster Avenue projects in the Bronx and works as a doorman in an Upper West Side co-op, said: "How many kids who are doing nothing get in trouble? This way, his life is very structured. He's meeting kids who get straight A's and learning that that doesn't mean you're a nerd. In my whole life, I've never traveled outside of the New York area. At 12, Justin was flying to Colorado and Florida. This year he may go to Cuba."
The Thunder is the only Northeast team good enough to have been invited to a tournament in Havana in the spring, although Mr. Clyde is worried they might not be able to make the trip for lack of funds. 
The gap between the haves and have-nots in travel baseball can be eye-opening. "We were down at a tournament in Cocoa Beach, Fla., and all the parents down there drop their kids off in a fleet of 10 Mercedes sedans," Mr. Clyde recalled. "We're staying in some local hotel that's $80 a night, and every house in the area is two million bucks."
To save money, the Thunder drive to many of their tournaments, which can mean grueling 12-hour trips, piled like logs into Mr. Clyde's nine-seat Suburban, and the trailing Toyotas of parents. 
Last Sunday, just after 9 a.m., when a lot of seventh graders were still staring at their French toast, the entire Bergen Thunder team was grunting through a routine of dumbbell military presses. Pediatricians and orthopedics experts have long cautioned against children's strength training, warning that it can cause problems like growth plate damage and joint injuries. But Mr. Clyde maintains that strength training is essential for his athletes. "We're looking to play between 80 and 100 games this summer," he said. "That's half a professional season in just three months. If your kids aren't in tiptop condition, that's when injuries occur."
He shouts the wisecracking Thunder boys through a circuit of weight machines, copious abdominal work and sets of punishment push-ups for dogging, a routine that would wind grown men in reasonable shape. 
After the workout, the boys run upstairs to Mr. Clyde's carpeted sunroom, where they descend like locusts on a box of chocolate-chip cookies -- then keep burning more calories. Some toss around a miniature football, some wrestle over the remote control. Erick Alfonso hops on a treadmill and begins an eight-minute-mile, even as he keeps chomping on a cookie. 
"They can hit a curveball like a lot of college players," Mr. Clyde said. "But they're still at that strange age -- straddling that line between being adults and being kids." Two of last year's Thunder did not return this season. "One kid was a good hitter, good fielder," Mr. Clyde explained. "But he had so much pressure on him, he'd hit a screaming line drive, and the third baseman would catch it. Then he'd start throwing his helmet, sitting in the dugout crying.
"There's a lot more to it than baseball at 12," he continued, pausing to make sure his guys were still doing their sets of 100 crunches. "That same kid starts crying at 17, you're saying, 'We don't need you here.' But at 12? They're just being 12. They shouldn't have to make that transition so fast at this age."

CORRECTION-DATE: March 18, 2001

 CORRECTION:
A picture last Sunday with an article about travel baseball, which is played by barnstorming teams of school-age all-stars, carried an erroneous credit. The photo, showing a player in a weight room, was by Aaron Lee Fineman, for The New York Times.

GRAPHIC: Photos: Kyle Lustenberger of the Bergen Thunder, a barnstorming youth baseball team, taking batting practice. Far right, his teammate Justin Rivera in the weight room. (Photographs by Norman Y. Lono for The New Tork Times)(pg. 1); The Bergen Thunder, one of the best youth baseball teams in the country, is made up of boys in junior high school.; Art Clyde, the coach of the Bergen Thunder and owner of a gym in Manhattan, puts his young charges through a fitness regimen all winter. (Photographs by Norman Y. Lono for The New York Times)(pg. 2) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BASEBALL (97%); YOUTH SPORTS (90%); SPORTS & RECREATION EVENTS (89%); TOURNAMENTS (89%); CHILDREN (88%); SPORTS FANS (78%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (77%); BUDGETS (77%); SPONSORSHIP (73%); SCHOLARSHIPS & GRANTS (71%); HOMEWORK (68%); MIDDLE & JUNIOR HIGH SCHOOLS (67%); MOBILE & CELLULAR TELEPHONES (50%) BASEBALL; CHILDREN AND YOUTH 

ORGANIZATION: NEW YORK YANKEES (91%); NEW YORK METS (84%)

PERSON: DEREK JETER (73%) CENTURY, DOUGLAS 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%) FLORIDA, USA (90%); NEW JERSEY, USA (90%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); COLORADO, USA (68%); CONNECTICUT, USA (52%) UNITED STATES (90%)

LOAD-DATE: March 11, 2001 



285 of 868 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 11, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 3; Column 2; Money and Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 1116 words

HEADLINE: INVESTING; 
A Home Fixture as a Market Shelter

BYLINE:  By JOANNE LEGOMSKY 

 BODY:
CABLE television service in every home" is not quite as pungent a rallying cry as, say, "a chicken in every pot." But today, a square meal and cable service are both regarded as basics.
 "Even at the height of Detroit's auto-related troubles in the 80's, cable penetration held up," said Jessica Reif Cohen, media analyst at Merrill Lynch. Consumers considered cable an inexpensive form of entertainment and a pretty good deal. 
 That basic cable service is considered a fixture of household budgets goes a long way toward explaining the appeal of the cable industry's stocks. Since bottoming last May, cable shares have outperformed the broader market. From June through last Friday, the Lehman index of leading cable stocks was up 14.69 percent, compared with a loss of 13.18 percent for the Standard & Poor's 500.
Cable stocks have another advantage over other entertainment shares: the cable industry is relatively immune to advertising slowdowns, which are now evident. Most of the industry's revenue comes from subscriptions; advertising is just 6 percent.
"You don't want to be exposed to advertising now," Ms. Reif Cohen said.
Still, many analysts see cable stocks as more than a defensive play. Though they expect cable shares to keep providing a haven in rough markets, those who are optimistic about cable said various forces had created an exceptionally favorable climate that should help the industry outperform the market for several more quarters.
For one thing, declining interest rates have traditionally had a salutary effect on cable stocks. "In the first nine months following an interest rate cut, cable stocks significantly outperformed all other industry groups," said Lara Warner, who tracks the industry for Lehman Brothers. The Federal Reserve has cut interest rates twice so far this year. 
Lower interest rates reduce the cost of capital for cable companies, which tend to be big borrowers. Roughly half of the group's total debt is at rates that float with the market.
Also boding well is a favorable regulatory backdrop, including a key court ruling. "The regulatory environment is more benign than at any time since I started covering the industry," said Ms. Reif Cohen, who has followed cable companies for nearly two decades.
In 1999, rates were deregulated and left largely to the discretion of cable operators. Earlier this month, the United States Court of Appeals for the District of Columbia ruled that federal regulations preventing companies from serving more than 30 percent of the nation's total cable or satellite-television markets were unconstitutional.
Calling the ruling a huge victory for the cable industry, Ms. Reif Cohen said it set the stage for further consolidation.
ERIC FISCHMAN, an analyst at MFS Asset Management, a mutual fund group based in Boston, said that even with the run-up, cable stocks were still trading below their prices of a year ago.
Though core cable service will remain the industry's bread and butter, Mr. Fischman said, several new businesses -- including high-speed Internet, telephone service and digital video, with its scores of channels to compete with satellite television -- should drive share prices higher. 
The billions of dollars that companies have spent in the last several years to rebuild and upgrade their networks are about to pay off, he added. The new services are close to breaking even on a cash-flow basis, he said, and some cable companies will generate excess cash this year after capital expenditures.
Analysts say the new services have the potential to be pure profit generators. But there is skepticism about consumers' appetite for such extras in the near future, given high home heating bills during the winter and flagging consumer confidence.
"In this economy, the demand for these services is an unknown commodity," said Kavir Dhar, an analyst at Jefferies & Company. But he said consumers might be able to justify expenditures for high-speed Internet access. For many people who work at home, the service is subsidized by the employer. "Besides," he said, "people can rationalize the improved productivity, the ability to simplify one's life."
Mr. Dahr recommended the Comcast Corporation, a leading operator of cable systems. He called the company well managed, adding that it should benefit from others' promotional efforts in its operating area that should increase the company's revenue from new services without raising its marketing costs.
Ms. Warner of Lehman Brothers said first-quarter results would dispel any doubts about demand for the cable industry's newer services. She said demand would be resilient, despite the weak economy, largely because of what she called the super-spenders -- the roughly 30 percent of cable subscribers with household incomes above $50,000 a year who spend more on newer, more expensive communications services. While only 6 percent of all cable subscribers signed up for high-speed data service, she said, 20 percent of the superspenders did.
She said cable operators had also enhanced their competitive position versus regional Bell operating companies and satellite television operators by improving infrastructure and customer relations.
"Cable is in a pole position for growth," she said, adding that cable operators should capture 50 percent of increased revenue and cash flow from what she called an emerging $178 billion consumer communications industry that encompasses the voice, video and data.
Cable is also in position, Ms. Warner said, to translate accelerating revenue growth into significant cash-flow growth. She projected that cable's average revenue per customer would grow 11 percent a year, faster than its competitors, in part because of the impact of the new services, including access to both broadband television and the personal computer.
She assigned the firm's top rating to Cablevision, giving it a 12-month target price of $108 a share; it now trades at $84.50.
Ms. Warner and other analysts also said network upgrades were largely complete in the industry, which should further improve returns on capital.
Bullish analysts also predict that the group will have higher ratios of price to cash flow. Ms. Reif Cohen at Merrill Lynch expected the group's multiples, now at 15 to 17 based on estimated 2001 results, would approach their previous peak of 20.
Cablevision, which she called one of the cheaper cable stocks, is her favorite. Her one-year target price is $98. She also likes Charter Communications and Comcast.
Mr. Fischman of MFS concluded that cable "is very well positioned in an uncertain environment."
"It's a very good business, with strong growth and visibility," he added. "How many industries can you say that about today?"

GRAPHIC: Drawing (Milan Trenc) Chart: "A Haven in Cable Stocks?"Since last June, cable stocks have outperformed the Standard & Poor's 500-stock index and the Nasdaq composite. Analysts expect the trend to continue for several quarters. Graph shows PERFORMANCE SINCE JUNE 1, 2000 of Lehman index of cable stocks, S.& P. 500, and the Nasdaq composite from June 2000-March 2001.(Source: Lehman Brothers)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: STOCK INDEXES (96%); CABLE INDUSTRY (93%); ENTERTAINMENT & ARTS (90%); CABLE TELEVISION (90%); CABLE & OTHER DISTRIBUTION (89%); TELEVISION INDUSTRY (89%); DEREGULATION (89%); INTEREST RATES (89%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); SATELLITE TELEVISION (79%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (76%); DECISIONS & RULINGS (75%); BUSINESS & PROFESSIONAL ASSOCIATIONS (75%); APPEALS COURTS (75%); APPELLATE DECISIONS (75%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (75%); BUDGETS (75%); APPEALS (75%); BONDS (74%); SETTLEMENTS & DECISIONS (70%); REGULATORY COMPLIANCE (67%); MUTUAL FUNDS (61%) TELEVISION; STOCKS AND BONDS; ADVERTISING; INDUSTRY PROFILES; INTEREST RATES; REGULATION AND DEREGULATION OF INDUSTRY 

COMPANY: MERRILL LYNCH & CO INC (90%); LEHMAN BROTHERS HOLDINGS INC (56%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (90%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (90%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (90%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (90%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (90%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (90%)

PERSON: LEGOMSKY, JOANNE 

GEOGRAPHIC: BOSTON, MA, USA (79%) MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%); DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA, USA (77%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: March 11, 2001 



286 of 868 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 11, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 4; Column 1; Week in Review Desk; Pg. 16

LENGTH: 1054 words

HEADLINE: The World; 
It's North Korea. Go Figure.

BYLINE:  By DAVID E. SANGER 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON 

 BODY:
WHEN it comes to confronting paranoid dictatorships, Washington has long been trapped between two extreme strategies: embargo and isolate, which is how it has dealt with Saddam Hussein for a decade; or engage and enmesh, also called the China strategy.
 Neither approach has proven very satisfactory, perhaps because they overestimate America's influence. Fidel Castro has survived four decades of American isolation. And while a decade of commercial and cultural engagement with China has nudged along economic freedoms, the State Department concluded recently that the treatment of dissidents has worsened. 
 Now, amid apparent rifts in his party and his administration, Mr. Bush has been forced to face the fascinating and complex case of North Korea.
As Mr. Bush discovered last Wednesday, when President Kim Dae Jung of South Korea visited him here, these are very confusing times for anyone dealing with Pyongyang. Bowing to a concerted campaign of economic and nationalistic inducements plotted by Mr. Kim, the North has cracked open its door. It is finally executing old agreements to create rail and road links across the demilitarized zone, opening diplomatic relations with European powers and keeping promises to halt its terrifying missile tests and commando raids.
But the country remains the closest thing on Earth to the dark side of the moon, so no one knows whether this outreach is a change of heart or Asia's modern-day answer to the Trojan horse.
Even more perplexing, Mr. Bush finds himself caught between those -- including, it seems, Secretary of State Colin Powell -- who want to see if North Korea is serious about negotiating an end to its missile exports and manufacturing, and the Washington hard-liners who think the best thing to do with North Korea is to treat it the way Ronald Reagan dealt with a weakening Soviet Union. That is, turn the economic screws, confront it with military technology that it can't match and hope it will collapse.
"I do have some skepticism about the leader of North Korea," Mr. Bush said of Kim Jong Il, with whom President Clinton nearly concluded a missile control deal last year. He joins a long list of such skeptics.
But he begged the largest question: Since North Korea is in many ways a unique case -- capable of doing extraordinary harm to the South and perhaps Japan, but not capable of surviving a lengthy war with the West -- either engaging or confronting it represents a unique set of risks.
The military threat is well known: With fearsome artillery so close to Seoul, North Korea's leaders could destroy one of Asia's most vibrant cities in minutes. Add to that the country's remarkable isolation, which has bred enormous mystery about it in the West and a paranoia among its own leaders. They believe -- quite fervently -- that those 37,000 American troops on the border are poised to invade them, not just to protect the South.
And in recent years they appear to have developed a burning desire for legitimacy, symbolized by their intense focus on being taken seriously by the United States. So far their only strategy to achieve that has been blackmail. The countries that get attention and aid, they figured out, are those that strike a little fear into the hearts of the Pentagon. So they develop missiles and nukes, then bargain them away.
For those reasons, it's no surprise Mr. Bush wants to sound a hard line: What new president wants to be taken as a patsy? Or, as one of Mr. Bush's aides said last week, "I'm kind of tired of the old pattern where they shoot off a missile and we send them a bucket of wheat."
But taking a hard line has plenty of risks, too. This is hardly an empire, evil or otherwise; it can't even feed its own people. It is also astonishingly totalitarian, something not too difficult to pull off in a small country where radios are fixed to one or two approved stations and the phone book is the size of a school directory. That's why Mr. Kim, the South Korean leader, arrived here to argue that North Korea's problem is rooted in deep insecurity, and that as soon as Seoul and Washington solve that, some of the knottier questions -- like missile exports -- might begin to melt away.
SO far, the Bush White House isn't buying.
"We all have the same goals, but very different perceptions," one of Mr. Kim's most senior aides said. "We cannot afford a collapse of North Korea; this is not like West Germany absorbing East Germany. And what happens if the North Korean state falls? A military government takes over, and the prospect of a last, desperate war becomes very real."
In fact, there are two reasons that Kim Dae Jung approaches the North so differently than Mr. Bush's aides do.
The first is economic: If the North collapses, or lashes out, it's not the United States that will take the hit. A surge of refugees across the border would trigger social chaos in the South; a surge of workers would undercut South Korea's relatively high wages.
The second is a matter of psychology: the cartoon imagery in which the West has cast Kim Jong Il all these years. Some of it reflects reality, but some does not. Kim Jong Il has, in past decades, arranged for kidnappings; he has exported missiles; he has probably manufactured one or two nuclear weapons. Before his father's death in 1994, some considered him a pornography-loving fool who would be quickly overthrown. But he's still there, and new intelligence estimates say he is firmly in charge.
President Kim, who won last year's Nobel Peace Prize, has also realized that China and Russia will no longer keep North Korea afloat. "I am aware that some read the changes on the part of North Korea as being merely temporary or tactical," he said. But either way, he added, "one thing is certain: for North Korea change is not a matter of choice but of survival."
James R. Lilley, who served as ambassador to South Korea under President Reagan and Mr. Bush's father, said that "you definitely have a clash of views here."
"It's our belief that the North Koreans have to show us far more than they have," he said. "It's Kim's belief that we are overly legalistic -- that he can look in the eyes of the North Koreans and see their 'nunchi,' their soul." Mr. Lilley isn't quite sure what that nunchi looks like. But Mr. Bush isn't likely to find out until he looks into their eyes, too.

GRAPHIC: Photo: A North Korean flag fluttering across the border from a South Korean solider standing guard at the demilitarized zone. (Associated Press) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (90%); MISSILE SYSTEMS (90%); DEFENSE ELECTRONICS (89%); STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (89%); US PRESIDENTS (74%); NEWS BRIEFS (74%); DEFENSE INDUSTRY (71%); DIPLOMATIC SERVICES (70%); FOREIGN RELATIONS (70%); MISSILE DEFENSE SYSTEMS (66%); MISSILE RESEARCH & DEVELOPMENT (66%); ARMED FORCES (62%) UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; MISSILES AND MISSILE DEFENSE SYSTEMS 

PERSON: BILL CLINTON (79%); RONALD REAGAN (79%); KIM JONG IL (73%); SADDAM HUSSEIN (72%); FIDEL CASTRO (58%) BUSH, GEORGE W (PRES); SANGER, DAVID E 

GEOGRAPHIC: SEOUL, KOREA, REPUBLIC OF (56%); PYONGYANG, KOREA, DEMOCRATIC PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF (56%) UNITED STATES (96%); KOREA, DEMOCRATIC PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF (95%); KOREA, REPUBLIC OF (93%); ASIA (92%) NORTH KOREA; SOUTH KOREA

LOAD-DATE: March 11, 2001 



287 of 868 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 11, 2001
Correction Appended 
 Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 1; Column 1; National Desk; Pg. 32

LENGTH: 485 words

HEADLINE: Economist Likely to Be Harvard's Next Leader 

BYLINE:  By JODI WILGOREN 

 BODY:
Harvard University plans to name Lawrence H. Summers, an economist who was secretary of the treasury in the Clinton administration, as its 27th president today, according to people involved in the selection.
 The choice of Mr. Summers, 46, was first reported Friday night in a special issue of The Harvard Crimson, a student newspaper, with the headline "It's Summers!" The Crimson said that Mr. Summers had been recommended by the presidential search committee but still needed the approval of the university's 30-member Board of Overseers. 
 That group is scheduled to gather today for an emergency meeting in New York, said people involved with the process, after which the new president will be whisked to the campus in Cambridge, Mass., for the official announcement.
The nine-month search to replace Neil L. Rudenstine, who will leave in June, had narrowed in recent weeks to three contenders: Mr. Summers; Lee C. Bollinger, the president of the University of Michigan; and Harvey Fineberg, Harvard's provost. Mr. Summers, Mr. Fineberg and the chairman of the search committee, Robert G. Stone Jr., could not be reached for comment yesterday. Mr. Bollinger, at home in Ann Arbor, Mich., would say only that "it's been an utterly fair and thorough process from my perspective."
Mr. Bollinger, a First Amendment scholar who has been a national leader on higher-education issues, particularly affirmative action, was reported to be the leading candidate in The Boston Globe and other publications. He had a third interview with the presidential search committee at a hotel in New York several weeks ago, and was said to have performed well, but he has neither studied nor taught at Harvard, practically a prerequisite for the job.
Meanwhile, several prominent alumni, including Mr. Summers's mentor and predecessor as treasury secretary, Robert E. Rubin, lobbied hard on his behalf, people involved in the search said. Mr. Summers earned a Harvard Ph.D. in 1982, soon became the youngest person granted tenure in the university's modern history, at age 28, and spent a decade as a popular professor on campus.
Though some at Harvard were initially uncomfortable with Mr. Summers's narrow academic focus and lack of experience as a university administrator, his national prominence and global connections were attractive.
Mr. Summers has spent the last several months at the Brookings Institution in Washington. 
He emerged from a list of some 500 nominees, including his former bosses, Bill Clinton and Al Gore. 
The Crimson took enormous pride in its scoop, having also been the first to report Mr. Bollinger's recent interview in New York, as well as Mr. Rudenstine's selection in 1991. Editors admonished the entire staff in an e-mail message on Friday to keep mum about how they got the story.
"It was a great team effort," said the newspaper's president, C. Matthew MacInnis. "This is the one thing that we want."

CORRECTION-DATE: March 21, 2001

 CORRECTION:
An article on March 11 and an editorial on March 13 about the selection of Lawrence H. Summers to be president of Harvard referred imprecisely to his achievement of tenure in 1983 at age 28. At that time, he was the youngest tenured professor in Harvard's modern history. But 10 years later Noam D. Elkies, a mathematician, was granted tenure at age 26.

GRAPHIC: Photo: Lawrence H. Summers, former secretary of the treasury. (Reuters) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: UNIVERSITY ADMINISTRATION (90%); COLLEGES & UNIVERSITIES (90%); US PRESIDENTS (89%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (89%); INTERVIEWS (89%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (89%); EDUCATIONAL INSTITUTION EMPLOYEES (78%); ACADEMIC TENURE (78%); APPROVALS (75%); RESEARCH INSTITUTES (73%); TALKS & MEETINGS (73%); HISTORY (71%); AFFIRMATIVE ACTION (52%) COLLEGES AND UNIVERSITIES 

ORGANIZATION: HARVARD UNIVERSITY (95%); UNIVERSITY OF MICHIGAN (56%) HARVARD UNIVERSITY 

PERSON: LAWRENCE SUMMERS (94%); BILL CLINTON (78%); AL GORE (58%) WILGOREN, JODI; SUMMERS, LAWRENCE H 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (93%); MICHIGAN, USA (92%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: March 11, 2001 



288 of 868 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 11, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 7; Column 1; Book Review Desk; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 2363 words

HEADLINE: The Last Liberal 

BYLINE:  By Mario M. Cuomo; Mario M. Cuomo's most recent books are "The Blue Spruce" and "Reason to Believe." He served three terms as the governor of New York.

 BODY:
 TIP O'NEILL
And the Democratic Century.
By John Aloysius Farrell.
Illustrated. 776 pp. Boston:
Little, Brown & Company. $29.95.
 JOHN ALOYSIUS FARRELL'S long, detailed and fascinating book, "Tip O'Neill: And the Democratic Century," is more than the definitive biography of a flawed but startlingly successful old-fashioned political leader. It's also a guided tour through American governmental history from the beginning of the New Deal through the Reagan years, featuring the struggle between two larger-than-life political champions and their ideologies -- Ronald Reagan and the Old Conservatism against Tip O'Neill and the New Deal liberalism. It was a battle over the nation's political soul. 
For America's first 150 years, severe recessions occurred every 20 years or so, leaving many people unemployed, incapacitated and uncared for. Then the Great Depression devastated the American economy. One of every five American workers became jobless, millions were homeless or about to be, and many feared our grand experiment in democracy was teetering. President Herbert Hoover and other conservatives felt that the Depression was an inevitable part of the business cycle that would " 'purge the rottenness' out of the economy." They believed "the sole function of government is to bring about a condition of affairs favorable to . . . private enterprise." President Franklin Delano Roosevelt, elected in 1932, disagreed. He argued that the federal government had an additional duty to take aggressive steps "to prevent the starvation or the dire want of any of its fellow men and women who try to maintain themselves but cannot." Roosevelt's New Deal grafted that simple but defining principle onto the political structure of the nation. He brought millions of Americans back to work and security with his alphabet agencies and his political piece de resistance, the Social Security Act, providing old age benefits, unemployment insurance and welfare.
The rock-hard conceptual foundation provided by the New Deal principle, and the major programs that embodied it, were never attacked by a president until 1980, when Ronald Reagan was elected the charismatic pitchman-president, vowing to restore pre-New-Deal conservatism as the nation's governing political philosophy. That set up the struggle between Reagan and O'Neill. Farrell relishes the drama of it:
"Tip O'Neill versus Ronald Reagan. Theirs was no sophistic debate: these were world views clashing, hot lava meeting thundering surf. And good it was, for the country, to have the debate -- to state the claim of a 'more perfect union' against the demand for 'life, liberty and the pursuit of happiness' once again. History was happening. The heritage of the New Deal, a philosophy of governing that had lasted for half a century, was at stake."
O'Neill's strongest weapons in the battle were his political skills and the depth of his personal commitment to the rationale for government assistance to the needy. Thomas Philip O'Neill Jr. was born in a rented third-floor apartment in a three-family house in North Cambridge, Mass., on Dec. 9, 1912, and grew up surrounded by immigrants and the children of immigrants, most of them Irish Catholics, many of them politicians and all of them struggling. To O'Neill, "all politics is local" was more than a motto, it was a political creed. He spent his entire life never far removed from his birthplace, and he understood that its people were the first, permanent and indispensable support for his half-century political career: it was their votes that made him first a state legislator and then "a man of the House," a member of Congress and then speaker. What his neighbors and friends felt and believed was always a powerful, and often a determining, influence on his judgment. That was manifest first in his early support of the Vietnam War and eventually his disapproval of it when the local voices of opposition became louder. It was also evident in the lifetime advocacy of his church's political positions on birth control and, with some ambivalence, abortion. 
The teachings of his religion and the example of the local politicians also fused in him an unshakable belief that Roosevelt's New Deal was no more than a reflection of what God wanted from and for his people. Farrell tells us, "He kept the Commandments just as best he could but never failed to heed the Sermon on the Mount." Tip never lost his fixed belief in government as a curer of social ills: he was "an absolute, unrepentant, unreconstructed New Deal Democrat." 
That powerful conviction was augmented by an impressive collection of personal characteristics uniquely suited to his role as a politician. He was 6 feet 3 inches tall, weighed well over 200 pounds, developed a great shock of white hair and was big, bluff and charmingly ingratiating, with the Irish gift of words and tales. For all his blarney and indirection, some of the most hardened political writers conceded his extraordinary popularity with constituents and colleagues alike. Jimmy Breslin, who attached himself to O'Neill throughout the Watergate hearings after O'Neill had become known as "the architect of impeachment," wrote poetically in his well-received book, "How the Good Guys Finally Won," "For if you see Tom O'Neill as he is, not as conformity forces us to see, then there is coming into the room a lovely spring rain of a man." 
O'Neill was more than likable. Harvard's John Kenneth Galbraith, who befriended him, believed he had a "a first-rate intelligence" that gave him "a margin of mental advantage over the run-of-the-mill members" of Congress. He was also blessed with an acute political instinct that limited the amount of day-to-day political calculation he would have to make. The combination of intellect and instinct served him well in the endless clash of views that crowded his life for 50 years, contending with the five presidents who followed John F. Kennedy, scores of Congressional counterparts and even several world leaders.
On the other hand, although O'Neill often prayed to the saints, he was much too realistic a man to think he would ever be listed next to Thomas More in his church's canon of miraculously moral politicians. Tip elevated the practice of quid pro quo to a political art form, interceding on behalf of lobbyists, performing favors for constituents and receiving from them gifts and contributions. He was subjected to various investigations and on occasion clearly withheld or distorted the truth, thereby at the very least suggesting a high degree of self-consciousness. In a separate chapter Farrell lays out many of these transactions in extensive and gritty enough detail to be excruciating for any O'Neill fan. But he ends the chapter by pointing out that O'Neill's colleagues and inquisitors all concluded he was an honest man. In any event, his ethical high-wire act appears not to have impeded his political progress.
After 16 years as a legislator in Massachusetts and 25 years in the House of Representatives, O'Neill's experience, personal gifts, unfaltering partisanship and a series of fortunate circumstances carried him to the top of the Congressional hill as speaker of the House in 1977, just as Jimmy Carter began his ill-fated term as president. Carter had been swept into office principally as a reaction to Nixon's cynical, bizarre and disastrous high crimes and misdemeanors and the urgent public desire for a cleansing of government. 
But those impulses weren't enough to offset the gradual shifting of the political tectonic plates that was destabilizing the Democrats. Farrell explains: "There were no longer enough militant union bosses, poor folk and minorities, urban ethnic and 'yellow dog' Southern democrats . . . to negate the growing influence of suburbanites, independents, white-collar workers or middle-class Catholics who were now prosperous and secure enough to vent their disaffection with the party's leftish stands on abortion, civil rights, crime and taxes."
Carter rejected the old liberalism with a call for fiscal austerity, tax cuts, smaller government, deregulation and welfare reform, an agenda that foreshadowed the New Democrat approach successfully employed by Bill Clinton 15 years later. O'Neill did what he could to help Carter without betraying his own fundamental beliefs, but the relatively modest accomplishments of the Carter administration were not enough to offset a calamitous combination of political disasters, including double-digit inflation and interest rates, increased unemployment and the inability to orchestrate a return of the hostages from Iran. When Reagan won a landslide victory in 1980, Tip was the only Democratic leader left standing. The Republicans were delighted by the prospect of their handsome movie actor president going toe-to-toe with Tip as the Democrats' champion, "a shambling, old, cigar-smoking Congressman coming off a bad season."
Farrell's description of the struggle that ensued is the fastest moving, most engaging and most memorable part of this book. As one of his first acts, President Reagan demanded huge tax cuts that would benefit mostly the rich, accompanied by billions of additional dollars for defense, even though the federal budget was already substantially in deficit. He had been convinced that the tax cuts' stimulative effect on the economy would magically produce a quick tide of new revenues large enough to balance the budget in three years, even at the lower tax rates and despite the huge new expenditures. 
O'Neill responded to Reagan's proposal by making the first in a series of successful tactical moves. Sure that his weakened Democratic majority could not prevent Reagan's significant reductions in programs or impede the giant tax cuts Reagan wanted, and believing Reagan's supply-side magic theory would produce huge new deficits instead of a balanced budget, O'Neill acquiesced. He tried to convince his members that if they gave Reagan enough rope, he would get tangled in it. In the end it worked out exactly as Tip had anticipated, but first he had to endure harsh attacks from the press and some of his colleagues. When Reagan's program passed Congress easily, the press declared it a triumph for Reagan and a disastrous defeat for O'Neill and his party, disheartening many of Tip's liberal colleagues. Some believed Tip was simply overmatched by the Great Communicator and they called for him to step down, but in the months that followed it became clear that Reagan had indeed become ensnared in the rope O'Neill had given him. The magic of supply-side was not working, the deficits grew worse, the economy sagged, and a serious recession developed in 1982. 
O'Neill had been right, and as Reagan's end of the popularity seesaw descended, Tip's end rose. From that point until 1986, when he retired, Tip became increasingly stronger. Aided by an energetic and talented staff led by Kirk O'Donnell, and with the clever work of a bright and resourceful young spinmeister, Chris Matthews, O'Neill became an effective media presence, regularly making the case against the president directly to the public. Reagan began to respond with mistakes, and one of them was a particularly serious blunder. David Stockman, the White House budget director, persuaded Reagan he should seek to offset the mounting deficits by reducing Social Security benefits for people who left the work force voluntarily. Reagan did, and having touched the third rail of politics, he was badly burned: Matthews directed O'Neill in a stinging media barrage, excoriating Reagan and the Republicans, which roused public opinion against the move. "Reagan finally has made a wretched mistake," Jim Wright, then House majority leader, wrote in his diary; "the administration is badly stung by the wrath of millions of aging Americans." Reagan was forced to capitulate on the issue. 
More mano a mano skirmishing between Tip and the president was to follow, and, in the end, the Republicans who had been delighted at the prospect of having O'Neill as an opponent were greatly relieved to see him finally step out of the ring.
In his two terms Reagan managed to reduce dramatically the taxes paid by the wealthiest Americans, encouraged freer trade and entrepreneurship and, for a while, discouraged big government. But Reagan's effort to undo the basic New Deal commitment of government to help struggling people who were not able to help themselves had failed. None of the major programs, like Social Security, unemployment insurance, Medicare, Medicaid, Supplemental Security Income for low-income people with disabilities and public education were dropped or seriously limited. Indeed, since Reagan, both political parties have cooperated to increase those programs and add others, and even our newest president felt obliged to soften the harsh edge of his label as a "conservative" by laying over it a veil of "compassion."
Intended or not, that's a bit of a tip o' the hat to the likes of the late, great speaker. There have been many like it. When he finally left Washington, he was viewed favorably by 63 percent in a Harris poll, and the Almanac of American Politics for 1986 said O'Neill was "the most effective and accomplished Speaker the nation has had for 40 years." Not many have quarreled with that assessment: certainly Farrell doesn't.
This is Farrell's first book in a distinguished career at The Boston Globe. His skills as a reporter are apparent: his work is meticulously documented; his writing lucid, cogent and frequently eloquent; and Farrell, now the Washington editor of The Globe, has gone to considerable lengths to assure completeness of the historical record in a warts-and-all presentation. There may be more material in this bulky volume than some readers will want; occasionally the chronological sequence lurches in ways that can be distracting, and some will quibble with other editing decisions, but Farrell has given us an entertaining book and a valuable history of the 50 years that have changed America, probably forever. Together with Jimmy Breslin's "How the Good Guys Finally Won," it is surely one of the two best books written on Tip O'Neill.

GRAPHIC: Photos: Thomas P. O'Neill Jr., the speaker of the House of Representatives, playing himself opposite the complaining George Wendt in an episode of the NBC situation comedy "Cheers," February 1983. (NBC); Tip O'Neill in January 1984, declaring his support for Walter F. Mondale's presidential candidacy; Mondale was nominated but lost to Ronald Reagan. (Associated Press) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Review 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BOOK REVIEWS (91%); GREAT DEPRESSION (90%); ECONOMIC DEPRESSION (90%); CONSERVATISM (90%); US SOCIAL SECURITY ACTS (76%); LIBERALISM (76%); POLITICAL SCIENCE (76%); US PRESIDENTS (75%); RECESSION (74%); ECONOMIC NEWS (74%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (73%); UNEMPLOYED PERSONS (73%); UNEMPLOYMENT INSURANCE (73%); LITERATURE (72%); SOCIAL SECURITY (72%); BIOGRAPHICAL LITERATURE (72%); BUSINESS CLIMATE & CONDITIONS (67%); PROFILES & BIOGRAPHIES (57%) BOOKS AND LITERATURE; REVIEWS 

COMPANY: LITTLE BROWN & CO INC (91%)

INDUSTRY: SIC2731 BOOKS: PUBLISHING, OR PUBLISHING & PRINTING (91%)

PERSON: RONALD REAGAN (93%) CUOMO, MARIO M; FARRELL, JOHN ALOYSIUS; O'NEILL, THOMAS P JR (1912-94) 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (95%)

TITLE: TIP O'NEILL: AND THE DEMOCRATIC CENTURY (BOOK) 

LOAD-DATE: March 11, 2001 



289 of 868 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 11, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 3; Column 1; Money and Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 603 words

HEADLINE: MARKET WATCH; 
In the War on Gibberish, a New Investor Ally

BYLINE:  By GRETCHEN MORGENSON 

 BODY:
DURING the bull market of the 1990's, great towers of Babel, like the one in the biblical region of Shinar, were erected by much of corporate America. From these towers spewed the spin on company performance or prospects that was needed to support swollen stock prices.
 Unlike the outcome in Shinar, where the tower builders were thwarted by a confusion of tongues, now investors are the frustrated ones. They must make sense of the blather masquerading as financial information emanating from many companies today. 
 At last, though, somebody is pushing corporate America to stop the gibberish and get back to the practice of dispensing meaningful information on financial results. That somebody is the New York Society of Security Analysts' Committee for Corporate Governance.
The particular tower of Babel under assault by the society is the one that Jeff built. Jeffrey P. Bezos, that is, chairman and chief executive of Amazon.com. The Internet retailer is the subject of a forum sponsored by the society to tackle the issues of confusing financial information facing investors today.
The forum, headed by Gary Lutin, an investment banker at Lutin & Company in New York, focused on Amazon because so many investment professionals were having trouble plumbing the company's financial releases. "An assemblage of Wall Street's best and brightest couldn't validate Amazon's projections of cash flows based on the information it provided," Mr. Lutin said. So the forum was set up last June.
At first, Amazon executives agreed to participate. But when forum participants asked the company for information they needed to validate its financial projections, Amazon declined.
Last month, Ravi Suria, a convertible-bond analyst at Lehman Brothers, wrote a report predicting that the company would face a creditor squeeze this year. Mr. Suria based his view on a traditional analysis of Amazon's working capital, its current assets minus current liabilities. He said Amazon's working capital would probably go negative this year.
Because working capital is monitored by a company's creditors and vendors, this raised the prospect of a squeeze. To the press, Amazon called the analysis "silly" and denied that working capital was linked to a company's ability to survive.
Clearly false. So last Thursday the forum sent a letter to Mr. Bezos, as chairman of Amazon's board, seeking information to back up the company's comments.
No support could be found, the letter said, for management's public assertions that its suppliers would ignore established standards of credit analysis based on working capital. The board should state procedures for "defining, monitoring and enforcing the company's policies regarding representations to investors," it said.
All of the forum members at a recent meeting believed that the risk of a disruptive financial crisis within a year at Amazon was high, the letter added. "Prudence requires contingency plans for protection of shareholder value," and the board should inform investors of such plans, it said.
Referring to a report in The New York Observer that L. John Doerr, a prominent venture capitalist and Amazon director, had called Lehman's chairman to try to suppress Mr. Suria's report before it came out, the letter said: "The board is asked to state its position regarding the rights of analysts to express their views and regarding the rights of investors to hear those views."
Bill Curry, an Amazon spokesman, said: "We have received the letter. We have nothing to say about it." The society is fighting for the right of investors to accurate financial information. High time somebody did.

GRAPHIC: Graph shows Amazon.com weekly stock prices from 2000-2001. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BANKING & FINANCE ASSOCIATIONS (90%); WORKING CAPITAL (89%); INVESTMENT MANAGEMENT (77%); FINANCIAL RESULTS (77%); CASH FLOW (77%); CORPORATE DEBT (77%); EXECUTIVES (77%); INVESTMENT BANKING (76%); BONDS (76%); INVESTMENT ADVISERS (76%); CORPORATE GOVERNANCE (76%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (71%); INTERNET RETAILING (68%); RETAILERS (68%) FINANCES 

COMPANY: LEHMAN BROTHERS HOLDINGS INC (57%); AMAZON.COM INC (56%)

ORGANIZATION: AMAZON.COM INC; NEW YORK SOCIETY OF SECURITY ANALYSTS 

TICKER: AMZN (NASDAQ) (56%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (57%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (57%); NAICS454111 ELECTRONIC SHOPPING (56%); SIC5961 CATALOG & MAIL-ORDER HOUSES (56%)

PERSON: JEFFREY P BEZOS (72%) MORGENSON, GRETCHEN 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (90%) UNITED STATES (90%)

LOAD-DATE: March 11, 2001 



290 of 868 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 11, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 1; Column 6; National Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1930 words

HEADLINE: BUSH IS PROVIDING CORPORATE MODEL FOR WHITE HOUSE 

BYLINE:  By RICHARD L. BERKE 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, March 10 

 BODY:
In the seven short weeks of his presidency, George W. Bush has transformed how the White House and elements of the sprawling government operate in ways that contrast sharply with those of Bill Clinton and other past presidents.
 It is no accident that a bust of Dwight D. Eisenhower is perched to the right of Mr. Bush's desk in the Oval Office. Not since the general's days in the White House, some veterans of past administrations say, has a president so reorganized a government to function with the crisp efficiency of a blue-chip corporation. 
 The trappings are unchanged. As with Mr. Clinton, the American flag still looms over the president's right shoulder in photographs; at cabinet sessions, Mr. Bush still sits in the chair with the highest back. 
But those common threads do not reveal the fundamental ways -- besides ideology -- that Mr. Bush differs from Mr. Clinton and many other modern presidents. These include the time he devotes to his job (far less than Mr. Clinton), the authority given to his vice president (Dick Cheney acts as a chief operating officer), the interplay among staff members (they must follow a dress code and rules on cordiality) and the use of pollsters (they have been kept out of the Oval Office).
For Americans whose notions of White House life stem from the chaotic, freewheeling Clinton era, or even from "The West Wing," the popular television program, Mr. Bush seems determined to render a different image.
"This is the only bureaucracy in Washington that can change to fit the personality of the president," Andrew H. Card Jr., Mr. Bush's chief of staff, who served in the White House for President Ronald Reagan and Mr. Bush's father, said in an interview. "This president is the first ever to have an M.B.A."
The recent release of Mr. Bush's budget blueprint underscores a telling difference between Mr. Bush and Mr. Clinton. By Mr. Card's estimation, Mr. Bush devoted "in the neighborhood of five hours" to meetings to discuss his budget proposal. By contrast, Gene Sperling, who for years was a top economic adviser to Mr. Clinton, said the former president spent at least 25 hours in official meetings assembling the budget in his first weeks in office, and 50 hours more in more casual settings.
Mr. Bush left it to Mr. Cheney to preside over a small group of aides who actually drafted the proposal.
"There has been a sea change," said Kenneth Duberstein, who was a chief of staff for Mr. Reagan. "This is the first time in American history we've had a president and a prime minister."
The contrast also reflects altered economic realities from eight years ago. 
"You have to remember how dramatically different it was to be in a time of deficits," Mr. Sperling said. "It wasn't like you sat around and just decided this is the best way to cut up the huge surplus you've inherited. We literally had to present Clinton with scores of potential cuts which could even cost members of Congress or the president himself an election."
Another reason Mr. Bush can afford to spend less time doing his job is that he has a far more focused -- Democrats say less ambitious -- agenda than Mr. Clinton. The former president at this point was promoting a raft of initiatives to expand government; Mr. Bush is sticking to his signature plan to cut taxes.
Mr. Bush imposes a discipline so tight that Mr. Card halts senior staff meetings at precisely 7:58 each morning -- even if people are in midsentence -- so he can arrive exactly on time for Mr. Bush's intelligence briefing at 8. Mr. Clinton was so undisciplined about meetings that his aides once consulted an efficiency expert.
On Monday, Lawrence Lindsey, Mr. Bush's chief economic adviser, arrived on time for the president to videotape a message to a banking convention, only to find that the taping had begun ahead of schedule.
Afterward, Mr. Bush gently upbraided his aide, saying, "Lawrence, we're the on-time administration."
Later that day, Karen P. Hughes, the president's counselor, said Mr. Bush frowned at her when she wandered into the Oval Office 10 minutes late for a meeting on Social Security. She had been dealing with reporters about Mr. Cheney's heart problems. "I looked at him and said, 'Mr. President, it was for a good reason.' "
Then, Mr. Bush was described by aides as still more fidgety when Karl Rove, his senior adviser, arrived late to the same meeting, followed by yet another tardy staff member. Finally, Mr. Bush turned to Josh Bolten, the deputy chief of staff who was running the meeting, and according to people in the room, he deadpanned, "Seems you might have lost control of your meeting."
The president usually arrives at the Oval Office by 7 a.m. and is out the door by 6:30 p.m., often for dinner at the residence. Most weeks he leaves late on Friday afternoon for Camp David or for his ranch in Texas.
Mr. Card says he hears from Mr. Bush after hours maybe once every week or week and a half.
"He's called me as late as 10:30 at night," Mr. Card said. "Maybe even one night later than that."
Mr. Clinton, by contrast, often did not get to work until later in the morning but had a far longer workday, took off less time on weekends and was famous for making rounds of calls to aides well past midnight. 
Mr. Card rejected the idea that Mr. Bush is a hands-off president, guided by his handlers, as many said of Ronald Reagan.
"Reagan was used to, if you will, getting stage direction," Mr. Card said. "But President Bush has been known as giving direction. I don't want that to be a disparaging remark about President Reagan. But he was ready to accept suggestions like, 'Stand on this X,' 'Sit in this chair,' 'Look right,' 'Look left.' "
Another stark difference is how this administration handles politics. While polling has been commissioned by the White House, Mr. Bush's pollsters joke that he has banned them from the Oval Office; they have yet to meet with him.
Stanley Greenberg, Mr. Clinton's first pollster, said that in the early days of the Clinton administration he met with the president weekly in the Oval Office to review the latest surveys, and often spent several days a week in the White House in the early months.
Pollsters and a dedicated orientation toward the hourly news cycle may be gone, but many people inside and outside the Bush White House say it is just as political as it was under Mr. Clinton, although in different ways. 
For example, a close friend and adviser of Mr. Bush's said that Mr. Rove had spoken to him in specific terms about how the White House was reacting to the energy crisis in California -- and how that might affect the president's re-election prospects there.
"It's just as political, but it's not in-your-face political," the adviser said. "It's more of a big-picture perspective. It's not, How can we score points for the moment?"
Mr. Bush's friends say he learned from his father that he cannot tune out the political implications of his job, and he learned from Mr. Clinton to seize opportunities to sell his programs. A prime example is how Mr. Bush traveled to swing states this week to sell his budget.
"Clinton was so intimately involved in every detail," said Senator John B. Breaux, a Louisiana Democrat. "With Bush, it comes from the bottom and works its way up the channels. But it's not any less political. The trips around the country are a classic political operation. That's playing tough, hard politics."
An important reason for what has been widely regarded as a smooth takeover of the government is that Mr. Bush has surrounded himself with veterans like Mr. Cheney and Mr. Card. Staff members are also, by and large, older than those of past administrations, which is another reason for the more subdued White House.
The newcomers, like Ms. Hughes and Mr. Rove, have taken steps to gain institutional knowledge.
For example, Ms. Hughes enlisted Margaret Tutwiler, a veteran of the Bush and Reagan administrations, to work beside her as a volunteer in the first 90 days of the administration.
"There's a lot about Washington and how the White House operates that I don't know," Ms. Hughes said. "When I have a question about something, I say, 'Margaret, do you remember how this was done before?' "
Ms. Hughes said it was Ms. Tutwiler's idea for the president to pay tribute to Representative Joe Moakley, Democrat of Massachusetts, who has leukemia, in his address to Congress. And it was Ms. Tutwiler, she said, who intervened when the staff tried to put a teleprompter in the East Room, saying it had not been done in the past.
Several longtime government observers said they expected members of the cabinet to have far more latitude than those under Mr. Clinton. That is because of Mr. Bush's penchant to delegate and because he picked seasoned, independent people.
"It's going back to a cabinet government," said former Senator Daniel Patrick Moynihan of New York. "What's interesting to me is how many of the people here are people who have been here before and have a sense of this place. They are steady and not new to their work -- and they're not wondering how it will all come out."
Still, it also appears that the White House is in firm control of the cabinet. When Christie Whitman, the administrator of the Environmental Protection Agency, announced recently that she was letting stand a flurry of regulations imposed by Mr. Clinton, Mr. Card said she had first cleared it with his staff.
"It is normal for major rules or major policy pronouncements to be coordinated with the White House," Mr. Card said. "The president is the leader of the executive branch of government."
Many officials in the Bush White House said they were struck by how there seemed to be far less back-stabbing than there had been even in Mr. Bush's father's White House.
Even Democrats on the outside have noticed that.
"I am impressed by how much this White House seems to be geared toward the president and his interests rather than self-promotion," said Douglas Sosnik, who was a top aide to Mr. Clinton for six years. "If there's a mistake, staffers take the blame and insulate Bush from it. I'm not sure I could always say that about the Clinton White House."

BUSH'S WHITE HOUSE RULES
Proper Attire Required; Working Late Discouraged

A sampling of the rules of President Bush's White House, as explained by Andrew H. Card Jr., the chief of staff.

ATTIRE: Men must wear ties and jackets at all times in the Oval Office; women must wear proper business attire.

"I have not seen the president in the Oval Office without a suit and tie on."

BREVITY: Briefing papers should not run over a page -- or two pages at most.

"He doesn't like memos that state the obvious. If he gets talking points that say, 'Welcome to the White House, I'm pleased to have you there,' he'll say, 'Don't put that in my speech!' He'll say, 'Oh, you think the president doesn't know enough to say, 'Welcome to the White House?' "

PUNCTUALITY: Be sensitive to the clock.

Staff members must be on time for meetings -- or early.

"The president begins meetings on time and ends them on time."

RESPECT: Staff members are told to respect each other, and return each other's calls promptly.

"I remind everyone that we are just staffers, and no more important than anyone working at H.H.S. or HUD or the Department of Transportation -- or the people opening the mail. If you like to get your calls returned, return other people's calls."

WORK HABITS: Don't be a workaholic.

The president leaves the office by 6:30 usually and expects his staff to spend time with their families -- and enjoy their weekends.

"He knows how to get that all-important battery recharged."

GRAPHIC: Photo: President Bush and his chief of staff, Andrew H. Card Jr. "This is the only bureaucracy in Washington that can change to fit the personality of the president," says Mr. Card, a veteran of two previous administrations. (Associated Press)(pg. 34) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US PRESIDENTS (91%); BUDGETS (89%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (89%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (78%); TALKS & MEETINGS (77%); EXECUTIVES (77%); INTERVIEWS (75%); PRIME MINISTERS (73%); HISTORY (72%); POLITICS (70%); POLLS & SURVEYS (68%); BUDGET PLANNING & MANAGEMENT (66%); BUDGET PROPOSALS (66%); TELEVISION PROGRAMMING (50%) UNITED STATES POLITICS AND GOVERNMENT; PRESIDENTS AND PRESIDENCY (US); VICE PRESIDENTS AND VICE PRESIDENCY (US); PUBLIC OPINION 

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (93%); BILL CLINTON (92%); DICK CHENEY (89%); RONALD REAGAN (79%) BERKE, RICHARD L; BUSH, GEORGE W (PRES); EISENHOWER, DWIGHT DAVID (1890-1969); CARD, ANDREW H JR; CLINTON, BILL; CHENEY, DICK 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (95%)

LOAD-DATE: March 11, 2001 



291 of 868 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 11, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 1; Column 5; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 427 words

HEADLINE: NEWS SUMMARY 

 BODY:
 INTERNATIONAL 3-20

Quietly, Some Palestinians Debate Price of Violence
Some Palestinians are beginning to ask gingerly if their leaders have a strategy that justifies the devastating loss of life, property, mobility and income after months of clashes. It is hardly an uprising against the uprising, but it is the start of an internal Palestinian debate. 1

Yasir Arafat, the Palestinian leader, reaffirmed his commitment to the "strategic path of peace" but stopped short of calling for an end to violence as a component of the Palestinian uprising. 20

Japan Leader May Resign Soon
Prime Minister Yoshiro Mori has met with senior members of his party to signal his intention to step down early next month. 4

Elections in Uganda
Ugandans will vote tomorrow in an election that presents the first real political challenge President Yoweri Museveni has faced since taking office in 1986. Incidents of violence against Mr. Museveni's main challenger, Dr. Kizza Besigye, have disappointed many Ugandans, who fear Mr. Museveni is approaching the fascism that defined his predecessors. 3

NATIONAL 22-34

Businesslike Tone Prevails In the Bush White House
George W. Bush has transformed how the White House operates: he delegates more authority, relies less on pollsters and even has rules on dress and cordiality. 1

Courts Lag in Paternity Cases
Genetic testing has made determining paternity simple, but so far the law has not caught up with science. 1

A New Leader for Harvard
Harvard University plans to name Lawrence H. Summers, an economist and former treasury secretary, as its 27th president, according to people involved in the selection. 32

Bush and the Environment
President Bush's allies in industry are expressing concern about his first moves on the environment. 24

Justice After 99 Years
A Japanese-American was admitted to the Washington bar posthumously, after being denied in 1902. 28

Quick Action on Judgeships
The Bush administration is moving quickly to put its stamp on the federal courts, already interviewing more than 50 candidates. 34

NEW YORK/REGION 37-42

System to Track Abuse Of Children Is Delayed
Five years after the Pataki administration announced plans to create a $113 million computer system intended to improve its long-criticized method of tracking child abuse complaints, the cost has more than doubled and the system remains unfinished. 37

Neediest Cases 39

OBITUARIES 35

Samuel J. Silverman
A skilled litigator who later served 20 years as a judge and surrogate in New York, he was 92. 35

Chess 42
Weather 43
Cong Vote 41

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Summary 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: NEWS BRIEFS (90%); US PRESIDENTS (88%); VOTERS & VOTING (88%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (87%); DEATHS & OBITUARIES (82%); MIDDLE EAST PROTESTS & UPRISINGS (78%); PRIME MINISTERS (78%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (78%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (75%); ELECTIONS (75%); JUDGES (74%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (70%); LEGAL PATERNITY (70%); LITIGATION (65%); CHILD ABUSE (61%); POLLS & SURVEYS (53%) NO INDEX TERMS FROM NYTIMES 

ORGANIZATION: HARVARD UNIVERSITY (82%)

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (89%); LAWRENCE SUMMERS (53%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (92%) PALESTINIAN TERRITORY, OCCUPIED (97%); UGANDA (93%); UNITED STATES (93%); JAPAN (79%)

LOAD-DATE: March 11, 2001 



292 of 868 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 12, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section C; Column 5; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 14

LENGTH: 1547 words

HEADLINE: THE MEDIA BUSINESS: ADVERTISING; 
Next fall could be one of the weakest seasons for commercials at the big networks in 10 years.

BYLINE:  By Stuart Elliott 

 BODY:
FORGET about "Survivor," "The Mole" or "Temptation Island." There is a tense, thrilling drama on its way that makes those television reality series look, well, unreal.
 But it's not going to be on television. It's about television. 
 Every spring, executives from the nation's largest advertisers and agencies meet their counterparts at the big TV networks to negotiate the purchase of commercial time ahead of the coming fall season. This process to determine the worth of a 30-second spot is known as the up-front market, because those commitments are made before any shows start to appear. And it involves a spate of high-stakes gambles as billions are wagered on the basis of expectations of what Americans will buy as consumers and watch as viewers. 
As the up-front market for the 2001-2002 season begins over the next few weeks, it promises to be the most fascinating in years because there are two major uncertainties that threaten the participants, much as the weekly tribal councils determine the fate of the cast members of "Survivor." One uncertainty is the softening ad market, which is losing steam at a surprisingly rapid rate, as the economy slows. 
The other uncertainty is a possible strike by the unions representing Hollywood actors and writers, which would disrupt the production of network programming -- particularly in prime time, the most valuable part of the broadcast day because the most expensive commercials run in those hours.
Either one of those challenges would be daunting. Together, they could be more vexatious than a mole for the networks let loose among the advertisers -- or vice versa.
"It's like when you play musical chairs," said Alan J. Gottesman, who follows the media and advertising industries as managing director of West End Communications/Consulting in New York. "You know the music will stop, but you don't know when you'll have to make the mad scramble for the chair."
Indeed, a leading media forecaster, Myers Reports Inc. in New York, is predicting that the seven broadcast TV networks will take in less during the coming up-front market than they did last spring when they sold commercials for prime-time programs ahead of the 2000-2001 season. That decline, which Jack Myers, the company's publisher, estimates at 4 to 7 percent, would be the first significant decrease for the up-front market since the 1993-94 TV season.
That should not come as a surprise, said Joe Mandese, editor of The Myers Report, a publication of Myers Reports. "There's a laggard economy that some people call a recession," he said, as well as "the possibility of less compelling content" if a strike forces the networks to forgo regular fare for a hodgepodge of replacement programs.
Add in "the dot-com fallout" and the fact that "the economy stinks," Mr. Mandese said, and a 4 to 7 percent decline in up-front sales -- to $7.8 billion or less, from a record last spring of more than $8.1 billion -- is conceivable.
Such a decrease would be welcomed by the marketers and agencies that pay for advertising time, because the last two up-front markets ended with substantially higher prices in prime time.
"I'd rather be on this side of the desk this year," said Jon Mandel, co-managing director at MediaCom in New York, the media services agency owned by the Grey Global Group. 
"Last year was so big," Mr. Mandel said of the gains enjoyed by the networks, "by definition it will be lower. How deep into the cavern we go depends on how much money comes into the market place."
Mr. Mandel's counterpart at Starcom Worldwide in Chicago, John Muszynski, tried estimating that depth.
"The same market place that dictated double-digit increases might now be dictating double-digit decreases," said Mr. Muszynski, executive vice president and chief broadcast investment officer at Starcom, part of the Starcom MediaVest Worldwide media services agency owned by the Bcom3 Group. 
"Part of the beauty of this is that it's based on supply and demand," he added. "Quite a few people on our client list are saying, 'I'm not saying my business is bad, but I'm going to be cautious.' "
Mr. Muszynski and Mr. Mandel are expressing the buyers' perspective, which of course differs from the sellers' perspective. The up-front market is a tug-of-war as each side jawbones to make its case for higher or lower prices.
If the networks deem that the prices the buyers are willing to pay are too low, they can sell less commercial time in advance of the season, gambling they can charge higher prices when they sell spots during the season in what is known as the scatter market. Jon Nesvig, president for sales at Fox Broadcasting in New York, part of the News Corporation, likened that strategy to "putting your grain in a silo and waiting for a market to develop."
If the advertisers and agencies deem that the prices being charged are too high, they can buy less commercial time in the up-front market and hope for lower prices on the spots during the so-called scatter market once the season begins. As the season proceeds, they can also cancel some of the commitments they made during the up-front, a practice "euphemistically called 'slippage,' " said Tom Wolzien, senior media analyst at Sanford C. Bernstein & Company in New York.
The advertisers and agencies can also divert money from their ad budgets devoted to broadcast network TV and spend it in other media like magazines, newspapers, radio and the Internet.
"It's a game of chicken played every year," said Leland A. Westerfield, a senior analyst who follows the media industry for UBS Warburg in New York. "The networks hold a scarce commodity, access to mass audiences in an attractive environment, but with the economy weighing heavily on the shoulders of advertisers, and a strike, the buyers have a stronger hand."
Needless to say, that viewpoint is disputed by the executives of the top networks that account for most of the sales made during the up-front market: CBS, Fox and NBC. (Executives at the fourth big network, ABC, a unit of the Walt Disney Company, declined repeated requests to take part in this article.)
"Obviously, everybody is concerned about the economy, but we are guardedly optimistic," said Leslie Moonves, president of CBS Television unit of CBS in New York, owned by Viacom Inc.
"Advertising will not have the double-digit increases of a year ago," he added, "but it will be a fairly solid up-front. And if it isn't as good as we expect, we'll sell less in the up-front and hold more back for scatter."
Mel Karmazin, president and chief operating officer at Viacom, recently said that weak demand in the up-front market would lead CBS to sell 55 or 60 percent of its commercial inventory in the spring compared with a more usual 80 percent.
Mr. Moonves said that Mr. Karmazin may have been "exaggerating a little bit" because "I don't think it will come to that."
"We have enough confidence that we think you'll want to buy from us," he added. "Network television is not for bargain-basement hunters, but I still think it's the best game in town."
For instance, Mr. Moonves said, the broadcast networks are "still the place where the last episode of 'Survivor' will get 55 million viewers, all experiencing something at once."
"And I have one of those coming up in May," he added, laughing, referring to the finale of "Survivor II: The Australian Outback."
That ability to quickly gather large audiences should not be seriously damaged if the Hollywood creative community strikes, according to Keith Turner, president for NBC Television Network sales at NBC in New York, part of General Electric.
"I'm not going to kid you; it's going to be a factor" in the up-front market, he said. "But each of us is preparing for it in case it does happen." 
"And money is coming into the market place," he added. "The business is coming slower than it has historically, but we are hitting our numbers in the first quarter and it looks like we will hit our numbers in the second quarter."
Mr. Wolzien, the analyst at Bernstein, said the strike may "give advertisers an excuse to hold off" from buying commercial time. The networks do have a bargaining chip in the event of a strike: the serendipitous shift in viewing patterns toward reality shows, which require neither actors nor writers.
"We're in pretty good shape," said Mr. Nesvig at Fox, who described "reality projects" ranging from a second edition of "Temptation Island" to prime-time baseball.
In the up-front market, Mr. Nesvig said, he favored conciliation over confrontation: "There's a lot of posturing on both sides, but the fact of the matter is that though the seller and the buyer disagree on pricing, at the end of the day we figure out a way to do business."
A top media buyer echoed that.
The networks "have what we want," acknowledged Gene DeWitt, chairman and chief executive at Optimedia U.S. in New York, a division of the Optimedia International media services agency owned by the Publicis Groupe. 
"But if those guys are obdurate, they realize they're not closing many deals," he added. "And if they put on too many reruns or trash, they'll give their audience to their competitors."
"I don't think it's a battle," Mr. DeWitt said, then paused. "Actually, I do," he added, but "I've lived through 35 of these" and "I'm trying to mellow out." 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BROADCAST ADVERTISING (90%); TELEVISION INDUSTRY (90%); TELEVISION PROGRAMMING (90%); REALITY TELEVISION (90%); PRIMETIME TELEVISION (78%); ACTORS & ACTRESSES (78%); MEDIA PLANNING & BUYING (78%); TELEVISION ADVERTISING (78%); NETWORK TELEVISION (77%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (76%); RECESSION (76%); ECONOMIC NEWS (76%); WRITERS (65%) TELEVISION; ADVERTISING; STRIKES; LABOR 

ORGANIZATION: MYERS REPORTS INC 

PERSON: ELLIOTT, STUART 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (90%) UNITED STATES (90%)

LOAD-DATE: March 12, 2001 



293 of 868 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 12, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section C; Column 4; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 1126 words

HEADLINE: Patents; 
A coming court test on whether corn seed and mathematical instructions have similar status.

BYLINE:  By Sabra Chartrand 

 BODY:
AFTER agreeing last month to hear a dispute between two corn-seed companies struggling for economic advantage in the lucrative market for genetically engineered plants, the United States Supreme Court is preparing to settle whether such seeds should be awarded the kinds of patents that usually cover mechanical, electrical or chemical inventions.
 Customarily, the court has supported a broad interpretation of federal patent law, but with key exceptions for inventions based on mathematical algorithms and products of nature. Under the current law, just about anything else is eligible for a patent if it meets invention requirements. But last year, the Supreme Court issued a ruling that shaved away at the exception for math algorithms, and some say that the court's willingness to hear the corn-seed case may indicate that it wants to take another look at the exclusion for products of nature. 
 That idea gained force from the court's having agreed to hear the case even though two lower courts had ruled that nothing in current law makes the kind of corn-seed inventions in question ineligible for what are known as utility patents. 
The Supreme Court's consideration of the matter is likely to focus attention on the role of patents in what has become a fierce, often international political battle over scientific, environmental and health issues raised by genetically engineered crops. 
The fight centers on the efforts of one company to protect 17 corn-seed patents that it says another company infringed by making and selling identical seeds. The company with the patents is Pioneer Hi-Bred International, a DuPont subsidiary and the world's largest producer of seed corn. When Pioneer sued J.E.M. AG Supply for infringing its patents, J.E.M. countersued, arguing that the patents should not have been awarded in the first place.
At the heart of that argument is the question the Supreme Court will take up: Are plants created from seeds eligible for utility patents?
The two lower courts heard the case in 1998 and 2000, and said yes. For utility patents, federal law now says that any "new and useful process, machine, manufacture or composition of matter, or any new and useful improvement thereof may obtain a patent." 
In 1985, the Patent and Trademark Office declared that the law covered plants created from seeds. Thousands of plants and seeds have since won utility patents.
"I didn't expect the Supreme Court to take this case," said Jeff Craft, a Los Angeles intellectual property lawyer who specializes in biochemistry and life sciences. "The law is pretty clear, it's very broad, and I'd be surprised if the Supreme Court wanted to send a signal that they're cutting back on that."
On the contrary, he said, the court seems interested in reinforcing the broad scope of patent law by removing some of the limits set on math algorithms and natural phenomena.
"This may be another step in reinforcing the breadth of the patent law," Mr. Craft said. "That's the way the case proceeded in the lower courts with the seeds. The lower courts followed the signal set on broad interpretation."
J.E.M. has argued that the utility category was not intended to include plants, since there are other regulations that govern plant inventions. The first, the Plant Patent Act of 1930, created a specific "plant patent" category, at a time long before genetic engineering technology, for plants reproduced asexually -- that is, from means other than seeds. Plant patents cover plant mutations, hybrids or cultivars that might come from grafting, budding, layering or rooting techniques.
J.E.M. says another statute, the Plant Variety Protection Act of 1970, gives legal status to plants created from engineered seeds. It can endow legal status on sexually reproduced plants, but it does so outside the patent system. Inventors are awarded a certificate from the Department of Agriculture, instead. Its protection is less broad than that of a patent, and it carries exceptions to infringement that do not exist with patents.
J.E.M. argues that Congress meant those two laws to be the only way to turn a plant invention into protected intellectual property. But Pioneer Hi-Bred -- as well as the Justice Department, the Patent and Trademark Office and the lower courts -- disagree. Now it is up to the Supreme Court.
While the fight reflects pieces of the growing controversy over genetically engineered organisms in farming and the food chain, the companies involved have not waged it to establish any doctrine on whether such seeds should be accepted.
Rather, it is another in the increasingly common, entrenched fights over the value of patents in a high-technology economy. Genetically engineered seeds are a critical part of business strategy for the handful of companies that dominate the American crop-seed industry.
Foreign sales of American corn and corn products exceed $1 billion a year. And any company that can lay exclusive claim to those products with patents stands to collect an increasing share of that revenue. That is why J.E.M. Supply and Pioneer Hi-Bred have pursued their fight to the Supreme Court.
Genetically engineered seeds are those that have been doctored with genes from other organisms so they have desirable new characteristics -- like generating their own pesticides or fighting off weeds. Genetic engineering involves breaking the DNA barrier to directly transfer plant and animal genetic material. Genes from human, animal, plant, bacteria, virus or other organisms can be inserted into another species. Specialists call the result a transgenic plant or animal.
But concern over such plants' impact on soil, pests, beneficial insects and people who eat the ingredients grown from them has alarmed some environmentalists and consumer groups, particularly in Western Europe. Some research has shown that seed toxins can leach into soils. Other studies contend that pollen from engineered corn can kill monarch butterfly larvae. Such opponents say that no one understands the long-term effects of these genetic manipulations. Supporters argue that seeds with antibacteria genes will reduce the need for insecticide use because they can be programmed to kill specific pests or weeds.
In spite of that controversy, Mr. Craft said he did not expect the Supreme Court to narrow the scope of utility patents.
"The economy has been robust, with rewards coming because of these technological advances, and that is especially primed to take off in the biotechnology area," he said. "I can't imagine the Supreme Court knocking the legs out from under that industry."
Patents may be viewed on the Web at www.uspto.gov or may be ordered through the mail, by patent number, for $3 from the Patent and Trademark Office, Washington, D.C. 20231. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: SUPREME COURTS (91%); PATENTS (91%); GENETIC ENGINEERING (90%); BIOTECHNOLOGY & GENETIC SCIENCE (90%); INTELLECTUAL PROPERTY LAW (90%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (90%); GENETICALLY MODIFIED CROPS (90%); CORN FARMING (89%); PATENT LAW (89%); SUITS & CLAIMS (78%); BIOTECHNOLOGY PATENTS (78%); GENETIC BIOCHEMISTRY (78%); CHEMICALS (78%); ECOLOGY & ENVIRONMENTAL SCIENCE (78%); AGRICULTURAL BIOTECHNOLOGY (78%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (77%); PATENT INFRINGEMENT (77%); INTELLECTUAL PROPERTY (77%); CHEMICALS PATENTS (77%); MATHEMATICS (76%); LAWYERS (74%); LITIGATION (72%); BIOCHEMISTRY (60%) GRAIN; SUITS AND LITIGATION; INVENTIONS AND PATENTS; AGRICULTURE; GENETIC ENGINEERING; SEEDS 

COMPANY: PIONEER HI-BRED MAGYARORSZAG VETOMAGTERMELO ES FORGALMAZO RT (54%)

ORGANIZATION: SUPREME COURT OF THE UNITED STATES (92%) PIONEER HI-BRED INTERNATIONAL INC; JEM AG SUPPLY; SUPREME COURT (US) 

INDUSTRY: SIC0181 ORNAMENTAL FLORICULTURE & NURSERY PRODUCTS (54%)

PERSON: CHARTRAND, SABRA 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: March 12, 2001 



294 of 868 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 12, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section C; Column 2; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1476 words

HEADLINE: Papers Struggle With Slowdown and Investor Expectations 

BYLINE:  By FELICITY BARRINGER 

 BODY:
Mike Cassidy, a columnist for The San Jose Mercury News, wrote a letter on Wednesday to P. Anthony Ridder, chief executive of Knight Ridder, which owns The Mercury News. In it, Mr. Cassidy said he asked if it was not time for a business leader like Mr. Ridder "to stand up to irrational markets and redefine financial success."
 If he did that, Mr. Cassidy suggested, Mr. Ridder could relax the profit goals he had set for The Mercury News and avoid the newsroom layoffs that the paper's publisher, Jay T. Harris, had warned were coming. 
 The message of Mr. Cassidy's letter resonates far beyond San Jose, Calif. Few, if any, of the country's large newspapers are free of the pain caused by widespread double-digit declines in help-wanted advertising. A variety of opportunistic infections plague newspapers in different markets, including the closing of retail stores in San Antonio, the sharp drop in movie advertising from Los Angeles to Little Rock, Ark., and the decline of the dot-coms in the New York and San Francisco areas. 
As a result, newsrooms across the country face budget cuts. In San Jose, which in the flush times of 2000 added about 30 reporters, bringing its newsroom staff to about 415, the announcement of the first layoffs in a generation is expected shortly. Layoffs have already been announced at The Akron Beacon Journal, another Knight Ridder newspaper. The Beacon Journal newsroom is expected to lose 10 of its 165 journalists and the paper has scrapped its Sunday magazine.
The Arizona Republic, owned by the Gannett Company, has cut back news space in its feature sections. The New York Times has cut the news space in regional weekly sections in the New York area.
Such cuts are one way newspapers have of coping with declining ad revenue while still producing the profits Wall Street expects. But what, exactly, does Wall Street expect? And is standing up to Wall Street as simple as Mr. Cassidy suggests?
The investment community with which newspaper company executives must contend is not monolithic. Its most visible segment is represented by a group of about a dozen industry analysts, whose opinions influence billions of dollars in investment. They watch the week-to-week trends in the industry closely and tend to focus on a company's ability to increase its earnings.
When these analysts turn lukewarm on a stock, causing its price to drop, another faction of investors often steps in. They call themselves value investors, and say they are less concerned about short-term profit issues and care more about whether a stock is inexpensive relative to various benchmarks, and they seek to buy into cyclical industries near the bottom of their cycles. In the past few months, such investors have been buying stock in everything from chemical companies to utilities to newspapers.
The push and pull between so-called momentum investors, for whom accelerating profits are essential, and value investors, can keep a company's stock price from rising very high in good times, or sinking too far when bad times are on the horizon.
While it is impossible to know for sure what moves a company's stock price on any given day, it is worth noting, given the push-and-pull dynamic, that one of the few newspaper industry statistics that has not deteriorated over the last two months is stock prices. They did rise and fall in that time, but still, the Standard & Poor's index of newspaper-company stocks stands at about the same level as two months ago, when most executives were optimistic that the advertising decline was a brief, one-quarter or two-quarter phenomenon.
Take Knight Ridder's stock price. Two months ago, on Jan. 12, it closed at $58.25. On Friday, with executives much more pessimistic about the depth and duration of the advertising slowdown, it closed 31 cents lower. The Times Company's stock price closed on Friday at $42.27, up 33 cents from its close on Jan. 12. The Tribune Company, which, unlike Knight Ridder, the Times Company and Dow Jones & Company, has not revised its earnings guidance downward, closed on Friday at $41.55, down 95 cents from two months ago.
Newspaper industry investors in general tend to value a stock based on where they think profits will be in six or nine months. So despite the spate of bad news in the past week or so, their outlook for the rest of 2001 has not changed much since January.
Value investors are feeling vindicated by the collapse of the new economy stocks. One such investor is Bruce S. Sherman, chairman and chief executive of Private Capital Management. In an interview Friday, Mr. Sherman said: "Newspapers are a cash cow. They are good businesses with huge discretionary cash flows."
When investors, looking ahead to bad times, began to sell enough shares to depress newspaper stock prices, Mr. Sherman and others stepped in. He now holds about two million shares of Knight Ridder in his funds, much of it bought in the second half of 2000. Since during the second half of 2000, the stock price never exceeded Friday's closing of $57.94, he is ahead of the game.
Like Mr. Sherman, Henry Cavanna, a senior United States equity portfolio manager at J. P. Morgan Chase, increased his newspaper holdings in several portfolios late last year, and by year's end held 2.4 million shares of Knight Ridder and 1.6 million shares of the Times Company. He considered them defensive holdings. 
"They are cheaper and will go down less" than other companies, he said, although, he added, "the short-term fundamentals are not so great."
But Mr. Cavanna's reason for trusting in staying power of newspaper companies may not give much comfort to Mike Cassidy at The Mercury News, who wanted his boss to stand up to Wall Street. "Newspapers," Mr. Cavanna said, "are also very good at racheting down expenses."
And for every value investor, there are plenty of investors who careabout profit margins. Leland Westerfield of UBS Warburg Research spoke for many analysts when he said that, if margins drop, the stock would eventually follow. "Value investors will come in it if it goes too far," Mr. Westerfield said. "But the long-term profitability of the company would be slightly lower and its value equivalently lower if margins fall."
Knight Ridder executives like Polk Laffoon IV, vice president for corporate communications, warned that if the stock price dipped too far, a company could become a prime takeover target, as investors might sell to someone who promised a higher return whether or not they cared about the quality of journalism.
"What I think often people inside the industry might not understand is how important the health, the overall health of the business is," Mr. Laffoon said. "Unfortunately, it's a truism if business isn't growing and prospering, it's often going the other way."
He uses the fortunes of The Mercury News as an example: "San Jose was terrific in 1996 and 1997. In early 1998 it soured and was sour for close to 18 months. Then it came back fitfully in mid-1999. In the final third of 1999 it became very strong and remained strong throughout 2000." That was before the dot-com crash.
The crash coincided with a 20 percent increase in newsprint prices in 2000, which brought the price to about $610 a metric ton, and paper companies aim to put another $50 price increase into effect in March. With costs up and revenue down, circulation price increases are not filling the gap. So publishers are turning to cost cutting, even if they do not have to please Wall Street. Newspapers owned by closely held companies, like Newhouse and Hearst, are not exempt.
As John Oppedahl, publisher of The San Francisco Chronicle, which is owned by Hearst, said, "We're still a business." 
Asked on Friday about the possibility of newsroom layoffs, Mr. Oppedahl said, "We have no plans to change our staffing level at this time."
Editors argue that layoffs, far rarer in journalism than in other professions, can do long-term damage to a newspaper's ability to cover its community. If deteriorating journalism damages the newspaper's reputation, this reasoning goes, the newspaper will lose customers and value in the long run.
In this spirit, a few journalists in San Jose met on Friday to consider options, including the possibility of volunteering to take unpaid leave, if it would save jobs. At the same time, some say, they wondered if they were contemplating accepting personal deprivation to support the newspaper's journalism or to benefit distant investors.
Paraphrasing what he wrote to Mr. Ridder, Mr. Cassidy said: "The thought that real people are actually being laid off is a great disappointment to me. I feel like we're not a great paper but we're awfully close to being a great newspaper. To roll back that effort is a betrayal to our readers." Mr. Ridder, he said, wrote a "respectful" answer saying the exact nature of the cuts had not yet been decided.

GRAPHIC: Chart: "Playing the News"Until recently, newspaper stocks beneifited as investors fled riskier sectors. Chart shows Standard & Poor's Publishing News paper index.(Source: Bloomberg Financial Markets)(pg. C12) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: NEWSPAPER PUBLISHING (90%); LAYOFFS (90%); WRITERS (90%); STOCK INDEXES (90%); EXECUTIVES (89%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (85%); JOURNALISM (78%); BUSINESS CLOSINGS (77%); TRENDS (77%); BUDGETS (76%); COMPANY EARNINGS (76%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING REVENUE (76%); NEWSPAPER ADVERTISING (74%); EMPLOYMENT LISTINGS & SITES (73%); MAGAZINE ADVERTISING (73%); BUDGET CUTS (66%); CHEMICALS (61%); RETAILERS (53%); CHEMICALS MFG (50%) NEWSPAPERS; ADVERTISING; FINANCES; LABOR; LAYOFFS AND JOB REDUCTIONS; INDUSTRY PROFILES 

COMPANY: GANNETT CO INC (91%)

ORGANIZATION: KNIGHT RIDDER; SAN JOSE MERCURY NEWS 

TICKER: GCI (NYSE) (91%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS511110 NEWSPAPER PUBLISHERS (91%); SIC2711 NEWSPAPERS: PUBLISHING, OR PUBLISHING & PRINTING (91%)

PERSON: BARRINGER, FELICITY; CASSIDY, MIKE 

GEOGRAPHIC: SAN JOSE, CA, USA (88%); SAN FRANCISCO, CA, USA (79%); LITTLE ROCK, AR, USA (79%); LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (79%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%) CALIFORNIA, USA (88%); ARKANSAS, USA (79%); NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (88%)

LOAD-DATE: March 12, 2001 



295 of 868 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 12, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Foreign Desk; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 1082 words

HEADLINE: Zapatista Rebels Rally in Mexico City 

BYLINE:  By GINGER THOMPSON and TIM WEINER 

DATELINE: MEXICO CITY, March 11 

 BODY:
The Zapatista rebels took their cry for Indian rights to the heart of Mexico's capital today, as roughly 100,000 supporters filled the city square for an act of political theater that has transfixed the nation. 
 After a two-week procession from a jungle hideout, the rebels' leader, who calls himself Subcommander Marcos, stood in the huge square, his back to the colonial facade of the national palace, raised his fist in the air and proclaimed, "We are here to shout for and to demand democracy, liberty and justice. 
 "The government thinks that today marks the end of an earthquake," the rebel leader said. "They think that we are just a photograph, an anecdote, a spectacle. 
"Those in high places know it but do not want to say it," he said. 
"After today, the people who are the color of the earth will never again be forgotten."
The Zapatista movement demands that the government stop mistreating its minority Indian population. Some 10 million people of indigenous descent live among Mexico's roughly 100 million people. They are disproportionately poor, illiterate, malnourished and disenfranchised, and traditionally have been treated as second-class citizens.
"It is time that this country stop being an embarrassment, dressed in the color of money," Subcommander Marcos said.
He and his fellow rebel leaders arrived in the square on the back of a tractor-trailer truck, waving at a throng that included poor Indians in colorful clothes, government bureaucrats and university professors, pierced and painted punks, committed Catholics, gays and lesbians, farmers from faraway villages, their shoes so caked with dirt they looked as if they had walked all the way. 
Subcommander Marcos, who the government contends is a radical professor turned rural rebel, has become this country's most popular leftist. His weapons have been poetic, if occasionally impenetrable, communiques of resistance, cunning political maneuvers, and insults -- some cutting, some comic, some simply crude.
President Vicente Fox, the target of many of those barbs, has turned the other cheek, embraced the rebel leader's goal of enacting an Indian rights bill, and told him, in a Saturday radio address, "Welcome to the political arena."
The masked band of rebels, marching to the capital under the protection of government forces, appear to have impressed millions of Mexicans, if opinion polls are true. 
While opponents see the Zapatistas as a guerrilla theater troupe with a political base no deeper than a T-shirt, many supporters in Mexico see their cause as just and their demonstrations as a symbol of the nation's new democracy.
The Zapatistas started out two weeks ago from their strongholds in the southern state of Chiapas. The poorly armed group began a short but bloody uprising in Chiapas on Jan. 1, 1994, the day that the North American Free Trade Agreement took effect in Mexico, the United States and Canada. They have been fighting with words ever since.
"We are not the spokesmen for Indian people," Subcommander Marcos said. "We are a voice of many voices. We are their reflection and their cry."
He and 23 fellow leaders traveled more than 2,000 miles through 12 states in a roundabout route to the capital, stopping at rural backwaters, tourist towns and industrial centers, drumming up support for the Indian rights bill, called the San Andres Accords, which President Fox has submitted to Congress. 
The accords would grant limited forms of autonomy to indigenous people, such as the right to elect tribal councils for local rule. Opponents say the accords could balkanize the country into regions run by constitutional codes and others ruled by Indian customs. The critics say those customs would deny women's rights and forbid secret ballots.
The accords are a constitutional amendment that would require a two-thirds majority vote to win passage. The rebels say they will not leave the capital until the accords become law. 
Millions of Mexicans -- at least those who read the newspapers and watch television news -- have watched with wonder at the unfolding political play.
Subcommander Marcos, habitually puffing his pipe and wearing a ski mask, has challenged President Fox, who has responded by supporting the principles of the Zapatistas' cause and inviting the rebel leader to the presidential palace. Subcommander Marcos, in turn, has kept his mask on and spurned face-to-face negotiations with the president.
Mr. Fox wants the rebels to restart peace negotiations with the government. He says he will stake his considerable political capital on pressing Congress to pass the indigenous rights bill. On Saturday, he pointed out that the rebel caravan could never have happened under previous administrations.
"This march demonstrates that we already live in a mature democracy where anyone can express himself; where anyone can complain," he said, "and where anyone can shout or criticize the president."
The 24 rebel leaders vow to address members of a congressionally appointed peace commission on Monday with their masks on. 
Conservatives in Congress have objected to the idea of negotiating with cloaked revolutionaries, but for the moment Subcommander Marcos and his comrades have the political wind at their backs. Subcommander Marcos is the first rebel leader to take his movement to the capital since Pancho Villa and Emiliano Zapata stormed the city in 1914. 
And the Zapatistas have paid careful tribute to their namesake, visiting his children and laying a wreath on the grave where he was buried after he was assassinated in 1919.
"The history of Mexico has been a history of revolution," said Manuel Camacho Solis, who served in 1994 as the government's first commissioner for peace in Chiapas. Referring to Subcommander Marcos, he said: "The heroes of Mexico are men like him, men who first rose up in arms. Revolution is not condemned in this country."
The rebels never presented a real military threat, he said, and as for their masks, "This has been a very authoritarian country, in which those who have dared to fight against the powerful are applauded, and in which people understand that a rebel would have to hide his identity or else be destroyed."
Many of those who gathered to see the Zapatistas also wore masks, in solidarity with the rebels. Nyla Escobedo, a 28-year-old housewife from the middle class suburb of Santa Fe, had a dove of peace painted on one cheek. "By making himself faceless," she said of Subcommander Marcos and his mask, "he wears all our faces."

GRAPHIC: Photos: Zapatista rebels and their supporters gathered in the Zocalo square in Mexico City yesterday. (Reuters); Subcommander Marcos, leader of the Zapatistas, in a caravan. (Associated Press) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: REBELLIONS & INSURGENCIES (95%); THEATER (89%); GAYS & LESBIANS (78%); LIBERALISM (78%); HUMAN RIGHTS (78%); POLITICS (77%); THEATER COMPANIES (72%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (64%); TERRORIST ORGANIZATIONS (63%); RIOTS (60%); ECONOMIC NEWS (59%); TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (50%); CATHOLICS & CATHOLICISM (50%); POLLS & SURVEYS (50%); FREE TRADE TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (50%); RELIGION (50%); TRADE TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (50%) DEMONSTRATIONS AND RIOTS; FREEDOM AND HUMAN RIGHTS; INDIANS, AMERICAN; DISCRIMINATION; ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS; POLITICS AND GOVERNMENT 

ORGANIZATION: ZAPATISTA NATIONAL LIBERATION ARMY (MEXICO) 

PERSON: VICENTE FOX QUESADA (58%) MARCOS (SUBCOMMANDER); THOMPSON, GINGER; WEINER, TIM 

GEOGRAPHIC: MEXICO CITY, MEXICO (96%) MEXICO (99%); NORTH AMERICA (92%); UNITED STATES (92%) MEXICO; CHIAPAS (MEXICO); MEXICO CITY (MEX)

LOAD-DATE: March 12, 2001 



296 of 868 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 12, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 5; National Desk; Pg. 9

LENGTH: 1109 words

HEADLINE: Former Treasury Secretary Is Picked to Lead Harvard 

BYLINE:  By JODI WILGOREN 

DATELINE: CAMBRIDGE, Mass., March 11 

 BODY:
Harvard University named Lawrence H. Summers, the former treasury secretary, as its 27th president today, choosing a scholar who has spent the decade as a leader in globalization and who vowed to recommit the university to undergraduate education.
 Mr. Summers, 46, is seen as one of America's brightest economic minds, a man with deep roots in academia, strong ties to the corporate world, extensive international connections and a colorful record in government. He listed among his priorities the undergraduate experience, science and interdisciplinary programs and the recruitment of top young minds to the faculty. 
 "The two most important things for our country, and for the world, are the way in which we educate young people and the creation of new ideas," Mr. Summers said in a telephone interview as he shuttled today between New York, where he was officially appointed, and his ceremony here on campus. 
"My heart has always been with the work of thought and ideas. That's been the base of my career and that's the world I've always wanted to come back to."
At a news conference in Loeb House, once used as the president's residence, Mr. Summers surveyed the quintessentially Harvard room, with its crimson drapes and crystal chandeliers, and pronounced, "It's good to be home."
Mr. Summers received a Ph.D. from Harvard in 1982, became its youngest tenured professor at 28 and spent a decade teaching at the university. His selection as president ended a secretive nine-month search to succeed Neil L. Rudenstine, who announced last year that he would leave on June 30. Harvard had been one of a group of top institutions, including Princeton, Columbia and New York University, seeking new leaders.
In his decade at the university's helm, Mr. Rudenstine ran a $2.6 billion fund-raising campaign, helping bring Harvard's endowment to $19.2 billion and worked to unite the university's disparate schools. He was criticized, however, as being remote to undergraduate concerns and as a leader who rarely spoke out on issues of national importance.
Now, Harvard, with 15,780 students, confronts the challenge of building a new campus in Boston and redefining its role as technology and globalization transform higher education. 
"More than ever, the academy today is connected to the corporate sector," said Judith B. McLaughlin, a professor at Harvard's Graduate School of Education and an authority on university presidencies. "Lawrence Summers is someone who has moved successfully in both arenas and links those two worlds in an important way."
Robert G. Stone Jr., who led the search, said Mr. Summers "embodies a rare combination, as one of the most respected scholars and one of the most influential public servants of his generation."
Born in New Haven to a family with a stellar economics pedigree -- his parents are professors at the University of Pennsylvania, and two of his uncles won the Nobel prize in the field -- Mr. Summers was awarded the John Bates Clark Medal, given every two years to the outstanding economist under 40, in 1993. He and his wife, Victoria, a tax lawyer, have twin 10-year-old daughters and a 7-year-old son.
Mr. Summers is known for a fierce tennis game -- Alan Greenspan, the chairman of the Federal Reserve, is a frequent opponent -- and for guzzling Diet Coke. He can be absent-minded, missing flights and misplacing passports. 
In Washington, where he served in President Reagan's Council of Economic Advisers and as chief economist of the World Bank before joining President Bill Clinton's Treasury Department in 1993, Mr. Summers was a leader on the Mexican bailout and the East Asian economic crisis. 
But he developed a reputation as prickly and arrogant, irking Republican members of Congress and finance ministers from foreign lands by sometimes lecturing them.
After a string of newspaper and magazine profiles described him as "brilliant but acerbic," Mr. Summers trimmed his rough edges, learned to court the Congress, and bit his tongue when he was speaking on the record. He even adopted a self-effacing line from his predecessor as treasury secretary, Robert E. Rubin: "It's just one man's opinion, but . . ."
Today, he said that "the essence of leadership, it always seemed to me, is in forming consensus" and that in the coming months, "my priority is going to be on listening."
A scholar of political economy, Mr. Summers led a seismic power shift in Washington, as Treasury played a growing role in foreign policy, reflecting how issues of economic interdependence had come to dominate the national agenda. That will likely be a theme of his tenure at Harvard, which, like other universities and the federal government, has yet to grapple with how global economic forces and technology are changing the interactions of nations, corporations and citizens.
"Technology and the support it provides to globalization both afford opportunities to extend excellence," Mr. Summers said today. "But anytime one seeks to extend excellence, there's always the risk of diluting it."
Though word of his appointment had leaked over the weekend, with a special issue of The Harvard Crimson, the student newspaper, circulated Friday, followed by articles in Boston's newspapers, it did not become official until today's vote by the university's Board of Overseers. Mr. Summers met with that group and Harvard's corporation, in Manhattan, before flying here in a private jet. After the announcement, he met with members of Harvard's undergraduate council.
As Mr. Summers, wearing a crimson tie, spoke to reporters about the appointment, muffled sounds of discontent wafted through the windows. Outside, about three dozen students chanted, "Hey, hey, ho, ho, plutocracy has got to go," as they banged out the beat on a recycling bin and waved signs calling for increased wages for the university's employees and an end to sweatshop labor in producing university souvenirs.
But most here seem enthusiastic about the appointment.
"I have a strong sense of carpe diem," said Jeremy R. Knowles, dean of the faculty of arts and sciences, noting that Mr. Summers would be responsible for investing the fortune his predecessor had amassed. "There is a real opportunity for some visionary directions for the institution in the coming decades."
C. Matthew MacInnis, a junior who is president of The Crimson, said students and faculty feel more comfortable with Mr. Summers than the candidate who was widely seen as his top rival, Lee C. Bollinger, the president of the University of Michigan, who had neither studied nor taught at Harvard.
"We're a weird bunch," said Mr. MacInnis. "We really are believers in it takes one to know one."

GRAPHIC: Photo: Lawrence H. Summers, right, was selected yesterday as Harvard's 27th president, replacing Neil L. Rudenstine, left, who leaves June 30. (Jared Leeds for The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (90%); ENTERPRISE GLOBALIZATION (89%); TEACHING & TEACHERS (89%); COLLEGES & UNIVERSITIES (89%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (89%); APPOINTMENTS (78%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (78%); INTERVIEWS (78%); GRADUATE & PROFESSIONAL SCHOOLS (78%); FUNDRAISING (78%); GLOBALIZATION (77%); ACADEMIC TENURE (73%); PRESS CONFERENCES (66%) COLLEGES AND UNIVERSITIES; BIOGRAPHICAL INFORMATION 

ORGANIZATION: HARVARD UNIVERSITY (94%) HARVARD UNIVERSITY 

PERSON: LAWRENCE SUMMERS (92%) SUMMERS, LAWRENCE H; RUDENSTINE, NEIL L; WILGOREN, JODI 

GEOGRAPHIC: BOSTON, MA, USA (79%) MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: March 12, 2001 



297 of 868 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 12, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Editorial Desk; Pg. 14

LENGTH: 624 words

HEADLINE: A Healthy SAT Debate 

 BODY:
The SAT will be taken by two million people this year and is required for admission at the vast majority of of the country's four-year colleges and universities. The test has dominated the admissions process for more than half a century and is likely to do so for decades to come. Even so, administrators at some selective colleges have discarded the SAT, on the grounds that it distorts the educational process and screens out minority students and others who perform perfectly well in college. Defenders of the test range from those who see it as a vital yardstick in a time of grade inflation to those who view it as a flawed but necessary component of the sorting process and the true believers who see it as a sacred index revealing everything one needs to know about an individual. Given the confusion, the emerging debate about how best to use the SAT is a healthy and potentially useful development. 
 The College Board, which sponsors the SAT, does what it can to dispel myths and misinterpretations. It has issued a statement that SAT's are not a measure of innate intelligence and do not measure book learning or motivation, creativity and special talents -- all factors that affect success in college. The SAT is rather a test of mental dexterity, one element among many in predicting college performance. 
 But the public as a whole ignores these caveats. Educational rating services evaluate colleges based partly on average SAT scores. Bond-rating companies even take scores into account when judging a college's creditworthiness. The obsession with doing well on the test has bled down into sixth grade, where 12-year-olds are doing practice problems when they should be getting a basic education.
The debate about the usefulness of this test was renewed last month by Dr. Richard Atkinson, the president of California's public university system. Dr. Atkinson recommended to the university faculty and Board of Regents that the system discard the SAT as soon as it can develop an admissions test that is directly tied to the college preparatory courses students are required to take in California. While the new test is being developed, Dr. Atkinson wants the faculty to abandon the SAT I, which tests abstract reasoning and is a partial predictor of first-year performance in college, and substitute the SAT II. That test is more directly calibrated to the specific subjects students are required to master in high school. This line of thinking has emerged in several states, where education officials are favoring achievement tests that are more clearly keyed to what students are held responsible for in high school. 
Criticism of the SAT has spread in recent years. But the Atkinson statement was particularly dramatic because he presides over a widely admired public university system. He is also a testing expert and a former director of the National Science Foundation. Over all, about 390 of the country's 1,800 four-year colleges and universities do not require SAT scores for their applicants. If the University of California decides to stop using the test, it will be the first public university system to do so. But several quality liberal-arts institutions -- including Bowdoin, Bard, Connecticut College, Bates and, most recently, Mount Holyoke -- no longer require SAT scores. Mount Holyoke had long since counted the SAT as about 10 percent of the admissions process, relying instead on high school transcripts, graded papers, letters of recommendation and an evaluation scheme that rates high schools in terms of academic rigor.
However it turns out, California's debate will have served a valuable function if it relieves a growing national obsession with tests and helps the country put the SAT in perspective. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Editorial 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: COLLEGES & UNIVERSITIES (90%); STANDARDIZED ACADEMIC TESTING (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); ACADEMIC ADMISSIONS (90%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY ADMISSIONS (90%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (89%); UNIVERSITY ADMINISTRATION (89%); INTELLIGENCE & COGNITION (77%); ACADEMIC TESTING (77%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (77%); EDUCATION DEPARTMENTS (77%); GRADE INFLATION (77%); SECONDARY SCHOOLS (72%); FINANCIAL RATINGS (69%) COLLEGES AND UNIVERSITIES; TESTS AND TESTING; SAT (COLLEGE ADMISSION TEST); EDITORIALS 

ORGANIZATION: THE COLLEGE BOARD (56%)

GEOGRAPHIC: CALIFORNIA, USA (90%) UNITED STATES (90%)

LOAD-DATE: March 12, 2001 



298 of 868 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 12, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Editorial Desk; Pg. 15

LENGTH: 671 words

HEADLINE: In America; 
Fewer Students, Greater Gains

BYLINE:  By BOB HERBERT 

 BODY:
Lisa Goldstein teaches second- and third-grade pupils at a public school on Manhattan's Upper East Side. She has taught classes with as many as 32 children, and classes with as few as 18. Not surprisingly, she's found that fewer is better.
 "It's my experience that when the classes are smaller the children progress at a much faster pace," she said. "Even the little things make a difference. In a smaller class you have fewer children saying, 'I have to go to the bathroom,' or 'I don't feel good today.' Smaller classes are so much more manageable. And they're especially important in these early grades because at that age the children really need a lot of individual attention." 
 Several important studies, some of them conducted over many years, have shown that class size reduction in the early grades has many benefits, including higher pupil achievement in reading and math. Smaller classes have been shown to be particularly beneficial for poor and minority students.
The most celebrated study, Tennessee's Project STAR, showed that students in smaller classes tended to achieve higher grades, had better high school graduation rates and were more likely to attend college.
Just last week a Princeton economist, Dr. Alan Krueger, disclosed the latest findings from Project STAR, which included the following:
* While students were in small classes, the black-white academic achievement gap narrowed by 38 percent. Some of this improvement was lost when the youngsters returned to normal-size classes, but not all of it.
* Smaller classes increased the likelihood that black students would take the ACT or SAT college entrance exams from 31.8 to 41.3 percent. A paper written by Dr. Krueger and a colleague, Diane Whitmore, a Princeton doctoral candidate, asserted, "If all students were assigned to a small class, the black-white gap in taking a college entrance exam would fall by an estimated 60 percent."
Smaller classes may not be the cure for everything that ails the public schools in the United States, but they sure seem to be helpful, especially for disadvantaged kids. Leonie Haimson, an educational consultant in New York City who is a staunch advocate of smaller classes, noted recently that class size reduction is one of the few programs that research has conclusively shown to boost student achievement and to narrow the academic gap between blacks and whites.
So why, you might ask, has President Bush, in his heralded education plan, eliminated all federal funds targeted for class size reduction?
Good question. Mr. Bush is scrapping the Clinton administration's smaller class size initiative. The Bush proposal would fold the funds currently targeted for class size reduction into block grants to be forwarded to the states and used at the discretion of local authorities.
This is happening at the same time that the president is insisting on an elaborate system of testing to measure student performance. Does it make sense to demand higher performance while simultaneously undermining one of the cornerstones of improved performance?
Senator Patty Murray, a Democrat from Washington State, offered an amendment to the president's proposal last week that would, as she put it, "continue the progress we have made over the past two years" by providing $2.4 billion in the next fiscal year to help recruit and hire teachers for the express purpose of reducing class sizes in grades one through three.
"Study after study shows that smaller classes help children," said Senator Murray.
Her amendment died in committee.
President Bush has said that improving public education is one of his top priorities. But his focus has been mostly on raising standards and demanding more accountability.
He would do well to keep in mind something that Senator Edward Kennedy said last week: "Tests and accountability are simply the measure of reforms -- they are not the reforms themselves."
Higher standards and increased testing are meaningless if we don't provide the real-world resources that enable children to learn more. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (92%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); CHILDREN (90%); ACADEMIC TESTING (89%); COLLEGES & UNIVERSITIES (89%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY ADMISSIONS (87%); US PRESIDENTS (85%); SCHOOL PERFORMANCE (78%); STANDARDIZED ACADEMIC TESTING (78%); EDUCATION SYSTEMS & INSTITUTIONS (78%); HIGH SCHOOLS (73%); GRADUATION RATES (73%); GRANTS & GIFTS (69%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (65%); SECONDARY SCHOOLS (53%) EDUCATION AND SCHOOLS; EQUAL EDUCATIONAL OPPORTUNITIES; BLACKS; MINORITIES (US); COLLEGES AND UNIVERSITIES 

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (60%) HERBERT, BOB 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (93%) NEW YORK, USA (93%); TENNESSEE, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: March 12, 2001 



299 of 868 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 12, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 6; Editorial Desk; Pg. 14

LENGTH: 161 words

HEADLINE: Oil Is a Matter Of National Security 

 BODY:
To the Editor:
Re your March 5 editorial "A Narrow Energy Bill," which opposed my National Energy Security bill: 
 The legislation would establish a balanced and comprehensive energy policy -- a policy necessary to meet our growing energy demands and reduce our dependence on foreign oil. 
 We rely on foreign markets to provide 56 percent of our oil -- and that will rise to two-thirds by the end of the decade, putting much of our own fate and future, including how we heat our homes and schools, in the hands of foreign governments, often hostile to American interests.
We must not only encourage the use of alternative fuels and increase energy efficiency, but we must also boost our own domestic supplies. With rising energy costs expected to cut 2 percent off our economic growth, we simply cannot afford the alternative.

FRANK H. MURKOWSKI
Washington, March 8, 2001

The writer, an Alaska Republican, is chairman of the Senate Energy and Natural Resources Committee.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ENERGY & UTILITY POLICY (92%); LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); LEGISLATION (90%); PUBLIC POLICY (90%); NATIONAL SECURITY (90%); ENERGY EFFICIENCY & CONSERVATION (88%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (88%); NATURAL RESOURCES (88%); ENERGY DEVELOPMENT PROGRAMS (88%); ENERGY DEMAND (88%); NATURAL GAS PRODUCTS (88%); NATURAL GAS & ELECTRIC UTILITIES (88%); OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (88%); PETROLEUM PRODUCTS (87%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (86%); PETROLEUM & COAL PRODUCTS MFG (85%); WRITERS (73%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (71%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (59%) OIL (PETROLEUM) AND GASOLINE; LAW AND LEGISLATION 

INDUSTRY:  SIC1311 CRUDE PETROLEUM & NATURAL GAS; 

PERSON: MURKOWSKI, FRANK H (SEN) 

GEOGRAPHIC: ALASKA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (93%) UNITED STATES

LOAD-DATE: March 12, 2001 



300 of 868 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 12, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Foreign Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1502 words

HEADLINE: Japan Is Shackled by Deflation, Blocking Its Hope for Recovery 

BYLINE:  By STEPHANIE STROM 

DATELINE: TOKYO, Monday, March 12 

 BODY:
As Japan shows signs of falling back into recession, behind many of its woes lies deflation, a rare but devastating drop in the prices of goods and services that is starting to feed on itself. Deflation is chipping away at asset values, increasing credit risks, pinching wages and salaries, and preventing the economy from generating any sustained growth after a decade of stagnation.
 Stocks are trading at the same prices of 15 years ago, and land values in major cities, which back many of the loans made by Japanese banks, have fallen 65 percent from their peak in 1991. 
 Excluding fresh foods, prices in Japan dropped 1.1 percent last year, the greatest decline since World War II. In Tokyo, core prices fell a stunning 0.4 percent last month alone, the 18th month that prices have fallen. 
"A crisis of pernicious deflation, which could destroy people's lives, is looming," declared the Yomiuri Shimbun, the most conservative of Japan's major daily newspapers, in a front page editorial last week.
Although today's reported 0.8 percent rise in gross domestic product for the final quarter of last year slightly exceeded expectations, Japan has recently been hit by a rash of bad news. "The economic outlook has worsened more quickly than we anticipated," Kazuo Ueda, a member of the policy board at the Bank of Japan, said in an interview late last week. And with growth slowing in the United States and elsewhere, many experts fear that another slump in Japan, the second-largest economy on the globe, spells big trouble for the rest of the world.
Just last week, the government reported that household spending in January was actually at a lower level than a year earlier. It disclosed that machinery orders, an important indicator of investment, fell nearly 12 percent in January from the previous month. And Finance Minister Kiichi Miyazawa, shocked Tokyo on Thursday when he told Parliament that the government's books were close to a "catastrophic situation."
Over the weekend, Prime Minister Yoshiro Mori met with senior members of his party to signal his intention to step down next month, and Japan's leaders are now preoccupied with their inability to find a new prime minister.
The human costs of deflation are meanwhile becoming more visible. When Hitoshi Matsushita started pondering his impending retirement seven years ago, his first concern was putting a roof over his head. "I was living in company housing," he said. "I thought buying a place would be convenient for my future."
In 1994, prices for housing had already started to decline after Japan's bubble economy had burst. The 76 million yen, or about $636,000 at current exchange rates, that Mr. Matsushita paid for his apartment looked like a bargain.
But real estate prices have continued to fall, leaving the home now worth at most 40 million yen -- and Mr. Matsushita still owes the bank 30 million yen. "I can only work until I'm 70, and at that point, I guess my life will crash," said Mr. Matsushita, who is now 66. "Right now, I'm desperate."
Paradoxically, deflation was welcomed not so long ago in a country where prices are so much higher than anywhere else. It was also regarded as a sign that Japan was finally opening its doors to international competition.
Many still see it as a force for accelerating economic modernization. One result is a heated debate over whether deflation is good.
Examples of falling prices and greater competition abound. Consumers are all but stampeding to Starbucks outlets here, where a tall caffe latte sells for 320 yen, a bargain compared with prices at the dying kissaten, traditional Japanese coffee shops infamous for selling thimble-size cups of coffee for more than twice that amount.
Then there is Uniqlo, a chain of Gap-like apparel stores that is perhaps the most popular store in Japan at the moment. Importing most of its products from China, Uniqlo is putting enormous pressure on its competitors here.
"I have a Bally's leather briefcase, a Burberry's leather briefcase and a Coach doctor's bag, but I switched to a nylon brief case from Uniqlo because it is much easier to use, very functional, and most of all, it was only 2,900 yen," said Koki Konishi, an executive at a car company, who also buys boxer shorts there at two for 900 yen, or $7.63, and T-shirts, three for 1,000 yen ($8.47).
Given Japan's aging population, stable or even slightly declining prices are seen by many as desirable because they preserve the value of the savings of the elderly. Deposits held in postal savings accounts nominally earn a scant 0.11 percent a year, but deflation has lifted the real return by almost 2 percentage points over two years.
"The older a society is, the more anti-inflation it is because higher savings balances are hurt by inflation," said Vincent J. Truglia, co-head of the sovereign risk unit group at Moody's Investors Service.
Citing just such cases, the Bank of Japan has long been deflation's biggest cheerleader. The bank's governor, Masaru Hayami, insists that this particular variety is "good deflation," with suppliers of goods and services able to offer more for less.
But outside the central bank, many economists and even some top government experts warn that Japan risks being sucked into a dangerous deflationary spiral that may only worsen as companies are forced to cut prices and wages repeatedly.
"We have gone beyond the point where the deflation we are seeing can be attributed to globalization and greater competition," said Takatoshi Ito, deputy vice minister for international affairs at the Ministry of Finance. "Deflation is now the mirror image of falling demand, and that's not good deflation."
Critics of the central bank say that Japanese consumers have no reason to spend despite lower prices. Not only has the value of their homes plummeted, but unemployment is at a postwar peak of 4.9 percent and is expected to climb more.
"If incomes don't rise in nominal terms -- and they aren't -- you are having to run faster to meet your mortgage obligations," said Jesper Koll, chief economist at Merrill Lynch in Tokyo. "And it is not just Mrs. Watanabe who is feeling strapped. Every sector here, whether we talk about the banks, corporations, households or the government is highly leveraged." 
Even though prices are falling, many incomes are falling faster. Corporate earnings rose 28 percent last year, leading economists to predict a 5.5 percent increase in winter bonuses. Instead, bonuses shrank by half a percent, as companies spent their hard-earned cash to offset their increasingly painful debts.
A number of economists, however, argue that Japan needs more deflation as a form of shock therapy: fewer debts, greater efficiency and a reallocation of labor, they say, is precisely the bitter medicine the economy must swallow. "If deflation continues, inevitably it will put further downward pressure on wages, and if wages are cut, then prices will have to fall, too," said Tadashi Nakamae, an outspoken economist who runs his own consulting firm. "I think Japan needs to accept that. Later, it will be offset by higher growth."
The question is whether Japan can tolerate the pain of waiting patiently for such benefits of deflation to appear. Already, textile manufacturers are urging the government to curb the imports that underpin Uniqlo's success.
Meanwhile, officials at the Ministry of Finance, which once supported the Bank of Japan's monetary policy, are growing increasingly worried about deflation's devastating impact on the national budget. They are pushing the Bank of Japan to lower its already low interest rates, print more money, buy government bonds, do anything short of dropping bank notes out of helicopters to combat deflation.
And even Mr. Hayami, the top central banker, has begun suggesting that, if the economy continues to deteriorate, the bank may abandon its staunch resistance to buying government bonds to expand the money supply. That may come too late, however, to prevent a very grim future for Mr. Matsushita and his family, along with millions of Japanese who owe more on their homes than they are worth.
He and others in his apartment complex have sued the government, which owns it and had dropped the price of unsold units to dispose of them. But they will have a hard time proving their case, for they are victims less of bureaucratic bungling than of powerful market forces.
Mr. Matshushita had planned to use 50,000 shares of Yamaichi Securities stock he accumulated during three decades of work to pay down his 63 million yen mortgage. At one point, his stake was worth 1.5 billion yen, about $13 million.
But Yamaichi went bust, shattering his dreams of a leisurely old age. Now Mr. Matsushita works as a security guard at night and part-time in a convenience store during the day. "I might sell this place, and if I'm lucky, I might then have 10 million yen in hand to rent a little house in the country and live off of my pension money," he said. "My living standard will go down, but I still have some hope."

GRAPHIC: Photo: Hitoshi Matsushita's apartment, a bargain at $636,000 in 1994, is worth $335,000 today. He worries about losing it when he can no longer work. (Stuart Isett for The New York Times)(pg. A7) Chart: "Deflated"Prices for land have been falling for a decade in Japan's weakened economy. Graph tracks land prices from 1995-2000, year-to-year change* for:1. All land2. Residential *In six major cities: Tokyo, Yokohama, Nagoya, Kyoto, Osaka and Kobe(Source: The Japan Real Estate Institute) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC NEWS (91%); DEFLATION (91%); REAL ESTATE (90%); PRICE CHANGES (90%); RECESSION (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (89%); WAGES & SALARIES (89%); REAL ESTATE VALUATIONS (89%); PRIME MINISTERS (86%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (86%); REAL ESTATE BUBBLE (78%); ECONOMIC BUBBLE (78%); HOME PRICES (78%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (78%); TRENDS (78%); HOUSING MARKET (78%); ECONOMIC POLICY (78%); CENTRAL BANKS (78%); ECONOMIC DEPRESSION (78%); GROSS DOMESTIC PRODUCT (78%); BANKING & FINANCE AGENCIES (77%); SECURITIES TRADING (76%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (75%); FACTORY ORDERS (73%); INTERVIEWS (72%); BONDS (71%); MANUFACTURING OUTPUT (70%); PUBLIC FINANCE (66%); EXCHANGE RATES (62%); WORLD WAR II (54%) ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS; PRICES (FARES, FEES AND RATES); STOCKS AND BONDS; BANKS AND BANKING; CREDIT; REAL ESTATE; FOOD; RECESSION AND DEPRESSION; WAGES AND SALARIES; LABOR 

COMPANY: BANK OF JAPAN (54%)

TICKER: 8301 (JASDAQ) (54%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (54%); SIC6029 COMMERCIAL BANKS, NEC (54%)

PERSON: STROM, STEPHANIE 

GEOGRAPHIC: TOKYO, JAPAN (90%); OSAKA, JAPAN (73%) JAPAN (99%); UNITED STATES (79%) JAPAN

LOAD-DATE: March 12, 2001 



301 of 868 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 12, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section C; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 611 words

HEADLINE: BUSINESS DIGEST 

 BODY:
Powerful Media Reportedly Is Seeking a Buyer
Powerful Media, whose Web site, Inside.com, has aggressively reported on the media industry in the past year, has quietly begun shopping itself to a slew of big-name media giants, according to several executives close to the company's negotiations.
 Powerful Media, which also recently started a magazine published as a joint venture with The Industry Standard, has held talks -- some formal negotiations and some informal overtures -- with companies such as AOL Time Warner, Primedia, Reed Elsevier, Hearst, Conde Nast and Standard Media International, among others, the executives said. Page C13. 

Buffett Report Takes No Prisoners
Warren E. Buffett, writing in Berkshire Hathaway's annual report, asserts "there are no bargains" even now, with the Nasdaq composite down 59 percent from its peak, and the Standard & Poor's 500-stock index off almost 20 percent. Berkshire Hathaway's annual report is awaited by many investors, in large part because Mr. Buffett's letter to shareholders often ranges widely over the investment scene and regularly contains caustic remarks, and he held true to form. Floyd Norris: Marketplace. C10.

Silicon Valley Lawyer's New Gig
Gary L. Reback has spent years fixing other companies' problems. Now he has started solving problems for a company of his own. With Voxeo, a technology start-up that develops software applications dedicated not to the Internet, but to the telephone, he hopes to tap a potentially enormous market. C13.

Harry Potter Does Charity Work
Turning her creative prowess to a philanthropic cause, J.K. Rowling, author of the best-selling novels about the boy-wizard Harry Potter, has managed to turn about a month of writing into a donation expected to top $36 million. C12.

Cloudy Forecast for Theater Owners
For most of the last 100 years, ever since the nickelodeons gave way to the silent movie palaces, Hollywood's newest offerings have been seen by the public first in movie theaters. Over the decades, theater owners have beaten back competition from television, videocassette, laser disc, DVD and, now, the Internet, without losing their place at the head of the buffet line. That may not always be the case. C12.

Judge Dismisses Icahn-Backed Bid
Over the weekend, a federal bankruptcy court judge postponed until today his decision on the fate of Trans World Airlines. Yet he made it clear that he favored an offer by American Airlines over an 11th-hour bid backed by Carl C. Icahn. C12.

Star Power Is Dimming on TV
If there is one stark lesson to be learned from the current television season, this is it: Stars don't work. The pile-up of wrecked star vehicles grew last week when the season's biggest name, Bette Midler, saw her CBS series officially terminated. Ms. Midler thus joined other illustrious names like Michael Richards, John Goodman and Gabriel Byrne on this season's slag heap. C12.

Pig Latin Is Not a Dead Language
One of the companies that has tried to make inroads into the Napster music downloading service's enormous population of users is Aimster, based in Albany. Now Aimster has came up with a novel solution to Napster's move to block access to music protected by copyrights, to comply with a federal court order: the Pig Encoder. C5.

A Court Test on Corn Seed
After agreeing last month to hear a dispute between two corn-seed companies struggling for economic advantage in the lucrative market for genetically engineered plants, the United States Supreme Court is preparing to settle whether such seeds should be awarded the kinds of patents that usually cover mechanical, electrical or chemical inventions. Sabra Chartrand: Patents. C6.

GRAPHIC: Photos Chart: "LAST WEEK"Dow industrials -- 10,644.62 up 178.31Nasdaq composite -- 2,052.78 down 64.8510-yr. Treasury yield -- 4.94% Unch.The euro -- $0.9318 down 0.0034The dollar -- 119.70 yen up 0.54

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Summary 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: STOCK INDEXES (93%); ANNUAL REPORTS (90%); NEWS BRIEFS (90%); TELEVISION INDUSTRY (89%); ENTERTAINMENT & ARTS (89%); INTERNET & WWW (89%); FILM (85%); TALKS & MEETINGS (77%); DELAYS & POSTPONEMENTS (76%); WRITERS (76%); COMPUTER SOFTWARE (73%); JUDGES (71%); NOVELS & SHORT STORIES (71%); MAGAZINE PUBLISHING (71%); PHILANTHROPY (69%); CHARITIES (69%); SHAREHOLDERS (68%); DECISIONS & RULINGS (67%); TELEVISION PROGRAMMING (65%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY COURTS (60%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (50%); BESTSELLERS (50%) NO INDEX TERMS FROM NYTIMES 

COMPANY: AOL INC (71%); REED ELSEVIER GROUP PLC (57%); BERKSHIRE HATHAWAY INC (57%); AMERICAN AIRLINES INC (51%)

TICKER: AOL (NYSE) (71%); BRK.B (NYSE) (57%); BRK.A (NYSE) (57%)

INDUSTRY: SIC7379 COMPUTER RELATED SERVICES, NEC (71%); SIC7375 INFORMATION RETRIEVAL SERVICES (71%); NAICS611710 EDUCATIONAL SUPPORT SERVICES (57%); NAICS519190 ALL OTHER INFORMATION SERVICES (57%); NAICS519110 NEWS SYNDICATES (57%); NAICS511120 PERIODICAL PUBLISHERS (57%); NAICS524210 INSURANCE AGENCIES & BROKERAGES (57%); NAICS524130 REINSURANCE CARRIERS (57%); SIC6411 INSURANCE AGENTS, BROKERS, & SERVICE (57%); SIC4512 AIR TRANSPORTATION, SCHEDULED (51%)

PERSON: WARREN BUFFETT (74%); J K ROWLING (50%); CARL ICAHN (79%)

GEOGRAPHIC: SILICON VALLEY, CA, USA (79%) CALIFORNIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: March 12, 2001 



302 of 868 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 12, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 5; Foreign Desk; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 685 words

HEADLINE: Visiting Chinese to Urge Bush Not to Sell Arms to Taiwan 

BYLINE:  By CRAIG S. SMITH 

DATELINE: SHANGHAI, March 11 

 BODY:
Deputy Premier Qian Qichen, the highest-ranking Chinese official to visit Washington in two years, is expected to urge President Bush next week not to sell more advanced weapons to Taiwan. 
 Mr. Qian, a former foreign minister, continues to play a key role in Taiwan policy and will be visiting just weeks before Mr. Bush must decide which weapons the United States will sell Taiwan this year. 
 Under the 1979 Taiwan Relations Act, the United States is obligated to provide Taiwan with equipment to defend itself, and in April the two sides conclude their annual arms sales talks, one of the most fractious issues in Chinese-American relations. 
Beijing is concerned that Mr. Bush will take a more aggressive stance than his predecessor, and is bothered by Mr. Bush's rhetorical shift toward describing China as a "strategic competitor," rather than the "strategic partner" seen by the Clinton administration.
Perry Link, a China scholar at Princeton University, said: "Qian is a skilled diplomat and smooth talker and wants, I think, to smooth things out with the new Bush people, try to get them as far as possible back to where the Chinese government had the Clinton people, both in general -- viewing China as a partner more than an adversary -- and on the particular issue of arms sales to Taiwan." 
Last year, President Clinton deferred making a decision on selling Taiwan Arleigh Burke-class destroyers equipped with Tomahawk cruise missiles and Aegis radar systems. 
But Taiwan's request for the ships remains on the table. The Aegis system could someday be adapted for use in the kind of naval theater missile defense which Mr. Bush supports but China vehemently opposes.
Taiwan has indicated that it may also ask the administration to sell it four Kidd-class guided-missile destroyers, which are less powerful than the Arleigh Burke ships but would nonetheless be the largest and most powerful in Taiwan's Navy.
Either class of ships would represent the most significant weapons transfer by the United States to Taiwan since Mr. Bush's father sold it 150 advanced F-16 fighter aircraft in 1992. China charged that the sale breached a 1982 joint communique in which Washington vowed not to increase the quantity or quality of arms sold to Taiwan.
Mr. Qian was quoted Friday by the state-run, English-language China Daily as saying the Taiwan issue was "not only a problem left over by China's civil war, it is also the result of U.S. military intervention as the United States has kept selling advanced weapons to Taiwan."
Those comments followed a warning on Tuesday by Foreign Minister Tang Jiaxuan that the United States should recognize the "serious dangers involved" in providing more weapons to Taiwan.
Mr. Qian is likely to emphasize that a relaxation of tensions between China and Taiwan could be undone by more arms sales.
Beijing has supported a series of low-level official contacts with Taiwan politicians. Direct shipping links have also begun with the Taiwan islands of Quemoy and Matsu. 
Mr. Qian has made overtures to Taiwan by softening Beijing's language on its terms for re-unification.
"What we adhere to is one China that embraces the mainland and Taiwan," China Daily quoted him as saying on Friday. "We understand the aspirations of Taiwan compatriots to maintain the status quo."
Mr. Qian said he would also discuss with American officials China's opposition to the proposed development of a missile defense system. 
The United States will be eager to hear how China proposes to spend its increased military budget. Beijing announced last week that military spending would rise 17.7 percent this year, compared with a 12 percent increase last year.
Mr. Qian's five-day visit to Washington and New York will begin March 18. His visit coincides with the March 19 session of the United Nations Human Rights Commission in Geneva, where Washington is expected to support a motion condemning China's abuses of human rights.
He is scheduled to see Mr. Bush on March 22, and is likely to ask him if he will visit China for the Asia-Pacific Economic Cooperation forum to be held in Shanghai in October. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ARMS TRADE (90%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (90%); MILITARY WEAPONS (90%); FOREIGN RELATIONS (89%); STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (89%); MISSILE SYSTEMS (89%); MILITARY VESSELS (86%); NAVAL VESSELS (86%); RANKINGS (78%); THEATER (77%); RADAR SYSTEMS (75%); MISSILE DEFENSE SYSTEMS (69%); FIGHTERS & BOMBERS (63%); ALLIANCES & PARTNERSHIPS (57%) UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; CHINA-INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS-US; UNITED STATES ARMAMENT AND DEFENSE; TAIWAN-INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS-US; ARMS SALES ABROAD 

ORGANIZATION: PRINCETON UNIVERSITY (56%)

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (92%); BILL CLINTON (78%) SMITH, CRAIG S; BUSH, GEORGE W (PRES); QIAN QICHEN (DEPUTY PRIME MIN) 

GEOGRAPHIC: SHANGHAI, CHINA (79%); BEIJING, CHINA (79%) NORTH CENTRAL CHINA (79%); EAST CHINA (79%) TAIWAN (99%); CHINA (99%); UNITED STATES (99%) TAIWAN; CHINA

LOAD-DATE: March 12, 2001 



303 of 868 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 12, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 5; Foreign Desk; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 843 words

HEADLINE: Washington Memo; 
Divergent Voices Heard In Bush Foreign Policy

BYLINE:  By JANE PERLEZ 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, March 11 

 BODY:
First, Secretary of State Colin L. Powell suggested that the administration would continue tentative steps toward normalizing relations with reclusive North Korea. Less than 24 hours later, President Bush offered a warier view, and officials scrambled to quash the notion of real fissures opening in the new foreign policy team. 
 But the gap in tone between the president and his senior diplomat raised the question of whose voice was dominant in foreign policy, and in the longer term, which opinions would prevail. 
 It is still early, Bush officials say, adding that they are busy reviewing policies -- from Iraq to North Korea, from missile defense to Taiwan -- in order to decide in which direction to head. 
The early, very public disagreements could put factions in the Republican Party at odds with one another, leaving Mr. Bush to pick a policy and risk alienating some faction, and possibly allies overseas.
Beyond discordant notes over Korea, where some 37,000 American troops are stationed, and over Iraq, where his father fought a war 10 years ago, Mr. Bush faces looming questions in areas like the Balkans, where American troops are also deployed. He and his foreign policy team must decide whether to deploy a missile defense system, and determine a policy on the Middle East, where American leadership has often proven crucial. 
In the last week, General Powell, the first of Mr. Bush's foreign policy appointments, appeared to march to a different drummer from that of his colleagues -- Vice President Dick Cheney, Secretary of Defense Donald H. Rumsfeld and Condoleezza Rice, the national security adviser -- in areas of importance to Republicans. 
The Secretary of State used his recent Middle East trip to articulate a new look at Iraq that concentrated on tightening sanctions involving arms and money while easing sanctions that affected ordinary Iraqis.
But when General Powell returned home, he heard complaints from conservatives in Congress asking why he had been so soft. Where was the policy to overthrow President Saddam Hussein? The secretary slightly adjusted his statements, saying the administration was in contact with the Iraqi opposition group, the Iraqi National Congress, and was studying "other things" that might be done. 
The pressure on the State Department to become more serious about removing Mr. Hussein is likely to mount from both the White House and the Pentagon. 
Mr. Cheney has built a cohesive group of foreign policy experts, a group that may become a decisive power center.
The vice president, who is viewed as more conservative, and General Powell, who is seen as more pragmatic, served together in the administration of Mr. Bush's father -- Mr. Cheney as defense secretary and General Powell as the chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff -- and the two men acknowledged their different political outlooks then.
John Hannah, who worked at the Washington Institute for Near East Policy, where there is support for the overthrow of Mr. Hussein, is among the foreign policy experts working for Mr. Cheney. Last week, Mr. Hannah met with people who have long favored the use of force to get rid of the Iraqi leader. 
At the Pentagon, Mr. Rumsfeld and his deputy, Paul B. Wolfowitz, signed a public letter in 1998 calling for Mr. Hussein's overthrow. So did several people now in competition for senior Pentagon jobs, including Peter Rodman of the Nixon Center; Zalmay M. Khalizad of the Rand Corporation; and Doug Feith, a former deputy assistant secretary of defense.
On North Korea, General Powell remarked to reporters the day before the South Korean leader, Kim Dae Jung, arrived last week that the administration would pick up talks with North Korea that the Clinton administration left incomplete. The remark was interpreted as meaning the new administration would move forward on missile negotiations. 
The next day, the general said "we have to not be naive about the nature of this threat" of North Korea. Then, Mr. Bush, who had been briefed for his meeting with Mr. Kim by Ms. Rice, said it was not clear that the North Koreans were "keeping all terms of all agreements." 
After two days of back and forth, the State Department spokesman, Richard Boucher, said General Powell had always agreed with the administration policy of "realism," "emphasis on North Korea's proliferation activities" and "verification." 
One reason for the different tones between General Powell and Mr. Bush was that the general was unaware of how strongly Mr. Bush felt about North Korea and its Communist government, several State Department officials said.
Foreign policy experts said it was well known that there were different voices in the administration, and it might be too early to predict permanent splits.
"I don't think there is a proven case of deep fissures," said Leslie H. Gelb, the president of the Council on Foreign Relations. "The main reason you see the disputes in public is that senior people don't have their teams in place and they haven't had a chance to meet on a sustained basis to work out their policies." 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (95%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); FOREIGN POLICY (90%); FOREIGN RELATIONS (90%); STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (89%); DEFENSE DEPARTMENTS (89%); ARMED FORCES (88%); POLITICAL PARTIES (88%); CONSERVATISM (88%); EMBARGOES & SANCTIONS (88%); PUBLIC POLICY (78%); DEFENSE & MILITARY POLICY (77%); MISSILE DEFENSE SYSTEMS (75%); NUCLEAR WEAPONS (71%); DEFENSE ELECTRONICS (70%); MISSILE SYSTEMS (70%); CHEMICAL & BIOLOGICAL WEAPONS (67%); UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (60%) UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; EMBARGOES AND ECONOMIC SANCTIONS; ATOMIC WEAPONS; BIOLOGICAL AND CHEMICAL WARFARE; NORTH KOREA-INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS-US; IRAQ-INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS-US 

ORGANIZATION: UNITED NATIONS (59%) UNITED NATIONS; STATE DEPARTMENT 

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (90%); SADDAM HUSSEIN (79%); DICK CHENEY (78%); CONDOLEEZZA RICE (58%) BUSH, GEORGE W (PRES); POWELL, COLIN L (SEC); PERLEZ, JANE 

GEOGRAPHIC: IRAQ (94%); UNITED STATES (94%); KOREA, DEMOCRATIC PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF (93%); MIDDLE EAST (92%); TAIWAN (79%); NORTHERN ASIA (79%) IRAQ; NORTH KOREA

LOAD-DATE: March 12, 2001 



304 of 868 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 12, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 3; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 1322 words

HEADLINE: NEWS SUMMARY 

 BODY:
 INTERNATIONAL A3-8

Deflation Shackles Japan, Blocking Hope of Recovery
As Japan shows signs of falling back into recession, what is behind many of its woes is deflation, a rare but devastating drop in the prices of goods and services that is starting to feed on itself. Though some economists have championed deflation as a road to economic modernization, the question is whether Japan can tolerate the pain. A1

Slow Shift in Syria Politics
Public criticism of the government is indicative of Syria's shift from the repressive state created by the late president Hafez al-Assad to the reign of his son, Bashar. The younger Assad promised to transform the country when he took power last July, but how he expects to do it, and at what speed, is a topic of furious debate. A1

AIDS Enters Uganda Politics
A doctor who has risen from obscurity to mount a serious challenge in Uganda's presidential election has neither admitted that he is H.I.V. positive, nor denied rumors that he is, making for interesting politics in a continent where, in some places, a quarter of the adults are infected. A3

Taliban Demolishes Buddhas
The United Nations secretary general said that he failed to persuade Taliban officials to stop demolition of two huge Buddhas in Afghanistan. Taliban spokesmen said the destruction was nearly complete. A4

China Focus on Taiwan Arms
Deputy Premier Qian Qichen, left, the highest-ranking Chinese official to visit Washington in two years, is expected to urge President Bush not to sell advanced weapons to Taiwan. A7

Zapatistas Reach Capital
Roughly 100,000 supporters of the Zapatista rebels, who demand better treatment for Mexico's Indian population, filled a main square in Mexico City, after a two-week procession from their jungle hideout to drum up support for their cause. A6

More Foot-and-Mouth in Britain
Twenty-five additional farms were reported as having foot-and-mouth disease, bringing the total to 164 sites since the disease was first identified in Britain on Feb. 20. (AP)

NATIONAL A9-13

Bush's Next Challenge Is to Hold Down Spending
President Bush faces an escalating fight in Congress over his proposal to cut or restrain spending on a wide swath of government programs. Mr. Bush has made holding down spending one of his primary goals. His ability to do so at a time of budget surpluses will be a political challenge as daunting as persuading Congress to go along with his tax cut. A1

An influential federal advisory commission says the financial condition of the nation's hospitals has significantly improved, so there is no need for Congress to increase their Medicare payments, despite insistent pleas from the industry. A11

Campaign Finance Jitters
An array of senators and powerful interest groups are taking a nervous second look at a bipartisan bill on campaign financing that would fundamentally alter a political system that many deplore even as they thrive within it. A1

Hold the Cream Cheese
The mayor of Philadelphia has a daunting mission: getting an entire city to lose weight. "We're too fat," said Mayor John Street, who has challenged Philadelphians to lose 76 tons in 76 days. Behind the weight-loss gimmick is a serious health effort. Philadelphia, with its fondness for cheese steaks and hoagies, has, perhaps not coincidentally, high rates of obesity, diabetes and heart disease. A1

Harvard Names New President
Harvard University named Lawrence H. Summers, the former secretary of the treasury, as its 27th president, ending a secretive nine-month search for a successor to Neil L. Rudenstine, who announced last year that he would leave on June 30. Mr. Summers, 46, is seen as one of America's brightest economic minds. A9

Republicans, Suburban Style
Top Illinois Republicans are crisscrossing the state with a new message: Republicans need to emulate the Democrats' appeal to the moderates and independents pouring into suburbs from adjacent cities and elsewhere. To do so, they say, Republicans need to speak with a softer voice and be more open and more tolerant about issues like abortion, guns and the environment. A11
NEW YORK/REGION B1-5

5 Family Members Killed In New Jersey House Fire
A grandmother, her son and three children of his who were visiting for the weekend were killed shortly after dawn when a fire of unknown origin roared through a two-story frame home in the Morris County township of Mount Olive, the authorities reported. The bodies of the victims were found in an upstairs bedroom, huddled near one another under a window they had been unable to reach. Two police officers and seven firefighters were injured. B1

FASHION B8

SCIENCE/HEALTH

Yale Pressed Over AIDS Drug
The medical charity Doctors Without Borders, trying a new tack to drive down the price of AIDS medicines, has asked Yale University to permit South Africa to import a generic version of a drug on which Yale holds the patent. The university, citing a patent contract with Bristol-Myers Squibb, has refused, but a group of Yale law students is planning to press the university to change its decision. A3

The South African government is considering declaring its AIDS epidemic a national emergency in an effort to eliminate legal obstacles to importing and producing cheap, generic versions of patented AIDS drugs, health officials said. A3

Organ Donor Database Urged
A national database of organ donors could help to save the lives of more than 75,000 people in need of transplants, said Senator Charles E. Schumer, Democrat of New York. He has introduced legislation to finance a nationwide electronic registry that would allow organ procurement organizations to instantly find potential donors and match them with recipients. B2

Court Considers Altered Corn
The Supreme Court, in hearing a dispute between two corn-seed companies struggling for economic advantage in the lucrative market for genetically engineered plants, is preparing to settle whether such seeds should be awarded the kinds of patents that usually cover mechanical, electrical or chemical inventions. C6

ARTS E1-8

SPORTSMONDAY D1-10

OBITUARIES B6-7

James D. St. Clair
The Boston lawyer who represented President Richard M. Nixon in the Watergate scandal was 80. B7

Louis Faurer
A photographer who produced images taken on city streets that were raw, tender and often melancholy, he was 84. B6

BUSINESS DAY C1-18

Wall Street Banks Sued
Lawyers acting on behalf of investors have accused seven investment banks of colluding in violation of antitrust laws in their allocation of initial public stock offerings. C1

TWA Ruling Expected Today
A federal bankruptcy court judge postponed until today his decision on the fate of Trans World Airlines. C2

Shopping for a Buyer
Powerful Media, whose Web site, Inside.com, has aggressively reported on the media industry, has begun shopping itself to media giants like AOL Time Warner, Primedia, Hearst and Conde Nast, executives close to the negotiations said. C13

No Bargains, Buffett Says
The chairman of Berkshire Hathaway, Warren E. Buffett, wrote in the company's annual report that "there are no bargains" even now, with the Nasdaq composite down 59 percent from its peak, and the Standard & Poor's 500-stock index off almost 20 percent. C10

Wizardry With a Heart
J. K. Rowling, the author of the best-selling novels about the boy-wizard Harry Potter, has managed to turn about a month of writing into a donation expected to top $36 million. C12

Slag Heap of Stars
Bette Midler's show on CBS is the latest star vehicle to be scrapped. Ms. Midler, left, the current television season's biggest name, has joined other big names like Michael Richards and John Goodman on this season's slag heap. Geena Davis may be next. C12

EDITORIAL A14-15

Editorials: AIDS drugs for poor nations; a healthy SAT debate; death penalty reform.

Columns: William Safire and Bob Herbert.

Bridge E4
Public Lives A9
Crossword E4
TV Listings E8
Metro Diary B2
Weather B7

GRAPHIC: Photos 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Summary 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC NEWS (91%); DEFLATION (91%); RECESSION (90%); NEWS BRIEFS (90%); POLITICS (90%); FOOT & MOUTH DISEASE (87%); BUDGETS (78%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (76%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (75%); ELECTIONS (75%); DISEASES & DISORDERS (73%); TALIBAN (71%); CAMPAIGN FINANCE (71%); REBELLIONS & INSURGENCIES (71%); LIVESTOCK DISEASE (71%); UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (71%); MEDICARE (70%); PHYSICIANS & SURGEONS (69%); LEGISLATION (68%); DENTAL MOUTH & JAW DISORDERS (67%); TAXES & TAXATION (62%); TAX LAW (60%) NO INDEX TERMS FROM NYTIMES 

ORGANIZATION: UNITED NATIONS (55%)

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (89%)

GEOGRAPHIC: MEXICO CITY, MEXICO (79%) SYRIA (93%); UGANDA (92%); CHINA (92%); TAIWAN (92%); MEXICO (92%); AFGHANISTAN (79%); UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: March 12, 2001 



305 of 868 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 12, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 6; National Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1248 words

HEADLINE: BUSH FACES FIGHT ON PLAN TO LIMIT OR CUT PROGRAMS 

BYLINE:  By RICHARD W. STEVENSON 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, March 11 

 BODY:
Even as he battles to win legislative approval for his $1.6 trillion tax cut, President Bush faces an escalating fight in Congress over his proposal to cut or restrain spending on a wide swath of government programs.
 Not only are Democrats in Congress opposed, but some of Mr. Bush's fellow Republicans have also signaled that they will have difficulty going along with his plan to provide increases for the military and education while cutting or freezing many other departments. 
 Senator Pete V. Domenici, the New Mexico Republican who is chairman of the Senate Budget Committee, has said overall spending on government programs outside Social Security and Medicare would probably have to increase next year by more than the 4 percent sought by Mr. Bush.
"Can we, in fact, do all the things that have been recommended with 4 percent growth?" Mr. Domenici asked at a Budget Committee hearing this month. "I don't know if we can." 
Mr. Bush has made holding down spending one of his primary goals. His ability to do so at a time of budget surpluses will be a political challenge as daunting as persuading Congress to go along with his tax cut.
Hovering over the issue, especially in the minds of Democrats, are recollections of the aftermath of the fiscal decisions of the 1980's. In 1981, President Ronald Reagan cut taxes and sought large increases in Pentagon spending, as Mr. Bush is likely to do in coming years. But Mr. Reagan also allowed spending on many domestic programs to grow.
The results were surges in the budget deficit and the national debt and economic and political scars still apparent two decades later.
"People in both parties are fundamentally concerned about the Reagan precedent, that this tax cut will be followed by an increase in military spending, unsustainable new programs and an expanding debt," said Senator Robert G. Torricelli, Democrat of New Jersey.
White House officials say the political and economic situation today is very different from the one Mr. Reagan faced. The projected surplus of $5.6 trillion in the next decade, they said, provides a considerable buffer against slipping back into the red. In 1981, the government ran a $79 billion deficit.
They also said Mr. Bush was prepared to take on his own party if necessary to limit spending increases, even if it meant vetoing appropriations bills. Spending increases of the size approved by the Republican Congress and President Bill Clinton in recent years, including last year's 8 percent increase in discretionary spending, "would not only destroy the budget surplus but would require, in the end, an increase in taxes," said Lawrence B. Lindsey, Mr. Bush's chief economic adviser.
Mr. Bush's budget outline calls for $46.1 billion in additional discretionary spending next year, with the biggest shares going to the Pentagon and the Education Department.
But he would offset some of that increase by cutting $20.5 billion from other programs, leaving his budget for government operations outside Social Security and Medicare at $660.7 billion next year, a 4 percent increase over this year.
Democrats said Mr. Bush was dedicating too much of the surplus to his tax cut and not enough to the issues that voters thought were important.
"The president's tax cut is so big that it shortchanges the rest of the budget, providing inadequate resources to even our nation's top priorities, like education," said Senator Kent Conrad of North Dakota, the senior Democrat on the Budget Committee.
In drafting a spending plan for next year, Mr. Domenici is clearly keeping in mind the political trade-offs between tax cuts and new spending. Appearing on the CBS program "Face The Nation" today, he predicted that the Senate would pass the main part of Mr. Bush's tax plan, a reduction in the marginal income tax rate.
But Mr. Domenici suggested that other aspects of Mr. Bush's proposal, like eliminating the so-called marriage penalty and inheritance taxes, might face stiffer tests.
Democrats tend to push harder than Republicans for spending, but reining in spending has been hard regardless of the party in control.
Not only do many members of Congress see a case for increased spending to address particular issues, but even programs that do not have wide support often have determined backing from powerful constituencies. More than $8 billion of the cuts that Mr. Bush is relying on would come from what is usually referred to as pork barrel spending -- money earmarked by members of Congress for local projects or one-time appropriations that have a way of becoming permanent.
Faced with getting a budget through a Senate in which each party has 50 seats, Mr. Domenici is considering adding money to Mr. Bush's requests in a variety of areas.
Among them are agriculture, which Mr. Bush would cut by 7.7 percent, and the creation of programs to provide prescription drug coverage for retirees, which analysts in both parties say will cost far more than the $153 billion Mr. Bush wants for it. Lawmakers are also considering more money for science and energy programs like the United States Geological Survey, for which Mr. Bush's budget plans cuts.
History suggests that members of both parties are likely to support even higher military spending next year than Mr. Bush has proposed.
Mr. Domenici also has to keep in mind programs with powerful patrons, like the Maritime Guarantee Loan Subsidy program, which provides low-cost loans to shipbuilders. Senator Trent Lott of Mississippi, the majority leader, whose state has one of the nation's largest shipyards, Ingalls, is among the industry's staunchest supporters.
The White House could even come under pressure on programs that Mr. Bush would not cut. Senator Arlen Specter, Republican of Pennsylvania, visited a veterans hospital in Philadelphia on Friday with Anthony J. Principi, the secretary of veterans affairs. Afterward, Mr. Specter said that a $1 billion increase, which Mr. Bush proposed for the department next year to bring its budget to $23.4 billion was not enough.
At the same time, interest groups and lobbyists are trying to protect or expand other programs. A coalition of large corporations, some of them among the most generous contributors to Republican campaigns, is trying to defeat the administration's plan to cut 25 percent from the budget for the Export-Import Bank, which subsidizes exports for companies like Boeing and Caterpillar.
Mr. Bush's support is firmer in the House, home to many of the most ardent Republican budget cutters. Representative Jim Nussle of Iowa, the chairman of the House Budget Committee, said in an interview this week that holding discretionary spending to a 4 percent increase next year was "very doable" because increases in the last few years had bloated the budget.
But even in the House, some Republicans admit having heartburn over the prospect of cutting farm aid, transportation projects and other programs that must be trimmed if the president's tax cut is approved and money for the Pentagon and education is increased.
Asked if he could support cuts in agriculture spending, for example, Mr. Nussle left himself some wiggle room. He said that before any decisions are made, Congress should review farm aid policy from top to bottom, in much the same way that Mr. Bush has ordered the Pentagon to re-examine its long-term needs.
"I believe we can adopt a budget that does not immediately break into the surplus piggy bank," Mr. Nussle said. "But if discipline breaks for one, it breaks for all."

GRAPHIC: Chart: "DOLLARS AND CENTS: Holding Down Discretionary Spending"President Bush's budget reflects an increase in discretionary spending authority of 4 percent, or $25.7 billion, from the $635 billion that Congress enacted for the 2001 fiscal year. Here is how that increase breaks down: ADDITIONS MilitaryProposals made during the campaign: $4.4 billionPay increases, inflation, health care and other: $9.8 billion NonmilitaryProposals made during the campaign: $10.4 billion(Includes education, health care, energy and crime programs) Increases in pay and programs: $9.6 billionEmergency spending: $5.6 billion Technical adjustments: $6.3 billion(Contract renewals, new advances, etc.) SUBTRACTIONSCutting pork-barrel or one-time programs: $8.4 billionCuts in programs: $12.1 billion NET INCREASE IN DISCRETIONARY SPENDING: $ 25.7 billion(From the previous fiscal year) Total proposed discretionary spending for the 2002 fiscal year: $660.7 billion(Source: Office of Management and Budget)(pg. A12) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BUDGETS (91%); TAXES & TAXATION (91%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); TAX LAW (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); TAX RELIEF (90%); DEFENSE SPENDING (89%); APPROVALS (89%); BUDGET DEFICITS (89%); NATIONAL DEBT (89%); PUBLIC DEBT (89%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (89%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (78%); APPROPRIATIONS (78%); BUDGET PROPOSALS (78%); VETO (78%); MILITARY WEAPONS (76%); SCHOOL BUDGETS (75%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (73%); MEDICARE (72%); ECONOMIC NEWS (60%) FINANCES; BUDGETS AND BUDGETING; UNITED STATES ECONOMY; TAXATION; EDUCATION AND SCHOOLS; UNITED STATES ARMAMENT AND DEFENSE; FINANCES; NATIONAL DEBT (US) 

ORGANIZATION: OFFICE OF MANAGEMENT & BUDGET (59%)

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (91%); RONALD REAGAN (89%); PETE DOMENICI (73%); BILL CLINTON (58%) REAGAN, RONALD WILSON; BUSH, GEORGE W (PRES); STEVENSON, RICHARD W 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW MEXICO, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (95%) UNITED STATES; UNITED STATES

LOAD-DATE: March 12, 2001 



306 of 868 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 12, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section C; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 499 words

HEADLINE: Ford Promotes Executive From E-Business 

BYLINE:  By KEITH BRADSHER 

DATELINE: DETROIT, March 11 

 BODY:
In a vote of confidence in Internet marketing by a giant of the old economy, the Ford Motor Company has increased considerably the responsibilities of the president of its electronic commerce operations.
 On Friday, Brian P. Kelley, the 40-year-old president of Ford's ConsumerConnect unit, which handles e-business, was put in charge of Ford's brand management, dealer relations, auto parts sales, market research, advertising purchases, and some sales and marketing activities, while retaining oversight of electronic commerce. 
 Replacing Mr. Kelley as president of ConsumerConnect will be Karen C. Francis, 38, who was the general manager of the Oldsmobile division of General Motors until a year ago, when she quit and went to Internet Capital Group, which invests in electronic commerce businesses. She also becomes a vice president of Ford, and will report to Mr. Kelley. 
Run almost entirely by men until two years ago, Ford announced separately on Friday that it would put all of its North American assembly plants under a woman, Anne Stevens. She will also be promoted to vice president on April 2. Ms. Stevens, 52, had been the executive director of vehicle operations in North America, and becomes the highest-ranking woman ever on the manufacturing side of a Detroit automaker.
The naming of Ms. Stevens and Ms. Francis as vice presidents means that 9 of Ford's 51 vice presidents will be women, compared with only two at the beginning of 1999 and one at the start of 1998.
Mr. Kelley effectively replaces Robert L. Rewey, a Ford group vice president who, with varying titles and a slight widening of duties, has overseen most of the company's marketing and sales operations since 1988. Mr. Rewey, 62, had been expected to retire this year.
Mr. Kelley said that in his new role, he expected Ford to continue selling cars only through its dealers, and not to sell cars directly to the public over the Internet. Dealers and their allies among state regulators have strenuously opposed direct sales.
But at a press conference at Ford's headquarters in Dearborn, a southwestern suburb of Detroit, Mr. Kelley also noted that, "E-business is a tool that a company like Ford can use in all our processes."
The move makes Mr. Kelley one of the youngest and fastest-rising stars in Ford's senior management. He joined the company only 16 months ago from the General Electric Company, where he was a vice president of the appliances division and its general manager for sales and distribution.
Mr. Kelley already had the rank of corporate vice president at Ford, and that rank did not change today. He became the vice president for global consumer services, while Mr. Rewey had been group vice president for global consumer services.
Under Jacques Nasser, Ford's chief executive since the beginning of 1999, Ford has gradually flattened the top tiers of its management, allowing some executive vice presidents and group vice presidents to retire while giving their responsibilities to vice presidents. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: INTERNET & WWW (90%); ELECTRONIC COMMERCE (90%); ONLINE MARKETING & ADVERTISING (90%); EXECUTIVES (89%); APPOINTMENTS (78%); AUTOMOTIVE MFG (78%); AUTOMOTIVE SALES (78%); EMPLOYEE PROMOTIONS (78%); AUTOMOBILE MFG (78%); AUTOMAKERS (78%); EXECUTIVE MOVES (78%); MANUFACTURING FACILITIES (77%); MARKET RESEARCH (73%); BRANDING (73%); MARKET RESEARCH & ANALYSIS (73%); MOTOR VEHICLE BODY MFG (72%); RANKINGS (71%); PRESS CONFERENCES (68%) APPOINTMENTS AND EXECUTIVE CHANGES 

COMPANY: FORD MOTOR CO (96%); GENERAL ELECTRIC CO (62%); GENERAL MOTORS CO (57%); ICG GROUP INC (56%)

ORGANIZATION: FORD MOTOR CO; KELLEY, BRIAN P 

TICKER: FORDP (PAR) (96%); F (NYSE) (96%); GNE (PAR) (62%); GEC (LSE) (62%); GE (SWX) (62%); GE (NYSE) (62%); GM (NYSE) (57%); ICGE (NASDAQ) (56%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS336112 LIGHT TRUCK & UTILITY VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (96%); NAICS336111 AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING (96%); SIC3711 MOTOR VEHICLES & PASSENGER CAR BODIES (96%); NAICS336412 AIRCRAFT ENGINE & ENGINE PARTS MANUFACTURING (62%); NAICS335222 HOUSEHOLD REFRIGERATOR & HOME FREEZER MANUFACTURING (62%); NAICS335210 SMALL ELECTRICAL APPLIANCE MANUFACTURING (62%); SIC2141 TOBACCO STEMMING & REDRYING (56%) SIC3711 MOTOR VEHICLES & CAR BODIES; 

PERSON: ANNE L STEVENS (89%) STEVENS, ANNE; BRADSHER, KEITH 

GEOGRAPHIC: DETROIT, MI, USA (93%) MICHIGAN, USA (93%) UNITED STATES (93%); NORTH AMERICA (92%)

LOAD-DATE: March 12, 2001 



307 of 868 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 13, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section F; Column 1; Health & Fitness; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 728 words

HEADLINE: Rating Life: Live Fast, Die Young 

BYLINE:  By ERICA GOODE 

 BODY:
A longer life is a better life. Or so common wisdom assumes. But is a longer life that is filled with modest pleasure and accomplishment better than a shorter life of intense happiness and success?
 Not necessarily, according to research by a social psychologist at the University of Illinois, Dr. Edward Diener. In a series of studies, Dr. Diener and colleagues found that when people were asked to judge the desirability of a life, they gave far more weight to how the life ended than to its duration. 
 "Respondents rated a wonderful life that ended abruptly as better than one with additional mildly pleasant years," the researchers report in the March issue of Psychological Science.
Dr. Diener and his colleagues labeled this phenomenon the "James Dean effect" after the 24-year-old actor, whose successful film career was cut short by a fatal car crash in 1955.
Similarly, a life ending abruptly after years of hardship and sorrow was rated as less desirable than the same life elongated by additional, less difficult years, a finding the researchers called the "Aleksandr Solzhenitsyn effect," after the Russian writer, who remained melancholy though he moved to the West and left his years in a prison camp behind.
The findings, Dr. Diener said, run counter to the idea that longevity and life quality are inextricably linked, a common view of policy makers and proponents of classical economic theory. The researchers noted that the United Nations used longevity as one of three criteria for determining quality of life. But their data, they said, "contradict a simple hedonic calculus in which years of pleasure and pain are summed."
"Our society is living longer," Dr. Diener said, "and the issue is, if you live longer, what are those last years like, and is length itself a good thing?"
The research grew out of studies by Dr. Daniel Kahneman of Princeton, who demonstrated in studies that in evaluating their own experiences, people tended to pay less attention to how long an event lasted than to how the experience ended, and to peak moments, either good or bad, that stood out in their minds.
In one well-known study, for example, Dr. Kahneman and a colleague found that patients who received colonoscopies recalled feeling more pain during shorter procedures than they did during longer procedures that included a period of lesser discomfort at the end. This held true even though both shorter and longer procedures involved the same amount of pain, the researchers found. 
The new studies, Dr. Diener said, show that this "peak and end" rule appears to apply "not only to things of a short duration like a colonoscopy but maybe to bigger things like the duration of a lifetime."
Dr. David Schkade, a psychologist at the University of Texas business school, said, "What's very nice about this is its extension to people's judgment about things they didn't participate in."
"That's actually a substantial advance," Dr. Schkade said, "because it's not always true that phenomena that govern what people do or experience personally map onto what people will think about someone else's experience."
In the studies, Dr. Diener and his colleagues asked their subjects -- college undergraduates and middle-aged adults -- to read and evaluate accounts of the life of a fictional woman named Jen, a woman who had never married and had no children. In one study, for example, some subjects read a story that described Jen's life as "extremely happy, with enjoyable work, vacations, friends and pleasant leisure. In another version, Jen's life was described as "very depressed and angry, with a monotonous job, no close friends and leisure filled with solitary viewing of television."
While all the subjects were told that Jen died suddenly and painlessly in a car accident, in some accounts five extra years were added to her life. In the positive account, the years were described as "pleasant but not as good as before." In the negative version, the extra time was characterized as less unpleasant than before.
Though the participants in the studies preferred shorter happier lives to to longer, less happy ones, however, Dr. Diener conceded that things might be somewhat different if the subjects were faced with a similar choice in their own lives."When it's tomorrow and you're going to get five more years that are so-so," he said, "you might take it, of course."

GRAPHIC: Photo: Scientists named a phenomenon for James Dean, who died at 24. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PSYCHOLOGY (89%); LIFE EXPECTANCY (89%); MENTAL HEALTH PRACTICE (89%); ENDOSCOPY (84%); TRENDS (77%); BUSINESS EDUCATION (72%); JAIL SENTENCING (71%); ACTORS & ACTRESSES (68%); TRAFFIC ACCIDENTS (68%); DEATH & DYING (65%) LONGEVITY; LONGEVITY; SOCIAL CONDITIONS AND TRENDS; DEATH AND DYING 

ORGANIZATION: UNITED NATIONS (54%)

PERSON: GOODE, ERICA; DEAN, JAMES (1931-55) 

GEOGRAPHIC: ILLINOIS, USA (90%) UNITED STATES (90%)

LOAD-DATE: March 13, 2001 



308 of 868 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 13, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section W; Column 3; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 893 words

HEADLINE: For Japan Sunk in Gloom, No Cheer in Growth Data 

BYLINE:  By STEPHANIE STROM 

DATELINE: TOKYO, March 12 

 BODY:
The Japanese economy sidestepped a recession late last year, according to new figures, but that news failed to dispel concerns that it is sliding toward a crisis brought on by political immobility and a slowdown in its largest export market, the United States.
 The government reported today that Japan's gross domestic product grew 0.8 percent in the fourth quarter of 2000, largely because of surprisingly strong demand among businesses for information technology and telecommunications goods. Government spending and housing were also somewhat stronger than forecast. 
 The figures mean the government will almost certainly achieve its goal of 1.2 percent economic growth in the fiscal year ending March 31. But officials took little comfort in the report, noting that consumption, which accounts for some 60 percent of economic activity here, dwindled in the quarter, and that suggestions of a general downturn are visible in monthly indicators released since then. Machinery orders fell 11.8 percent in January, for instance, and contract rates for condominiums are falling fast. 
The better-than-expected G.D.P. figure also did nothing to cheer the stock market, which was battered to its lowest level since April 1985 after the plunge in American markets on Friday. The benchmark Nikkei 225 stock index fell 456.53 points, or 3.62 percent, to close at 12,171.37 today, and the yen slid in value to 120.52 to the dollar.
Economists said that the strength in business demand in the fourth quarter probably reflected optimistic spending plans put in place before the economy started to cool. Companies like Toshiba, Fujitsu and NEC have pared their earnings estimates for 2001, which will probably lead to curtailed spending this year.
A decline in exports shaved three-tenths of a percentage point off the growth figure, highlighting both Japan's inability to rely on sales abroad to cure its economic woes and the ravages of deflation: export volumes rose, but falling prices eroded their value. "Ultimately, the Japanese economy has always had a large safety net called the U.S. market" to count on for growth, said Ronald Bevacqua, chief economist at Commerz Securities. "At this point, that's gone."
The figures released today are preliminary and may be subject to revisions of one percentage point or more, making gauging the economy's true currents difficult. "The gross domestic product is very volatile, and so it is not always in line with actual economic trends," said Masaaki Kanno, chief economist at J. P. Morgan in Tokyo. 
Mr. Kanno prefers an index compiled by the Ministry of Economy, Trade and Industry, showing economic activity basically flat from October through December, down from growth of 0.3 percent in the previous quarter. "I think it is likely to weaken further in the first quarter," Mr. Kanno said.
Japanese policy makers have the same concerns, and are rushing to adjust fiscal and monetary policy and to address the woes of Japan's tapped-out banking system. On Friday, the ruling Liberal Democratic Party proffered its first emergency rescue plan for the economy that did not include plans for expensive public works projects; instead it called for cutting capital gains and inheritance taxes, easing the disposal of bad loans and creating a private-sector fund to buy the stock portfolios of struggling Japanese banks.
Still, the package will be tricky to put into effect given the political atmosphere here. Whether or not Prime Minister Yoshiro Mori resigns next month and is replaced by a caretaker -- Mr. Mori spent the weekend denying that he had signaled such a move, though most analysts here expect it anyway -- the ruling party's main focus over the next few months will be on avoiding a trouncing in elections to the Parliament's upper house in July. 
That goal collides with what is perhaps the most significant plank of the proposed package, the one aimed at a speedy resolution to the debt overhang that has plagued the Japanese banking system since the early 1990's. Encouraging banks to write down their bad debts would almost certainly increase unemployment, which would anger voters already furious over a series of scandals that have plagued the party and over various errors of judgment committed by Mr. Mori.
Winning the cooperation of the Ministry of Finance will also be an uphill battle, because the plan would probably reduce tax revenue at a time when the ministry is determined to reduce Japan's ballooning budget deficit.
"These ideas represent a direction we have not seen before in Japan, but I'm worried about the implementation," Mr. Bevacqua said. "And even if they are implemented quickly, they do nothing more than put a floor under the stock market and economic sentiment. They don't make a recovery."
The Bank of Japan is willing to do what it can to help, but its scope of action is somewhat limited. Short-term interest rates are already so low that there may not be much to be gained by cutting them the rest of the way back to essentially zero, though such a reduction seems likely at the bank's next policy meeting on March 19. Other options for easing monetary policy that bank officials mention include purchasing government bonds, coupling a rate move with a commitment to keep short-term rates at zero until some specified development occurs, and increasing the nation's money supply.

GRAPHIC: Photo: Japanese checked stock quotes at a brokerage firm in Tokyo on Monday. The Nikkei index fell more than 450 points to a 16-year low. (Reuters) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC NEWS (92%); STOCK INDEXES (90%); RECESSION (90%); GROSS DOMESTIC PRODUCT (90%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (90%); CURRENCIES (90%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (90%); EXPORT TRADE (89%); EXPORT PRICES (89%); TRENDS (89%); PUBLIC POLICY (89%); ECONOMIC POLICY (78%); STATISTICS (78%); ECONOMIC DEPRESSION (78%); DEFLATION (78%); COMPANY EARNINGS (78%); MANUFACTURING OUTPUT (77%); PUBLIC FINANCE (77%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (76%); FACTORY ORDERS (76%); RESIDENTIAL CO-OWNERSHIP (75%); COMMERCE DEPARTMENTS (73%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (72%); BANKING & FINANCE (72%); POLITICS (72%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS (71%); STOCK EXCHANGES (71%); BONDS (68%); MONETARY POLICY (50%) ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS; GROSS DOMESTIC PRODUCT; STOCKS AND BONDS; CURRENCY; RECESSION AND DEPRESSION; INTERNATIONAL TRADE AND WORLD MARKET; NIKKEI STOCK AVERAGE; POLITICS AND GOVERNMENT 

COMPANY: TOSHIBA CORP (58%); FUJITSU LTD (57%)

TICKER: TOS (LSE) (58%); 6502 (TSE) (58%); FUJ (LSE) (57%); 6702 (TSE) (57%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS334310 AUDIO & VIDEO EQUIPMENT MANUFACTURING (58%); NAICS334220 RADIO & TELEVISION BROADCASTING & WIRELESS COMMUNICATIONS EQUIPMENT MANUFACTURING (58%); NAICS334111 ELECTRONIC COMPUTER MANUFACTURING (58%); NAICS334118 COMPUTER TERMINAL & OTHER COMPUTER PERIPHERAL EQUIPMENT MANUFACTURING (57%)

PERSON: STROM, STEPHANIE 

GEOGRAPHIC: TOKYO, JAPAN (91%) JAPAN (96%); UNITED STATES (94%) JAPAN

LOAD-DATE: March 13, 2001 



309 of 868 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 13, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section C; Column 5; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 9

LENGTH: 33 words

HEADLINE: THE MARKETS: CURRENCIES 

 BODY:
 YEN DECLINES. The political and economic turmoil in Japan caused the the yen to drop to a 20-month low against the dollar. In New York, the dollar settled at 120.38 yen, up from 119.70 on Friday.

GRAPHIC: Graph tracks Japanese Yen to the dollar, since September 1999. (Source: Bloomberg Financial Markets). It also shows yesterday's closes for the British pound (in U.S. dollars), the Canadian dollar (per U.S. dollar), the German mark (per U.S. dollar), the Japanese yen (per U.S. dollar), the Mexican peso (pers U.S. dollar), and the South Korean won (per U.S. dollar). 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: JAPANESE YEN (90%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (88%); ECONOMIC NEWS (86%); TRENDS (86%); POLITICS (86%) CURRENCY; POLITICS AND GOVERNMENT; ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (94%); JAPAN (94%); MEXICO (79%); CANADA (79%); GERMANY (59%) JAPAN

LOAD-DATE: March 13, 2001 



310 of 868 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 13, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section C; Column 5; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 853 words

HEADLINE: Ericsson Sees Quarter Loss, Company's First in 9 Years 

BYLINE:  By SUZANNE KAPNER 

DATELINE: LONDON, March 12 

 BODY:
LM Ericsson, the big Swedish electronics company, warned today that it would lose money in the first quarter on flat sales, as demand for mobile phone handsets and networks slowed sharply last month.
 The announcement by Ericsson darkened the mood already hanging over the telecommunications industry, and Ericsson stock fell 25 percent in the United States amid a wide sell-off in telecommunications and other technology stocks. 
 Today's sales and profit forecast was a revision from predictions made by Ericsson just three months ago, and it raised concern among analysts that the slowdown in the mobile phone industry was becoming worse. Ericsson has now added a slackening in demand for phone networks to a list of problems previously centered at its mobile handset division. 
The disclosure of the dismal outlook follows similar warnings by Ericsson's principal mobile phone rivals, Nokia of Finland and Motorola of the United States. And it comes on the heels of reduced revenue or profit forecasts by technology giants like Cisco Systems and Intel.
Ericsson, based in Stockholm, attributed its expected loss in part to the American economic slowdown that is causing many of its customers to reduce capital expenditures.
But the company's troubles are further-reaching. Ericsson also cited slowing demand in Western Europe, as that market nears saturation, and bloated inventory levels worldwide -- problems that may suggest further disappointments for other makers.
"The thousand-dollar question is how long will this process of operators' cutting capital expenditures continue," said Thomas Langer, an analyst with WestLB Panmure. "It raises the possibility of a second wave of profit warnings and lowered expectations for the year."
Kurt Hellstrom, Ericsson's chief executive, underscored that uncertainty today in a conference call with analysts, saying, "In the current unstable economic environment, we have limited visibility."
Analysts had come to expect lagging performance in Ericsson's handset business, where it trails its big rivals. The unit lost $1.7 billion last year, as the company struggled to refine design and supply problems. In January, Ericsson said it would stop making mobile phones, hiring outside manufacturers instead, as a step toward returning the unit to profitability.
By contrast, Ericsson has secured a leading position in the market for building mobile networks, where it is the world leader. Fifty-five percent of Ericsson's sales now come from building infrastructure, compared with 18 percent from selling mobile handsets. Analysts had championed its leadership here, betting that Ericsson would benefit as telecommunications operators begin spending billions on networks to support new services.
Instead, delays in rolling out next-generation technology, coupled with the economic downturn, have cut demand for increased network capacity. Mr. Hellstrom said Americans were spending less time talking on their mobile phones. In Western Europe, he said, telecommunications service providers are finding diminishing returns from subsidies they offer to lure new customers.
"There is less demand in growth in airtime," Mr. Hellstrom said, "and that reduces the need to build out infrastructure."
The broad downturn is now expected to contribute to Ericsson's first quarterly loss in nine years. For the three-month period that will end on March 31, Ericsson said it expected to lose four billion to five billion Swedish kronor ($405 million to $507 million), with sales flat compared with the 2000 quarter.
In January, Ericsson's guidance to analysts was for flat profits and a 15 percent increase in sales. The company is scheduled to report earnings on April 20.
In Stockholm today, shares of Ericsson fell 17 kronor, to 64.5 kronor. On the Nasdaq market, its American depository receipts -- each representing one B share of the company -- fell $2.09 to $6.28 in trading of nearly 40 million units. The A.D.R.'s have fallen nearly 44 percent so far this year.
"It is the rapidity and sheer size of the decline, especially in the infrastructure business which is their bread and butter, that is shocking," said Per Lindberg, an analyst with Dresdner Kleinwort Wasserstein.
Worrisome, too, is the possibility that telecommunications operators, already burdened with debt from their bids for next-generation licenses, may skimp when it comes to building the networks to support those new services. While a small part of Ericsson's business today, these next-generation networks are expected to contribute heartily to future growth. Mr. Langer said several European operators are discussing ways in which they might share a network, though it is unclear whether regulators would allow such bundling.
Problems are already evident in the much-anticipated technology that provides users with a continuous connection to the Internet, technology that is supposed to feed demand for as-yet-untested services. Mr. Langer now expects these next-generation phones to be introduced in the fourth quarter, as opposed to the current quarter -- a delay, he said, that is sure to crimp Ericsson's prospects.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MOBILE & CELLULAR TELEPHONES (91%); WIRELESS & BROADCAST EQUIPMENT MFG (90%); COMPUTER & ELECTRONICS MFG (90%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS (90%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS EQUIPMENT (90%); COMPANY PROFITS (90%); COMPANY LOSSES (90%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS EQUIPMENT MFG (90%); ELECTRONICS (90%); EARNINGS PREANNOUNCEMENTS (90%); WIRELESS INDUSTRY (90%); MOBILE & CELLULAR COMMUNICATIONS (90%); CAPITAL EXPENDITURES (89%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (89%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS SERVICES (89%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (89%); BUSINESS FORECASTS (89%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS SECTOR PERFORMANCE (89%); PROFIT WARNINGS (78%); WIRELESS TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (78%); TELEPHONIC EQUIPMENT (78%); DELAYS & POSTPONEMENTS (78%); WIRELESS NETWORKS (78%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (76%); ECONOMIC NEWS (75%); INVENTORIES (73%); CONFERENCE CALLS (73%); CUSTOMER ACQUISITION STRATEGY (66%); INVENTORY MANAGEMENT (65%); EXECUTIVES (63%) TELEPHONES AND TELECOMMUNICATIONS; FINANCES; SALES; CELLULAR TELEPHONES 

COMPANY: TELEFONAKTIEBOLAGET LM ERICSSON (98%); CISCO SYSTEMS INC (57%); INTEL CORP (57%); MOTOROLA SOLUTIONS INC (56%); WESTLB AG (54%)

ORGANIZATION: ERICSSON AB 

TICKER: ERIC.B (STO) (98%); ERIC.A (STO) (98%); ERIC (NASDAQ) (98%); CSCO (NASDAQ) (57%); INTC (NASDAQ) (57%); MSI (NYSE) (56%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS334220 RADIO & TELEVISION BROADCASTING & WIRELESS COMMUNICATIONS EQUIPMENT MANUFACTURING (98%); SIC3663 RADIO & TELEVISION BROADCASTING & COMMUNICATIONS EQUIPMENT (98%); NAICS334210 TELEPHONE APPARATUS MANUFACTURING (57%); SIC3661 TELEPHONE & TELEGRAPH APPARATUS (57%); NAICS334413 SEMICONDUCTOR & RELATED DEVICE MANUFACTURING (57%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (54%); SIC6029 COMMERCIAL BANKS, NEC (54%); SIC6021 NATIONAL COMMERCIAL BANKS (54%) SIC3661 TELEPHONE APPARATUS; 

PERSON: KAPNER, SUZANNE 

GEOGRAPHIC: STOCKHOLM, SWEDEN (79%) UNITED STATES (94%); EUROPE (92%); SWEDEN (79%); WESTERN EUROPE (69%); FINLAND (56%)

LOAD-DATE: March 13, 2001 



311 of 868 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 13, 2001
Correction Appended 
 Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Editorial Desk; Pg. 18

LENGTH: 419 words

HEADLINE: Harvard's New President 

 BODY:
Harvard could not have picked a president whose personality is more different from his predecessor than Lawrence Summers, the economist who served as treasury secretary at the close of the Clinton administration. The departing president, Neil Rudenstine, though a spectacularly successful fund-raiser, was a private, soft-spoken man. Mr. Summers is so willing to express strong opinions that for years even his supporters fretted that his bluntness and arrogance offended more people than they persuaded. Yet his formidable attributes make him a fitting choice, especially at this point in history. 
 The precociously brilliant Mr. Summers got his doctorate at Harvard, became the youngest tenured professor in the university's modern history and won the nation's top prize for young economists. His government experience included stints as chief economist of the World Bank and as undersecretary, deputy secretary and ultimately secretary of the Treasury Department. 
 This diverse background gave Mr. Summers a leg up on the other finalists. It could also help make him a strong voice on educational issues that resonate far beyond Harvard. The number of top educators who speak out today seems distressingly small, either because they are swamped raising money and running complex institutions or because they fear offending key constituencies. Richard Atkinson, president of the University of California, showed what can be done by focusing on the inadequacies of SAT exams. Mr. Summers, with his bluntness and familiarity with the public arena, would seem well suited for this role.
Mr. Rudenstine, who raised $2.6 billion and helped drive the endowment above $19 billion, is leaving the university in a very healthy state, so Mr. Summers may have some breathing room before he will need to raise a lot more. His own priorities include improving undergraduate education and strengthening the sciences, two areas where some academics feel Harvard has lost ground. He also stressed the need to recruit younger faculty and maintain diversity. In an era of globalization and the Internet revolution. Mr. Summers hopes to help define how major universities can reach wider audiences without diluting their quality.
Mr. Summers has never run an academic institution. But he has run a department with 150,000 people, and according to friends has softened the sharp edges that irritated some people. His experience suggests he may also have the vision to lead Harvard through an era of global and technological change. 

CORRECTION-DATE: March 21, 2001

 CORRECTION:
An article on March 11 and an editorial on March 13 about the selection of Lawrence H. Summers to be president of Harvard referred imprecisely to his achievement of tenure in 1983 at age 28. At that time, he was the youngest tenured professor in Harvard's modern history. But 10 years later Noam D. Elkies, a mathematician, was granted tenure at age 26.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Editorial 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (90%); FUNDRAISING (90%); COLLEGES & UNIVERSITIES (79%); UNIVERSITY ADMINISTRATION (78%); ENDOWMENTS (77%); HISTORY (75%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (74%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (70%); ACADEMIC TENURE (70%); AWARDS & PRIZES (69%); ACADEMIC TESTING (67%); GLOBALIZATION (62%) COLLEGES AND UNIVERSITIES; EDITORIALS; BIOGRAPHICAL INFORMATION 

ORGANIZATION: HARVARD UNIVERSITY (94%); UNIVERSITY OF CALIFORNIA (55%) HARVARD UNIVERSITY 

PERSON: LAWRENCE SUMMERS (91%) SUMMERS, LAWRENCE H; RUDENSTINE, NEIL L 

GEOGRAPHIC: CALIFORNIA, USA (73%) UNITED STATES (73%)

LOAD-DATE: March 13, 2001 



312 of 868 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 13, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section C; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 9

LENGTH: 233 words

HEADLINE: Keithley Sees Lower Sales and Earnings 

BYLINE:  Bloomberg News 

DATELINE: SOLON, Ohio, March 12 

 BODY:
Keithley Instruments Inc., a maker of machines that test semiconductors, said today that its quarterly sales and earnings would be lower than the company had forecast because customers were spending less on new equipment. 
 Keithley's share price plunged $5.81, or 28 percent, to $14.95, on the New York Stock Exchange. 
 Makers of semiconductors have scaled back production and spending to cope with weakening demand for consumer electronic products as the economy slows. Companies like Keithley, which is based here, and Teradyne Inc., which last week lowered its sales and earnings forecasts, have been hurt as a result. 
"They had order cancellations, and that's why the outlook changed so quickly," said Vincent Glinski, a securities analysts with Jesup & Lamont Securities. "In the long term, the semiconductor industry has to start ordering equipment, but you're not going to see that until August or September." 
Keithley now expects sales of $40 million to $43 million for the quarter which ends March 31 and is the second quarter of the company's fiscal year, according to its chief financial officer, Mark Plush. Keithley previously had forecast sales greater than the $44.5 million the company reported for the first quarter, he said. 
Pretax earnings will be less than the $11 million the company reported for the first quarter, Mr. Plush added. He did not provide a per-share estimate. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: COMPANY REVENUES (90%); SALES PROJECTIONS (90%); INTERIM FINANCIAL RESULTS (90%); SEMICONDUCTOR MFG (90%); ANNUAL FINANCIAL RESULTS (90%); FINANCIAL RESULTS (90%); ELECTRONICS (90%); BUSINESS FORECASTS (90%); COMPANY EARNINGS (90%); LOWERED SALES PROJECTIONS (78%); CONSUMER ELECTRONICS MFG (78%); EARNINGS PREANNOUNCEMENTS (78%); COMPUTER CHIPS (73%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (73%); STOCK EXCHANGES (72%); CONSUMER ELECTRONICS (71%); EXECUTIVES (51%) COMPUTERS AND THE INTERNET; COMPUTER CHIPS; SALES; FINANCES 

COMPANY: KEITHLEY INSTRUMENTS INC (93%); TERADYNE INC (71%); NEW YORK STOCK EXCHANGE LLC (58%)

ORGANIZATION: KEITHLEY INSTRUMENTS INC 

TICKER: TER (NYSE) (71%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS334515 INSTRUMENT MANUFACTURING FOR MEASURING & TESTING ELECTRICITY & ELECTRICAL SIGNALS (93%); SIC3825 INSTRUMENTS FOR MEASURING & TESTING OF ELECTRICITY & ELECTRICAL SIGNALS (93%) SIC3825 INSTRUMENTS TO MEASURE ELECTRICITY; 

GEOGRAPHIC: OHIO, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: March 13, 2001 



313 of 868 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 13, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; National Desk; Pg. 13

LENGTH: 535 words

HEADLINE: Astronomers See Threat To Research In Budget Plan 

BYLINE:  By JAMES GLANZ 

 BODY:
Astronomers are worried that an initiative buried deep in the Bush administration's budget proposal for 2002 could threaten their ability to do the kind of basic scientific research that has led them to discovery after discovery over the past decade.
 The budget proposal directs that a high-level panel be formed to assess the advantages of radically changing the financing and management of astronomy that relies on ground-based instruments, like optical telescopes and arrays of radio dishes. 
 Rather than leaving those research programs under the umbrella of the National Science Foundation, a federal agency largely dedicated to basic science, the panel would consider the advantages of moving them to NASA. Many astronomers regard NASA as a mission-oriented agency that emphasizes hardware development over the quality of its scientific research, and they fear that their brand of curiosity-driven research, with few immediate practical applications, could be lost in the shuffle there. 
"N.S.F. astronomy has had many extraordinary successes," said Dr. Joseph H. Taylor, a Nobel Prize-winning astrophysicist at Princeton University.
"I don't know why it would be a good idea to rip all that apart and put it into another agency that's not very well organized for supporting that kind of enterprise," Dr. Taylor said.
The move comes after what Chris Ullman, a spokesman for the Office of Management and Budget at the White House, calls "a binge" of recent funding increases for the National Science Foundation that well outpaced inflation. The Bush administration's request would increase the foundation's $4.4 billion budget only slightly, by an amount that would not keep pace with inflation.
As the equipment needed in making astronomical discoveries becomes more and more expensive, Mr. Ullman said, it makes sense to explore shifting the programs to NASA's $14.3 billion budget. "A very independent panel is being named to flesh out the issue and make some recommendations," he said.
The foundation spends roughly $175 million a year on ground-based astronomy, said Dr. Robert Eisenstein, its assistant director for mathematical and physical sciences.
But last year, an influential panel of scientists led by Dr. Taylor and Dr. Christopher McKee, chairman of the physics department at the University of California, recommended that a list of astronomical instruments costing at least $4.7 billion be built over the next decade, which would be roughly a billion-dollar increase over similar spending in the last 10 years.
Most of that money would go to NASA projects like a successor to the orbiting Hubble Space Telescope. The rest would be spent on National Science Foundation projects. 
Dr. Edward Weiler, NASA's associate administrator for space science, said that the administration's proposal took the agency by surprise, but that he saw potential advantages. But he added, "My greatest fear is that a decision is made to put ground-based astronomy into NASA without the dollars and the manpower to go with it."
Dr. Eisenstein said he believed more fundamental issues were involved. "N.S.F. really supports completely unfettered investigations," he said, while "NASA has a more mission-oriented approach." 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BUDGETS (94%); BUDGET PLANNING & MANAGEMENT (92%); ASTRONOMY & SPACE (91%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (91%); SCIENCE NEWS (91%); SCIENCE & TECHNOLOGY (91%); EXPERIMENTATION & RESEARCH (90%); SCIENCE FUNDING (90%); SPACE & AERONAUTICS AGENCIES (90%); BUDGET PROPOSALS (90%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (90%); SPACE EXPLORATION (88%); ASTROPHYSICS (79%); OBSERVATORIES & TELESCOPES (79%); PUBLIC FINANCE (78%); NOBEL PRIZES (77%); AWARDS & PRIZES (72%) SPACE; RESEARCH; FINANCES; BUDGETS AND BUDGETING; TELESCOPES AND OBSERVATORIES 

ORGANIZATION: NATIONAL SCIENCE FOUNDATION (84%); NATIONAL AERONAUTICS & SPACE ADMINISTRATION (59%); PRINCETON UNIVERSITY (55%); OFFICE OF MANAGEMENT & BUDGET (54%) NATIONAL AERONAUTICS AND SPACE ADMINISTRATION; NATIONAL SCIENCE FOUNDATION 

PERSON: BUSH, GEORGE W (PRES); GLANZ, JAMES 

GEOGRAPHIC: CALIFORNIA, USA (66%) UNITED STATES (94%) UNITED STATES

LOAD-DATE: March 13, 2001 



314 of 868 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 13, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section C; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 605 words

HEADLINE: BUSINESS DIGEST 

 BODY:
 Nasdaq Falls Below 2,000 As Stock Indexes Plummet
Major stock market indexes plunged through several important psychological barriers in a broad sell-off. The Nasdaq composite index, the leading gauge of technology stocks, fell 6.3 percent, dropping below 2,000 for the first time in more than two years. The Nasdaq closed at 1,923.38, down 129.40 points. The Standard & Poor's 500-stock index, the broadest of the major market indexes, declined 4.3 percent, or 53.26 points, to 1,180.16. It is now down more than 20 percent from its peak last March, meeting Wall Street's definition for a bear market, the first since 1987. The Dow Jones industrial average dropped 4.1 percent, or 436.37 points, to close at 10,208.25. All 30 stocks in the Dow Jones index fell. Page A1.

If the bull market of the 1990's is finally over, the bear market that has replaced it is so far a very unusual one because the damage to the stock market has been so concentrated. Floyd Norris: Market Place. A1.

Ericsson Sees Quarterly Loss
LM Ericsson, the Swedish electronics company, warned that it would lose money in the first quarter on flat sales, as demand for mobile phone handsets and networks slowed sharply last month. The announcement by Ericsson darkened the mood already hanging over the telecommunications industry. American depository receipts of Ericsson fell $2.09, to $6.28. In Stockholm, shares of Ericsson dropped 17 kronor, to 64.5 kronor. C6.

True North Reassures Analysts
True North Communications, the seventh-largest agency company, said it was comfortable with estimates by analysts for its first-quarter performance despite the sudden softening of the economy as well as a restatement of earnings. Advertising: Stuart Elliott C8.

Lobbyists Near Bankruptcy Bill Goal
A lobbying campaign led by credit card companies and banks that gave tens of millions of dollars in political donations to members of Congress and contributed generously to President Bush's 2000 campaign is close to its long-sought goal of overhauling the nation's bankruptcy system. Legislation that would make it harder for people to wipe out their debts could be passed by the Senate this week. A1.

Alliance to Develop Diabetes Drugs
Abbott Laboratories and Millennium Pharmaceuticals said that they would pool their efforts to develop drugs and diagnostic tests for diabetes and obesity. The agreement is the latest example of a broad-ranging alliance between a big pharmaceutical company and a genomics company. C7.

Hershey Names a Chief Executive
As part of its continued effort to expand beyond the candy bars that bear its name, Hershey Foods hired a chief executive from the top ranks of one of its biggest competitors in the snack food industry. Richard H. Lenny, left, quit his job running the biscuit business at Nabisco to take the position, adding to a growing list of coveted executives who have departed the company in the wake of its merger with Kraft. It is the first time in its 107-year history that Hershey has gone outside of its tight knit corporate community to find a leader. C4.

New Newspaper Circulation Rules
The Audit Bureau of Circulations finalized the new system governing how newspapers measure and report their circulation to advertisers, overwhelmingly ratifying procedures that will give advertisers more information about who is buying a newspaper and giving publishers more latitude in counting discounted copies as "paid circulation." The new rules, given preliminary approval by the audit bureau's board in November, allow publishers to count as paid circulation any copy sold for a minimum of 25 percent of its basic price. C8.

GRAPHIC: Photo Chart: "YESTERDAY"Dow industrials -- 10,208.25 down 436.37Nasdaq composite -- 1,923.38 down 129.4010-yr. Treasury yield -- 4.89% down 0.05The euro -- $0.9280 down 0.0038The dollar -- 120.38 yen up 0.68 Graph: "TODAY" shows retail sales from August through January. February figures due at 8:30 a.m. Eastern time. Expected 0.4% Graph tracks shares of Ericsson A.D.R.'s for the week

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Summary 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: STOCK INDEXES (97%); NEWS BRIEFS (90%); MARKET OPEN CLOSE (90%); PHARMACEUTICALS INDUSTRY (89%); FOOD INDUSTRY (89%); LOBBYING (86%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (86%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (85%); AMERICAN DEPOSITARY RECEIPTS (79%); ELECTRONICS (79%); SNACK FOOD INDUSTRY (78%); DEPOSITORY SERVICES (78%); MAINTENANCE & REPAIR (72%); FOOD & BEVERAGE (71%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS (70%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS SECTOR PERFORMANCE (70%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING AGENCIES (69%); LEGISLATION (67%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY LAW (67%); COMPANY LOSSES (66%); EXECUTIVES (66%); FINANCIAL RESTATEMENTS (66%); MOBILE & CELLULAR TELEPHONES (65%); ALLIANCES & PARTNERSHIPS (65%); DRUG DESIGN & DISCOVERY (64%); IN VITRO DIAGNOSTICS MFG (64%); CAMPAIGN FINANCE (62%); SUGAR & CONFECTIONERY MFG (62%); DIABETES TESTING (60%); OBESITY (60%); PHARMACEUTICAL PREPARATION MFG (60%); DIABETES (60%); BIOTECHNOLOGY & GENETIC SCIENCE (50%); PAYMENT CARDS & SERVICES (50%); CREDIT CARDS (50%) NO INDEX TERMS FROM NYTIMES 

COMPANY: TELEFONAKTIEBOLAGET LM ERICSSON (94%); ABBOTT LABORATORIES (80%); INTERPUBLIC GROUP OF COS INC (66%); MILLENNIUM PHARMACEUTICALS INC (51%); HERSHEY CO (51%)

TICKER: ERIC.B (STO) (94%); ERIC.A (STO) (94%); ERIC (NASDAQ) (94%); ABT (SWX) (80%); ABT (NYSE) (80%); ABT (LSE) (80%); ABL (FRA) (80%); IPG (NYSE) (66%); HSY (NYSE) (51%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS334220 RADIO & TELEVISION BROADCASTING & WIRELESS COMMUNICATIONS EQUIPMENT MANUFACTURING (94%); SIC3663 RADIO & TELEVISION BROADCASTING & COMMUNICATIONS EQUIPMENT (94%); NAICS339113 SURGICAL APPLIANCE & SUPPLIES MANUFACTURING (80%); NAICS339112 SURGICAL & MEDICAL INSTRUMENT MANUFACTURING (80%); NAICS325413 IN-VITRO DIAGNOSTIC SUBSTANCE MANUFACTURING (80%); NAICS325412 PHARMACEUTICAL PREPARATION MANUFACTURING (80%); NAICS325411 MEDICINAL & BOTANICAL MANUFACTURING (80%); NAICS541820 PUBLIC RELATIONS AGENCIES (66%); NAICS541810 ADVERTISING AGENCIES (66%); NAICS541613 MARKETING CONSULTING SERVICES (66%); SIC2834 PHARMACEUTICAL PREPARATIONS (51%); SIC2833 MEDICINAL CHEMICALS & BOTANICAL PRODUCTS (51%); NAICS311930 FLAVORING SYRUP & CONCENTRATE MANUFACTURING (51%); NAICS311911 ROASTED NUTS & PEANUT BUTTER MANUFACTURING (51%); NAICS311821 COOKIE & CRACKER MANUFACTURING (51%); NAICS311351 CHOCOLATE & CONFECTIONERY MANUFACTURING FROM CACAO BEANS (51%); SIC2066 CHOCOLATE & COCOA PRODUCTS (51%)

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (50%); RICHARD H LENNY (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: STOCKHOLM, SWEDEN (79%) SWEDEN (79%); UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: March 13, 2001 



315 of 868 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 13, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section B; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 757 words

HEADLINE: The Big City; 
Workers Vote With Wallets On Job Safety

BYLINE:  By JOHN TIERNEY 

 BODY:
WHEN Congress rescinded new ergonomics regulations last week, Democrats and union leaders said it was a victory for business at the expense of labor. Actually, it was more like a victory for workers' wallets at the possible expense of their bodies.
 Politicians like to pretend that their reforms are rescuing workers from predations of capitalists, but the capitalists generally do not get stuck with the bill. They prefer to pass the costs along, either through higher prices for their products or lower pay for their workers. 
 When workers' compensation programs were instituted for coal miners early last century, the costs of the benefits and premiums were offset by cuts in workers' pay. So were the costs of the parental leave benefits mandated last decade. 
Would workers now take lower pay in exchange for ergonomic safety rules? If you asked workers, especially ones in white-collar centers like New York who are unaccustomed to intrusions from the Occupational Safety and Health Administration, a lot would probably object to any cut in salary. 
In fact, many economists would tell you that workers have already made the choice against safety. If they were really willing to take the pay cut, it would presumably make business sense for employers to oblige them. Instead, workers apparently prefer the money, which is why many keep doing risky jobs, like lumbering or fishing, rather than take safer ones that pay less.
But even if the workers themselves have chosen money over safety, are they better off? No, says Robert H. Frank, an economist at Cornell University. He believes that government safety regulations are needed not to protect workers from their employers, but to protect workers from their own individual desires.
Dr. Frank compares today's workers to hockey players in the era before helmets were required. It was rational for an individual player to eschew a helmet, because he felt he could see and play better without it. But the players were collectively better off by being required to wear helmets, because they all avoided injuries without being put at a relative disadvantage.
Similarly, Dr. Frank argues, it's rational for an individual worker to sacrifice safety for income, because he wants extra money to compete against other workers for a better home, better schools, higher social status. But if all the other workers are making the same sacrifice, they'll all have extra money, too, and their competition will drive up the cost of homes and schools and status. 
Collectively, Dr. Frank argues, the workers would be better off taking lower pay in exchange for safer working conditions. The fewer injuries would benefit them all, while the universal diminution in income wouldn't put anyone at a competitive disadvantage.
By that theory, at least, the unfettered marketplace cannot be trusted to provide the optimum level of worker safety. But in practice, can OSHA be trusted to do any better? 
THE new rules, while relatively restrained by OSHA's past standards, still seem designed to enrich legions of lawyers and consultants. They require employers with as few as 11 workers to set up ergonomic programs and keep excruciatingly detailed records. As a veteran of one of these repetitive-stress injuries myself (I got tendinitis from typing), I can see why skeptics worry about the rules' potential for fostering fraud and malingering. The injuries can be so subtle that they are hard to diagnose or treat.
"The science on these injuries is close to junk science," said Robert W. Hahn, director of the American Enterprise Institute-Brookings Joint Center for Regulatory Studies. "Until we have a better idea of the cause and effect of these injuries, and of the benefits of intervening, we shouldn't be issuing regulations."
Cass R. Sunstein, a professor at the University of Chicago Law School who has collaborated with Dr. Frank, has his doubts, too, although he isn't as harsh on OSHA. "This doesn't seem to be a case of crazy overregulation," he said, "though reasonable people can certainly object that the numbers are too fuzzy to justify this particular approach at this time." 
Dr. Frank, while favoring government intervention to protect workers, prefers using some form of taxes (like an increase in the premium for workers' compensation insurance) instead of issuing rules. "When the government tells you how to achieve the desired result, you generally get a mess," Dr. Frank said. "It's better for them to penalize you for not getting a result, and let you figure out how to solve the problem." 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ERGONOMICS (92%); WORKPLACE HEALTH & SAFETY (91%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); DEREGULATION (90%); WAGES & SALARIES (90%); AGENCY RULEMAKING (90%); OCCUPATIONAL HEALTH & SAFETY AGENCIES (89%); MINE SAFETY REGULATION (89%); WOUNDS & INJURIES (89%); HEALTH DEPARTMENTS (78%); LABOR UNIONS (78%); EMPLOYEE LEAVE (77%); ENERGY & UTILITY DEREGULATION (77%); REPETITIVE MOTION DISORDERS (73%); WORKERS COMPENSATION (72%); HOME PRICES (71%); COAL MINING (55%); FAMILY LEAVE (54%) LABOR; ERGONOMICS; ACCIDENTS AND SAFETY; INDUSTRIAL AND OCCUPATIONAL HAZARDS; REPETITIVE MOTION DISORDERS; REGULATION AND DEREGULATION OF INDUSTRY 

ORGANIZATION: OCCUPATIONAL SAFETY & HEALTH ADMINISTRATION (56%)

PERSON: TIERNEY, JOHN 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: March 13, 2001 



316 of 868 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 13, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section C; Column 2; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1155 words

HEADLINE: Minnesota Health Plans to Standardize Treatments 

BYLINE:  By MILT FREUDENHEIM 

 BODY:
Five health plans that cover almost every resident of Minnesota will announce today that they are supporting standard treatment and prevention procedures for 50 common ailments like lower back pain, high blood pressure, diabetes and bladder infections.
 This is the first time all the major health plans in a state have collaborated to endorse a set of standard guidelines or protocols. Their support represents a major step toward the adoption of national "best practice" medical standards based on recognized scientific evidence. 
 The protocols, which will be continuously adjusted by panels of doctors as new medicines and procedures appear, are available on the Internet (www.icsi.org) to consumers nationwide. The standards do not dictate how doctors must treat patients, but both patients and doctors will be aware of what the recommended treatments are. 
The Minnesota health insurers are endorsing standards that have been developed by 21 physician groups that include 3,200 doctors, 36 percent of all the physicians in the state. The doctors who did the work included staff physicians of the Mayo Clinic, Park Nicollet Clinic and HealthPartners in Minneapolis and St. Paul, as well as five hospitals. 
The health plans joining HealthPartners as sponsors of the new standards are Minnesota Blue Cross and Blue Shield, Medica, PreferredOne and UCare Minnesota, which provides primary care coverage by University of Minnesota doctors for Medicare and Medicaid patients.
The new standards address concerns about patient safety and consistency of care that were articulated last week by the Institute of Medicine of the National Academy of Science.
In a report published Thursday, the Institute of Medicine urged Congress to commit $1 billion over five years to support projects to improve the health care system and "address both quality and cost concerns." The protocols also emphasize preventive care -- for example, a reminder to a doctor or nurse that a patient who shows up with a knee injury may not be up to date on a mammogram or tetanus shot -- said Dr. Gordon Mosser, an internist who is executive director of the Institute for Clinical Systems Improvement in Bloomington, Minn. The institute is supervising the groups that are working on the protocols and running seminars to help doctors organize their offices to put the standards in place. 
"This is a fabulous development," said Carolyn Pare, chairwoman of the Buyers Health Care Action Group, representing 50 self-insured Minnesota employers with 140,000 employees and dependents. She said the institute's protocols were "the gold standard" for her group. 
"Minnesota has always been ahead of the curve on managed care," said Jim Foreman, managing director for health and welfare at Towers Perrin, the consulting firm. "The rest of the country will sit up and take notice" of actions there.
The Minnesota standards began to be developed several years ago. Dr. Mosser said 20 studies on the standards had been published, including papers that showed sharp increases in the number of pediatric immunizations for 2-year-olds and cost savings for women who were treated appropriately for urinary tract infections. 
Smaller communitywide efforts to spread the use of best-practice standards are under way in other states. "We have seen health plans embrace the idea of community partnership in projects that aimed at a particular disease," said Susan Pisano, a spokeswoman in Washington for the American Association of Health Plans.
In New Mexico, all of the health plans, hospitals and doctors have agreed to use a standard guideline in treating diabetes, she said. "What you see here in Minnesota is taking that to another level, an entire state, 50 different protocols for an entire range of illnesses."
The Chicago Business Group on Health, a group of large employers, is planning to organize communitywide protocols on prevalent diseases. "We've learned that a lot of efforts to establish best practices don't spread," said James Mortimer of the Chicago group. 
Indeed, getting doctors to give up familiar routines and embrace the guidelines was a challenge, Dr. Mosser said. "The health plans routinely want to do this, but the medical groups and hospitals don't trust them. They come to the table warily. They think, 'You are trying to cut my income.' " The institute's approach has been to arrange for groups of doctors to do the work of developing the guidelines. 
Fostering cooperation in other medical communities may also prove difficult. Dr. Arnold Milstein, medical director of the Pacific Business Group on Health, an employer coalition, said, "In most most parts of the country, each health plan is coming up with a different set of quality measures, resulting in a Tower of Babel." 
Dr. John Wennberg, a scholar at Dartmouth Medical School who has been studying variations in medical practice for decades, said the Minnesota standards represented only one step toward reducing medical costs. He said one "huge problem" across the country was that doctors still vary widely in their willingness to perform or not perform nonemergency surgical procedures. 
Dr. Yank D. Coble of Jacksonville, Fla., a trustee of the American Medical Association, said the A.M.A. had posted 2,000 guidelines on treatments for different diseases on the Internet. Because patients rarely have identical problems, the guidelines "are guidebooks, not cookbooks," he said.
Still, most of the cost of health care arises from a small fraction of the diseases, said Uwe E. Reinhardt, an economist at Princeton University. "If you had protocols for 200 of the most frequent problems, you would probably cover 90 percent of the cost," he said. 
Several employers hailed the new standards. Bruce E. Bradley, director of managed care plans at the General Motors Corporation, an active member of the Leapfrog Group of employers trying to improve medical care and rein in health care costs, said: "It's very important that we take the best possible science and processes and get them disseminated. It's the core issue in health care." 
Paula Roe, senior vice president of Wells Fargo & Company, which is based in San Francisco and has substantial operations in Minnesota, said: "As a very large employer, we value the work of the institute tremendously. This is not an issue where we seek competitive differentiation of one plan over another. A best practice is a best practice is a best practice." 
Dr. Robert Nesse, vice chairman of the Mayo Clinic at Rochester, Minn., said the Minnesota institute had "spread the ideas of teams" to improve health care processes similar to those that Mayo has long used internally. 
Dr. Donald Berwick, a Harvard Medical School professor who heads the nonprofit Institute for Healthcare Improvement, said the Minnesota institute was a national leader in persuading doctors to switch to "evidence-based care." He added, "I'm thrilled at any extension of its impact."

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PHYSICIANS & SURGEONS (92%); HEALTH INSURANCE (90%); MANAGED CARE ORGANIZATIONS (90%); DISEASES & DISORDERS (90%); PREVENTION & WELLNESS (89%); SCIENCE & TECHNOLOGY (89%); SCIENCE NEWS (89%); MEDICARE (78%); BEST PRACTICES (78%); SELF INSURANCE (78%); BACK DISORDERS & INJURIES (78%); WOUNDS & INJURIES (78%); HEALTH MAINTENANCE ORGANIZATIONS (78%); HYPERTENSION (77%); DIABETES (77%); UROGENITAL DISORDERS & INJURIES (77%); HEALTH CARE (76%); INTERNAL MEDICINE (75%); PHYSICIAN PRACTICES (75%); KNEE DISORDERS & INJURIES (73%); CONSULTING SERVICES (73%); MEDICAID (73%); URINARY TRACT DISORDERS (72%); INSURANCE (68%); EXECUTIVES (66%) MEDICINE AND HEALTH; HEALTH INSURANCE; HEALTH MAINTENANCE ORGANIZATIONS AND MANAGED CARE; MEDICARE; MEDICAID 

COMPANY: ANTHEM BLUE CROSS & BLUE SHIELD OF OHIO (68%); PREFERREDONE ADMINISTRATIVE SERVICES INC (55%)

ORGANIZATION: UNIVERSITY OF MINNESOTA (82%); NATIONAL ACADEMY OF SCIENCES (59%); MAYO CLINIC (55%); INSTITUTE OF MEDICINE (54%) UNIVERSITY OF MINNESOTA; BLUE CROSS AND BLUE SHIELD OF MINNESOTA; MEDICA (CO); PREFERREDONE; UCARE MINNESOTA; NATIONAL ACADEMY OF SCIENCES 

INDUSTRY: NAICS524114 DIRECT HEALTH & MEDICAL INSURANCE CARRIERS (68%); SIC6324 HOSPITAL & MEDICAL SERVICE PLANS (68%)

PERSON: FREUDENHEIM, MILT 

GEOGRAPHIC: SAINT PAUL, MN, USA (58%); MINNEAPOLIS, MN, USA (58%) MINNESOTA, USA (97%) UNITED STATES (97%) MINNESOTA

LOAD-DATE: March 13, 2001 



317 of 868 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 13, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 2; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1670 words

HEADLINE: Higher Scores Aren't Cure-All, School Run for Profit Learns 

BYLINE:  By EDWARD WYATT 

DATELINE: SAN FRANCISCO 

 BODY:
When the country's largest private manager of public schools arrived here in 1998, it promised to turn around a particularly troubled elementary school.
 The company, Edison Schools, appears to have kept its word. At the school, the Edison Charter Academy, the percentage of students scoring in the upper half nationally on mathematics and reading tests has more than doubled, while the number in the lowest ranks has been cut by a third. The school's enrollment has risen by nearly 50 percent, students have new computers, and residents say the school is a safer, more welcome neighbor. 
 Yet flush with a newly elected majority dominated by Edison opponents, the San Francisco Board of Education recently began the process of revoking Edison's contract, which runs through 2003. Edison's opponents on the board and in the community contend that the improved scores have less to do with changed educational practices than with a changed student population, and they accuse Edison of forcing poorly performing students to go to other schools. 
The opponents have failed to offer concrete evidence that Edison has forced out students to increase its test scores, however, and what appears to underlie their objections is a philosophical opposition to a school run by a company whose purpose is to earn a profit. 
"I don't think for-profit companies have any place here," said Dana Woldow, a mother of three children in San Francisco public schools, though not at the Edison school. In public schools, she said, "there is never such a thing as leftover money."
H. Christopher Whittle, the founder and president of Edison Schools, said the company would fight to retain its contract, in court if necessary. "The statistics literally speak for themselves here," he said. "None of the 44 other cities where we manage schools has ever done anything like this."
The debate over the Edison Charter Academy has become a kind of dialogue of the deaf that offers a warning for school systems around the country, including New York City's, which is facing growing opposition to the Board of Education's proposal to give Edison control over five failing public schools. Parents at each of those schools are to vote later this month on whether to let Edison manage their school. 
At issue is whether private companies have anything to offer -- or should be allowed to offer anything -- in the effort to improve public education. The San Francisco conflict shows how hard it can be even to agree on the terms of the debate, as opponents and supporters argue past each other, each ignoring inconvenient facts and sometimes drawing unwarranted conclusions.
The confusing context of the dispute may be best illustrated when Edison's opponents on the San Francisco school board say that if they succeed in removing the company, they may still want to continue Edison's academic programs.
"I think our commitment should be that if there are things that are working that we can afford, we should keep them," said Jill Wynns, president of the San Francisco school board.
Edison was invited to San Francisco by Waldemar Rojas, who was superintendent for seven years and left in June 1999 to become superintendent of the Dallas system. In 1998, the board voted 5 to 2 to support Mr. Rojas's effort to let Edison run one school. But a new majority, opposed to Edison, took control of the board in November. 
The forces against Edison have questioned the legitimacy of the contract that Mr. Rojas signed with the company, the high teacher turnover at the Edison school and Edison's financial operations. But mostly they have promoted a single principle: profit-seeking companies should stay out of public education. 
Racial and economic class questions also appear to be part of the Edison debate. Opponents contend that some, if not all, of the improvement in the school's scores on standardized tests stems from a change in the school's population under Edison. It now has fewer impoverished black students and more middle-class and Hispanic students, they say.
"They are not taking the same disadvantaged students as before," said Caroline Grannan, who has two children in public elementary schools, but not in the Edison school. She has waged an e-mail campaign against Edison.
The demographic issue is a complicated one. San Francisco has an open enrollment system, meaning that parents can apply for their children to attend any school in the city. Those who do not make a choice are assigned to a school by district officials.
Before Edison Schools took it over, the school now known as the Edison Charter Academy received many assigned students. Though the school is in Noe Valley, a middle-class neighborhood in the center of the San Francisco peninsula, students were mainly drawn from the poorer and largely Latino neighborhood known as the Mission, which is nearby, and from Hunters Point, an impoverished, largely black industrial neighborhood a few miles away, on San Francisco Bay.
Since Edison came in, enrollment has grown to 550 from 370. Approximately 30 percent of the school's students this year are black, down from an average of 38 percent in the four years before Edison took over in 1998. During the same period, the school's Latino population has climbed to 53 percent from 45 percent. 
Margaret Brodkin, executive director of Coleman Advocates for Children and Youth, a nonprofit group, says evidence exists that Edison has systematically counseled parents of underperforming students to put their children in other schools. "They are weeding out difficult kids," Ms. Brodkin said. "That absolutely has happened." 
Edison denies this, and the answer to the demographic riddle may be more subtle. After Edison took over, parents had to choose to enroll their children at the school. Black students from Hunters Point were no longer automatically bused there, and as the school has improved, more parents from the Mission have chosen Edison, which is their neighborhood school.
Such a shift is common when a school converts to charter status. Parents who place their faith in Edison or similar companies tend to be motivated and able to negotiate the bureaucratic maze to have their children join those schools. Children from these families, meanwhile, tend to start school with a higher level of reading preparation, and the school's test scores begin to reflect the change.
There is some evidence that rebuts the notion that Edison forced students out. This year, 27 of the 66 students enrolled in the fifth grade are black, according to district statistics, roughly as many as have been enrolled in that class each year as it progressed from kindergarten through its current grade. Similarly, the number of black students in the fourth and third grades this year is roughly the same as the number in those groups before Edison took over.
Only in kindergarten and the first grade, groups that enrolled after Edison took over the school, have the demographics shifted radically. There, three-fifths of the children are Latino and less than a fourth are black. Students in those grades do not take standardized tests, so their presence could not have had any effect on the school's rising test scores.
"This neighborhood is changing," said Vincent C. Matthews, the principal of the Edison school. "It is even more of a Latino neighborhood than it was five or six years ago. Parents talk to each other, and if they are happy, they are going to tell their friends that it's a good school."
In nearly all grades, standardized test scores rose significantly in the first two years that Edison operated the school. When students who were fifth graders last year took the Stanford Achievement Test in reading, 29 percent scored in the top half of students nationally, and 48 percent scored in the bottom fourth. Two years earlier, just before Edison took control of the school, the same group of students took the test as third graders, with only 8 percent finishing in the top half nationally and 73 percent scoring in the bottom fourth. 
With nearly half its students still in the bottom fourth, the Edison school has a challenge. But statistics gathered by Ms. Woldow, an Edison opponent, show that Edison's test score gains have exceeded those of most of the other lowest-performing schools in San Francisco. 
The San Francisco scores are particularly heartening to Edison, which credits its program of rigorous drilling using the Success for All reading program. Its scores on standardized tests have been criticized elsewhere in the country; two studies released in the last year, each financed by one of the two large national teachers' unions, have found that the test scores of Edison students improved no more than those of demographically similar students at schools not managed by Edison. The company has disputed the studies as biased and says its own studies show that its students have improved markedly.
At a meeting in February at which the San Francisco school board voted 6 to 1 to begin an investigation of Edison's stewardship of the school, one parent, Lupe Hernandez, said she did not understand the contentions that anything was wrong. "If there were anything amiss, my son would no longer be there," she said. "We do not appreciate a bureaucratic body thinking they know better than us what is right for our children."
Ms. Wynns, the school board president, discounts such testimony. "I understand the people whose kids go there now support the school," she said. However, she added, "the community clearly didn't want this. This is a community where privatizing public services is not a popular idea." 
Edison officials say that the opposition it faces in San Francisco is not typical of its reception elsewhere. In New York City, however, the company is facing a similar fight, as opponents raise questions about its profit motives and how it achieves its test score gains. Those highly publicized battles have the potential to influence public opinion heavily, even as the opponents battle more over ideology than over education.

GRAPHIC: Chart: "AT ISSUE: Changes in a San Francisco School"While test scores have improved since Edison Schools took over . . . Percentage of the fifth grade students of 2000 who scored above national average on the Stanford Achievement Test. Chart shows percentage of fifth grade students before and after Edison in reading and math. . . . some opponents attribute the gains to the change in the school's demographic profile. BEFORE EDISON: '96-'97HISPANIC -- 45%WHITE* -- 4BLACK* -- 36ASIAN -- 9OTHER+ -- 6 AFTER EDISON: '00-'01HISPANIC -- 53%WHITE* -- 5BLACK* -- 30ASIAN -- 2OTHER+ -- 10 *White and black are non-HispanicOther includes Asian-Indian(Source: San Francisco Unified School District)(pg. B4)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PUBLIC SCHOOLS (90%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (90%); PRIMARY SCHOOLS (90%); EDUCATION SYSTEMS & INSTITUTIONS (90%); SCHOOL BOARDS (89%); PRIVATELY HELD COMPANIES (78%); STANDARDIZED ACADEMIC TESTING (78%); STUDENT DEMOGRAPHICS (78%); CHILDREN (78%); CHARTER SCHOOLS (72%); DEAFNESS (69%) EDUCATION AND SCHOOLS; TESTS AND TESTING; EQUAL EDUCATIONAL OPPORTUNITIES; CHARTER SCHOOLS 

ORGANIZATION: EDISON SCHOOLS 

PERSON: WYATT, EDWARD 

GEOGRAPHIC: SAN FRANCISCO, CA, USA (94%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%) CALIFORNIA, USA (94%); NEW YORK, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (94%) SAN FRANCISCO (CALIF); CALIFORNIA; NEW YORK CITY

LOAD-DATE: March 13, 2001 



318 of 868 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 13, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section C; Column 3; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 106 words

HEADLINE: TECHNOLOGY BRIEFING: HARDWARE; 
CIENA TUMBLES ON EARNINGS CONCERNS

BYLINE:  Bloomberg News 

 BODY:
 Shares of Ciena fell 18 percent amid investor concern that the company, a maker of fiber optic equipment, may have to follow rivals and cut profit and sales forecasts because of the slowing American economy. 
The stock fell $11.81, to $53.31, after dipping to $51.44, its lowest since May. The shares are down 34 percent this year, but Ciena stock has declined less than its rivals after the company raised its sales forecast last month. Now, some investors are concerned that Ciena, like the Nortel Networks Corporation and Cisco Systems Inc., may have to cut its estimates if customers reduce spending on telecommunications equipment.

GRAPHIC: Graph tracks shares of Ciena for the week. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BUSINESS FORECASTS (90%); FIBER OPTICS (90%); SALES PROJECTIONS (90%); COMPANY PROFITS (90%); COMPANY EARNINGS (90%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS EQUIPMENT MFG (90%); WIRE & CABLE MFG (88%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS (88%); TELEPHONIC EQUIPMENT (88%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS EQUIPMENT (85%) TELEPHONES AND TELECOMMUNICATIONS; FIBER OPTICS; SALES; FINANCES 

COMPANY: CISCO SYSTEMS INC (84%); NORTEL NETWORKS CORP (84%)

ORGANIZATION: CIENA CORP 

TICKER: CSCO (NASDAQ) (84%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS334210 TELEPHONE APPARATUS MANUFACTURING (84%); SIC3661 TELEPHONE & TELEGRAPH APPARATUS (84%); NAICS334220 RADIO & TELEVISION BROADCASTING & WIRELESS COMMUNICATIONS EQUIPMENT MANUFACTURING (84%) SIC3357 DRAWING & INSULATING OF NONFERROUS WIRE; 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (71%)

LOAD-DATE: March 13, 2001 



319 of 868 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 13, 2001
Correction Appended 
 Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 2; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 481 words

HEADLINE: Deal Closed on New Bank Tower in Midtown 

BYLINE:  By CHARLES V. BAGLI 

 BODY:
Canada's largest bank has completed negotiations with a developer and city officials to build a 35-story headquarters at the southwest corner of Madison Avenue and 42nd Street, near Grand Central Terminal, according to real estate executives.
 The city's Industrial Development Agency is expected to approve a plan today to give the Canadian Imperial Bank of Commerce about $16 million in tax breaks and low-cost state energy credits, the executives said. 
 Brookfield Financial Properties, which owns the site, has already begun demolition for the 1.2-million-square-foot bank tower, which was designed by Skidmore, Owings & Merrill. Canadian Imperial would move about 2,700 employees from its current offices at 425 Lexington Avenue and 1 World Trade Center. 
Neither Salvatore Iannuzzi, chief administrative officer of CIBC World Markets, the bank's investment banking arm, nor Michael G. Carey, president of the city's Economic Development Corporation, returned repeated calls requesting comment.
The bank project comes at a time when corporations, developers and real estate brokers are worried that an economic slowdown will smother the real estate boom. After skyrocketing more than 30 percent over the last 18 months, office rents have retreated slightly and, real estate brokers said, landlords have shown a willingness to bargain with tenants, especially downtown.
"There's a pause in the market right now," said Robert Alexander, a vice chairman of Insignia/ESG, a real estate brokerage firm. "Rents are stabilizing. But I don't see the market collapsing."
The tremors began last year when many of the Internet-related companies in Manhattan collapsed. And some large financial corporations are now planning job cuts in their global operations and are subleasing space they had intended to expand into, said Ruth Colp-Haber, a partner at Wharton Property Advisors.
Downtown, the Goldman Sachs Group recently pulled out of a 1.4-million-square-foot project at 55 Water Street, and Salomon Smith Barney withdrew from the bidding for a city-owned site on Greenwich Street, between Warren and Murray Streets, where it had planned to erect its third downtown building. 
Still, New York continues to show job growth. The office vacancy rate is below 5 percent, and there are few large blocks of space available in Midtown.
At the same time, Bloomberg L.P., the financial information company, is completing negotiations for a new headquarters on the site of the old Alexander's department store at Lexington Avenue and 59th Street. And The New York Times Company is negotiating with city and state officials about building a new home on Eighth Avenue, across the street from the Port Authority Bus Terminal. Boston Properties is beginning demolition of two buildings in Times Square for a 37-story tower that would be the headquarters of Arthur Andersen, the accounting and consulting firm. 

CORRECTION-DATE: March 20, 2001

 CORRECTION:
An article last Tuesday about plans by the Canadian Imperial Bank of Commerce to build a headquarters in Manhattan referred incorrectly to the bank's ranking in Canada. It is the second largest; the Royal Bank of Canada is the largest.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: REAL ESTATE AGENTS (91%); REAL ESTATE (91%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (90%); COMMERCIAL RENTAL PROPERTY (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); OFFICE PROPERTY (89%); RENTAL PROPERTY (89%); CITY GOVERNMENT (89%); MULTINATIONAL CORPORATIONS (78%); PORT AUTHORITIES (78%); INVESTMENT BANKING (78%); CITIES (78%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (78%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (77%); COMMERCIAL PROPERTY VACANCY RATES (77%); EXECUTIVES (77%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (76%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (74%); LAYOFFS (74%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (74%); ECONOMIC NEWS (73%); APPROVALS (73%); COMMERCIAL BANKING (73%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (73%); PROPERTY VACANCIES (72%); BUS STATIONS & TERMINALS (72%); CONSULTING SERVICES (72%); ACCOUNTING & AUDITING FIRMS (62%) BANKS AND BANKING 

COMPANY: CANADIAN IMPERIAL BANK OF COMMERCE (91%); GOLDMAN SACHS GROUP INC (84%); BLOOMBERG LP (62%); NEW YORK TIMES CO (61%); SKIDMORE OWINGS & MERRILL LLP (57%); BROOKFIELD FINANCIAL PROPERTIES INC (57%); CIBC WORLD MARKETS INC (56%); SMITH BARNEY HOLDINGS INC (52%)

ORGANIZATION: CANADIAN IMPERIAL BANK OF COMMERCE 

TICKER: CM (TSX) (91%); CM (NYSE) (91%); GS (NYSE) (84%); NYT (NYSE) (61%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (91%); SIC6081 BRANCHES & AGENCIES OF FOREIGN BANKS (91%); NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (84%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (84%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (84%); SIC6289 SERVICES ALLIED WITH THE EXCHANGE OF SECURITIES OR COMMODITIES, NEC (84%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (84%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (84%); NAICS519130 INTERNET PUBLISHING & BROADCASTING & WEB SEARCH PORTALS (62%); NAICS519110 NEWS SYNDICATES (62%); NAICS511120 PERIODICAL PUBLISHERS (62%); NAICS515210 CABLE & OTHER SUBSCRIPTION PROGRAMMING (61%); NAICS511110 NEWSPAPER PUBLISHERS (61%); NAICS541310 ARCHITECTURAL SERVICES (57%); SIC8712 ARCHITECTURAL SERVICES (57%) SIC6021 NATIONAL COMMERCIAL BANKS; 

PERSON: BAGLI, CHARLES V 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%) NEW YORK, USA (92%) CANADA (94%); UNITED STATES (92%) NEW YORK CITY; CANADA; 

LOAD-DATE: March 13, 2001 



320 of 868 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 13, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section C; Column 2; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1206 words

HEADLINE: The Bear Roars Back For a Run on Wall St. 

BYLINE:  By DANNY HAKIM 

 BODY:
James Brownold is ready to buy bonds. Mr. Brownold, a 55-year-old Manhattan resident who does voice-overs for television and radio commercials, is a cautious investor and already owns some municipal bonds in his retirement plan.
 But after some ill-timed forays last fall into Yahoo and CMGI, two falling technology stars, he has stopped dabbling with his investment portfolio and is ready to add more bonds. 
 "Bonds, C.D.'s, cash," he said, referring to his current and near-future investments. "I think, if things keep going down, what keeps its value?" 
Stocks remain the cornerstone of the American nest egg. But individual investors are also looking at more conservative investments to an extent not seen since the early to mid-1990's. Some of the money that last year might have gushed into stocks now is headed toward bonds, money market funds and other less volatile investments. 
The change in attitude has followed the descent of most major stock market indexes into bear territory. Yesterday, the Standard & Poor's 500-stock index closed down more than 20 percent from the peak it reached last March. That would wipe out two years of gains for shareholders in S.& P. 500 index funds, one of the most popular investments of the 1990's. The Dow Jones industrial average fell 436.37 points, and the Nasdaq composite index closed below 2,000 for the first time since December 1998. The Nasdaq has fallen 61.9 percent from its peak last March.
With the bear comes the bond. A year ago, the idea of buying a bond could have caused a person to be laughed out of many a cocktail party. Bonds? The only investments worth bragging about, outside of technology stocks, were options to buy more technology stocks.
Whether the change in sentiment is nearly complete and whether it is merely a temporary loss of faith in stocks is important, since it will help determine if the stock market can stage a sustained comeback in months ahead. The outlook, at least during yesterday's rout, was gloomy.
"I want to continue to go more into bonds for the time being," said Thomas Bartkoski, 41, a consultant for a Chicago business development firm. Mr. Bartkoski has about 10 percent of his net worth in bonds now, but decided over the last couple of years to double that. To speed up the process, he increased his 401(k) plan's allocation to bonds to a hefty 50 percent.
"The Nasdaq, with all its craziness, I was concerned with it," he recalls thinking at the time he started to change his strategy.
Still, it is easy to find investors who see the Nasdaq implosion as a buying opportunity, and Wall Street legends are often made by being contrarian. Several prominent Wall Street bulls -- including Abby Joseph Cohen of Goldman, Sachs and key strategists at Morgan Stanley Dean Witter and Merrill Lynch -- see this as a time to buy stocks.
So does Gregory A. Mews, a 47-year-old assistant manager at a Milwaukee-area Walgreens store.
Mr. Mews did turn a bit cautious last year. He dumped Nortel and Lucent Technologies, two slumping telecommunications giants, and he sold shares in EMC, a data storage company, which was the only technology stock in his individual retirement account.
"With one company after another coming out with earnings warnings, it seemed like time to bail," Mr. Mews said.
But by last week, he could not resist falling prices any longer and scooped up EMC, as well as shares of Flextronics International, a maker of custom electronics. He rethought his decision yesterday afternoon, after absorbing the crumbling of the market.
Stocks have shown signs of resiliency this year, taking in $24.6 billion in net new money in January. But that month, more than $8 of every $10 invested in mutual funds went into perceived havens like bond and money market accounts. That is more than double the rate of a year earlier.
Projections for February show that it could be the largest month of stock fund withdrawals in several years. TrimTabs.com, a company that tracks money flows, estimated $13.4 billion in net withdrawals from stock funds during February, which would be the largest month of withdrawals ever. AMG Data Services, which tracks where investors put their money, forecasts a net withdrawal of $3.6 billion, which would still be one of the worst months of the last decade.
"Clearly, investors are pulling back and re-evaluating." said Robert Adler, president of AMG. "This re-allocation has been going on over the last year and is now accelerating."
By contrast, bond funds took in $8.6 billion of net new money in January, according to the Investment Company Institute, a mutual fund industry trade group. That was the highest month of sales in more than two years and a striking change from the $12.6 billion that poured out of bond funds in January 2000.
An even more popular choice has been pulling back from the market by investing in money market funds, which many investors see as a proxy for cash. Such funds have taken in $202 billion this year, through the first week of March, according to the I.C.I.
Along with directing their new savings to different places, some investors are reappraising the overall construction of their portfolios. The average 401(k) retirement account now has the largest portion in bonds and nonequity investments since 1994, according to the Spectrum Group, a Chicago consulting firm.
The average retirement account had 70 percent in stocks last fall, down from 80 percent in 1998 and closer to the 60 to 65 percent typically used by professional pension fund managers, who are more conservative than individual investors. Presumably, part of that shift can be explained by falling stocks.
Lewis J. Altfest, a Manhattan financial planner, said investors were no longer inclined to buy stocks even as they fall in anticipation of a quick rebound. "We're getting a realization that this isn't a buy-on-the-dips situation any longer," he said.
Mr. Altfest, 60, realized recently that events were at a crucial point when he attended a staff meeting at a university where he teaches a finance course. At the meeting, a fellow faculty member slipped him a note.
"What should I do with my technology holdings?" it read. Mr. Altfest said many of his clients were asking him the same question.
One of those clients, Mr. Brownold, had good luck buying shares of America Online and CMGI in 1999 and then selling them in April 2000. His luck turned sour, however, when he bought CMGI again last fall, as well as Yahoo. The stock of both companies has fallen more than 75 percent in the past six months.
"It worked the first time," said Mr. Brownold. "But you go back to the well a second time and the water isn't always as good."
Instead, he prefers municipal bonds, an old favorite.
Mr. Adler sees recent data as an indicator that investor behavior may have undergone considerable change. Investors last month withdrew a net $1.6 billion from technology sector funds, once a favorite, according to AMG. In the first five trading days of March, investors, driven by a minor rally, put $1.8 billion into stock funds. But money continued to be withdrawn from technology and health care funds.
Investors are still "willing to take risks," Mr. Adler said, but not the same kinds of risks, and "not towards technology."

GRAPHIC: Photos: Activity slowed near the close yesterday at the New York Stock Exchange. The Nasdaq board, above right, showed Cisco Systems down 8.8 percent. (Above, Marilynn K. Yee/The New York Times; above right, Bloomberg News); (Associated Press) Chart: "Out of Hibernation"After one of the longest and strongest bull markets in history, Wall Street's main index has slipped into a bear market. STANDARD & POOR'S 500PEAK: 1,527.46MARCH 24, 2000 YESTERDAY: 1,180.16MARCH 12, 2001DOWN 22.7% Bear TerritoryBy the standard definition of a bear market -- a 20 percent decline from a record high -- the Standard & Poor's 500-stock index is now in the ninth bear market since it was established in 1926. During five of the previous bear markets, the economy had entered a recession by the time the index fell 20 percent (shaded below). It is not yet clear if the economy is now in a recession. MARKET PEAKDATE OF PEAK: Sept. 7, 1929VALUE AT PEAK: 31.92 DATE OF PEAK: Aug. 2, 1956VALUE AT PEAK: 49.75 DATE OF PEAK: Dec. 12, 1961VALUE AT PEAK: 72.64 DATE OF PEAK: Feb. 9, 1966VALUE AT PEAK: 94.06 DATE OF PEAK: Nov. 29, 1968VALUE AT PEAK: 108.37 DATE OF PEAK: Jan. 11, 1973VALUE AT PEAK: 120.24 DATE OF PEAK: Nov. 28, 1980VALUE AT PEAK: 140.52 DATE OF PEAK: Aug. 25, 1987VALUE AT PEAK: 336.77 DATE OF PEAK: March 24, 2000VALUE AT PEAK: 1,527.46 BEAR MARKET DATE IT WAS DOWN AT LEAST 20%: Oct. 28, 1929VALUE ON THAT DAY: 22.74NUMBER OF DAYS TO FALL 20%*: 51 DATE IT WAS DOWN AT LEAST 20%: Nov. 12, 1957VALUE ON THAT DAY: 39.60NUMBER OF DAYS TO FALL 20%*: 467 DATE IT WAS DOWN AT LEAST 20%: May 28, 1962VALUE ON THAT DAY: 55.50NUMBER OF DAYS TO FALL 20%*: 167 DATE IT WAS DOWN AT LEAST 20%: Aug. 29, 1966VALUE ON THAT DAY: 74.53NUMBER OF DAYS TO FALL 20%*: 201 DATE IT WAS DOWN AT LEAST 20%: Jan. 29, 1970VALUE ON THAT DAY: 85.69NUMBER OF DAYS TO FALL 20%*: 426 DATE IT WAS DOWN AT LEAST 20%: Jan. 27, 1973VALUE ON THAT DAY: 95.70NUMBER OF DAYS TO FALL 20%*: 320 DATE IT WAS DOWN AT LEAST 20%: Feb. 22, 1982VALUE ON THAT DAY: 111.59NUMBER OF DAYS TO FALL 20%*: 451 DATE IT WAS DOWN AT LEAST 20%: Oct. 19, 1987VALUE ON THAT DAY: 224.84NUMBER OF DAYS TO FALL 20%*: 55 DATE IT WAS DOWN AT LEAST 20%: March 12, 2001VALUE ON THAT DAY: 1,180.16NUMBER OF DAYS TO FALL 20%*: 353 MARKET BOTTOM DATE IT REACHED BOTTOM: June 1, 1932VALUE ON THAT DAY: 4.41NUMBER OF MORE DAYS TO BOTTOM*: 947DECLINE FROM PEAK:-86.2 DATE IT REACHED BOTTOM: Dec. 18, 1957VALUE ON THAT DAY: 39.38NUMBER OF MORE DAYS TO BOTTOM*: 36DECLINE FROM PEAK: -20.8 DATE IT REACHED BOTTOM: June 26, 1962VALUE ON THAT DAY: 52.32NUMBER OF MORE DAYS TO BOTTOM*: 29DECLINE FROM PEAK: -28.0 DATE IT REACHED BOTTOM: Oct. 7, 1966VALUE ON THAT DAY: 73.20NUMBER OF MORE DAYS TO BOTTOM*: 39DECLINE FROM PEAK:-22.2 DATE IT REACHED BOTTOM: May 26, 1970VALUE ON THAT DAY: 69.29NUMBER OF MORE DAYS TO BOTTOM*: 117DECLINE FROM PEAK:-36.1 DATE IT REACHED BOTTOM: Oct. 3, 1974VALUE ON THAT DAY: 62.28NUMBER OF MORE DAYS TO BOTTOM*: 310DECLINE FROM PEAK:-48.2 DATE IT REACHED BOTTOM: Aug. 12, 1982VALUE ON THAT DAY: 102.42NUMBER OF MORE DAYS TO BOTTOM*: 171DECLINE FROM PEAK:-27.1 DATE IT REACHED BOTTOM: Dec. 4, 1987VALUE ON THAT DAY: 223.92NUMBER OF MORE DAYS TO BOTTOM*: 46DECLINE FROM PEAK:-33.5 DATE IT REACHED BOTTOM: --VALUE ON THAT DAY: --NUMBER OF MORE DAYS TO BOTTOM*: --DECLINE FROM PEAK:-22.7 *Calendar days +Through yesterday (Sources: Solomon Smith Barney; Bloomberg Financial Markets) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: STOCK INDEXES (96%); MUTUAL FUNDS (91%); MARKET OPEN CLOSE (90%); SECURITIES TRADING (90%); BONDS (90%); MUNICIPAL BONDS (78%); PENSION & RETIREMENT PLANS (77%); US 401K PLANS (77%); MONEY MARKET ACCOUNTS (77%); INDEX FUNDS (73%); SHAREHOLDERS (70%); CONSERVATISM (70%) STOCKS AND BONDS; STANDARD & POOR'S 500-STOCK INDEX; MONEY MARKET FUNDS 

PERSON: HAKIM, DANNY 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%); CHICAGO, IL, USA (78%) NEW YORK, USA (92%); ILLINOIS, USA (78%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: March 13, 2001 



321 of 868 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 13, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 5; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1472 words

HEADLINE: THE MARKETS: STOCKS AND BONDS; 
MARKETS PLUNGE IN WIDE SELL-OFF; NASDAQ FALLS 6%

BYLINE:  By JONATHAN FUERBRINGER 

 BODY:
With a broad wave of selling, investors worried about the slowing economy and declining corporate earnings sent the stock market down sharply yesterday.
 The Nasdaq composite index, the leading gauge of technology stocks, fell 6.3 percent, dropping below 2,000 for the first time in more than two years. The Nasdaq is now down 61.9 percent from its peak just over a year ago, its worst decline ever. 
 Yesterday's sell-off was all the more damaging because it spread far beyond the technology sector that has led the market lower while some other businesses were more stable. The Standard & Poor's 500-stock index, a broader index, declined 4.3 percent and is now down 22.7 percent from its peak last March, surpassing Wall Street's definition of a bear market -- a fall of 20 percent or more. It is the first bear market since 1987. 
The Dow Jones industrial average dropped 436.37 points, or 4.1 percent, to 10,208.25 on volume of 1.23 billion shares. All 30 stocks in the index fell, and the Dow is now down 12.9 percent from its peak. Declining issues strongly exceeded those advancing, by a nearly 3.5-to-1 margin on the New York Stock Exchange and by nearly 4.5 to 1 on Nasdaq.
The drop yesterday came after continuing signs of economic weakness and weeks of disappointing earnings news from major companies, especially in technology.
Christine Callies, chief United States investment strategist at Merrill Lynch, came away from a meeting with major investors in Hartford, Conn., concluding: "They all profess that they want to buy something. But they want to wait until tomorrow to get a better price."
The questions for investors remain whether the corporate earnings outlook will get much worse, and whether yesterday's sell-off is a sign that the market has finally reached a bottom. The answers depend in part on how quickly Federal Reserve interest rate cuts can help reverse the economic slowdown. 
But the course of the stock market will also affect the economy's health. As rising markets bolstered consumers' confidence and spending, stock market losses now show signs of causing consumers to hold back.
The Federal Reserve's chairman, Alan Greenspan, has said that a break in consumer confidence, caused by a falling stock market and other discouraging news, could send the economy into a recession.
Fed policy makers are expected to provide some help by again cutting interest rates when they meet next Tuesday. But it is not clear that another half-percentage-point cut in the federal funds rate, which many analysts predict, would be enough to comfort investors.
"The Fed has positioned itself to respond much less to markets and more to economic data," said Richard Berner, chief United States economist at Morgan Stanley Dean Witter. Because recent economic data, including the surprisingly strong jump in new jobs in February, is mixed, he said, "The Fed is likely to be much more measured and I don't think the market changes that."
In statements last week, a number of Fed officials seemed relatively sanguine, even before the government's report on Friday that more jobs had been created in February than expected.
The stock market was led down yesterday by price declines in the usual suspects, including Microsoft, I.B.M., Cisco Systems, Intel, JDS Uniphase and Oracle. All have been battered by sharply slowing economic growth, raising fears of a recession in corporate earnings. But yesterday, these companies were joined by many others that had been holding up better, including Pfizer and J. P. Morgan Chase.
The decline on domestic markets, which sharpened on Friday, helped send foreign stocks down yesterday. The Japanese market fell 3.6 percent to a 16-year low, with further losses there this morning. Other Asian markets also dropped. Mexico's main stock index fell 4.9 percent. Some foreign selling continued early today, at a time United States officials are especially concerned about the fragility of the Japanese economy and its effect on the rest of the world.
Chuck Hill, research chief at Thomson Financial/First Call, thought domestic earnings news would get worse, saying, "I still think the bottom for earnings will be in the third quarter at the earliest."
Stocks in the S.& P. 500, as measured by their price-to-earnings ratios, are one-third cheaper than a year ago. But even analysts who regarded yesterday's sharp market decline as a kind of catharsis required before the market can turn up were doubtful. "Are we at the absolute bottom?" asked Jeffrey M. Applegate, chief United States strategist at Lehman Brothers. "Who knows? I wouldn't say this is it."
Investors, accustomed in recent years to buying on dips, are turning more conservative than they have seemed in years. They are shying away from technology stocks, seeking more stable investments including broader stock funds, bonds and money market funds. 
Many of those who have continued to take risks now have regrets. Kurt Seelig, a retired chef turned avid investor, spent yesterday afternoon in pain, regretting that he had jumped back into the market. "It hurts," Mr. Seelig said as he watched the market's fall on television at his home in East Norwich, N.Y. "I did not expect this to happen."
His wife, Amelie Seelig, a dog trainer, had been doing her best to ignore the disaster unfolding in technology stocks. While her husband sold big chunks of Siebel Systems, which had been one of the market's technology stars, she held on to all of her shares as they fell roughly 80 percent from their high last fall.
"I don't even want to see a statement or hear a news report about it," she said. "I don't want to get depressed."
Investors who thought they had seen signs of a market turnaround have been disappointed. The S.& P. 500 index, after dipping into bear market territory on two days early this month, rallied back both times.
Yesterday's market fall came on a day with no major new domestic economic data or warnings of lower corporate earnings. It seemed more a hangover from Friday, analysts said. Stocks fell then after Intel announced that sales would fall below expectations, and the government reported stronger- than-expected job growth in February, leading economists to doubt how aggressive the Fed would be in cutting rates. 
Cisco Systems added to that concern late Friday when it said it would cut as much as 11 percent of its full-time work force. 
Microsoft also fell sharply yesterday, dropping $4.75 to $51.94, after a number of analysts questioned its ability to meet earnings forecasts in the light of all the bad news from other technology companies.
"The concerns are spreading and becoming more implanted in people's minds," said John Manley, senior equity strategist at Salomon Smith Barney. "The earnings momentum and the price momentum are extremely negative right now."
Thomas M. Galvin, chief investment officer at Credit Suisse First Boston, added, "It is not just a technology problem anymore."
At the end of the day, the S.& P. 500 index was down 53.26 points, to 1,180.16, and is now down 10.6 percent for the year. The Nasdaq finished down 129.40 points at 1,923.38 and is off 22.2 percent so far this year.
With its more than 400-point drop, the Dow had its worse one-day percentage decline since April 2000. It is down only 5.4 percent for the year and remains the only major index that has not yet had a 20 percent decline from its peak. That smaller decline is related, in part, to the presence of fewer technology stocks in that index. 
Yesterday, both the Dow and the S.& P. 500 were led lower by a nontechnology giant, General Electric, which fell almost 10 percent.
The bond market rallied as the stock market fell, but less than some analysts had expected. The mixed economic news, combined with some recent hints of inflation pressure, may mean that bond prices have already reached optimum levels for now.
The yield on the benchmark 10-year Treasury note -- which moves in the opposite direction from prices -- fell to 4.89 percent from 4.94 percent on Friday, just matching its recent low, taking yields back to where they were in 1998. The price of the 10-year note rose 12/32, to 100 28/32.
The yield on the two-year Treasury note, which is an indication of how investors feel about the likelihood of another Fed rate cut, fell to 4.41 percent from 4.46 percent on Friday, still above its recent best level of 4.38 percent.
Results of yesterday's Treasury auction of three-month and six-month bills:

(000 omitted in dollar figures)
3-Mo. Bills6-Mo. BillsPrice98.85797.765High Rate4.52%4.42%Investment Rate4.63%4.58%Low Rate4.50%4.35%Median Rate4.51%4.39%Total applied $30for,561,202$25,158,944$15Accepted,107,606$13,428,644$1Noncompetitive,410,621$1,538,769

Both issues are dated March 15, 2001. The three-month bills mature on June 14, 2001, and the six-month bills mature on Sept. 13, 2001.

GRAPHIC: Photos: A trader on the floor of the New York Stock Exchange contemplated the sharp drop in the market yesterday, right, while two futures traders at the Chicago Mercantile Exchange, above, absorbed the bad news and completed trades. (Bloomberg News); (Agence France-Presse)(pg. C10); (Marilynn K. Yee/The New York Times)(pg. A1) Charts: "Falling Indexes"Nasdaq CompositePEAK: 5,048.62DATE: March 10, 2000YESTERDAY: 1,923.38DECLINE: 61.9% S.&P. 500PEAK: 1,527.46DATE: March 24, 2000YESTERDAY: 1,180.16DECLINE: 22.7% Dow Jones IndustrialsPEAK: 11,722.98DATE: Jan. 14, 2000YESTERDAY: 10,208.25DECLINE: 12.9% Graph shows Yesterday's decline as share of total decline.(Decline since peak) (Source: Bloomberg Financial Markets)(pg. A1) "For Some Industries, Positive Returns"Although the Standard & Poor's 500-stock index is now down more than 22.7 percent from its peak on March 24, 2000, a number of the industry groups within the index are showing positive returns. S.& P. 500 INDUSTRY GROUPUtilitiesPERFORMANCE SINCE PEAK ON MARCH 24, 2000: +36.5 S.& P. 500 INDUSTRY GROUPTransportationPERFORMANCE SINCE PEAK ON MARCH 24, 2000: +20.4 S.& P. 500 INDUSTRY GROUPHealth carePERFORMANCE SINCE PEAK ON MARCH 24, 2000: +17.4 S.& P. 500 INDUSTRY GROUPEnergyPERFORMANCE SINCE PEAK ON MARCH 24, 2000: +12.8 S.& P. 500 INDUSTRY GROUPConsumer staplesPERFORMANCE SINCE PEAK ON MARCH 24, 2000: +8.5 S.& P. 500 INDUSTRY GROUPFinancialsPERFORMANCE SINCE PEAK ON MARCH 24, 2000: +5.5 S.& P. 500 INDUSTRY GROUPBasic materialsPERFORMANCE SINCE PEAK ON MARCH 24, 2000: +0.6 S.& P. 500 INDUSTRY GROUPCapital goodsPERFORMANCE SINCE PEAK ON MARCH 24, 2000: -9.7 S.& P. 500 INDUSTRY GROUPConsumer cyclicalsPERFORMANCE SINCE PEAK ON MARCH 24, 2000: -10.4 S.& P. 500 INDUSTRY GROUPCommunicationPERFORMANCE SINCE PEAK ON MARCH 24, 2000: -39.2 S.& P. 500 INDUSTRY GROUPTechnologyPERFORMANCE SINCE PEAK ON MARCH 24, 2000: -61.5 (Source: Bloomberg Financial Markets)(pg. C10) Graphs: "3-Month Treasury Bills" tracks average discounted rate at weekly auction from November 2000-March 2001. (Source: The Bond Buyer)(pg. C10) Graph tracks the Dow Jones industrial average over the past year. (Sources: Associated Press; Bloomberg Financial Markets)(pg. C10) Tables: "Hot & Cold" provides a look at stocks with large percentage gains and losses; "The Favorites" lists stocks held by largest number of accounts at Merrill Lynch. (Compiled from staff reports, The Associated Press, Bloomberg News, Bridge News, Dow Jones, Reuters)(pg. C10) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: STOCK INDEXES (99%); STOCK EXCHANGES (90%); BONDS (90%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (89%); CONSUMER CONFIDENCE (89%); COMPANY EARNINGS (89%); BUSINESS FORECASTS (78%); RECESSION (78%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (78%); ECONOMIC INDICATORS (78%); EARNINGS PREANNOUNCEMENTS (78%); PUBLIC POLICY (78%); US FEDERAL FUNDS RATES (77%); INTEREST RATES (66%) STOCKS AND BONDS; UNITED STATES ECONOMY; DOW JONES STOCK AVERAGE; STANDARD & POOR'S 500-STOCK INDEX; NASDAQ COMPOSITE INDEX; CORPORATIONS; COMPUTERS AND THE INTERNET 

COMPANY: MERRILL LYNCH & CO INC (90%); NEW YORK STOCK EXCHANGE LLC (55%); MORGAN STANLEY (50%)

ORGANIZATION: CHICAGO MERCANTILE EXCHANGE (59%)

TICKER: MS (NYSE) (50%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (90%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (90%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (90%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (90%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (90%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (90%)

PERSON: ALAN GREENSPAN (58%) FUERBRINGER, JONATHAN 

GEOGRAPHIC: HARTFORD, CT, USA (78%); CHICAGO, IL, USA (59%) CONNECTICUT, USA (79%); ILLINOIS, USA (59%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: March 13, 2001 



322 of 868 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 13, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 5; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1257 words

HEADLINE: THE MARKETS: Market Place; 
Bears Toss Weight Around, But Damage Is Concentrated

BYLINE:  By FLOYD NORRIS 

 BODY:
The bear market in the Standard & Poor's 500, the most widely followed broad index of large stocks, became official yesterday as the index ended the day down more than 20 percent from the peak reached last March -- thus meeting the usual definition of a bear market.
 But if the great bull market of the 1990's is finally over, the bear market that has replaced it is so far a very unusual one because the damage to the stock market has been so concentrated. 
 The collapse of technology issues has affected the Nasdaq composite index far more than it has other indexes, and the Nasdaq composite is now down 61.9 percent from its peak. That is the largest loss any major American index has suffered since the Depression and has helped dampen consumer confidence and slow the economy. But many Americans continue to buy stocks. 
"Despite the 60 percent collapse in Nasdaq, people still believe that stocks are the place to be," commented Robert Barbera, the chief economist of Hoenig & Company. "That is astounding, but no doubt it reflects the spectacular performance registered over the preceding five years and the very good performance all the way back to 1982."
Since the S.& P. index peaked, many more stocks within that index have risen than have declined. But the fall of the technology stocks has caused many mutual funds, including the popular S.& P. index funds, to lose money.
"The market's rise was concentrated in technology, and the market's destruction is concentrated there," said Byron Wien, a strategist at Morgan Stanley Dean Witter. "A lot of old-economy stocks have done very well."
The S.& P. 500, which fell 53.26 points, or 4.3 percent, to 1,180.16 yesterday, is now down 22.7 percent from the peak. It was the first 20 percent decline for that index since the 1987 stock market crash. And it is the first time the index has fallen below 1,200 since late 1998.
But of the 11 investment sectors that make up the S.& P. index, seven have gained since the peak, with utilities, transportation and health care leading the way. Of the 497 stocks in the index that were around a year ago -- three are new issues -- 302, or 61 percent, are higher. In a normal bear market, the damage is far broader. 
The total decline in the Nasdaq composite, which fell 129.40, or 6.3 percent, to 1,923.38 yesterday, has surpassed what had been its biggest fall, of 59.9 percent in the 1973-74 bear market. The only larger declines for a large American index came from 1929 through 1932, when the Dow Jones industrial average plunged 89.2 percent and the S.& P. fell 86.2 percent. The Nasdaq index dates from 1971.
In the 1973-74 bear market, all major indexes fell sharply, with the Dow dropping 45.1 percent. But even with yesterday's 4.1 percent plunge, the Dow is down only 12.9 percent from its peak in January 2000, and it is higher than it was a year ago.
"As investors fled collapsing technology stocks, they chose to buy other stocks," Mr. Barbera said.
There is no question that investor confidence has been shaken by the fall in what had been the most popular stocks, and there is less willingness now to "buy the dips" than there was until last year. Throughout the late 1990's there were occasions, like the Asian currency collapse in 1997 and the Russian default in 1998, when professional investors grew worried and many individual investors would halt the decline with purchases. There is much less of that now.
Investments in stock mutual funds are down sharply from early last year, and bond and money market funds are drawing more cash than they had. Still, some money continues to go into stock mutual funds, in large part because so many employees have their 401(k) plans programmed to buy stock funds with every paycheck. The belief that stocks are the best long-term investment remains widely held.
That faith may distinguish this market from one that it is often compared to, the 1973-74 bear market. The most successful stocks of the early 1970's, which became known as the Nifty 50, were growth stocks like Avon and Xerox that many investors believed would keep growing for decades. They kept rising for the first several months of the bear market that affected most stocks but eventually succumbed as almost every stock did.
In this case, however, the previous market leaders have led the way down, rather than falling last. And the other stocks, although they did not go up much if at all in the final stages of the bull market, have not as yet followed them down.
"This comes on the heels of an 18-year bull market, where investing in stocks had become part of the American culture," said Mr. Wien, noting that in the 1970's stocks were far less popular before the plunge. "Most Americans believe that stocks are the asset of choice for the long run. Maybe we have to crack that notion before this is all over."
Nonetheless, Mr. Wien says he thinks the stock market is, if anything, slightly undervalued, and is in the process of bottoming.
Whether that forecast proves to be accurate may depend on the economy, which slowed drastically late last year and may or may not have fallen into recession.
Of the eight previous bear markets -- defined as 20 percent falls from a record high -- five hit the 20 percent mark after recessions had started, while the other three, in 1962, 1966 and 1987, had no recession connected to them. In those three cases, the market's recovery began within seven weeks of the index's having fallen 20 percent.
The market continued to fall during some recessions, but turned up before the recessions ended, usually while the Federal Reserve was cutting interest rates, as it is now doing. Some recessions did not bring bear markets. In the last recession, in 1990-91, the S.& P.'s decline stopped at 19.9 percent.
The current economic slowdown has been most sharply felt at the technology companies that had been growing the fastest, which have been forced to reduce their expectations for sales and profits repeatedly. Since the S.& P. 500 peaked last March, Microsoft is down 53 percent; Intel, 60 percent; Cisco Systems, 76 percent; and Oracle, 75 percent. They are among the 25 largest stocks in the index.
Some major stocks have done quite well over the period, however. Phillip Morris is up 151 percent as fears that tobacco litigation would put it out of business have decreased. Pharmaceutical companies have done very well as growth-oriented investors sought stocks whose businesses were still expanding. Johnson & Johnson is up 31 percent; Eli Lilly, 26 percent; Merck, 20 percent; and Pfizer, 16 percent.
The gains of the technology stocks had been astounding during the two years before the peaks a year ago. Yahoo, which is down 92 percent since the S.& P. peaked, is still higher than it was in September 1998, just 18 months before the peak.
Those gains had allowed many Americans to feel wealthier and, perhaps as important, provided large amounts of income to individuals with stock options and to the federal government, which taxes profits on stock options at the same rates it collects on ordinary income. That bolstered consumer spending and allowed the government to run budget surpluses far higher than had been expected.
Now some economists, including Mr. Barbera, expect that the declines in those stocks will lead to a drying up of that income, depressing consumer spending and tax receipts and delaying the stimulative effect of the Fed's actions. But others see signs in the January and February economic statistics that indicate that the economy has already started to rebound.

GRAPHIC: Chart: "For Nasdaq, the Slide Deepens"Yesterday, the Nasdaq composite index closed below 2,000 for the first time since December 1998. Since its slide began on March 10, 2000, it has fallen almost 62 percent, making it the third-worst decline in a major stock market index since World War I. Here is how it compares with all other declines of at least one-third during that time. BIGGEST BEAR MARKETS INDEX: Dow Jones industrialsDATE INDEX REACHED LOW: 7/8/32INDEX VALUE AT LOW: 41.22DECLINE FROM HIGH: -89.2TIME FROM PEAK TO LOW IN DAYS*: 1,039 INDEX: S. & P. 500DATE INDEX REACHED LOW: 6/1/32INDEX VALUE AT LOW: 4.41DECLINE FROM HIGH: -86.2TIME FROM PEAK TO LOW IN DAYS*: 998 INDEX: Nasdaq compositeDATE INDEX REACHED LOW: YesterdayINDEX VALUE AT LOW: 1,923.38DECLINE FROM HIGH: - 61.9TIME FROM PEAK TO LOW IN DAYS*: 367 INDEX: Nasdaq compositeDATE INDEX REACHED LOW: 10/3/74INDEX VALUE AT LOW: 54.87DECLINE FROM HIGH: -59.9TIME FROM PEAK TO LOW IN DAYS*: 630 INDEX: S. & P. 500DATE INDEX REACHED LOW: 10/3/74INDEX VALUE AT LOW: 62.28DECLINE FROM HIGH: -48.2TIME FROM PEAK TO LOW IN DAYS*: 630 INDEX: Dow Jones industrialsDATE INDEX REACHED LOW: 8/24/21INDEX VALUE AT LOW: 63.90DECLINE FROM HIGH: -46.6TIME FROM PEAK TO LOW IN DAYS*: 660 INDEX: Dow Jones industrialsDATE INDEX REACHED LOW: 12/6/74INDEX VALUE AT LOW: 577.60DECLINE FROM HIGH: -45.1TIME FROM PEAK TO LOW IN DAYS*: 694 INDEX: Dow Jones industrialsDATE INDEX REACHED LOW: 5/26/70INDEX VALUE AT LOW: 631.16DECLINE FROM HIGH: -36.6TIME FROM PEAK TO LOW IN DAYS*: 1,567 INDEX: Dow Jones industrialsDATE INDEX REACHED LOW: 10/19/87INDEX VALUE AT LOW: 1,738.70DECLINE FROM HIGH: -36.1TIME FROM PEAK TO LOW IN DAYS*: 55 INDEX: S. & P. 500DATE INDEX REACHED LOW: 5/26/70INDEX VALUE AT LOW: 62.29DECLINE FROM HIGH: -36.1TIME FROM PEAK TO LOW IN DAYS*: 543 INDEX: Nasdaq compositeDATE INDEX REACHED LOW: 12/4/87INDEX VALUE AT LOW: 292.92DECLINE FROM HIGH: -35.7TIME FROM PEAK TO LOW IN DAYS*: 100 INDEX: S. & P. 500DATE INDEX REACHED LOW: 12/4/87INDEX VALUE AT LOW: 223.92DECLINE FROM HIGH: -33.5TIME FROM PEAK TO LOW IN DAYS*: 101 *Calendar days Note: The S. & P. 500 started in 1926 and the Nasdaq in 1971. NASDAQ'S BIGGEST STOCKS (Based on market capitalization) MicrosoftCLOSE ON MARCH 10, 2000: $101.00YESTERDAY'S CLOSE: $51.938PERCENTAGE CHANGE: -48.6 IntelCLOSE ON MARCH 10, 2000: 60.094YESTERDAY'S CLOSE: 27.75PERCENTAGE CHANGE: -53.8 Cisco SystemsCLOSE ON MARCH 10, 2000: 68.188YESTERDAY'S CLOSE: 18.813PERCENTAGE CHANGE: -72.4 QualcommCLOSE ON MARCH 10, 2000: 136.125YESTERDAY'S CLOSE: 48.063PERCENTAGE CHANGE: -64.7 OracleCLOSE ON MARCH 10, 2000: 40.813YESTERDAY'S CLOSE: 15.188PERCENTAGE CHANGE: -62.8 JDS UniphaseCLOSE ON MARCH 10, 2000: 138.00YESTERDAY'S CLOSE: 22.875PERCENTAGE CHANGE: -83.4 AmgenCLOSE ON MARCH 10, 2000: 59.563YESTERDAY'S CLOSE: 61.313PERCENTAGE CHANGE: +2.9 Sun MicrosystemsCLOSE ON MARCH 10, 2000: 47.094YESTERDAY'S CLOSE: 17.063PERCENTAGE CHANGE: -63.8 VoiceStream WirelessCLOSE ON MARCH 10, 2000: 117.375YESTERDAY'S CLOSE: 88.688PERCENTAGE CHANGE: -24.4 Veritas SoftwareCLOSE ON MARCH 10, 2000: 168.688YESTERDAY'S CLOSE: 53.938PERCENTAGE CHANGE: -68.0 Graph shows NASDAQ COMPOSITE Weekly closesfrom 1998-2001. (Sources: Salomon Smith Barney; Bloomberg Financial Markets)(pg. C9) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: STOCK INDEXES (99%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); STOCK MARKET CRASHES (78%); NEW ECONOMY (78%); INDEX FUNDS (78%); CONSUMER CONFIDENCE (78%); SECURITIES TRADING (78%); BONDS (78%); GREAT DEPRESSION (74%); ECONOMIC DEPRESSION (73%); MUTUAL FUNDS (69%); WORLD WAR I (59%) STOCKS AND BONDS; DOW JONES STOCK AVERAGE; NASDAQ COMPOSITE INDEX; RECORDS AND ACHIEVEMENTS; UNITED STATES ECONOMY; COMPUTERS AND THE INTERNET 

COMPANY: HOENIG & CO LTD (69%); HOENIG & CO INC (69%); MORGAN STANLEY (53%)

TICKER: MS (NYSE) (53%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (53%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (53%)

PERSON: NORRIS, FLOYD 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%)

TITLE: MARKET PLACE (TIMES COLUMN) 

LOAD-DATE: March 13, 2001 



323 of 868 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 13, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section C; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 1100 words

HEADLINE: THE MEDIA BUSINESS: ADVERTISING; 
True North reassures analysts about its outlook in a slowing economy and about other matters.

BYLINE:  By Stuart Elliott 

 BODY:
THE advertising business was more about business than about advertising as financial and operational matters made news at four big agency companies.
 True North Communications in Chicago, the world's seventh-largest agency company, said yesterday that it was comfortable with estimates by analysts for its first-quarter performance despite the sudden softening of the economy as well as a restatement of earnings after the resolution of an accounting matter with the Securities and Exchange Commission. 
 "There's nervousness," said Kevin Smith, executive vice president and chief financial officer at True North, "but we've not seen any significant sign of cutbacks in client spending.
"Our outlook generally remains positive," he added. On average, analysts estimate that True North will report earnings of 24 cents a share for the first quarter of 2001, compared with 20 cents in the corresponding quarter of 2000. 
True North shares closed at $37.55 yesterday in trading on the New York Stock Exchange, down 59 cents, or 1.5 percent, on a day when the Dow Jones industrial average plunged more than 4 percent.
Mr. Smith's comments came during a conference call with analysts to update them on the accounting issue, which resulted in the company's reducing its operating income by $3.7 million, or 4.2 percent, in the fourth quarter and by $14.6 million, or 6.9 percent, for all of 2000.
During the call, which reporters could listen to, analysts seemed relieved that the restatement was centered on a matter -- reducing to 20 years from 40 the time allowed to amortize intangible assets gained in acquisitions -- that would have no impact on the performance of the agencies True North runs, like FCB Worldwide and the Bozell Group.
Michael J. Russell Jr., an analyst who follows advertising stocks for Morgan Stanley Dean Witter in New York, said in an interview after the call that it was "comforting" to know that the reason True North restated its earnings was "benign."
True North was to release financial results for the quarter and year on March 1, but postponed that because of the accounting issue and another matter, a delay in the release of earnings at Modem Media in Norwalk, Conn.
True North owns 45 percent of Modem Media, an Internet services agency, but wants to sell the stake. Because Modem Media still has not indicated when it will release its results, originally due on Feb. 27, Mr. Smith said that True North would further delay the reporting of its own full financial results.
In the partial results True North reported, operating income in the fourth quarter rose 26.9 percent to $84.6 million, excluding unusual items, as revenue rose 10.5 percent, to $441 million. For the full year, operating income rose 40.4 percent, to $196.2 million, as revenue increased 11.9 percent, to $1.5 billion.
As expected, there was a pretax charge of $17.5 million, or 20 cents a share, in the fourth quarter to cover costs related to the loss of the giant account of the Chrysler Group unit of DaimlerChrysler to units of BBDO Worldwide, part of the Omnicom Group in New York.
The further delay in the earnings report adds to uncertainties related to persistent speculation that Havas Advertising in Paris or the Interpublic Group of Companies in New York is preparing a bid to acquire True North, which indicated after the Chrysler Group loss that it might be open to takeover overtures.
Asked by one analyst whether there was difficulty in keeping "focused in light of acquisition rumors," David Bell, chairman and chief executive at True North, replied: "We're very fortunate in having a company of professionals. Our primary focus is clients and then the strengths of our brands."
Mr. Bell added that True North was "well positioned for 2001 and beyond" and enjoyed "the momentum for continued growth," which seemed to suggest an intent to remain independent.
Turning to the other agency companies, several shops owned by Interpublic are combining operations.
The Irvine, Calif., office of Campbell Mithun, based in Minneapolis, is being merged with Phillips Ramsey in San Diego, and the combined agency will operate under the Campbell Mithun name from both offices, with the Irvine office reporting to the San Diego office. There will be 75 employees and billings estimated at $130 million from clients like Bumble Bee Seafoods, the San Diego Zoo and WD-40.
Gary Meads, 40, senior vice president and general manager at Phillips Ramsey, becomes executive vice president and general manager at the merged operation. Two executives at Campbell Mithun continue in their posts: Julie Ward, senior vice president and managing director, and Joyce Koch, senior vice president and creative director.
The merger is similar to a step taken by Interpublic in January, involving two units of the Lowe Group: Long Haymes Carr in Winston-Salem, N.C., and Mullen in Wenham, Mass. Long Haymes became Mullen/LHC, the North Carolina operation of Mullen.
Another Interpublic agency, Draft Worldwide in Chicago, is combining its operations in Toronto by merging the Draft office there with Fuel Advertising, which Draft acquired in September. The combined agency, under the Draft name, will have 140 employees and billings estimated at $29 million from clients like Compaq Canada. At the combined agency, Richard H. Fisher, 55, president at Fuel, becomes president, and Norm Lehman, 49, president at the Draft Toronto office, becomes general manager for integrated services.
Havas and Omnicom are also making acquisitions.
Arnold Worldwide Partners in Boston, part of Havas, bought its first agency in the Asia-Pacific region, Brandhouse Hale Leonardi in Melbourne and Sydney, Australia. Brandhouse Hale has 48 employees and billings estimated at $25 million from clients like Epson and Ricoh. Terms were not disclosed.
The deal, which includes the renaming of the agency as Brandhouse Arnold Worldwide, is part of efforts by Havas to build Arnold as a second global agency network alongside Euro RSCG Worldwide.
And Porter Novelli in New York, part of Omnicom, acquired Tsantes & Associates in Campbell, Calif., a public relations agency specializing in technology clients. Terms were not disclosed.
Tsantes, which has about 25 employees and revenue estimated at $2.7 million from clients like Cisco Systems, will operate under its own name for a time, then become the core unit of a new division of the Porter Novelli Convergence Group in Campbell and San Jose, Calif., working for companies in the complex-technology field. John Tsantes, 54, president at Tsantes, will head the new division as a partner at Porter Novelli.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MARKETING & ADVERTISING (91%); FINANCIAL RESULTS (90%); ACCOUNTING (90%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING AGENCIES (90%); STOCK INDEXES (90%); COMPANY EARNINGS (90%); DELAYS & POSTPONEMENTS (89%); FINANCIAL RESTATEMENTS (89%); BANKING & FINANCE AGENCIES (78%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (77%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (76%); STOCK EXCHANGES (76%); INTERVIEWS (75%); ANNUAL FINANCIAL RESULTS (71%); EXECUTIVES (70%); CONFERENCE CALLS (66%); COMPUTER NETWORKS (60%) ADVERTISING; FINANCES 

COMPANY: INTERPUBLIC GROUP OF COS INC (92%); MORGAN STANLEY (58%); NEW YORK STOCK EXCHANGE LLC (56%)

ORGANIZATION: SECURITIES & EXCHANGE COMMISSION (57%) TRUE NORTH COMMUNICATIONS 

TICKER: IPG (NYSE) (92%); MS (NYSE) (58%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS541820 PUBLIC RELATIONS AGENCIES (92%); NAICS541810 ADVERTISING AGENCIES (92%); NAICS541613 MARKETING CONSULTING SERVICES (92%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (58%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (58%) SIC7311 ADVERTISING AGENCIES; 

PERSON: KEVIN SMITH (75%) ELLIOTT, STUART 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (79%); CONNECTICUT, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

TITLE: ADVERTISING (TIMES COLUMN) 

LOAD-DATE: March 13, 2001 



324 of 868 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 13, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Foreign Desk; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 931 words

HEADLINE: Putin to Sell Arms and Nuclear Help to Iran 

BYLINE:  By MICHAEL WINES 

DATELINE: MOSCOW, March 12 

 BODY:
Breaking openly with both the United States and his predecessor Boris N. Yeltsin, President Vladimir V. Putin formally agreed today to resume sales of conventional arms to Iran after a hiatus of more than five years.
 At a meeting in the Kremlin with President Muhammad Khatami of Iran, Mr. Putin also reiterated Russia's intention to help Iran complete a long-stalled nuclear power plant that some American experts contend could advance Iran's nuclear weapons program. 
 The two announcements, neither unexpected, came during the first meeting in four decades between Iranian and Russian heads of state, a warm session billed in advance as a diplomatic turning point. 
Just as clearly, it was a pointed signal to the Bush administration that the Iranians and the Russians intend to limit American influence in the Middle East by both diplomatic and military means.
"Economically, Russia is interested in cooperation," Mr. Putin said. "And politically, Iran should be a self-sufficient, independent state that is ready to protect its national interests." 
The chief foreign affairs official at the Russian defense ministry, Gen. Leonid Ivashov, said the scope of the arms accord was a private matter between two sovereign states. "Some may like this cooperation, some not," he said. "Our countries will continue working together to our advantage."
The advantages for Russia are considerable: hard currency from the sales, work for idle weapons factories and more influence from military training and repair work in a crucial Persian Gulf nation. Mr. Putin has employed much the same formula of arms sales and diplomacy to revive faded alliances with India, China and other nations that drifted from the Russian orbit after the end of the cold war.
For its part, Iran finds an ally who shares many of its predilections, among them opposition to Turkey and expansion of NATO, and a desire to limit American influence in central Asia, where American- and Russian-backed oil pipelines are fiercely competing to control the flow of new finds in the Caspian Sea.
Washington has quietly sought to improve relations with Iran but to little avail. Officially, Iran remains on a list of rogue nations that American experts believe could threaten the Middle East with nuclear or chemical weapons and ballistic missiles within a few years.
The United States said today that it was disappointed at Mr. Putin's announcement. But its immediate effect on American relations with Moscow is unclear, in part because the scope of cooperation with Iran remains unclear. No deals were actually signed today, and it was not clear when arms deliveries would begin.
"We are particularly concerned about sales of advanced conventional weapons or sensitive technologies, things like nuclear technology," said the State Department spokesman, Richard A. Boucher. "It's up to the Russians and the Iranians to specify in more detail what they may or may not be doing."
Last month, in an annual report on weapons proliferation, the Central Intelligence Agency identified Russia as a supplier of ballistic missile technology to Iran. Russia strongly denies the accusation, although officials at some Russian research institutes have acknowledged training Iranians in areas the United States considers sensitive.
Mr. Putin said today that Iran seeks only defensive arms and that Russia would adhere strictly to international weapons-proliferation restrictions.
Russia sold some $5 billion in weapons to Iran from 1989 to 1995, in no small part for defense against President Saddam Hussein of Iraq and his army, which waged war against Iran for much of the 1980's. The sales stopped after 1995, when Mr. Yeltsin, then the president, signed a secret accord with the United States foreswearing further sales or technical aid to Iran's military programs. 
The Kremlin repudiated that accord after it became public last year, and in December the Russian defense minister, Igor Sergeyev, paid the first high-level Russian visit to Iran since 1979 to lay the groundwork for new arms sales.
The Moscow daily Nezavisimaya Gazeta reported that weapons shipments could begin in the second half of this year, and include spare parts for existing Russian-made aircraft and cold-war-era tanks.
Russia's deputy prime minister, Ilya Klebanov, told the Interfax news service that Iran hopes to buy one of Russia's most advanced air-defense systems, the S-300 antimissile complex, which is said to track and destroy as many as six low-flying cruise missiles or aircraft at a time.
"The question is what this does for the regional military balance," said Thomas Graham, a political analyst at the Carnegie Endowment for International Peace. "Does it give Iran a certain capacity in the Persian Gulf region that it didn't have before? And will it be destabilizing or not? That's what we'll be looking to find out." 
The agreement to finish a nuclear reactor at Bushehr, the Persian Gulf military port, raises different issues.
The United States has argued that Iran has little need for new nuclear generating capacity and that the reactor could be used to aid what it says is Iran's clandestine nuclear-weapons program. In 1999 the United States placed sanctions on seven Russian companies and three institutes that it accused of aiding Iran's nuclear efforts.
Both Russia and Iran adamantly deny that the Bushehr reactor has any military use, and Russia says its construction work is supervised by the International Atomic Energy Agency. 
Iran says it is prepared to spend some $1 billion with Russian companies for work on the plant and related facilities.

GRAPHIC: Photo: Presidents Muhammad Khatami of Iran and Vladimir V. Putin of Russia met yesterday in Moscow. (Associated Press) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MILITARY WEAPONS (91%); NUCLEAR WEAPONS (90%); ARMS TRADE (90%); TALKS & MEETINGS (90%); US PRESIDENTS (78%); COLD WAR (78%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (78%); ARMS CONTROL & DISARMAMENT (78%); DEFENSE DEPARTMENTS (76%); FOREIGN RELATIONS (74%); STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (74%); SEPARATISM & SECESSION (73%); NUCLEAR ENERGY (71%); POWER PLANTS (71%); ELECTRIC POWER PLANTS (71%); CHEMICAL & BIOLOGICAL WEAPONS (71%); NUCLEAR POWER PLANTS (71%); MISSILE SYSTEMS (71%); MILITARY TRAINING (68%); TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (52%); PIPELINE TRANSPORTATION (50%) ATOMIC WEAPONS; UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; IRAN-INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS-RUSSIA; IRAN-INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS-US; RUSSIA-INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS-US; ARMS SALES ABROAD 

PERSON: VLADIMIR PUTIN (93%) WINES, MICHAEL; PUTIN, VLADIMIR V (PRIME MIN); KHATAMI, MOHAMMAD (PRES); YELTSIN, BORIS N; BUSH, GEORGE W (PRES) 

GEOGRAPHIC: MOSCOW, RUSSIAN FEDERATION (88%) CASPIAN SEA (79%); INDIAN OCEAN (74%) RUSSIAN FEDERATION (99%); UNITED STATES (98%); IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (96%); MIDDLE EAST (93%); ASIA (79%); INDIA (79%); TURKEY (79%); CHINA (79%); CENTRAL ASIA (79%); GULF STATES (73%) IRAN; RUSSIA; MIDDLE EAST

LOAD-DATE: March 13, 2001 



325 of 868 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 13, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section C; Column 5; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1130 words

HEADLINE: British Insurer Agrees to Buy U.S. Company 

BYLINE:  By JOSEPH B. TREASTER and ALAN COWELL 

 BODY:
Britain's second-largest life insurer, Prudential P.L.C., said yesterday that it had agreed to buy American General for $26.5 billion in stock in the largest insurance deal ever.
 The combination will create a huge power in the United States in variable annuities, fixed annuities and life insurance and it will be yet another instance of European insurers moving into a lucrative market for retirement investments as more Americans approach retirement age. 
 The deal is also the biggest trans-Atlantic financial services deal ever, and comes after other once-conservative banks and other European institutions have begun expanding in the United States.
The merged company, which will continue to do business in the United States as American General and Jackson National Life, which Prudential bought earlier, will become the biggest seller of variable annuities, a combination of mutual funds and insurance, in the United States and will become the fifth-largest seller of life insurance. At the same time, it will become the sixth-largest insurer in the world, moving into a league with giants like American International Group, AXA of France and Allianz of Germany. 
Executives of both Prudential, which is unrelated to the Prudential Insurance Company of America, and American General said that with the industry steadily consolidating, both companies found it essential to find a partner to achieve greater economies of scale.
"It will be uncomfortable to be stuck in the middle ground," Jonathan Bloomer, the chief executive of Prudential, said from London in a televised briefing.
But analysts in London questioned whether the 153-year-old Prudential, a life insurance and asset management business, had been imprudent, particularly at a time when the American economy is in a slowdown compounded by falling stock markets.
"They are paying top dollar for a good business but at a very difficult point in the cycle," said Trevor Moss, an analyst with SG Securities in London. Alex Scott, with Barclays Stockbrokers, said: "It's a massive jump in scale. What they have to justify is the premium they are paying."
Shares of Prudential tumbled 14 percent in London trading, reducing the value of the all-stock deal to $22.795 billion. 
Still, some analysts in the United States said the price for American General, about three times its book value, was reasonable, given the competition for big, successful American insurers.
"There are only two other big American life insurers left -- Lincoln National and John Hancock -- and I can think of about 10 bidders for them," said Colin Devine, an analyst with Salomon Smith Barney.
The American analysts said several recent examples of European insurers effectively taking over American insurers had diminished their concerns about the difficulty of making cross-border mergers work. As in the acquisition of the Equitable of New York by AXA, the acquisition some years ago of Equitable of Iowa by ING, the Dutch insurer, and ING's more recent purchases of Reliastar and parts of Aetna, Prudential intends to simply expand the role of Robert M. Devlin, the chief executive of American General, to oversee all its United States operations. Mr. Devlin will become deputy chairman of Prudential.
Yet some of the American analysts said that beyond scale they found it difficult to see how the combination would reward both partners.
"This creates a global franchise, but there is very little overlap in what they do," said one American analyst who spoke on condition of anonymity. "They don't get a lot of cost savings and it isn't like a whole bunch of American General's products can now be put through a lot of Prudential's channels. I don't see a lot of product synergies, a lot of management synergies or a lot of distribution synergies."
At Deutsche Banc Alex. Brown, Vanessa Wilson said: "They're going to have to prove to shareholders that two plus two equals five, not four."
Executives at Prudential and American General anticipated at least a mixed reaction and said they would immediately begin reassuring investors with meetings across Europe, Asia and the United States.
"In a transaction like this there's a little bit of the unknown and uncertainty," Mr. Devlin of American General said. "The biggest risk is how well we'll be able to get out and communicate the merits of this combination."
Shares of American General edged up 55 cents, or 1.4 percent, to $38.80 on the New York Stock Exchange. Under the terms of the deal, American General shareholders are to receive 3.66 Prudential shares in exchange for each of their American General shares. Based on Friday's closing stock prices, the two companies set a value of $49.52 for each American General share. That would give the deal, in which Prudential will own 50.5 percent of the new company, a value of $26.5 billion, topping the insurance industry's biggest deal to date, the $21.7 billion acquisition of General Re by Berkshire Hathaway in 1998.
David C. Doyle, the head of corporate finance for Prudential, said that no "collar," or limits, had been agreed upon for fluctuations in Prudential's share price, meaning that the final price offered for American General will depend on the markets. 
Prudential would overtake CGNU P.L.C. to become Britain's biggest insurer if the merger is completed. Prudential built its reputation in Britain as a solid and dependable insurer whose advertising icon, a salesman known as The Man From the Pru, betokened its reliability. 
Lately, however, Prudential has been restructuring in Britain, cutting 2,000 direct sales jobs a few weeks ago, and trying to expand overseas. Intense competition in Britain created low margins for insurers there.
Prudential's chief, Mr. Bloomer, said that the acquisition of American General would mean that more than two-thirds of the company's earnings would come from outside Britain.
American General, which was founded in Texas in 1926, has acquired more than 35 competitors in the last 25 years to become a major player in American life insurance. Like the other leaders in the field, it has shifted its emphasis from life insurance to variable and fixed annuities as Americans have become more concerned about outliving their savings than leaving their families in economic straits.
In briefings yesterday, the companies said they expected to save $130 million a year as a result of the combination, but analysts said that was a relatively small amount for a business expected to have some $336 billion in funds under management.
Executives gave no indication of how many jobs would be lost in the consolidation. They said Prudential would make its American headquarters in New York, where it already has an office, but would continue to maintain a large work force in Houston, the base of American General.

GRAPHIC: Photo: Jonathan Bloomer, left, chief executive of Prudential, flanked by Sir Roger Hurn, Prudential's chairman, announce a merger worth $26.5 billion in stock. Robert M. Devlin, right, is chief of American General. (NewsCast)(pg. C4) Chart: "Merger Across the Water"In the largest trans-Atlantic insurance deal ever, Prudential P.L.C. of Britain has agreed to buy American General for $26.5 billion in stock. The merger will create a huge power in annuities and life insurance. PRUDENTIALHEADQUARTERS: LondonCHIEF EXECUTIVE: Jonathan BloomerEMPLOYEES: 22,000MARKET CAPITALIZATION*: $ 22.4 billionASSETS: $243.5 billionBUSINESS: Assortment ofinsurance products,banking, financial andinvestment services. AMERICAN GENERAL FINANCIAL GROUPHEADQUARTERS: HoustonCHIEF EXECUTIVE: Robert M. DevlinEMPLOYEES: 16,000MARKET CAPITALIZATION*: $ 19.5 billionASSETS: $120.4 billionBUSINESS: Life insurance,retirement services,consumer and realestate loans. * As of yesterday(Sources: Bloomberg Financial Markets; Hoover's Handbook)(pg. C4) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LIFE INSURANCE (91%); INSURANCE (90%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (89%); MERGERS (89%); PENSION & RETIREMENT PLANS (77%); STOCK EXCHANGES (77%); BANKING & FINANCE (77%); BUSINESS FORECASTS (76%); ANNUITIES (76%); MUTUAL FUNDS (76%); CORPORATE RESTRUCTURING (74%); SECURITIES BROKERS (72%); RETIREMENT & RETIREES (71%); RETIREMENT AGE (71%); EXECUTIVES (71%); ECONOMIC NEWS (68%) INSURANCE 

COMPANY: PRUDENTIAL PLC (96%); ALLIANZ SE (90%); PRUDENTIAL INSURANCE CO OF AMERICA (68%); AMERICAN INTERNATIONAL GROUP INC (68%); AXA (58%); SMITH BARNEY HOLDINGS INC (50%)

ORGANIZATION: PRUDENTIAL PLC; AMERICAN GENERAL CORP; JACKSON NATIONAL LIFE 

TICKER: PUK (NYSE) (96%); PRU (LSE) (96%); K6S (SGX) (96%); 2378 (HKSE) (96%); ALV (FRA) (90%); ALV (BIT) (90%); AIG (NYSE) (68%); 8685 (TSE) (68%); CS (PAR) (58%); AXJ (ASX) (58%); AXA (BIT) (58%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS525110 PENSION FUNDS (96%); NAICS524126 DIRECT PROPERTY & CASUALTY INSURANCE CARRIERS (96%); NAICS524114 DIRECT HEALTH & MEDICAL INSURANCE CARRIERS (96%); NAICS524113 DIRECT LIFE INSURANCE CARRIERS (96%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (90%); SIC6311 LIFE INSURANCE (68%); SIC6331 FIRE, MARINE, & CASUALTY INSURANCE (58%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (50%) SIC6311 LIFE INSURANCE; SIC6331 FIRE; 

PERSON: TREASTER, JOSEPH B; COWELL, ALAN 

GEOGRAPHIC: LONDON, ENGLAND (90%) IOWA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (99%); UNITED KINGDOM (94%); FRANCE (79%); EUROPE (79%); GERMANY (77%) GREAT BRITAIN

LOAD-DATE: March 13, 2001 



326 of 868 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 13, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section B; Column 3; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 548 words

HEADLINE: To Boos and Hisses, Feisty Mayor Shares His Ideas With Teachers 

BYLINE:  By ELISABETH BUMILLER 

 BODY:
Mayor Rudolph W. Giuliani was booed with gusto yesterday by educators packing a ballroom in Brooklyn as he called for vouchers and charter schools but not pay increases that would put New York City teachers' salaries on a par with those in the suburbs.
 "Look, you don't have to agree with me," a rambunctious Mr. Giuliani said at one point during a national conference at the Marriott Hotel in downtown Brooklyn. "Just don't boo me, all right?" At the end of his remarks, the mayor said, "Now I'm going to stop, because if I tell you any more of my controversial ideas, I'm going to need more police protection." The crowd then laughed as Mr. Giuliani, a former federal prosecutor, added that in contrast to his reception by the teachers, "fighting the Mafia was easy." 
 Mr. Giuliani made no new policy statements in what City Hall had billed as his keynote address to a three-day, $400,000 national education conference organized by Schools Chancellor Harold O. Levy. But he seemed to delight in stirring up trouble with remarks that were as confrontational as they were comic. At several points, the teachers even hissed at him.
"The reality is that right now, New York City spends $12 billion on its school system," Mr. Giuliani said, directing his remarks to the teachers. "And if you can't do a better job than you're doing right now, it's not because of the money, it's because of the system."
Afterward, Mr. Levy moved to the lectern. "I would add simply this," he said, moments after Mr. Giuliani and his bodyguards had swept out of the ballroom. "We live in a society of many different views, and we have all expressed them."
Mr. Giuliani's remarks came three days after the president of the New York City teachers' union declared contract talks with the city at an impasse and asked the state to name a mediator. The teachers' union is seeking a pay increase of more than 20 percent to catch up with suburban salaries. The city is offering its 80,000 teachers a raise of 2.5 percent a year for two years.
Yesterday, Mr. Giuliani reiterated his position that the city could not afford a salary increase like the one the teachers are seeking. "It would ruin the economy of the city, and I'm not going to preside over it," he said. He estimated the cost of the raise at $8 billion, even though last week the city's labor commissioner, James F. Hanley, said the cost would be $4.3 billion.
"He just doesn't get it," said Randi Weingarten, the teachers' union president, speaking of Mr. Giuliani. Ms. Weingarten, who found herself surrounded by cameras and reporters at the conference after the mayor had made his remarks, added: "He doesn't understand public schooling. He doesn't understand schooling. It's a very sad thing for me, because this is a man of immense talent and enormous potential."
Mr. Giuliani, who will leave office in less than 10 months, has often said that he wants to make a deal with the teachers. But he seemed to acknowledge yesterday that his views on education would have minimal impact this year on the school system. What, then, was his motive in making his remarks when he will soon be out of office? "I guess I expect to be alive after that," he said at a news conference after his speech. "And I'll have ideas and I'll influence people and I'll lead." 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PUBLIC SCHOOLS (91%); TEACHING & TEACHERS (91%); PRIMARY & SECONDARY SCHOOL TEACHERS (90%); EDUCATIONAL INSTITUTION EMPLOYEES (90%); SCHOOL VOUCHERS (90%); TEACHER COMPENSATION (90%); CITY GOVERNMENT (90%); WAGES & SALARIES (90%); EDUCATION SYSTEMS & INSTITUTIONS (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (89%); LABOR MEDIATION & ARBITRATION (89%); LABOR UNIONS (89%); TEACHER UNIONS (89%); COLLECTIVE BARGAINING (89%); MAYORS (89%); CITIES (79%); CHARTER SCHOOLS (78%); SUBURBS (72%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (69%) EDUCATION AND SCHOOLS; VOUCHERS; WAGES AND SALARIES; TEACHERS AND SCHOOL EMPLOYEES; CHARTER SCHOOLS 

ORGANIZATION: BOARD OF EDUCATION (NYC) 

PERSON: RUDY GIULIANI (91%) GIULIANI, RUDOLPH W (MAYOR); BUMILLER, ELISABETH 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (99%) NEW YORK, USA (99%) UNITED STATES (99%) NEW YORK CITY

LOAD-DATE: March 13, 2001 



327 of 868 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 13, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 4; National Desk; Pg. 15

LENGTH: 561 words

HEADLINE: Big Guns Join Attack on Bush's Tax Proposal 

BYLINE:  AP 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, March 12 

 BODY:
A bipartisan group opposed to budget deficits enlisted the support of two big names in economics, Robert E. Rubin and Paul A. Volcker, to attack President Bush's $1.6 trillion 10-year tax cut plan today, saying that it is too large and risky for the nation's economy.
 Mr. Rubin, a former secretary of the Treasury in the Clinton administration, and Mr. Volcker, Alan Greenspan's predecessor as chairman of the Federal Reserve, said they would prefer a smaller tax cut covering the next two or three years. 
 "This tax cut can only be described as fiscally unsound," Mr. Rubin said at a news conference sponsored by the group, the Concord Coalition. "This is an issue of enormous seriousness, and people need to understand that what we do this year is going to effect us for years and years to come." 
Mr. Rubin and Mr. Volcker endorsed the Concord Coalition's position that "there is no reason to lock in a large 10-year tax reduction to give short-term fiscal stimulus" to the economy.
They said it would be better for Congress to provide a temporary tax cut covering the next two to three years, with an option of passing a second tax cut later if projected budget surpluses do materialize.
Mr. Volcker, participating in the news conference by satellite from London, said that if Congress approved Mr. Bush's 10-year program, it would be "so much harder to repair if things go wrong" and the surplus projections were wrong.
Mr. Rubin and Mr. Volcker serve on the board of the Concord Coalition, which is lead by former Senators Warren B. Rudman, Republican of New Hampshire, and Sam Nunn, Democrat of Georgia.
The coalition's news conference represented the latest salvo in an intense debate over Mr. Bush's tax cut proposal. The biggest portion of the package, an across-the-board cut in individual tax rates, was approved by the Republican-controlled House last Thursday in a 230-to-198 vote.
The proposal's fate is much less certain in the Senate, which is evenly split between Republicans and Democrats. Several moderate Republican senators have expressed qualms about the size of the proposal.
Mr. Rudman said the doubts raised by the coalition mirrored the concerns he was hearing from lawmakers. He noted that several senators had expressed support for some kind of trigger that would link future tax cuts to future surpluses.
"I have talked to a lot of people on the Hill and they are very nervous looking at these 10-year projections," Mr. Rudman said. "What we are saying today is not very different from what they are saying."
The coalition did praise Mr. Bush's decision to create a Social Security commission to recommend a long-term fix for the retirement program. Social Security will be faced with either raising taxes or cutting benefits if something is not done to address the shortfall that will occur when people born between 1946 and 1964 begin to retire.
Peter G. Peterson, president of the Concord Coalition and a former commerce secretary in the Nixon administration, said the group endorsed the creation of some form of private savings accounts, something Mr. Bush is seeking, as a way to use future budget surpluses to help provide Social Security with the resources it would need to meet the retirement demands of the baby boomers.
"If these accounts are in the people's hands, Washington would not be able to spend them," Mr. Peterson said. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TAX RELIEF (92%); BUDGETS (91%); TAXES & TAXATION (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (90%); TAX LAW (90%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (89%); POLITICAL PARTIES (88%); APPROVALS (78%); BUDGET DEFICITS (78%); BUDGET FORECASTS (78%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (77%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (76%); PRESS CONFERENCES (74%); SOCIAL SECURITY (72%); SPONSORSHIP (69%); US SOCIAL SECURITY (66%) TAXATION; FINANCES; BUDGETS AND BUDGETING; UNITED STATES ECONOMY 

ORGANIZATION: CONCORD COALITION 

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (92%); ALAN GREENSPAN (56%) RUBIN, ROBERT E; VOLCKER, PAUL A; BUSH, GEORGE W (PRES) 

GEOGRAPHIC: CONCORD, NH, USA (94%) NEW HAMPSHIRE, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: March 13, 2001 



328 of 868 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 13, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; National Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1456 words

HEADLINE: Hard Lobbying On Debtor Bill Pays Dividend 

BYLINE:  By PHILIP SHENON 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, March 12 

 BODY:
A lobbying campaign led by credit card companies and banks that gave millions of dollars in political donations to members of Congress and contributed generously to President Bush's 2000 campaign is close to its long-sought goal of overhauling the nation's bankruptcy system.
 Legislation that would make it harder for people to wipe out their debts could be passed by the Senate as early as this week. The bill has already been approved by the House, and Mr. Bush has pledged to sign it. 
 Sponsors of the bill acknowledge that lawyers and lobbyists for the banks and credit card companies were involved in drafting it. The bill gives those industries most of what they have wanted since they began lobbying in earnest in the late 1990's, when the number of personal bankruptcies rose to record levels. 
In his final weeks in office, President Bill Clinton vetoed an identical bill, describing it as too tough on debtors. But with the election of Mr. Bush and other candidates who received their financial support, the banks and credit card industries saw an opportunity to quickly resurrect the measure.
In recent weeks, their lawyers and lobbyists have jammed Congressional hearing rooms to overflowing as the bill was redebated and reapproved. During breaks, there was a common, almost comical pattern. The pinstriped lobbyists ran into the hallway, grabbed tiny cell phones from their pockets or briefcases and reported back to their clients, almost always with the news they wanted to hear.
"Where money goes, sometimes you see results," acknowledged Representative George W. Gekas, a Pennsylvania Republican who was a sponsor of the bill in the House. But Mr. Gekas said that political contributions did not explain why most members of Congress and Mr. Bush appeared ready to overhaul the bankruptcy system.
"People are gaming this system," Mr. Gekas said, describing the bill as an effort to end abuses by people who are declaring bankruptcy to wipe out their debts even though they have the money to pay them. "We need bankruptcy reform."
Among the biggest beneficiaries of the measure would be MBNA Corporation of Delaware, which describes itself as the world's biggest independent credit card company. Ranked by employee donations, MBNA was the largest corporate contributor to the Bush campaign, according to a study by the Center for Responsive Politics, an election research group. 
MBNA's employees and their families contributed about $240,000 to Mr. Bush, and the chairman of the company's bank unit, Charles M. Cawley, was a significant fund-raiser for Mr. Bush and gave a $1,000-a-plate dinner in his honor, the center said. After Mr. Bush's election, MBNA pledged $100,000 to help pay for inaugural festivities.
MBNA was obviously less enthusiastic about the candidacy of former Vice President Al Gore, Mr. Bush's Democratic rival; according to the center, only three of the company's employees gave money to the Gore campaign, and their donations totaled $1,500.
The center found that of MBNA's overall political contributions of $3.5 million in the last election, 86 percent went to Republicans, 14 percent to Democrats. The company, which did not return phone calls for comment, made large donations to the Senate campaign committees of both political parties -- $310,000 to the Republicans, $200,000 to the Democrats.
MBNA's donations were part of a larger trend within the finance and credit card industries, which have widely expanded their contributions to federal candidates as they stepped up their lobbying efforts for a bankruptcy overhaul.
According to the Center for Responsive Politics, the industries' political donations more than quadrupled over the last eight years, rising from $1.9 million in 1992 to $9.2 million last year, two-thirds of it to Republicans.
Kenneth A. Posner, an analyst for Morgan Stanley Dean Witter, said that the bankruptcy bill would mean billions of dollars in additional profits to creditors, and that it would raise the profits of credit card companies by as much as 5 percent next year. In the case of MBNA, that would mean nearly $75 million in extra profits in 2002, based on its recent financial performance.
The bill's most important provision would bar many people from getting a fresh start from credit card bills and other forms of debt when they enter bankruptcy. Depending on their income, it would bar them from filing under Chapter 7 of the bankruptcy code, which forgives most debts.
Under the legislation, they would have to file under Chapter 13, which would require repayment, even if that meant balancing overdue credit card bills with alimony and child-support payments.
Consumer groups describe the bill as a gift to credit card companies and banks in exchange for their political largess, and they complain that the bill does nothing to stop abuses by creditors who flood the mail with solicitations for high-interest credit cards and loans, which in turn help drive many vulnerable people into bankruptcy.
"This bill is the credit card industry's wish list," said Elizabeth Warren, a Harvard law professor who is a bankruptcy specialist. "They've hired every lobbying firm in Washington. They've decided that it's time to lock the doors to the bankruptcy courthouse."
The bill's passage would be evidence of the heightened power of corporate lobbyists in Washington in the aftermath of last year's elections, which left the White House and both houses of Congress in the hands of business-friendly Republicans.
Last week, corporate lobbyists had another important victory when both the Senate and the House voted to overturn regulations imposed during the Clinton administration to protect workers from repetitive-stress injuries.
Credit card companies and banks would not be the only interests served by the bankruptcy bill. Wealthy American investors in Lloyd's of London, the insurance concern, have managed through their lobbyists to insert a provision in the bill that would block Lloyd's from collecting millions of dollars that the company says it is owed by the Americans.
Lloyd's has hired its own powerful lobbyist, Bob Dole, to help plead its case on Capitol Hill. Last week, the chief executive of Lloyd's was in Washington to plot strategy. 
The issue involves liabilities incurred by Lloyd's in the 1980's and 1990's when it was forced to pay off claims on several disasters, like the Exxon Valdez oil spill. Investors in Lloyd's are expected to share both its profits and its losses, but the Americans have refused to settle the debts, claiming they were misled by Lloyd's.
As he watched consumer-protection amendments to the bankruptcy bill fail by lopsided margins last week, Senator Patrick J. Leahy of Vermont, the ranking Democrat on the Judiciary Committee and a leading critic of the bill, said that colleagues had told him privately that they were "committed to the banks and credit card companies -- and they are not going to change.
"Some of them do this because they think it's the right thing to do," Mr. Leahy said.
But he said other senators were voting for the bill because they know that the banks and credit card companies "are a very good source" of political contributions. "I always assume senators are doing things for the purest of motives," he added, his voice thick with sarcasm. "But I have never had credit card companies show up at my fund-raisers, and I don't think they ever will."
Mr. Gekas said the implication that money was buying support for the bankruptcy bill was insulting, and that the bill did most consumers a favor by ending practices by some debtors that had forced up interest rates for everybody else. "Bankruptcies are costly to all of us who don't go bankrupt," Mr. Gekas said.
In the late 1990's, banks, credit card industries and others with an interest in overhauling the bankruptcy system formed a lobbying group, the National Consumer Bankruptcy Coalition, for the purpose of pushing a bankruptcy-overhaul bill through Congress.
They said they needed to act to deal with what was then a record number of personal bankruptcy filings. According to court records, the number of personal bankruptcies hit nearly 1.4 million in 1998, a record, up from 718,000 in 1990. The number fell to just under 1.3 million last year, although it is expected to rise again if the economy continues to sour.
The coalition's founders included Visa and Mastercard, as well as the American Financial Services Association, which represents the credit card industry, and the American Bankers Association.
The Center for Responsive Politics found that the coalition's members contributed more than $5 million to federal parties and candidates during the 1999-2000 election campaign, a 40 percent increase over the last presidential election.

GRAPHIC: Chart: "BY THE NUMBERS: An Industry's Bankruptcy Concern"As the number of personal bankruptcies increased during the 1990's, peaking in 1998, the two sectors of the banking industry most eager to see an overhaul of bankruptcy law increased their campaign contributions, which totalled $37.6 million during the 2000 campaign. Chart shows personal bankruptcy filings since 1990. Chart also shows campaign contributions by commercial banks and credit-card companies* to Democrats and Republicans since 1990. *Total contributions to federal candidates and political parties from PAC's, soft money donors and individuals giving $200 or more. 1990 does not include soft money contributions, which were not publicly disclosed until the 1992 campaign. (Source: Administrative Office of the United States Courts bankruptcies ; Center for Responsive Politics from Federal Election Commission data campaign contributions )(pg. A14)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LEGISLATIVE BODIES (91%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); PAYMENT CARDS & SERVICES (90%); LEGISLATION (90%); LOBBYING (90%); CREDIT CARDS (90%); VETO (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (90%); ELECTIONS (90%); CAMPAIGN FINANCE (89%); HOLDING COMPANIES (89%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (78%); PERSONAL DEBT (78%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (78%); PLATFORMS & ISSUES (78%); POLITICS (78%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (78%); CHARITABLE GIVING (78%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY LAW (77%); APPROVALS (76%); LAWYERS (75%); FUNDRAISING (73%); MOBILE & CELLULAR TELEPHONES (50%) BANKRUPTCIES; ELECTION ISSUES; PRESIDENTIAL ELECTION OF 2000; LAW AND LEGISLATION; LOBBYING AND LOBBYISTS; CREDIT AND MONEY CARDS; ELECTIONS; RECORDS AND ACHIEVEMENTS; VETOES (US) 

COMPANY: BANK OF AMERICA CORP (86%)

ORGANIZATION: CENTER FOR RESPONSIVE POLITICS (59%); FEDERAL ELECTION COMMISSION (59%); ADMINISTRATIVE OFFICE OF THE UNITED STATES COURTS (59%) MBNA CORP; HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES (US); CONGRESS (US) 

TICKER: BAC (NYSE) (86%); BAC (LSE) (86%); 8648 (TSE) (86%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (86%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (86%); SIC6712 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (86%) SIC6712 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES; 

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (92%); BILL CLINTON (79%); AL GORE (58%) BUSH, GEORGE W (PRES); SHENON, PHILIP; CLINTON, BILL 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%) UNITED STATES

LOAD-DATE: March 13, 2001 



329 of 868 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 13, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 3; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 1113 words

HEADLINE: NEWS SUMMARY 

 BODY:
 INTERNATIONAL A3-9

U.S. Jet's Errant Bomb Kills 6 Soldiers in Kuwait
A 500-pound bomb dropped by a Navy fighter on a practice range 20 miles south of Iraq destroyed an observation post, killing four American soldiers and an airman, along with an army major from New Zealand; three people were seriously hurt. A1

Russia to Sell Arms to Iran
President Vladimir V. Putin, breaking with both the United States and his predecessor, Boris N. Yeltsin, agreed to resume sales of conventional arms to Iran, after more than a five-year hiatus. Mr. Putin also reiterated Russia's intention to help Iran complete a stalled nuclear power plant. A7

Palestinian City Sealed Off
The Israeli Army sealed off Ramallah, the unofficial seat of government of the Palestinian Authority in the West Bank. It was the first action against the Palestinians by the new government of Prime Minister Ariel Sharon, who said it was intended to foil a planned car bombing. Palestinian officials condemned the move. A3

Way Clear for Yugoslav Troops
NATO and Yugoslavia agreed to let Yugoslav troops return to a small section of a buffer area on Serbia's tense border with Kosovo and Macedonia. The agreement is seen as a sign of confidence in the newly elected leadership in Belgrade. A8

Bosnian Serb Surrenders
Blagoje Simic, a former Bosnian Serb mayor wanted for war crimes, voluntarily surrendered to the international tribunal in The Hague, the first Yugoslav citizen to do so. A8

World Briefing A9

OBITUARIES B8-9

S. Dillon Ripley
The secretary of the Smithsonian Institution from 1964 to 1984, its period of greatest growth, was 87. B9

Robert Ludlum
The author of best-selling novels like "The Bourne Identity" and "The Matarese Circle" was 73. B8

NATIONAL A10-17

2 Percent of Americans Claim Multiracial Heritage
Nearly 7 million of the 281.4 million people in the United States say they belong to more than one race, forming the vanguard of a small, largely youthful generation of multiracial Americans in an increasingly diverse country, 2000 census data showed. A1

Prominent Opponents of Tax Cut
A bipartisan group opposed to budget deficits enlisted the support of two big names in economics, Robert E. Rubin and Paul A. Volcker, to attack President Bush's $1.6 trillion 10-year tax cut plan as too big and risky. A15

G.O.P. Protest of Bush Move
Thirty-two Republican House members have written to President Bush to disagree with a decision by him that effectively prohibits a type of labor agreement that often favors the use of unionized labor on federally financed building projects. A15

President Visits North Florida
President Bush made his first official visit to Florida, brushing off questions about the state's role in the bitter election dispute that narrowly gave him the presidency. A15

Sub Cruise Violated Policy
Rear Adm. Albert H. Konetzni Jr., commander of the Navy's Pacific submarine fleet, said he would not have let the Greeneville take 16 civilians on a cruise if he had known that was its only mission on the day it sank a Japanese trawler off Hawaii. A17

No Interest in Succession
Nancy Moore Thurmond, 54, says she has no desire to finish the term of her husband, Senator Strom Thurmond, who is 98, but she has agreed to spend several months helping close his office if he steps down. Ms. Thurmond, like her husband, is a Republican; South Carolina's governor, who would pick a successor, is a Democrat. A10

Governor Terminator
There is talk among leading California Republicans about getting Arnold Schwarzenegger to run for governor next year in a bid to reverse the party's slide in the state. A12

Expedited Clemency Hearing
Lionel Tate, the 14-year-old Florida boy sentenced to life in prison for killing a 6-year-old when he was 12, will probably get an expedited clemency hearing, an official said. A10

NEW YORK/REGION B1-8

Democrats Offer Plan To Roll Back Drug Terms
Democratic Assembly leaders offered a proposal to loosen New York's stringent drug sentencing laws, calling for the expansion of treatment options, a reduction in the range of mandatory minimum sentences and giving judges more discretion to decide who should receive treatment rather than prison. B1

Files Opened in Skakel Case
A Connecticut investigator said in an affidavit made public that he had obtained evidence that Michael C. Skakel, 40, who is facing trial as an adult in the 1975 killing of Martha Moxley, once tried to jump off the Triborough Bridge after saying "that he had done something very bad, and that he needed to get out of the country, and that he had to kill himself." B1

La Guardia Traffic to Rise
The F.A.A. projected that the number of landings and takeoffs at La Guardia would rise to 430,000 by 2005, or 13.8 percent more than last year, when delays there were so bad that the agency said they gummed up the nation's air traffic system. B1

EDUCATION

No Credit Sought for Gift
An anonymous donor gave $360 million to Rensselaer Polytechnic Institute, believed to be the biggest single gift to an American university. B5

SCIENCE TIMES F1-8

Health & Fitness F5

ARTS E1-10

SPORTS D1-8

Uproar in Finnish Skiing
A misplaced medical bag, packed with syringes, needles and drugs used to manipulate blood-cell counts and belonging to the Finnish Ski Association, has led to disclosures that many of Finland's most admired athletes and their trainers have been systematically trying to boost performance with banned drugs. D1

BUSINESS DAY C1-16

Tech Stocks Lead a Dive
The Nasdaq fell 6.3 percent, or 129.40 points, to 1,923.38, its first close below 2,000 in more than two years and more than 60 percent below its peak. The Dow fell 4.1 percent and the S.& P. 500, 4.3 percent. A1

Biggest Insurance Deal Ever
Britain's second-largest life insurer, Prudential, which is unrelated to the Prudential Insurance Company of America, said it would buy American General for $26.5 billion in stock. C1

T.W.A. Takeover Sanctioned
A federal bankruptcy judge approved a plan by American Airlines to take over T.W.A., rejecting a challenge by the financier Carl C. Icahn. C1

Health Insurers Set Standards
Five Minnesota health plans will support standard treatment and prevention procedures for 50 common ailments like back pain, high blood pressure, diabetes and bladder infections. It is the first time all major health plans in a state are collaborating on a set of standard guidelines. C1

Business Digest C1

World Business W1

FASHION B10

EDITORIAL A18-19

Editorials: The danger in Kosovo; Harvard's new president; an extreme sentence in Florida; where there's less smoke.
Columns: Thomas L. Friedman, Gail Collins.

Crossword E4
TV Listings E9
Public Lives B2
Weather D8

GRAPHIC: Photo 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Summary 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ARMED FORCES (90%); ARMIES (90%); BOMBINGS (90%); NEWS BRIEFS (90%); US PRESIDENTS (89%); MILITARY OPERATIONS (89%); DEATHS & OBITUARIES (84%); INTERNATIONAL COURTS & TRIBUNALS (79%); ARMS TRADE (78%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (78%); IRANIAN ELECTION PROTESTS (76%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (76%); ELECTRIC POWER PLANTS (74%); CITY GOVERNMENT (74%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (74%); CULTURE DEPARTMENTS (73%); PRIME MINISTERS (73%); WAR CRIMES (73%); COLLECTIVE BARGAINING AGREEMENTS (71%); BESTSELLERS (70%); POWER PLANTS (69%); BUDGETS (68%); WRITERS (68%); CENSUS (64%); NOVELS & SHORT STORIES (63%); LABOR UNIONS (60%); TAX RELIEF (60%); NUCLEAR ENERGY (54%); NUCLEAR POWER PLANTS (54%); BUDGET DEFICITS (50%) NO INDEX TERMS FROM NYTIMES 

COMPANY: AL MUDON INTERNATIONAL REAL ESTATE CO KSCC (58%)

ORGANIZATION: NORTH ATLANTIC TREATY ORGANIZATION (82%)

TICKER: ALMUDON (KUW) (58%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS531110 LESSORS OF RESIDENTIAL BUILDINGS & DWELLINGS (58%); SIC6513 OPERATORS OF APARTMENT BUILDINGS (58%)

PERSON: VLADIMIR PUTIN (73%)

GEOGRAPHIC: BELGRADE, SERBIA (79%); THE HAGUE, NETHERLANDS (74%) FLORIDA, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (96%); IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (94%); PALESTINIAN TERRITORY, OCCUPIED (94%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (93%); KUWAIT (92%); IRAQ (92%); NEW ZEALAND (92%); SERBIA (92%); BOSNIA & HERZEGOVINA (92%); SERBIA & MONTENEGRO (89%); KOSOVO (79%); NETHERLANDS (79%); MACEDONIA, THE FORMER YUGOSLAV REPUBLIC OF (79%); ISRAEL (79%)

LOAD-DATE: March 13, 2001 



330 of 868 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 13, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section W; Column 3; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 853 words

HEADLINE: India Optimistically Prepares for Slump in the U.S. 

BYLINE:  By MARK LANDLER 

DATELINE: BANGALORE, India, March 12 

 BODY:
No country rode the technology boom in the United States more spectacularly than did India, which created an $8 billion computer software industry from scratch in the last decade.
 Now, as the slowdown in the United States rolls like a wave through Asia, executives here are putting up a brave front. They insist that India will be the breakwater: the one export-driven country in the region that holds off the tide. 
 The software industry's trade association said today that India would meet its target of $6.2 billion in technology exports in the fiscal year ending next month. It also said it expected to hit next year's target of $9.5 billion. 
"We feel we can convert the slowdown in the U.S. into an opportunity for the Indian technology industry," said Dewang Mehta, president of the group, the National Association of Software and Services Companies.
Mr. Mehta, who spoke at a technology conference organized by the Asia Society here, said Indian companies -- with their low labor costs -- would benefit from American companies that are anxious to cut their own costs.
If he is right, India would be a stark exception among Asian countries, which are suffering from the canceled orders and the reduced budgets of customers like Lucent Technologies, Intel, Cisco Systems and Nortel Networks.
Taiwan's economic output will slow to 3.7 percent this year from 6 percent in 2000 because of the technology slump, according to a report by Lehman Brothers. South Korea, Malaysia, Singapore and the Philippines will also be hurt by reduced spending in the United States, according to analysts. 
Such widespread damage has given rise to skeptics here, who say that India cannot possibly escape the negative effects.
"I think it's going to be worse than people expect," said Rajeev Chandrasekhar, the chairman of BPL, one of the nation's largest cellular phone companies. "There is a lot of spin going on in the industry these days."
Mr. Chandrasekhar said the downturn would make American companies more cautious about contracts for Indian companies. Such outsourcing deals are the lifeblood of India's technology industry, which still makes most of its money from the mundane business of writing software code for overseas companies.
Among its biggest customers is Nortel Networks, the Canadian telecommunications equipment maker, which recently cut its sales growth forecast for 2001 in half and said it would eliminate 10,000 jobs.
Fears about reduced spending by other multinational corporations prompted Credit Lyonnais Securities Asia to lower its recommendation last week on one of India's largest software companies, Wipro. The rating was cut to sell, but a buy recommendation was maintained on another big software company, Infosys Technologies.
"Nortel is a major source of business for India, so that's a matter of concern to us," Mr. Mehta said.
Still, he noted that the software industry association had surveyed 185 companies that assign outsourcing contracts to Indian companies and had found that few planned to scale back their business. Indeed, DuPont recently committed itself to a $150 million outsourcing contract.
Mr. Mehta added that Indian business leaders would travel to the United States later this year to ask more than 300 companies that have not yet ventured to India to consider sending projects here.
The road show will include testimonials from executives of companies that are active here, as well as a fashion show featuring winners of Indian beauty contests. "We want to sell software and soft wear together," Mr. Mehta said.
In addition to low costs, India has earned a reputation for high quality in software code writing. Experts say that with an English-speaking population and technical colleges that turn out more than 73,000 graduates a year, India is on track to be one of Asia's top technology powers.
Much of that talent is in Bangalore, a dusty, choked city of six million ringed by lush technology parks. The Indian government views technology as the crucial engine of its economic growth and has exempted it from many of the import and export restrictions that other industries here face.
But favorable regulations cannot shield Indian companies from the tribulations of its customers. The collapse of Internet companies in the United States has caused layoffs of thousands of skilled software engineers.
That poses a threat to one of India's most basic businesses: the so-called body shops that supply contract software writers to American companies. Mr. Mehta said with so many code writers on the street, few companies would need to import people from India. Among other vulnerable companies are those that derived many of their sales from Internet start-ups that havefallen on hard times. 
Some executives say the slowdown in the United States will have a salutary effect on the Indian industry, which has become complacent after growing 50 percent a year for more than a decade.
"It's a good reminder for us not to take what we have for granted, or to become too greedy," said Ashok Soota, a longtime industry executive who recently started a software services firm, Mind Tree Consulting.

GRAPHIC: Photo: Prime Minister Atal Behari Vajpayee of India, right, greeted Peter R. Kann, chairman of Dow Jones, at a conference in Bangalore on Sunday. (Associated Press) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: COMPUTER SOFTWARE (90%); EXPORT TRADE (90%); COMPUTING & IT SECTOR PERFORMANCE (90%); SOFTWARE MAKERS (89%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS EQUIPMENT MFG (87%); BUDGETS (78%); BUSINESS & PROFESSIONAL ASSOCIATIONS (78%); OUTSOURCING (78%); TECHNOLOGY EXPORTS & IMPORTS (78%); SALES FIGURES (78%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (76%); SALES PROJECTIONS (75%); LOWERED SALES PROJECTIONS (75%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (73%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS (73%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS EQUIPMENT (70%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS SERVICES (70%); CONFERENCES & CONVENTIONS (70%); BROKER RECOMMENDATIONS (69%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS SECTOR PERFORMANCE (67%); WAGES & SALARIES (67%); BUDGET CUTS (66%); MULTINATIONAL CORPORATIONS (65%); MOBILE & CELLULAR COMMUNICATIONS (65%); WIRELESS TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (65%); PRIME MINISTERS (59%); MOBILE & CELLULAR TELEPHONES (50%) COMPUTERS AND THE INTERNET; COMPUTER SOFTWARE; INTERNATIONAL TRADE AND WORLD MARKET; UNITED STATES ECONOMY; LABOR; WAGES AND SALARIES 

COMPANY: NORTEL NETWORKS CORP (83%); ALCATEL-LUCENT SA (82%); INFOSYS LTD (81%); CISCO SYSTEMS INC (58%); INTEL CORP (58%); LEHMAN BROTHERS HOLDINGS INC (54%); CREDIT LYONNAIS SA (51%)

ORGANIZATION: THE ASIA SOCIETY (56%) NATIONAL ASSN OF SOFTWARE AND SERVICES COMPANIES 

TICKER: ALU (PAR) (82%); ALU (NYSE) (82%); ALU (BIT) (82%); INFY (PAR) (81%); INFY (NYSE) (81%); INFY (NSE) (81%); CSCO (NASDAQ) (58%); INTC (NASDAQ) (58%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS334220 RADIO & TELEVISION BROADCASTING & WIRELESS COMMUNICATIONS EQUIPMENT MANUFACTURING (83%); NAICS334210 TELEPHONE APPARATUS MANUFACTURING (83%); SIC3663 RADIO & TELEVISION BROADCASTING & COMMUNICATIONS EQUIPMENT (82%); SIC3661 TELEPHONE & TELEGRAPH APPARATUS (82%); NAICS541511 CUSTOM COMPUTER PROGRAMMING SERVICES (81%); SIC7371 COMPUTER PROGRAMMING SERVICES (81%); NAICS334413 SEMICONDUCTOR & RELATED DEVICE MANUFACTURING (58%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (54%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (54%); SIC6021 NATIONAL COMMERCIAL BANKS (51%)

PERSON: LANDLER, MARK 

GEOGRAPHIC: KARNATAKA, INDIA (73%) INDIA (97%); UNITED STATES (95%); ASIA (94%); MALAYSIA (79%); PHILIPPINES (79%); TAIWAN (79%); SINGAPORE (79%) INDIA

LOAD-DATE: March 13, 2001 



331 of 868 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 14, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section C; Column 3; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 14

LENGTH: 38 words

HEADLINE: THE MARKETS: COMMODITIES 

 BODY:
 COPPER FALLS. Copper fell to the lowest price in two weeks on expectations that a slowing economy would hurt sales of wires and pipes. In New York, copper for May delivery fell 0.9 cent, or 1.1 percent, to 81.95 cents a pound.

GRAPHIC: Graph tracks copper prices (near-month contract), since Sept., 1999. (Source: Bloomberg Financial Markets). It also lists the 52-week highs and lows of selected commodities, along with their closes yesterday and their changes, yesterday, year to date, and over the past 52 weeks. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (90%); FUTURES (89%); SECURITIES TRADING (87%); TRENDS (86%) COPPER, BRASS AND BRONZE; PRICES (FARES, FEES AND RATES); FUTURES AND OPTIONS TRADING; UNITED STATES ECONOMY; ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS; SALES 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: March 14, 2001 



332 of 868 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 14, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section C; Column 3; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 14

LENGTH: 36 words

HEADLINE: THE MARKETS: CURRENCIES 

 BODY:
 EURO DROPS. The euro fell as accelerating French and German inflation raised concern the European Central Bank will not cut interest rates soon. In New York, the euro settled at 91.42 cents, down from 92.80 cents.

GRAPHIC: Graph tracks Euro to the dollar, since Sept., 1999. (Source: Bloomberg Financial Markets). It also shows yesterday's closes for the British pound (in U.S. dollars), the Canadian dollar (per U.S. dollar), the German mark (per U.S. dollar), the Japanese yen (per U.S. dollar), the Mexican peso (pers U.S. dollar), and the South Korean won (per U.S. dollar). 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CURRENCIES (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); EUROPEAN UNION INSTITUTIONS (90%); INTEREST RATES (90%); ECONOMIC POLICY (90%); CENTRAL BANKS (90%); EURO (90%); TRENDS (82%) CURRENCY; ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS; PRICES (FARES, FEES AND RATES); CREDIT; INTEREST RATES 

COMPANY: EUROPEAN CENTRAL BANK (91%)

ORGANIZATION: EUROPEAN CENTRAL BANK (91%); EUROPEAN UNION (59%) EUROPEAN UNION; EUROPEAN CENTRAL BANK 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (92%) EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (94%); UNITED STATES (94%); EUROPE (94%); GERMANY (93%); FRANCE (79%); MEXICO (79%); CANADA (79%) FRANCE; GERMANY; EUROPE

LOAD-DATE: March 14, 2001 



333 of 868 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 14, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 5; Editorial Desk; Pg. 23

LENGTH: 697 words

HEADLINE: Reckonings; 
After the Fall

BYLINE:  By PAUL KRUGMAN 

 BODY:
The first thing we do, let's kill all the spokesmen. Not really; but officials at both the White House and the Federal Reserve have been making things worse. On one side, we have Ari Fleischer et al. doing their best to spread panic, in the belief that fear sells tax cuts. On the other side, we have Fed officials offering upbeat assessments that, far from building confidence, only add to the sickening sense that the central bank doesn't get it.
 Monday's plunge in the markets was driven in part by more bad corporate news. But it also reflected the market's judgment about how the economy is doing. And despite the partial recovery yesterday, the case for really dramatic interest rate cuts has gotten considerably stronger. 
 Right now we are in a race between the natural forces of recovery and the self-reinforcing forces of contraction. The manufacturing slump that began last year was mainly an inventory cycle: companies produced too much, and then cut back their production in an effort to get rid of the excess. If that were the whole story, the economy would soon bounce back of its own accord. But it isn't the whole story: the manufacturing slump, falling stock prices and a general climate of nervousness are undermining both consumer and business confidence.
The Fed's position has been that the natural rebound once excess inventories are worked off will outrun the decline in confidence, and that confidence too will rebound once there is a clear improvement in economic indicators. Under that scenario, the Fed wouldn't want to cut interest rates too much; cutting rates drastically in the face of merely temporary weakness would risk fueling a future inflationary boom.
But what if declining confidence wins the race? Then the decline in confidence would feed on itself. The odds are that the Fed would eventually succeed in turning things around; but a lot of damage would have been done in the meantime. And there's the small but scary possibility of a Japanese-style trap, in which even cutting rates all the way to zero turns out not to be enough.
Even a few weeks ago the Fed's sunny scenario seemed fairly plausible. But since then a drumbeat of bad news has changed the odds. Numbers on employment have held up pretty well so far, but surely they are a lagging indicator. Given the evidence that consumer spending is starting to fall, and the anecdotal evidence of canceled or postponed business investment, it's hard to avoid the sense that contractionary forces are pulling ahead in the race. And the decline in the markets both reflects growing pessimism and strengthens the case for that pessimism.
I've done a very rough calculation on what Monday's fall in stocks might do to consumer spending. This is real fuzzy math, but it suggests that one day's stock decline might well depress consumer spending more than a whole year of the new, accelerated version of the Bush tax cut would increase it. Which brings us to the question of policy.
It goes without saying that the Fed must cut interest rates next week. And too small a cut will be almost as bad as no cut at all. If confidence is not to plunge, business needs a big rate cut, one that shows that the Fed understands the gravity of the situation.
What about tax cuts? George W. Bush continues to sell his plan as a recession-fighting measure, but his plan is almost perfectly designed not to serve that function. Or as a headline in The Wall Street Journal put it, "Tax-Cut Talk Is Big; Relief Would Be Small." In order to keep down the headline cost of their plan, Mr. Bush's economists delayed most of the big tax breaks until late in the decade. And they cannot do much to accelerate those breaks without making it obvious to everyone that they are planning to raid Medicare and Social Security.
On Monday, former Treasury Secretary Robert Rubin suggested a smaller, "front-loaded" tax cut that would cost far less but would put much more money into consumers' pockets in the near term. This could help a bit more. But the ball is mainly in the Fed's court.
There are times when policy makers should be judicious, when they should resist being rushed by events. This is not one of those times. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); MANUFACTURING SECTOR PERFORMANCE (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); CENTRAL BANKS (90%); INTEREST RATES (88%); TAX INCENTIVES (77%); DELAYS & POSTPONEMENTS (77%); ECONOMIC DEPRESSION (77%); ECONOMIC POLICY (76%); INVENTORIES (74%); CONSUMER SPENDING (74%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (74%); ECONOMIC INDICATORS (74%); RECESSION (74%); CONSUMER SPENDING & CREDIT (74%); TAXES & TAXATION (72%); TAX LAW (72%); BONDS (72%); BUSINESS CONFIDENCE (65%) UNITED STATES ECONOMY; RECESSION AND DEPRESSION; INTEREST RATES; CREDIT; STOCKS AND BONDS; TAXATION 

ORGANIZATION: FEDERAL RESERVE BOARD 

PERSON: PAUL KRUGMAN (54%) KRUGMAN, PAUL; BUSH, GEORGE W (PRES) 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: March 14, 2001 



334 of 868 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 14, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section C; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 338 words

HEADLINE: Kmart and Saks Report Drops In Net Income 

BYLINE:  Reuters 

DATELINE: CHICAGO, March 13 

 BODY:
The Kmart Corporation and Saks Inc. reported lower fourth-quarter profits today as consumers, mindful of a slowing economy, reined in spending.
 Most retailers have felt the pinch as rising fuel costs, falling stock markets and news of thousands of job layoffs in recent months have curbed shoppers' appetites for everything from holiday gifts to spring clothing. 
 The discount retailer Kmart reported a 40 percent decline in fourth-quarter net income and said its future sales might be vulnerable to economic weakness as well as disruptions from operating changes in the company. 
Net income for the retailer, based in Troy, Mich., for the quarter ended Jan. 31, was $249 million, or 48 cents a diluted share, compared with $412 million, or 77 cents a share, in the quarter a year earlier.
Kmart's results were a penny above the Thomson Financial/First Call consensus estimate of 47 cents a share, but were hurt by a weak economy and costs associated with efforts to improve store operations.
Net sales rose 4.8 percent, to $11.64 billion from $11.11 billion a year earlier. Sales at stores open at least a year, a crucial measure of performance, rose 2.1 percent.
Saks, the department store operator that runs the Saks Fifth Avenue stores, said its fourth-quarter profits fell more than 20 percent, dampened by increased markdowns to clear racks of merchandise at year's end.
The retailer, based in Birmingham, Ala., said recently that it would not spin off its Saks Fifth Avenue business because of poor conditions in luxury retail.
It said today that its operating income before certain items dropped to $111.3 million, or 78 cents a share, from $142.3 million, or 99 cents a share, in the quarter a year ago.
Wall Street analysts polled by Thomson Financial expected Saks to post a profit of 73 cents a share for the period.
Sales for the quarter rose 4 percent, to $2.12 billion from $2.04 billion a year ago.
Shares of Kmart fell 6 cents, to $9.09, in New York Stock Exchange trading, while Saks shares ended off 20 cents at $12.75. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: INTERIM FINANCIAL RESULTS (91%); DISCOUNT & CLUB STORES (90%); GENERAL MERCHANDISE STORES (90%); RETAIL SALES (90%); COMPANY PROFITS (90%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (90%); RETAILERS (90%); COMPANY EARNINGS (90%); FINANCIAL RESULTS (89%); STOCK EXCHANGES (89%); SALES FIGURES (89%); DEPARTMENT STORES (78%); SAME STORE SALES (78%); LUXURY GOODS (78%); ANNUAL FINANCIAL RESULTS (78%); SECURITIES TRADING (77%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (73%); LAYOFFS (72%); POLLS & SURVEYS (72%) COMPANY REPORTS 

COMPANY: SAKS INC (94%); KMART CORP (93%); THOMSON FINANCIAL (70%); SAKS FIFTH AVENUE ENTERPRISES (55%); NEW YORK STOCK EXCHANGE LLC (52%)

ORGANIZATION: KMART CORP; SAKS INC 

TICKER: SKS (NYSE) (94%)

INDUSTRY: SIC5311 DEPARTMENT STORES (94%); NAICS452990 ALL OTHER GENERAL MERCHANDISE STORES (93%); SIC5331 VARIETY STORES (93%); NAICS452111 DEPARTMENT STORES (EXCEPT DISCOUNT DEPARTMENT STORES) (55%) SIC5331 VARIETY STORES; 

GEOGRAPHIC: BIRMINGHAM, AL, USA (52%) ALABAMA, USA (79%); MICHIGAN, USA (79%); NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: March 14, 2001 



335 of 868 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 14, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section C; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 425 words

HEADLINE: Delta Air Lines Now Expects to Post Loss for the Current Quarter 

BYLINE:  Bloomberg News 

DATELINE: ATLANTA, March 13 

 BODY:
Delta Air Lines said today that it expected a loss of as much as $110 million this quarter instead of the profit that analysts had forecast because business travel fell as the economy slowed and flights were eliminated.
 The expected loss, estimated at 70 to 90 cents a share in the quarter ending this month, was disclosed in a letter filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission. Analysts had forecast a profit of 46 cents a share, according to Thomson Financial/First Call. 
 Delta reduced flights after some pilots refused to fly on overtime while contract talks continued. The cuts and the decline in the number of high-paying business passengers because of a threat of delays caused by the dispute will cost the company as much as $350 million in revenue this quarter and $250 million next quarter, Delta said. Passenger traffic is slowing as companies reduce costs.
"Fasten your seat belt, it's going to be a bumpy quarter," said Ray Neidl, an analyst at ING Barings. "We knew the earnings estimates were too high."
"The current economic downturn has resulted in weaker business traffic, exacerbated by customer concern over a possible strike by Delta pilots," Joseph C. Kolshak, Delta's director of investor relations, said in a letter dated today.
Russ Williams, a spokesman for the airline, said it was too soon to comment on third-quarter revenue.
Shares of Delta fell $1.64, or 3.8 percent, to $41.46. 
Delta, based in Atlanta, and the Air Line Pilots Association are awaiting a decision from the National Mediation Board on whether they can be released from further contract talks, which could start a 30-day cooling-off period before a possible strike. The board called the two sides to a meeting in Washington on Thursday, the union said.
Passenger traffic at the nation's 10 largest airlines fell 1.3 percent in February compared with the month a year earlier, according to reports filed by the airlines.
Delta obtains much of its revenue from flights on the East Coast, where it faces increasing competition from low-fare carriers like Southwest Airlines and JetBlue Airways, said Brian Harris, an analyst at Salomon Smith Barney.
Delta is struggling with higher fuel prices that have hurt the industry for more than a year. While fuel prices have fallen from a year ago, Delta's filing with the S.E.C. said its fuel costs per gallon would be 21 percent higher than in the quarter a year earlier.
Jet-fuel prices for delivery in New York harbor have averaged 84 cents a gallon this quarter, compared with 94 cents in the period a year ago.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: AIRLINES (91%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (90%); COMPANY LOSSES (90%); AIRCRAFT PILOTS (90%); AIRLINE EMPLOYEES (89%); AIRLINES PASSENGER TRAFFIC (89%); COLLECTIVE BARGAINING (89%); COMPANY REVENUES (78%); INTERIM FINANCIAL RESULTS (78%); AIR FARES (78%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (78%); DELAYS & POSTPONEMENTS (78%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (78%); EARNINGS PREANNOUNCEMENTS (78%); COMPANY EARNINGS (78%); ECONOMIC NEWS (77%); STRIKES (75%); PRICE CHANGES (75%); JET FUEL (70%); INVESTOR RELATIONS (65%) AIRLINES AND AIRPLANES; FINANCES 

COMPANY: DELTA AIR LINES INC (92%); JETBLUE AIRWAYS CORP (82%); THOMSON FINANCIAL (71%); SOUTHWEST AIRLINES CO (58%); SMITH BARNEY HOLDINGS INC (52%)

ORGANIZATION: DELTA AIR LINES INC 

TICKER: DAL (NYSE) (92%); JBLU (NASDAQ) (82%); LUV (NYSE) (58%)

INDUSTRY: SIC4512 AIR TRANSPORTATION, SCHEDULED (92%); NAICS481111 SCHEDULED PASSENGER AIR TRANSPORTATION (82%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (52%) SIC4512 AIR TRANSPORTATION; 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: March 14, 2001 



336 of 868 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 14, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Editorial Desk; Pg. 23

LENGTH: 758 words

HEADLINE: Make Russia a Better Neighbor 

BYLINE:  By Anatol Lieven and Celeste Wallander; Anatol Lieven is a senior associate at the Carnegie Endowment for International Peace. Celeste Wallander is a senior fellow at the Council on Foreign Relations.

DATELINE: WASHINGTON 

 BODY:
American economic and security interests in the former Soviet Union are fundamentally linked. An economically stable Russia, integrated into the Western economy, would be far less likely to want to damage Western interests or dominate its neighbors, like Georgia, Ukraine and Moldova. Stable and prosperous neighbors would in turn support Russia's new generation of political and business leaders who seek success in the global market through domestic economic reform.
 How could we help build such improved relationships? There is one way the West could help Russia, and at the same time reduce Russian pressure on its neighbors: debt relief. Russia owes $48 billion of former Soviet debt to the Paris Club, the association of creditor nations that includes Germany and the United States. In recent weeks, Moscow has threatened to default on this year's payments and has demanded forgiveness or renegotiation. 
 As the Western creditors have pointed out, Russia's complaints about its 2001 payments are unreasonable. Given the robust state of the Russian economy, the $3.4 billion due this year is well within Russia's budget. By 2003, however, Russia will owe $17.5 billion. Since its entire state budget in 2001 is only $42 billion, it will indeed be quite impossible for Russia to pay at that time. If we insist on the full sum, Russia will default.
Since the West will be forced to renegotiate Russia's debt sooner or later, we should try to get something in return. The most obvious goal should be to reduce Russia's ability to control its neighbors.
Over the past five years, economic pressure, not military dominance or internal subversion, has become the most important source of Russian regional power. Russia is too weak to exert the kind of military pressure it exercised against Georgia in 1993. Furthermore, any direct military intervention would cause Russia terrible damage internationally.
But Russia exerts influence over its neighbors through other means. Georgia, Ukraine and Moldova, in particular, have run up enormous unpaid debts to Russia, mostly for gas supplies. Ukraine owes at least $1.4 billion for gas; Gazprom, the state-controlled Russian natural-gas monopoly, claims that the actual amount is more than $2 billion. Moldova owes $861 million for gas, and Georgia owes $179 million. None of these countries can afford to pay these sums. Indeed, their debt burdens are strikingly comparable to the debt burden on Russia: last year, the annual Georgian state budget was barely $400 million. 
In recent months, Georgia's inability to pay its loans has led to repeated shut-offs of gas, considerably worsening Georgia's already severe electricity crisis. This pressure contributed to the recent declaration by Eduard Shevardnadze, Georgia's president, that his country may drop its (vain) hope of becoming a NATO member and instead aim at neutral status.
In the case of Ukraine, Moscow has sought to swap its neighbor's debt for equity in Ukrainian state-owned industries, which is likely to leave Russian businesses in control of much of the Ukrainian economy. Already, the debt burden has forced the Ukrainian government to agree to unify the Russian and Ukrainian electricity grids.
By international standards, Russian pressure seems fair enough. Why should Russia provide its neighbors with what is in effect heavily subsidized gas and get nothing in return? After all, the West has also told Russia that failing to pay its debts violates international financial rules, and that default would bring Western economic retaliation.
On the other hand, Russia has no right to expect generosity from the West while taking a ruthless line toward its own debtors. The United States and its European partners should therefore offer to forgive Russia all or part of its debt, while demanding that in return Russia act similarly toward the debts of its neighbors.
We could then use this window of opportunity to help these countries develop alternative energy sources -- assuming, of course, that the elites of these countries can summon up enough honesty and competence to move seriously in this direction.
Too much of the American approach toward the former Soviet Union has consisted of rhetorical declarations without real content. By contrast, linking Russia's debt to that of its neighbors would be both very effective and entirely legitimate. It is precisely this kind of practical, sober policy -- rather than empty geopolitical obsessions -- that should characterize our policy toward Russia and, indeed, the rest of the world. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); EMERGING MARKETS (90%); BUDGETS (90%); PUBLIC DEBT (90%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (89%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (89%); ECONOMIC NEWS (78%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (78%); INTERNATIONAL ASSISTANCE (78%); TRENDS (77%); EXTERNAL DEBT (76%); EXTERNAL DEBT REDUCTION (75%); ECONOMIC POLICY (73%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (71%); NATURAL GAS MARKETS (71%); NATURAL GAS PRODUCTS (66%); NATURAL GAS & ELECTRIC UTILITIES (63%) CREDIT; INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS 

COMPANY: OAO GAZPROM (63%)

ORGANIZATION: PARIS CLUB (56%)

TICKER: OGZD (LSE) (63%); GAZP (RTS) (63%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS486210 PIPELINE TRANSPORTATION OF NATURAL GAS (63%); NAICS221210 NATURAL GAS DISTRIBUTION (63%); NAICS213112 SUPPORT ACTIVITIES FOR OIL & GAS OPERATIONS (63%); NAICS211111 CRUDE PETROLEUM & NATURAL GAS EXTRACTION (63%); SIC4923 NATURAL GAS TRANSMISSION & DISTRIBUTION (63%); SIC1311 CRUDE PETROLEUM & NATURAL GAS (63%)

PERSON: MIKHEIL SAAKASHVILI (58%) LIEVEN, ANATOL; WALLANDER, CELESTE 

GEOGRAPHIC: MOSCOW, RUSSIAN FEDERATION (92%) RUSSIAN FEDERATION (99%); GEORGIA (94%); MOLDOVA, REPUBLIC OF (94%); UNITED STATES (94%); UKRAINE (94%); GERMANY (79%) RUSSIA

LOAD-DATE: March 14, 2001 



337 of 868 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 14, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section C; Column 5; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 14

LENGTH: 319 words

HEADLINE: Retail Sales Declined 0.2% In February 

BYLINE:  Bloomberg News 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, March 13 

 BODY:
Retail sales fell 0.2 percent in February after surging a month earlier, government figures showed today. 
 Reduced spending on furniture, gasoline and restaurant food paced the decline, to $274.5 billion last month, the Commerce Department said. Sales rose 1.3 percent in January, almost double the previous estimate. Excluding automobiles, which rose, sales dropped 0.3 percent after rising 1.3 percent in January. 
 While the February level of retail sales was in line with forecasts, analysts expect waning consumer optimism and eroding stock prices to weaken sales in coming months. That is why investors are betting that Federal Reserve policy makers will cut the benchmark interest rate a half percentage point on March 20, the third such reduction since Jan. 3.
Spending "will be slowing as the year goes, and the Fed will want to make sure the economy stays on track," said Michael Moran, chief economist at Daiwa Securities America Inc. in New York. Still, the two months combined show consumers are "providing moderate support to the economy," he said. In addition to autos, sales of building materials, clothing and medicine increased last month.
Analysts are forecasting a rise in consumer spending in the first quarter of 2 percent to 3 percent, measured at an annual rate. Spending in the fourth quarter grew at 2.8 percent pace, the slowest since mid-1997, and at 7.6 percent in the first quarter of 2000.
February's report showed sales at auto dealers increased 0.2 percent after rising 1.3 percent a month earlier. Sales of cars and light trucks rose to 17.5 million units at an annual pace in February, up from 17.2 million in January, industry figures showed earlier this month. That was the highest sales level since September.
Sales at department stores and other general merchandise stores rose 0.3 percent in February after a 1.5 percent increase in January, the Commerce Department report showed.

GRAPHIC: Graph: "Retail Sales"Total retail sales in billions of dollars, seasonally adjusted. Graph tracks retail sales since Sept., 1999.(Source: Commerce Department)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: RETAIL SALES (94%); RETAIL SECTOR PERFORMANCE (91%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); COMMERCE DEPARTMENTS (90%); SALES FIGURES (90%); RETAILERS (89%); RESTAURANTS (79%); GENERAL MERCHANDISE STORES (79%); AUTOMOTIVE SALES (78%); PUBLIC POLICY (78%); STATISTICS (78%); DEPARTMENT STORES (74%); MOTOR VEHICLES (72%); NEW CAR DEALERS (72%); INTEREST RATES (69%); CONSTRUCTION MATERIALS & COMPONENTS (52%) RETAIL STORES AND TRADE; SALES 

COMPANY: DAIWA SECURITIES AMERICA INC (69%)

ORGANIZATION: US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (93%) COMMERCE DEPARTMENT 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: March 14, 2001 



338 of 868 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 14, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 2; National Desk; Pg. 16

LENGTH: 927 words

HEADLINE: Transportation Chief Supports Fees to Ease Airport Crowding 

BYLINE:  By MATTHEW L. WALD 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, March 13 

 BODY:
Secretary of Transportation Norman Y. Mineta said today that he favored charging airlines more for flights at the most congested hours as a way to spread out the traffic and cut delays, although that might make fewer seats available at the times most customers want to fly.
 Mr. Mineta, meeting with reporters in his office this afternoon, also said that air traffic delays would recur this summer but that if there were no widespread strikes he was optimistic. 
 "It won't be hunky-dory, but I think we'll be in better shape than last summer," Mr. Mineta said. 
He cited improvements to the Federal Aviation Administration's command center, in Herndon, Va., which since the beginning of last summer has been intensively working with the airlines, hour by hour, to coordinate traffic and reduce delays.
The idea of varying charges to reduce congestion, as is now done on some highways, is now under consideration at La Guardia Airport, which is supposed to submit to Mr. Mineta's department this month a list of ideas that might be put into effect in September.
The aviation agency, which is part of the Transportation Department, has said that whatever is done in New York could also be used at O'Hare in Chicago, Reagan National outside Washington and other crowded airports.
"Congestion pricing," as economists call it, is normally used to flatten out peaks in demand, although at La Guardia the idea would be to drive some traffic to other airports entirely, because the airport is busy from early morning until late evening, and to reduce the number of landings and takeoffs to a level that does not virtually guarantee delays.
"If I were emperor, I'd impose it," Mr. Mineta said.
But given his powers as a mere secretary of transportation, Mr. Mineta acknowledged, the idea's prospects are uncertain.
Airports in the United States have always charged landing fees based on aircraft weight. Recently some aviation experts have put forward the idea of charging a flat fee, which would encourage airlines to use bigger planes, thus moving the same number of passengers in fewer flights.
The airlines, however, have been moving toward smaller planes, offering more frequent service, which may be more convenient for travelers but has contributed to delays at some airports.
Another idea is to fix the number of allowable flights and auction them to the highest bidders, or, perhaps, auction fewer to airlines performing jobs the government wants done, like serving small cities, and the rest to the companies that would pay the most.
Extra money could be used to add capacity elsewhere in the aviation system, or perhaps to buy off the airlines that now have landing rights at crowded airports, aviation experts say.
Mr. Mineta, sketching boxes and lines in blue felt-tip on a white pad of paper as he spoke, said, "I've always been on the capacity side, building runways, building highways, building ports."
But adding capacity to the air traffic system takes years, he said, and "this is one area where maybe we're going to have to do something on the demand side."
Aviation experts say, however, that this might have unintended consequences.
Barbara Beyer, president of Avmark, an aviation consulting firm, said ticket prices on peak-hour trips probably would not change. Those, Ms. Beyer said, are already set by "what the customer will bear." 
"The real impact comes on the low-fare carriers and the new entrants," she said.
Big airlines will spread extra costs over all their customers, she said, while small airlines do not have a huge customer base with which to do that.
"The little guys basically couldn't stand that level of pricing," Ms. Beyer said.
At the Air Carrier Association, a trade association of discount carriers, Edward P. Faberman, who represents the group, said that while raising fees was one way to reduce traffic at places like La Guardia, "you can't base who is going to operate there by who has the deepest pockets."
Mr. Faberman argued, "You can't say to a carrier that wants to put in three round trips a day to one hub that it has to bid against the largest carriers in the world."
Big carriers will bid high for slots they do not even need, he said, adding that "history has shown they will pay any amount of money to keep out competitors." 
Richard S. Golaszewski, a consultant who is advising the aviation agency on how to use economics to smooth out delays, said airlines with national or international systems were likely to bid more. "I think the slots are worth more to a network carrier than a point-to-point carrier like many of the new entrants," he said.
But changing the price structure could send enough carriers to other airports to create new alternatives; in the New York area, for instance, Stewart, near Newburgh, could become viable, and Kennedy International Airport might develop into a strong airport for domestic flights.
Mr. Mineta, in his first meeting with reporters since his confirmation as transportation secretary, also said he did not favor privatizing air traffic control, a step some airline executives have called for as a way to speed modernization.
"To me, safety is a governmental responsibility," Mr. Mineta said. He also said that the air traffic system should be financed by user fees on the airlines, but that the aviation agency could not do this now because it still lacked an accounting system that it could use to figure out its costs. It now hopes to complete such a system by next year.
"I'm really disappointed that it's taking this long to get a good cost accounting system in place," Mr. Mineta said. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: AVIATION ADMINISTRATION (93%); CIVIL AVIATION (93%); AIRPORTS (92%); AVIATION TRANSPORTATION LAW (90%); DELAYS & POSTPONEMENTS (90%); AIRLINES (90%); AIRLINES PASSENGER TRAFFIC (78%); DEREGULATION (78%); AIR TRAFFIC CONTROL (78%); AIRPORT OPERATION (72%) AIRLINES AND AIRPLANES; DELAYS (TRANSPORTATION); AIRPORTS; AIR TRAFFIC CONTROL; REGULATION AND DEREGULATION OF INDUSTRY 

ORGANIZATION: FEDERAL AVIATION ADMINISTRATION 

PERSON: MINETA, NORMAN Y (SEC); WALD, MATTHEW L 

GEOGRAPHIC: CHICAGO, IL, USA (79%) ILLINOIS, USA (79%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); VIRGINIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: March 14, 2001 



339 of 868 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 14, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; National Desk; Pg. 20

LENGTH: 932 words

HEADLINE: Multiracial Identification Might Affect Programs 

BYLINE:  By ERIC SCHMITT 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, March 13 

 BODY:
The surprisingly large multiracial response on the 2000 census could have major implications for monitoring and enforcing civil rights, tracking poverty, ensuring racial balance in public schools and providing aid to minorities, sociologists and federal officials said today. 
 Civil rights advocates say the new figures could expand the number of people covered under civil rights laws, but that in turn could increase the number of legal challenges claiming the nation's minority population was improperly inflated. 
 At the Health and Human Services Department, officials responsible for providing health care on or near Indian reservations ponder whether they should plan to care for the 2.6 million people who identified themselves exclusively as American Indians or the 4.1 million people who said they were at least part Native American. 
And the Education Department is already girding to revamp how it tracks pupil enrollment and student progress in reading, writing and science by race. "I can see it gets a little bit fuzzier," said W. Vance Grant, a statistics specialist at the Education Department. 
The new information and the corresponding issues it raises illustrate the consequences of the decision by the Office of Management and Budget to allow people for the first time to identify themselves on census forms as members of more than one race. People could choose from six racial categories, which present a matrix of 63 possible racial choices, compared with 5 a decade ago. 
But the new options mean that data from the 2000 census is not directly comparable with information from previous censuses or with other statistical systems that use the traditional racial categories. 
Roderick J. Harrison, a former chief of racial statistics at the Census Bureau, said tracking vital statistics like birth and death records by race could be skewed if data from both counting systems were intermingled.
"Multiple-race data are going to be particularly hard to collect and collect consistently across different collections systems," said Mr. Harrison, the director of data for the Joint Center for Political and Economic Studies, a research organization that specializes in minority issues. 
Data from the 2000 census released on Monday produced some surprises. For example, nearly two million black Americans say they belong to more than one race, more than what many government demographers and civil rights officials had projected based on surveys in 1996 and 1998.
Census officials said they were at a loss to explain exactly why 5 percent of black people, or about double what had been expected, said they were multiracial. About half of that group, or 784,000 people, said they were white and black. 
"We really didn't expect that number," Claudette Bennett, the chief of the racial statistics branch at the Census Bureau, said in an interview today. "We just don't really have a good handle on it right now." 
As a result, the Census Bureau plans to survey 50,000 households this summer to find out who identified themselves as belonging to more than one race and why, Ms. Bennett said. She said the survey would be conducted from a nationally representative sample of all races.
Some experts attribute the larger number of blacks identifying with more than one race to an increase in interracial marriages and a greater recognition by younger blacks of their multiracial ancestry. 
And some civil rights advocates, citing the history of race mixing among African-Americans in this country, say the numbers of self-identified multiracial blacks should not be that startling.
"I don't think that's significant," Kweisi Mfume, president of the N.A.A.C.P. "Quite frankly, it's an expression by people of their mixed ancestry." 
In any case, the new data underscores that race is an elastic concept that changes depending on when, how and where you ask the question: What race are you? 
A University of Michigan study in 1995 found that when 20,000 adolescents of all races were asked about their racial identity, about 7 percent said they were mixed race when asked in an anonymous survey at school. But when asked at home by an interviewer, often with a parent present, only 3.5 percent of the children said they were mixed race. 
"Your identity is a dance between what you think you are and what other people think you are," said Prof. David R. Harris, a University of Michigan sociologist who conducted the survey.
Thirty years ago, Professor Harris said, social norms dictated that a person was a minority if he had "one drop" of minority blood in his background. "Nowadays, kids see Mariah Carey, Derek Jeter or Tiger Woods, and they're much more likely to see themselves as mixed race rather than simplify it in the old one-drop way," he said.
As the nation looks at its racial makeup more carefully, the self-examination is taking place family by family. Take Terri Ann Lowenthal's 11-year-old daughter, Joelle, for instance. Ms. Lowenthal is white; the child's father is black. When Joelle was born, Ms. Lowenthal checked "black" for her race on the 1990 census. 
For this decennial count, Ms. Lowenthal, a private census consultant and former staff director of the House Subcommittee on the Census, said the family talked about the issue and left it up to Joelle, who checked both black and white.
Some sociologists and demographers say it may be only a matter of time before the traditional racial classifications lose currency. 
"Over time," said Hugh B. Price, president of the National Urban League, "we may see those categories lose their salience as a more complex picture emerges."

GRAPHIC: Chart: "A New Look at Race in the States"Throughout this month, the Census Bureau is releasing state population figures broken out by race and ethnicity. Categories in 2000 are not directly comparable with those in 1990 because the 2000 questionnaire was the first to let people identify themselves with more than one race. Figures listed here were made public yesterday. 1990 CENSUSKansas: 2,506,427 Non-HispanicWhite: 2,205,043Black: 148,690Asian or Pacific Islander: 31,205American Indian or Alaska Native: 20,701Other: 1,472Multiracial (not an option in 1990): --Hispanic (may be of any race): 99,316 2000 CENSUSNumber Choosing Just One Race, Or TotalKansas: 2,688,418 Non-HispanicWhite: 2,233,997Black: 151,407Asian or Pacific Islander: 47,455American Indian or Alaska Native: 22,322Other: 2,477Multiracial (not an option in 1990): 42,508Hispanic (may be of any race): 188,252 2000 CENSUSNumber Choosing This Race With Other Race(s)* Non-HispanicWhite: 37,439Black: 14,427Asian or Pacific Islander: 10,027American Indian or Alaska Native: 20,326Other: 5,493Multiracial (not an option in 1990): --Hispanic (may be of any race): -- 1990Non-HispanicWhite: 88%Black: 6%Other: 2%Hispanic: 4% 2000Non-HispanicWhite Only: 83%Black Only: 6%Other: 4%Hispanic: 7% 1990 CENSUSNevada: 1,231,620 Non-HispanicWhite: 960,554Black: 81,480Asian or Pacific Islander: 36,455American Indian or Alaska Native: 18,524Other: 1,211Multiracial (not an option in 1990): --Hispanic (may be of any race): 133,396 2000 CENSUSNumber Choosing Just One Race, Or TotalNevada: 1,998,257 Non-HispanicWhite: 1,303,001Black: 131,509Asian or Pacific Islander: 96,362American Indian or Alaska Native: 21,397Other: 2,787Multiracial (not an option in 1990): 49,231Hispanic (may be of any race): 393,970 2000 CENSUSNumber Choosing This Race With Other Race(s)* Non-HispanicWhite: 40,376Black: 12,404Asian or Pacific Islander: 26,095American Indian or Alaska Native: 12,726Other: 11,618Multiracial (not an option in 1990): --Hispanic (may be of any race): -- 1990Non-HispanicWhite: 78%Black: 7%Other: 5%Hispanic: 11% 2000Non-HispanicWhite Only: 65%Black Only: 7%Other: 8%Hispanic: 20% 1990 CENSUSOklahoma: 3,213,646 Non-HispanicWhite: 2,594,598Black: 240,550Asian or Pacific Islander: 33,213American Indian or Alaska Native: 253,405Other: 1,418Multiracial (not an option in 1990): --Hispanic (may be of any race): 90,462 2000 CENSUSNumber Choosing Just One Race, Or TotalOklahoma: 3,450,654 Non-HispanicWhite: 2,556,368Black: 257,981Asian or Pacific Islander: 48,272American Indian or Alaska Native: 266,158Other: 2,322Multiracial (not an option in 1990): 140,249Hispanic (may be of any race): 179,304 2000 CENSUSNumber Choosing This Race With Other Race(s)* Non-HispanicWhite: 128,377Black: 21,746Asian or Pacific Islander: 13,367American Indian or Alaska Native: 114,050Other: 8,337Multiracial (not an option in 1990): --Hispanic (may be of any race): -- 1990Non-HispanicWhite: 81%Black: 7%Other: 9%Hispanic: 3% 2000Non-HispanicWhite Only: 74%Black Only: 7%Other: 13%Hispanic: 5% In the bar graphs, "other" includes all but the two largest non-Hispanic racial groups. Percentages may not add to 100 because of rounding. *These do not add to the multiracial total because multiracial people are counted at least twice, if not more, in these categories.(Source: Census Bureau)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CENSUS (95%); CIVIL RIGHTS (91%); RACE & RACISM (90%); EDUCATION SYSTEMS & INSTITUTIONS (90%); NATIVE AMERICANS (90%); SOCIOLOGY (89%); DEMOGRAPHIC GROUPS (89%); EDUCATION DEPARTMENTS (89%); AFRICAN AMERICANS (78%); PUBLIC SCHOOLS (78%); BUDGETS (78%); PUBLIC FINANCE (78%); HEALTH DEPARTMENTS (77%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (77%); INTERVIEWS (69%); POLITICAL SCIENCE (66%) POPULATION; CENSUS; BLACKS; INDIANS, AMERICAN; MINORITIES (US); CIVIL RIGHTS; EDUCATION AND SCHOOLS; MEDICINE AND HEALTH 

ORGANIZATION: US CENSUS BUREAU (84%); OFFICE OF MANAGEMENT & BUDGET (55%)

PERSON: SCHMITT, ERIC 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (95%) KANSAS; NEVADA; OKLAHOMA

LOAD-DATE: March 14, 2001 



340 of 868 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 14, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1752 words

HEADLINE: Hospital Mergers Stumbling As Marriages of Convenience 

BYLINE:  By JENNIFER STEINHAUER 

 BODY:
When corporations merge, certain things usually result: a snappy new name, a single person running the show, consolidated departments. A big production is made of uniting the partners, culturally and financially, just as in a marriage of people.
 Except when the partners are hospitals. 
 Several years after merger mania swept the hospital industry in New York and around the country, most major health care institutions that went to the altar appear to have been joined in legal documents and back-room functions only.
Few clinical programs have come together. None of the medical schools that serve the hospitals have been joined. Promises of financial triumph have been largely unrealized. Patients rarely have any idea that their hospital has joined with another, because each has kept its own name. (Quick: What is the other half of Mount Sinai Hospital?) And referrals to the other center are as unusual as egrets in Midtown. 
Hospital executives cite several reasons, generally claiming that full-service hospitals are badly needed in every neighborhood in Manhattan. More fully combining these institutions, they say, could dilute the high quality of care many New Yorkers now expect.
"These places are two major centers unto themselves," said Dr. Herbert Pardes, chief executive of New York-Presbyterian, which was formed in late 1997 by the merger of New York Hospital and Columbia-Presbyterian Hospital. "We want to keep both of the centers strong."
The executives also point to the merger of the hospitals at Stanford University and the University of California at San Francisco, which fell apart after less than two years, when the two centers tried to meld too many operations too soon. As for the financial problems, most blame outside forces.
But the basic reason that hospitals have not merged more fully is that doctors, unwilling to give up power or any areas of care in their hospitals, will not stand for it. And hospitals are one of the few businesses in America in which the employees call the shots.
"If you merge two hospitals, you have a large number of prima donnas who are used to taking orders from no one," said Robert I. Field, the director of the graduate program on health policy at the University of the Sciences in Philadelphia. "While having all of certain procedures in one place might mean higher quality, each hospital still tends to remain a cost and profit center and are not willing to give things up." 
The goal of the mergers -- New York and Columbia-Presbyterian Hospitals; Beth Israel Medical Center with St. Luke's-Roosevelt Hospital Center; and Mount Sinai with New York University Medical Center -- was, of course, to save money. 
With managed-care companies slicing away at reimbursements, hospital executives believed the best way to fight back was by becoming bigger. Opportunities to combine certain departments and functions abounded.
Indeed, some money was saved. Behind-the-scenes functions like laundry services and legal departments consolidated. Contracts with managed-care companies have become more equitable, hospital executives and industry experts agree. And little by little, researchers from centers that were once rivals have come together in one capacity or another.
But combining major clinical programs and melding cultures has not happened, hospital executives and staff members agree, and there are subtle signals that some of the hospitals are actually growing apart. 
New York-Presbyterian, for instance, changed a line of its logo recently that referred to the merged group as a "hospital," making it plural again. And the giant board of trustees for Mount Sinai N.Y.U. recently broke apart, with each center getting its old trustees back and a small committee formed to oversee the larger entity. 
"We are really two ships in the ocean, run by the same ocean line company," said Dr. Michael Gruber, head of neuro-oncology at N.Y.U. He and others see missed opportunities, particularly at a time when academic medical centers are in dire financial straits. 
"In a way, I am disappointed," he said. "I would like to be able to offer our brain tumor program to Sinai, and I am sure they have programs that are superior to ours. I mean, what was the purpose of the merger in the first place? To consolidate the laundry or improve medical care?" 
When merger mania hit the hospital industry in the mid-1990's, these and other centers were quick to join in. 
A few scattered programs were brought together, among them children's heart surgery at New York Hospital and Columbia-Presbyterian; the plastic surgery residency programs at Mount Sinai and N.Y.U.; and Beth Israel and St. Luke's-Roosevelt, which came together in 1997 under Continuum Health Partners, now have one chairman of radiology.
Trustees of the hospitals, many of them business leaders, pushed for more consolidation. But hospital executives were quick to point out that in mergers around the country in which clinical programs were combined, many embittered doctors left and programs fell apart.
Doctors in academic medical centers -- large hospitals affiliated with a medical school that combine teaching, research and patient care -- are often not even employed by the centers, but rather have admitting privileges. They yield enormous power because they bring in the patients -- and the revenue. "I work for the doctors," said Peter A. Kelly, chief executive of Continuum. "They don't work for me." 
And many hospital executives fear that if they give up a single department, their status will erode. "If you don't offer full services, you can't train residents fully," said Dr. John A. Kastor, who wrote "Mergers of Teaching Hospitals in Boston, New York and Northern California" (University of Michigan Press, 2001). "But it is also an ego trip, because any hospital that doesn't offer every service is not a real hospital, in its view."
Some health care experts and board members have grumbled, for instance, about the overlap in liver transplant centers at Mount Sinai and N.Y.U. "Board members might say, 'We should consolidate them into one; wouldn't that be efficient,' " said John W. Rowe, who until recently was head of Mount Sinai N.Y.U. "But what will happen is one director will leave and will go to New York Hospital and take his patients with him."
Partners HealthCare System, the consortium of Massachusetts General Hospital and Brigham and Women's Hospital in Boston, is considered the model marriage of academic medicine. The two came together in 1994, and countered resistance by moving slowly to bring departments together. There are meetings every six months to review strategies and performance, and capital is spread carefully across both centers, said Dr. Samuel O. Thier, the president of Partners HealthCare.
"The pace you come together at is critical," Dr. Thier said. "Whenever we tried to move a little too quickly to centralize something, there were enormous anxieties."
One big point in Partners' favor was that the two hospitals had only one medical school between them (Harvard). There was such fear at N.Y.U. that it would become subordinate to Mount Sinai that some of the N.Y.U. faculty sued to stop the merger, which was consummated in 1998. 
Some bitterness is still evident. When Mount Sinai N.Y.U. announced that it was going to pull apart its boards, some people read, and spread, that the first step in a total breakup was imminent. "If one of us does not show up at a joint meeting, people misread the body language," said Barry R. Freedman, the interim chief executive of the centers. "We have to make sure we are communicating at all times." 
Culturally, the centers seem nowhere near married. Dr. Mary McCord, a pediatrician at Columbia-Presbyterian, said a telling moment came this fall after months of being told she and her colleagues would soon receive red identification tags, (New York Hospital colors) and then were issued blue tags (the Columbia color). "Since then, there seems to be less pressure to try and create a joint culture," she said.
The hospital centers that have merged in New York have so far saved $30 million to $50 million. (By comparison, Partners has saved $250 million.) But each hospital barely broke even or lost money last year, and each has had to lay off some workers and trim budgets. Poor cash flow is often in evidence. The copy machine in Mount Sinai's library sat broken last summer, adorned with a sign explaining that its vendor had not been paid. "We have suffered with our vendors," Mr. Freedman said. 
Beth Israel's bonds fell to junk status over the summer because of cash-flow problems, and the board of trustees bailed the center out by generating $15 million in contributions. 
"If you look nationally, there are a lot of question marks about a lot of mergers," said Bruce Gordon, an analyst at Moody's Investor Service. 
These financial troubles have been brought on largely by factors outside the mergers, including huge reductions in Medicare payments to hospitals by the federal government in 1997 and increased pressures from managed-care companies.
Many hospital executives argue that unified, they have weathered the economic turmoil better. Hospital executives say they have been able to obtain better terms and higher rates from managed-care companies, something managed-care executives concede is true. Both groups are tight-lipped about the amount, but experts put the increases at 5 percent to 10 percent annually. 
"We were a hair away from a divorce with one managed-care company on a Friday afternoon," said Dr. Pardes of New York-Presbyterian. "And then we got a double-digit increase in reimbursement from them."
Mr. Kelly said he believed Continuum would become stronger by taking steps like restructuring its debt and, yes, perhaps merging more departments. "I can't wait, and keep my fingers crossed that the state and federal governments will give us the dollars we need," he said.
In the meantime, some hospitals that flirted but ultimately remained single during the merger explosion have little regret. 
"We were never really convinced that it was the right strategy for us," said Gladys George, the chief executive of Lenox Hill Hospital, which was courted by several hospitals. "We are large enough to offer 99 percent of the services, but small enough to be able to respond quickly to changes in the marketplace." 
One big move: Lenox Hill recently acquired Manhattan Eye, Ear and Throat Hospital, and has moved to, yes, consolidate plastic surgery and ear, nose and throat business.

GRAPHIC: Photo: A Leksell Gamma Knife, which uses radiation to destroy tumors, is one of the few pieces of equipment that New York University Medical Center and Mount Sinai Hospital share. Kerry Han, a physicist, left; Jessica Comiskey, a nurse practitioner; and Dr. John Golfinos treated a patient at N.Y.U. (Marilynn K. Yee/The New York Times)(pg. B4) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: HOSPITALS (92%); HEALTH CARE (89%); MERGERS (89%); ALLIANCES & PARTNERSHIPS (78%); HEALTH CARE POLICY (77%); HEALTH CARE SECTOR PERFORMANCE (77%); MEDICAL EDUCATION (76%); GRADUATE & PROFESSIONAL SCHOOLS (75%); EXECUTIVES (73%); MANAGED CARE ORGANIZATIONS (72%); COLLEGES & UNIVERSITIES (64%) MEDICINE AND HEALTH; INDUSTRY PROFILES; COMPANY AND ORGANIZATION PROFILES; HOSPITALS; MERGERS, ACQUISITIONS AND DIVESTITURES; DOCTORS; MEDICAL SCHOOLS 

ORGANIZATION: STANFORD UNIVERSITY (54%) NEW YORK-PRESBYTERIAN HOSPITAL 

PERSON: PARDES, HERBERT (DR); STEINHAUER, JENNIFER 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%); SAN FRANCISCO, CA, USA (79%) NEW YORK, USA (97%); CALIFORNIA, USA (92%); PENNSYLVANIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (97%) NEW YORK CITY

LOAD-DATE: March 14, 2001 



341 of 868 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 14, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section C; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 619 words

HEADLINE: BUSINESS DIGEST 

 BODY:
Bankruptcy Bill to Offer Debtors Fewer Fresh Starts
For many Americans whose financial troubles are expected to drive them into bankruptcy next year, the route to a new financial start would be far more complicated under a bill that appears likely to become law.
 The bill, now before the Senate, would overhaul the nation's bankruptcy system and eliminate the concept that many types of debts -- notably credit card debts and other loans that are not secured by a house or anything else of value -- can be wiped out by a trip to bankruptcy court. For many debtors, the idea that bankruptcy offers a new start from their troubles will disappear altogether. Page A1. 

U.S. Bans Animals From Europe
Reacting quickly to evidence that foot-and-mouth disease has spread to France from Britain, the Agriculture Department banned imports of animals and animal products from the European Union. The move was intended to avert an outbreak in the United States of the virulent animal virus. A1.

For Brazil, which has had problems with the disease in the past, some say the chances that the international market will open to more of its beef have grown slimmer despite hopes for a solid year. World Business, Section W.

Delta Predicts Quarterly Loss
Delta Air Lines said that it expected a loss of as much as $110 million, or 70 to 90 cents a share, this quarter instead of the profit that analysts had forecast because business travel fell as the economy slowed and flights were eliminated because of a contract dispute with pilots. The cuts and the decline in the number of high-paying business passengers will cost the company as much as $350 million in revenue this quarter and $250 million next quarter. Shares of Delta fell $1.64, to $41.46. C7.

Suit Accuses MetLife of Sex Bias
Five women filed a lawsuit against MetLife, one of the nation's biggest insurers, accusing the company of sex discrimination in hiring, promotions, pay and job assignments in the company's national sales force. C4.

Generic Version of Drug Ordered
A federal judge ordered the Food and Drug Administration to immediately approve the request of Mylan Laboratories to sell a generic version of buspirone, a popular anti-anxiety drug made by Bristol-Myers Squibb and sold under the name BuSpar. C9.

Test of Blood Substitute to Resume
Alliance Pharmaceutical said that researchers investigating why patients receiving Oxygent, its blood substitute, had more strokes and other adverse reactions during heart surgery than those in a control group who did not get Oxygent have concluded that flawed surgery preparation procedures were the cause. As a result, Alliance plans to resume clinical testing of Oxygent. C4.

Higher Fees Urged at Busy Airports
The secretary of transportation said that he favored charging airlines more for flights at the most congested hours as a way to spread out the traffic and cut delays. A16.

Calm in Crisis Is in Her Blood
JoMei Chang, chief executive of Vitria Technology, an e-business software maker in Sunnyvale, Calif., said the road for her company had been bumpy of late. But she added: "The worse the situation is, the calmer and cooler I get." When she and her husband, Dale, started Vitria, she said, they debated whether to take venture capital financing. "We ended up investing our own money," she said. "I never regretted that." The Boss. C6.

Credit Suisse Profit Increases 11%
Credit Suisse Group said its net profit rose 11 percent in 2000, slightly exceeding analysts' forecasts. World Business, Section W.

Motorola to Eliminate 7,000 Jobs
Motorola, the mobile phone maker, said that it would eliminate 7,000 more jobs as it tries to strengthen its cellular phone unit amid an industrywide slowdown in sales. C4.

GRAPHIC: Photo Chart: "YESTERDAY"Dow industrials -- 10,290.80 up 82.55Nasdaq composite -- 2,014.78 up 91.4010-yr. Treasury yield -- 4.93% up 0.04The euro -- $0.9142 down 0.0138The dollar -- 119.83 yen down 0.55 Graph tracks Delta Air Lines share price since Tuesday.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Summary 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (94%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY LAW (90%); LEGISLATION (90%); STOCK INDEXES (90%); NEWS BRIEFS (90%); BUSINESS FINANCIAL TROUBLE (90%); LITIGATION (89%); AIRLINES (89%); INVESTIGATIONS (88%); FOOD SAFETY REGULATION (88%); GENERIC DRUGS (87%); GENDER & SEX DISCRIMINATION IN EMPLOYMENT (85%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY COURTS (79%); WAGE DISCRIMINATION (77%); MEDICAL RESEARCH (75%); PHARMACEUTICALS INDUSTRY (74%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (74%); AGRICULTURAL COMMODITY REGULATION (74%); FOOT & MOUTH DISEASE (74%); PERSONAL DEBT (74%); DISEASES & DISORDERS (74%); LIVESTOCK DISEASE (74%); AGRICULTURE DEPARTMENTS (73%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (73%); IMPORT CONTROLS (72%); JUDGES (70%); COMPANY LOSSES (70%); AIRCRAFT PILOTS (70%); AIRPORTS (69%); EUROPEAN UNION (69%); VIRUSES (68%); DENTAL MOUTH & JAW DISORDERS (68%); ANXIETY DISORDERS (68%); DISCRIMINATION (67%); EMPLOYMENT DISCRIMINATION (67%); INSURANCE (66%); SURGERY & TRANSPLANTATION (66%); SALES FORCE (66%); SUITS & CLAIMS (64%); CENTRAL NERVOUS SYSTEM DRUGS (63%); BLOOD DERIVATIVES (60%) NO INDEX TERMS FROM NYTIMES 

COMPANY: DELTA AIR LINES INC (68%); BRISTOL-MYERS SQUIBB CO (52%)

ORGANIZATION: EUROPEAN UNION (56%)

TICKER: DAL (NYSE) (68%); BMY (NYSE) (52%)

INDUSTRY: SIC4512 AIR TRANSPORTATION, SCHEDULED (68%); NAICS325412 PHARMACEUTICAL PREPARATION MANUFACTURING (52%); NAICS325411 MEDICINAL & BOTANICAL MANUFACTURING (52%); SIC2834 PHARMACEUTICAL PREPARATIONS (52%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%); EUROPE (90%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (76%); FRANCE (76%)

LOAD-DATE: March 14, 2001 



342 of 868 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 14, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section B; Column 2; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1069 words

HEADLINE: Deserted by His G.O.P., Nassau Executive Won't Run Again 

BYLINE:  By MICHAEL COOPER 

DATELINE: GARDEN CITY, N.Y., March 13 

 BODY:
Tarnished by the fiscal crisis afflicting Nassau County, lagging in opinion polls and abandoned by his fellow Republicans, Thomas S. Gulotta, who has been the Nassau County executive since 1987, announced today that he would not seek re-election in the fall.
 In doing so, Mr. Gulotta became another casualty of the budget crisis that has led one of the nation's wealthiest counties to the brink of bankruptcy in boom times. The crisis has caused credit rating agencies to downgrade Nassau's bonds to near junk, spurred the state to step in with a $105 million bailout and a fiscal oversight board, and left the county's once-omnipotent Republican machine in disarray. 
 Mr. Gulotta, 56, seemed in good spirits as he announced his plan to step down when his term ends, teasing reporters and kissing his wife, Betsy. He insisted that his decision was not influenced by politics. "Without the need to evaluate political considerations, and for personal reasons, I will not seek re-election as county executive," he said, sitting behind his desk in his office here.
Even as he made the announcement, Mr. Gulotta was working to contain a new crisis arising from the county's fiscal troubles. Many corrections officers, upset that a tentative contract was rejected Friday by county lawmakers who were worried that Nassau could not afford it, stayed home from work today, forcing the sheriff to lock down the jail. Page B5. 
While Mr. Gulotta's planned departure was greeted with relief by his fellow Republicans -- who have long considered him unelectable but feared that his $2.5 million war chest would scare off potential Republican challengers -- it was also a reminder of how far the party's fortunes had fallen in recent years. Republicans lost control of the county's legislative branch in 1999 for the first time in more than 80 years, and, more than a year after breaking with Mr. Gulotta, the party has yet to settle on a candidate for his post.
"The fact that he has become so unpopular, plus the fact that his own county chairman had to tell him not to run, plus the fact that there's no obvious person to succeed him -- those three things add up to the death knell of the traditionally powerful political machine in Nassau," said Howard A. Scarrow, a political science professor at the State University at Stony Brook. "That era has certainly come to an end."
And it brought a subdued end to a 24-year political career that Mr. Gulotta seemed almost born into. His father, Frank A. Gulotta Sr., was a popular figure who became the first Italian-American to rise through the ranks and win countywide office, as district attorney in 1949, and who later became a State Supreme Court justice. Thomas Gulotta, who was first elected to the State Assembly in 1976, went on to become the presiding supervisor of the Town of Hempstead and then Nassau County executive. He was undefeated in 11 races.
His popularity plummeted in the last two years, as the county began to run huge deficits, which critics attributed to his budgets. They complained that he spent lavishly on county services while holding down taxes and going into debt to make up the difference -- a practice they derided as Gulotta-nomics.
Almost as soon as Mr. Gulotta made his announcement today, the post-mortems on his tenure began pouring in. Republicans, who have been maneuvering for months to persuade him to bow out of the race, were gracious in victory, stressing their good wishes for Mr. Gulotta.
"While there are those that may take issue with some of his policy decisions, it is clear to me that he wanted what was best for Nassau County," Joseph N. Mondello, the county's Republican Party chairman and a longstanding rival of Mr. Gulotta's, said in a statement.
Judith A. Jacobs, a Democrat and the presiding officer of the County Legislature, said that Mr. Gulotta's "uneven stewardship" helped create the fiscal crisis, but added that he should not take all the blame. "It's important for everyone to realize that he was not a sole practitioner all these years," she said. "He was rubber-stamped by Republicans in many of his decisions."
In the last year and a half, though, Republicans in the County Legislature broke with Mr. Gulotta very publicly. In 1999, when they still controlled the Legislature, Republican lawmakers made a public show of ripping up his budget, and later repealed a real estate transfer tax he had tried to impose to raise $60 million. This January, all nine Republicans in the Legislature urged him not to run for re-election.
The news that Mr. Gulotta has decided not to run is bad news, though, for Democrats running for his seat in November, who hoped he would divide the Republican Party with a bitter, costly primary.
The Democrats, who face a costly and possibly bitter primary themselves, all tried to yoke the Republican Party to Mr. Gulotta.
"The county executive's race is going to be a referendum on 30 years of Republican domination," said Assemblyman Thomas P. DiNapoli, one Democratic candidate for county executive. His rival, Mayor Thomas R. Suozzi of Glen Cove, made the same point. "I have said since I first announced my candidacy in January that Tom Gulotta is only the face of the problem," he said. 
Bruce R. Bent, a financier who is so far the only person to express an intention to seek the Republican nomination, said he believed that Mr. Gulotta was simply accepting the inevitable. "The polls were what the polls were," said Mr. Bent, referring to a Newsday poll this month that put Mr. Gulotta's approval rating at just 15 percent.
For months Mr. Gulotta appeared to toy with the idea of running again. He placed ads praising his achievements on television, sent out mailings to residents, lost a bit of weight and joked just last week that he was "in fighting shape." Today, though, he said he had been leaning toward bowing out all along.
He said he regretted that he was not given more credit for the county's drop in crime, its rising home values and its low unemployment rate. And he made an appeal for civility in public life. 
"What we have to understand in public life, and I think I've tried to understand, is that everybody's a human being," he said. "No one is in office to hurt people. You're a human being, you make mistakes, you try to learn from those mistakes, and you do what you can to correct those errors and move ahead. And that's what this administration has been about."

GRAPHIC: Photo: With his wife, Betsy, at his side, Thomas S. Gulotta, Nassau County's executive since 1987, announced yesterday that he would not run for re-election this fall. (Kevin P. Coughlin for The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: COUNTIES (92%); COUNTY GOVERNMENT (91%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); BUDGETS (90%); ELECTIONS (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); POLITICS (89%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (89%); POLLS & SURVEYS (78%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (78%); BAILOUTS (78%); FINANCIAL RATINGS (76%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (75%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (73%); SUPREME COURTS (73%); POLITICAL SCIENCE (72%); CREDIT BUREAUS (71%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (65%); CORRECTIONS WORKERS (65%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (60%); LAWYERS (60%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (50%) ELECTIONS; COUNTY EXECUTIVES; FINANCES; BUDGETS AND BUDGETING; PUBLIC OPINION 

PERSON: COOPER, MICHAEL; GULOTTA, THOMAS S (COUNTY EXEC) 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%) NASSAU COUNTY (NY)

LOAD-DATE: March 14, 2001 



343 of 868 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 14, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section B; Column 2; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1519 words

HEADLINE: The Seven-Year Lawsuit; 
Battle Over Monroe Photographs Rips a Family Apart

BYLINE:  By JOYCE WADLER 

 BODY:
Every artist hopes to leave a legacy, and for Sam Shaw, who died two years ago at the age of 87 and had spent much of his life photographing film stars, it was his pictures of Marilyn Monroe. Monroe with Joe DiMaggio or Arthur Miller -- both of whom Mr. Shaw counted as friends; Monroe standing over a subway grate with her white skirts billowing, a shot that would become one of the most reproduced photos of the century, an American pop icon.
 There is another part of his legacy: the $100 million lawsuit Mr. Shaw brought against his son and onetime agent, Larry Shaw, which is still going after six and a half years, an American classic of a different sort: the lawsuit that will not end. A blood feud, nasty as a bad divorce, with sisters against brother, brother slugging a nephew, an 18-year-old granddaughter, in an affidavit, claiming that Larry Shaw's screaming at her grandfather made it impossible for her to study. 
 In the suit, filed in State Supreme Court in Manhattan in 1994, Sam Shaw charged that his son, who is also a photographer, made deals and pocketed fees without his knowledge, stole photographs, and refused to return them. Sam Shaw also claimed in court papers that he had hired his son as his agent only because he "wanted to support Larry" to keep him off drugs. 
"I may be 82 and he is my son," Mr. Shaw said, "but I decided that I do not want to do anything with my son, who is a crook." 
With Sam Shaw's death in April 1999, his daughters and executors, Meta Shaw Stevens and Edith Shaw Marcus, have taken up the suit. (Larry Shaw was cut out of his father's will.)
At issue are the photos of the Shaw collection, which include, in addition to Monroe, photos of film stars like Sophia Loren and Audrey Hepburn, from the 50's, and of jazz performers, including Louis Armstrong. The Monroe photos, however, are where the money is.
The Shaw story is also the story of siblings, once close, who now disagree about everything: the number of images in dispute (Larry Shaw's lawyer says 15,000 photos or contact sheets are involved; the lawyer for the Shaw estate insists "hundreds of thousands" more images are missing), who took the photos, even the age of the defendant.
Larry Shaw, who gives his age at 63 and sticks by his story (even though his sister Mrs. Stevens suggests he is one year older), accuses his father of "Kafkaesque distortion." He says that Sam Shaw gave him the rights to the Monroe photos in writing, and that the suit came about because his sisters were jealous of his relationship with his father.
"I think once my sisters and the lawyers found out there was money to be made on my father's Marilyn Monroe photographs, the merchandising rights of which had been assigned to me in 1992, that changed everything," Mr. Shaw says in his home in Piermont, N.Y., an old house with a tattered bohemian air, where stacks of photographs dominate the living room and his wife, Susan, and lawyer, Michael J. Marino, occasionally leap into the fray. "It's economics, I think." 
"When he died, my sisters never told me. I didn't find out till two weeks later he was dead. They didn't tell me he was sick in the hospital."
His sisters, in the Manhattan office of their attorney, William S. Greenawalt -- the fourth lawyer to take up their case -- do not deny it. 
"When Sam was in the hospital and had a stroke he called in security and left very clear instructions if Larry was to come they were not to let him in," says Mrs. Stevens, 62, who lives on the Upper West Side of Manhattan, and, like her sister, spent most of her working life raising a family. "Of course we didn't know he was going to die. But we hadn't spoken to Larry, at that point, for a few years." 
"Over this period of time, Dad would say, 'I'm going to do a kaddish on him,' " says Edith Marcus, 55, with whom Sam Shaw lived in Tappan, N.Y., referring to the Jewish prayer for the dead. "I would say, 'Dad, don't do that.' Then, talking to a relative, I found out he did."
How much the photos they are fighting over are worth is unclear. "The collection, apart from Monroe, does not have a great deal of commercial exploitative value," says Larry Shaw's lawyer, Mr. Marino. He estimates its value at $3.5 million, a figure a curator at the International Center of Photography, Carol Squiers, thinks is high.
Sam Shaw began his career as a photographer in the 1940's, shooting coal miners and farmers for Collier's magazine. In the 50's, he moved to film. He created the photo of Marlon Brando in a ripped T-shirt for "A Streetcar Named Desire." Later, he produced several of the films of John Cassavetes. 
When Sam Shaw met Monroe, on the set of the film "Viva Zapata," she was a bit player who had been hired to be his driver. A few years later, Mr. Shaw designed and photographed the flying skirts shot, for "The Seven Year Itch." Though a number of other photographers were present when the shot was made as a publicity stunt on a Manhattan sidewalk, Mr. Shaw shot Monroe in the pose in a studio and reserved the best position for himself in the street. Mr. Shaw's relationship with Monroe was close. When her marriage to DiMaggio was breaking up, Larry Shaw says, Monroe called his father in the middle of the night for advice. 
Larry Shaw followed his father into photography because, he says, "it was easy." He did, he says, plead guilty in the late 60's to a drug sale charge, for which he received a suspended sentence of three years. He also says he and his wife, Susan, had been "drug abusers" years ago. He portrays himself as a child of the 60's.
"There was a period of a few months, six or seven, where I did a lot of cocaine," Mr. Shaw says. "Then it becomes something where you can't get up, and I just stopped."
He also says he had a serious career as a photographer. In the early 60's, his credits included Look, Life, and Playboy. Sometimes father and son worked together in what Larry Shaw called a partnership. In 1985, according to Larry Shaw, he and his father merged all their photographs into one collection and "at least 25 percent" of the photos were his. Larry Shaw acted as agent for the collection. In 1992, while his father was attending an exhibition of Monroe photographs in Portugal, Larry Shaw requested and Sam Shaw sent a fax assigning his son the rights to "promote, market and publish" his Monroe photos worldwide. 
Sam Shaw insisted in court papers that he and his son had never been partners. Larry had been, in the beginning, his "gofer," his "charmer" -- someone he used to put his subjects at ease. Larry, his father said, in a phrase that rang bitter, "could be a very charming fellow."
"My business relationship with Larry developed in part out of my knowledge that Larry is himself a talented photographer and lighting technician," Sam Shaw said in court papers. "But mostly out of my desire to help him straighten out his life." 
He also said the Monroe authorization was to have been used only during the few weeks he was out of the country.
All agree, however, that father and son fought, particularly over the Monroe photos. The elder Shaw claimed that his son screamed at him if he did not agree to projects; later he was outraged to learn of projects that he claimed he had not approved: coffee mugs, screen-savers, T-shirts, and whiskey bottles of Monroe; other photos on postcards. In one case, Sam Shaw said, his son "threw incredible tantrums."
Her brother tells another story. His father often claimed to know nothing about projects, he said, even after he had signed a business agreement.
Two years after the Monroe fax, Sam Shaw sued Larry Shaw, Larry's wife, Susan, his onetime lawyer, Martin Bressler, and a number of other business associates. (Mr. Bressler countersued, charging that Sam Shaw had brought a frivolous lawsuit with malice, and was later awarded $50,000.)
Over the years, the bitterness has escalated. In 1996, Edith Marcus's son, David M. Marcus, a lawyer who was then 25, tried to subpoena a business partner of Larry Shaw's at a trade show at the Javits Convention Center. Larry Shaw -- who claims he was provoked -- punched his nephew so hard he hit the ground. In 1998, Sam Shaw joined with a group of photographers in a copyright action against several note card and postcard publishers, including Larry Shaw and his son Jakob Shaw, then 24, who had briefly been involved in a postcard business with his father. (The suit was dismissed on jurisdictional grounds.) 
The disputed Monroe photographs and a number of others are now in the hands of a court-appointed receiver, who recently made a deal involving a limited edition of Monroe photos, in a boxed gift set, at $2,400 each, an agreement that could bring $500,000. This might appear to be the sort of thing that would make all concerned happy, but no. 
"We opposed the project," says Meta Stevens. 
"A very low-end project," Edith Marcus says. 
The attorney for Sam Shaw is claiming that some formerly undisclosed Monroe pictures are turning up on posters and calendars in Europe. Meta Stevens claims valuable negatives are still unaccounted for.
In April, the Shaw family is due back in court.

GRAPHIC: Photos: Sam Shaw and Marilyn Monroe in an undated photo from the 1950's.; Sam Shaw's photos of Marilyn Monroe, like the one above, could be worth millions. Larry Shaw, left, says his father gave him the rights, but Sam Shaw sued his son in 1994, and Larry Shaw's sisters took up the suit after their father died in 1999. (Sam Shaw from "Marilyn Monroe in the Camera Eye," Peebles Press International 1979); (Angel Franco/The New York Times)(pg. B1); Sam Shaw, with camera, and his son, Larry, left, working together in more harmonious times. Sam Shaw later cut his son out of his will. (pg. B8) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: SUITS & CLAIMS (90%); LITIGATION (90%); PHOTOGRAPHY (90%); VISUAL ARTISTS (78%); GRANDCHILDREN (75%); LAWYERS (75%); GRANDPARENTS (73%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (67%); SUPREME COURTS (67%); JAZZ & BLUES (61%) PHOTOGRAPHY; SUITS AND LITIGATION; PHOTOGRAPHY 

PERSON: WADLER, JOYCE; SHAW, SAM; SHAW, LARRY; STEVENS, META SHAW; MONROE, MARILYN (1926-62); MARCUS, EDITH SHAW 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%) NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (90%)

LOAD-DATE: March 14, 2001 



344 of 868 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 14, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 3; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1269 words

HEADLINE: Empty Billboards Are a Sign of the Times 

BYLINE:  By CHARLES V. BAGLI 

 BODY:
The billboard frenzy that swept New York City over the last four years is now leaving casualties from Times Square to East Harlem and down to NoHo.
 In 1997, a single sign could rent for more than $2 million a year in Times Square, making it "the Super Bowl of outdoor advertising," industry executives said. Suddenly, every landlord and developer wanted to cash in. They began putting up billboards and video screens on virtually every available surface in the city, from telephone kiosks and scaffolding to the sides and tops of skyscrapers. 
 But over the last four months, some spaces have gone begging for advertisers. It has become apparent that advertising budgets are shrinking and that the supply of billboards has outstripped demand. Some spots have been left blank, and others languish with outdated ads for movies. 
George Stonbely, president of Spectacolor Communications, a company with nearly 60 signs in Times Square, said prices for some billboards are down 25 percent. "There are new locations at lower rates," he said. There's plenty of room in Times Square for clients who only want to spend a half million a year."
Mr. Stonbely has a joint venture with the Eller Media Company, which signed an $83 million deal at the height of the billboard boom last year that gave it control of 30,000 square feet of signs on the 52-story W hotel at Broadway and 47th Street. Workers are putting up a sign for Absolut vodka, but it only spotlights the many blank spots on the hotel's 300-foot steel signpost. 
At the northwest corner of Eighth Avenue and 39th Street, the actress Cameron Diaz smiles down from a billboard alerting moviegoers to the release -- last November -- of "Charlie's Angels." A 12-by-20-foot billboard for AngryMan.com lingered at 106th Street and Second Avenue long after the company closed its Web site. And the three giant billboards that cover most of the 15-story Knickerbocker building at the southeast corner of 42nd Street and Broadway are emblazoned with ads for "Attila," a cable movie that was shown in January.
Advertisers, landlords and sign companies say that the slowdown in the national economy is affecting advertising budgets not just for outdoor signs, but for newspapers, magazines and other media as well. 
The billboard business has also been affected by the disappearance of dot-com companies, which had spent millions of dollars on billboards and signposts in a bid to quickly establish a high profile. 
Internet-related spending nationally on outdoor ads, which had soared to $101 million in 1999 from $13 million a year earlier, was up 50 percent in the first nine months of 2000 before nearly coming to a halt, because of a sharp downturn in the stock market. Many of those companies have since gone out of business.
Still, total spending on outdoor advertising rose more than 8 percent in 2000, to $5.2 billion, according to the Outdoor Advertising Association of America. New York City outpaced the nation with a 16 percent increase, to $290 million.
"There are some blanks and old ads," said Jason Perline, president of Atlantic Outdoor Advertising and a 35-year veteran of the business. "Demand has waned since the first of the year. For the last two years it was a seller's market, thanks to the dot-coms. Right now, there's a lot of wheeling and dealing."
Although billboards and spectacular neon signs have formed a crowded thicket in Times Square since the early 1900's, advertisers and New Yorkers fled what had become a seedy crossroads in the 1970's. Only Japanese companies hoping to raise their profile in this country were willing to put their names up in lights. In an effort to revive Times Square in the 1980's, the city imposed zoning rules that required builders to erect large, flashy billboards on new towers. And when the economy surged in the 1990's, Times Square once again became a dazzling kaleidoscope of commerce and images. Suddenly, Merrill Lynch, Jockey, Cadillac, Planters Peanuts and Absolut put up billboards. 
In 1995, Lehman Brothers bought the nearly vacant 1 Times Square for $27.5 million, just as the long suffering neighborhood was rebounding, and sold it less than three years later for $110 million. The higher price was based solely on its value as a signpost.
Success in Times Square spread to other parts of the city, where signs suddenly proliferated, like in residential neighborhoods, along the West Side Highway and at the Queens-Midtown Tunnel entrance. Signs became so widespread that the City Council recently tried to crack down on the size and placement of billboards, an effort that has prompted at least one industry lawsuit.
Mr. Perline and other executives say the business is in no danger of collapse. The visual clutter of electronic video screens and computer-enhanced advertising images on vinyl sheets will continue, they said. They hope the industry is only going through its customary first-quarter lull. Advertising executives point to some positive indications for 2001.
Certainly, there is no slowdown at the two premier locations in Times Square: 1 Times Square, the 22-story home of the New Year's Eve ball drop that sits at the south end of the crossroads, and 2 Times Square, the tower that marks the square's north end, at 47th Street, Broadway and Seventh Avenue. The buildings are international signposts for television broadcasts and the tens of millions of camera-toting tourists who flow through Times Square every year.
While Suntory Whisky's ad is dropping off 2 Times Square after 33 years, according to one landlord in the area, it will be replaced by another advertiser at a higher rent, about $2.5 million a year.
"The two goal posts in Times Square are doing superbly well," said Jeffrey Katz, chairman of Sherwood Outdoor, which controls the signs on both buildings. "Everything else is the bleachers."
Mr. Katz would not discuss revenues from signs at the two buildings. But executives in the sign business estimate that Discover Card, TDK Electronics, Nissin Cup Noodles, Budweiser, NBC and Warner Brothers collectively pay more than $12 million a year in rent for the signs lining the north face of 1 Times Square. Nineteen large vinyl billboards, including two that are blank -- cover the other three sides of the building and generate millions more.
In the so-called bleachers, at the nearby Bertelsmann Building, one sign has come down and an electronic billboard is going up, with the rent jumping to more than $90,000 a month from about $60,000.
But along the West Side Highway, in neighborhoods north of Houston Street and elsewhere, blank billboards have begun to crop up.
Part of the problem is that in the rush to cash in on the booming billboard business, landlords erected steel superstructures for signs in all sorts of places. There are billboards in Midtown that cannot be seen by oncoming drivers because the signs face the wrong direction.
After years of trying, the landlord at 4 Times Square, the Conde Nast Building, has rented only one of the four 4,900-square-foot ad panels atop the skyscraper, nearly 800 feet above the street. None of the four panels atop the W hotel at Broadway and 47th Street have been rented. Those signs are hard to install and maintain and, while they may be seen in New Jersey, few pedestrians in Times Square can see them.
Mr. Katz estimates that in the last six years, the number of major billboards in the Times Square area alone has grown fivefold, to 250. And, despite the downturn in advertising, more are on the way. "The good news is that the number of signs being built in Times Square is reaching its geometric limit," he said.

GRAPHIC: Photo: Space for rent on Broadway at 47th Street in Times Square. (Sara Krulwich/The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: OUTDOOR ADVERTISING (93%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING (92%); RENTAL PROPERTY (89%); BUDGETS (89%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING EXPENDITURE (89%); FILM (89%); INTERNET & WWW (85%); ACTORS & ACTRESSES (76%); BUSINESS CLOSINGS (74%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (72%); EXECUTIVES (71%) ADVERTISING; OUTDOOR ADVERTISING; PRICES (FARES, FEES AND RATES); RENTING AND LEASING 

COMPANY: CLEAR CHANNEL OUTDOOR HOLDINGS INC (68%)

ORGANIZATION: SPECTACOLOR COMMUNICATIONS 

TICKER: CCO (NYSE) (68%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS541850 OUTDOOR ADVERTISING (68%); SIC7312 OUTDOOR ADVERTISING SERVICES (68%)

PERSON: CAMERON DIAZ (53%) BAGLI, CHARLES V; STONBELY, GEORGE 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%) NEW YORK, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%) NEW YORK CITY; TIMES SQUARE AND 42ND STREET (NYC)

LOAD-DATE: March 14, 2001 



345 of 868 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 14, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section C; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 555 words

HEADLINE: Japan Forms Task Force To Address StockPlunge 

BYLINE:  By STEPHANIE STROM 

DATELINE: TOKYO, March 13 

 BODY:
Prime Minister Yoshiro Mori of Japan and his political allies set up a task force today to consider emergency measures to put a floor under the country's plunging stock market.
 A rout today pushed the benchmark Nikkei 225-stock index down another 2.89 percent, to 11,819.70, a 16-year low; it has fallen by 7 percent in the last four trading days. 
 More important to government officials, however, was a slump in the broader Tokyo Stock Price Index, or Topix, which fell 2.94 percent today, to 1,170.58. Fluctuations in the Topix, which is less heavily concentrated in technology, media and telecommunications stocks than the Nikkei, probably have a bigger impact on Japan's struggling banks. 
 On Wednesday, the Nikkei edged up slightly and then fluctuated, with a gain of 0.3 percent as of mid-afternoon. 
Stocks are counted in the capital base of Japanese banks, and they make up a bigger proportion of banks' capital now than ever before, said Craig Chudler, an equity strategist at Nikko Salomon Smith Barney. The ratio has been rising because financial institutions here have been writing off bad loans, he said. But contrary to widespread reports, the banks have not been big sellers of stock.
"Net sales of stocks by banks and corporations have decelerated late last year and early this year, compared to the two years previous," said Alexander Kinmont, chief equity strategist at Morgan Stanley Dean Witter in Tokyo. 
New accounting rules that take effect April 1 require the banks to begin valuing their stockholdings at market prices. As a result, the frail financial state of the country's banking system is becoming yet more dependent on trends in the stock market.
Last week, the government released the outline of a plan to set the economy and the markets back on track, including the creation of a private-sector fund to buy shares from the banks, and various tax incentives aimed at whetting the appetites of individual investors for stock.
But opinion surveys have indicated that Japanese investors are not interested in buying Japanese shares, with or without tax breaks. "If you boosted corporations' return on equity, someone might consider buying stock, but that's a structural issue," said Kathy Matsui, chief strategist at Goldman, Sachs & Company in Japan. "They are setting up an emergency task force to deal with structural problems that have been around a long time in Japan, as if they were something like natural disasters."
Ms. Matsui and other strategists say it is a mistake to conclude that Japan's stock market merely reflects moves in the United States. "That's a nice scapegoat, but that's all," she said.
To some extent, the Nikkei's plummeting fortunes can be tied to changes made in the index last April that increased the weight given to technology and telecommunications stocks. Mr. Kinmont said the index might now be as high as 14,500 had Japan's largest financial daily, Nihon Keizai Shimbun, not reshuffled its makeup. "The Nikkei is now essentially not a great deal more than a high-tech index -- like the Nasdaq," he said, "so it's a great fallacy to believe that the global markets have become more correlated.
"What has happened is that the sectors with the highest global correlation that is, technology and telecommunications -- now represent more and more of the stocks in the index."

GRAPHIC: Photo: Prime Minister Yoshiro Mori of Japan, second from right, is facing a slump in stock prices and also its effect on banks' capital. (Associated Press) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: STOCK INDEXES (92%); PRIME MINISTERS (90%); STOCK EXCHANGES (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (89%); TRENDS (89%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (79%); SHAREHOLDERS (77%); SECURITIES TRADING (77%); BANKING & FINANCE REGULATION (77%); BANK FAILURES (74%); NATURAL DISASTERS (73%); POLLS & SURVEYS (72%); BONDS (72%); COMPANY EARNINGS (71%); ECONOMIC NEWS (67%); MUTUAL FUNDS (62%); TAX INCENTIVES (61%); TAX LAW (61%) STOCKS AND BONDS; NIKKEI STOCK AVERAGE; TOKYO STOCK PRICE INDEX; ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS 

COMPANY: GOLDMAN SACHS GROUP INC (58%); SMITH BARNEY HOLDINGS INC (55%); MORGAN STANLEY (55%)

TICKER: GS (NYSE) (58%); MS (NYSE) (55%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (58%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (58%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (58%); SIC6289 SERVICES ALLIED WITH THE EXCHANGE OF SECURITIES OR COMMODITIES, NEC (58%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (58%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (58%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (55%)

PERSON: MORI, YOSHIRO (PRIME MIN); STROM, STEPHANIE 

GEOGRAPHIC: TOKYO, JAPAN (94%) JAPAN (99%); UNITED STATES (79%) JAPAN

LOAD-DATE: March 14, 2001 



346 of 868 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 14, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section C; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 103 words

HEADLINE: COMPANY NEWS; 
MAIL-WELL SAYS QUARTERLY PROFIT WILL MISS FORECAST

BYLINE:  Bloomberg News 

 BODY:
 Mail-Well said yesterday that its first-quarter earnings would miss estimates because the slowing economy had reduced orders for printing. 
Mail-Well, a commercial printing company that produces brochures and annual reports, said earnings would be 7 cents to 9 cents a share. The company said it had been expected to earn 25 cents. Mail-Well, based in Englewood, Colo., said it had reduced its work force by 5 percent this year as part of a previously announced plan to cut costs. Officials plan to close 11 plants and offices and are reviewing other operations. The company's stock fell $1.41, or 22 percent, to $5.04.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LAYOFFS (90%); INTERIM FINANCIAL RESULTS (90%); COMPANY PROFITS (90%); PRINTING INDUSTRY (90%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (90%); ANNUAL REPORTS (90%); COMPANY EARNINGS (90%); LABOR FORCE (85%) PRINTING AND ALLIED TRADES; FINANCES; LABOR; LAYOFFS AND JOB REDUCTIONS; SHUTDOWNS (INSTITUTIONAL); FACTORIES AND INDUSTRIAL PLANTS 

COMPANY: COMMERCIAL PRINTING CO INC (91%)

ORGANIZATION: MAIL-WELL INC 

INDUSTRY: SIC2752 COMMERCIAL LITHOGRAPHIC PRINTING (91%) SIC2752 COMMERCIAL LITHOGRAPHIC PRINTING; 

GEOGRAPHIC: COLORADO, USA (90%) UNITED STATES (90%)

LOAD-DATE: March 14, 2001 



347 of 868 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 14, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section B; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 589 words

HEADLINE: Yeshiva U. President to Quit After More Than 25 Years 

BYLINE:  By KAREN W. ARENSON 

 BODY:
Norman Lamm, the president of Yeshiva University in Manhattan for the last 25 years and one of the longest-serving university presidents in the United States, announced yesterday that he would step down in August 2002. 
 Dr. Lamm, 73, is the third president of a New York research university to announce his resignation this month, following George Rupp at Columbia and L. Jay Oliva at New York University. 
 "I didn't want to be carried out feet first," Dr. Lamm said in an interview yesterday. "I always wanted to finish my tenure at the top, the acme. The university has reached a pinnacle of its development. It has further to go, but I feel I am leaving it in good shape."
Dr. Lamm's resignation opens the question of the future religious tilt of Yeshiva's colleges and its theological seminary, which have long embodied the tenets of modern Orthodox Judaism -- a philosophy based on the integration of traditionally rigorous Judaism and modern culture. In recent years, the colleges have been pulled toward stricter forms of Orthodoxy.
"It's been a matter of speculation and a great deal of concern that it will be very hard to find a modern Orthodox successor to Dr. Lamm," said Rabbi Irving Greenberg, president of the Jewish Life Network, an educational foundation in New York, who is associated with the modern Orthodox movement. He is also chairman of the United States Holocaust Memorial Museum in Washington.
Robert M. Beren, the university's chairman, said the university did not plan to change direction. "This university is the world center of modern Orthodoxy and that's where we intend to stay," he said yesterday.
Dr. Lamm was the first American-born president of the 115-year-old university, which started as a day school for boys on Manhattan's Lower East Side and today is an independent, secular university under Jewish auspices centered on 185th Street in Washington Heights, one of its four campuses. 
He assumed leadership of the university as it teetered on the brink of bankruptcy and gradually nursed it back to health. As at other universities, economic prosperity and strong financial markets in the 1990's have significantly bolstered Yeshiva University's finances. Its endowment is now $875 million, up from about $25 million in the 1970's and more than double what it was in 1995. 
Today the university has 6,600 students and more than 1,000 faculty members spread among 17 schools and affiliates, including Yeshiva College (the undergraduate college for men), Stern College for Women, Albert Einstein College of Medicine, the Benjamin N. Cardozo School of Law, the Sy Syms School of Business and the Rabbi Isaac Elchanan Theological Seminary, a rabbinical seminary. Its undergraduates spend half their day in Judaic studies and half in traditional university studies, in the arts and sciences or in business.
Mr. Beren said the board of trustees would conduct an international search for a successor and Dr. Lamm "will continue to play a major role in defining the priorities of the university and the Jewish community."
The trustees voted yesterday to make Dr. Lamm chancellor when he steps down as president. 
Dr. Lamm was a Yeshiva University student himself, a chemistry major who graduated summa cum laude and was class valedictorian in 1949. He pursued graduate work in science at Polytechnic Institute in Brooklyn for a year while he continued his religious studies and preparation to become a rabbi at Yeshiva, where he earned a Ph.D. in Jewish philosophy. He subsequently joined the Yeshiva faculty. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: RELIGION (91%); CLERGY & RELIGIOUS (90%); JEWS & JUDAISM (90%); RESIGNATIONS (90%); UNIVERSITY ADMINISTRATION (90%); COLLEGES & UNIVERSITIES (90%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (89%); BUSINESS EDUCATION (78%); INTERVIEWS (78%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (78%); LAW SCHOOLS (73%); MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (72%); RELIGIOUS EDUCATION (68%); HOLOCAUST (68%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (60%); BANKING & FINANCE (60%) COLLEGES AND UNIVERSITIES; SUSPENSIONS, DISMISSALS AND RESIGNATIONS 

ORGANIZATION: YESHIVA UNIVERSITY 

PERSON: ARENSON, KAREN W; LAMM, NORMAN (RABBI) 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%) NEW YORK, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (95%)

LOAD-DATE: March 14, 2001 



348 of 868 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 14, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section W; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 91 words

HEADLINE: WORLD BUSINESS BRIEFING: EUROPE; 
CLUB MED PROFIT WARNING

BYLINE:  Bloomberg News 

 BODY:
 The shares of Club Mediterranee fell 19 percent after it cut its profit forecast. 
The chairman, Philippe Bourguignon, dropped a promise to deliver sales and profit growth of 10 percent or more this year. It was the second time in six months that Club Med indicated that growth was falling short of expectations. Mr. Bourguignon blamed events including Arab-Israeli violence, typhoons in Japan and new sales taxes in Australia for discouraging bookings, but analysts cited tumbling stocks and consumer confidence in the United States and Japan.

GRAPHIC: Photo

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: COMPANY PROFITS (92%); PROFIT WARNINGS (88%); CONSUMER CONFIDENCE (88%); ECONOMIC NEWS (88%); SALES TAX (85%); TYPHOONS (83%) TRAVEL AND VACATIONS; FINANCES; SALES 

COMPANY: CLUB MEDITERRANEE SA (90%)

ORGANIZATION: CLUB MEDITERRANEE SA 

TICKER: CU (PAR) (90%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS721110 HOTELS (EXCEPT CASINO HOTELS) & MOTELS (90%); NAICS483114 COASTAL & GREAT LAKES PASSENGER TRANSPORTATION (90%); NAICS483112 DEEP SEA PASSENGER TRANSPORTATION (90%); SIC7011 HOTELS & MOTELS (90%); SIC4481 DEEP SEA TRANSPORTATION OF PASSENGERS, EXCEPT BY FERRY (90%)

PERSON: BOURGUIGNON, PHILIPPE 

GEOGRAPHIC: JAPAN (91%); AUSTRALIA (90%); UNITED STATES (76%); ISRAEL (67%)

LOAD-DATE: March 14, 2001 



349 of 868 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 14, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section B; Column 5; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 828 words

HEADLINE: Two Comptroller Candidates Try to Make No. 3 Job Visible 

BYLINE:  By JONATHAN P. HICKS 

 BODY:
On an almost daily basis, the two Democratic candidates for New York City comptroller wander from one political function to another, hoping to entice any who will listen to pay attention to the race for the city's No. 3 job.
 Over three recent days, Councilman Herbert E. Berman took his quest to a civic association dinner in Queens, a church organization dinner in Brooklyn, appearances before political clubs and an interview by the Working Families Party. 
 In those same three days, William C. Thompson Jr., Mr. Berman's opponent in the Sept. 11 primary, had a similarly hectic schedule. Mr. Thompson, the president of the Board of Education, attended a women's political breakfast, a meeting of a political club in Harlem and a church service in Brooklyn. 
"Since we're not mayoral candidates, the hard job for us right now is to get noticed," Councilman Berman said. "So you try to get yourself invited to as many functions as possible. There is an exotic, interesting sense around the mayoral race and mayoral candidates. To most people, everyone else is an afterthought."
The city comptroller regularly performs audits of the city budget and makes budget recommendations, as well as approves all city contracts. The annual salary is $160,000. No Republican candidate has materialized, so a victory in the primary is considered tantamount to a victory in the general election.
The two Democrats are prepared to wage a vigorous campaign. Mr. Berman, a 26-year veteran of the City Council and the chairman of its Finance Committee, has already demonstrated considerable fund-raising might, having secured more than $1 million in campaign contributions.
Mr. Thompson has raised only $500,000. But he plans to resign from the board April 1 -- an ethics ruling prohibited him from raising money while holding the post after that date -- and the change will enable him to concentrate more on fund-raising. He has hired Suri Kasirer, a prominent Democratic consultant, to help his campaign.
"I got a late start," Mr. Thompson said. "But now we are focused on it, and I don't think raising money will be a problem." 
The comptroller's race is the only one with just two candidates in the primary. (There are now four Democratic candidates for mayor and five for public advocate.) "It is the race that is likeliest to become nasty," said Jeffrey B. Plaut, a partner at the Global Strategy Group, a political consulting organization.
Mr. Plaut said Mr. Berman would probably seek to put together the kind of coalition that elected Rudolph W. Giuliani mayor in 1993: a swath of white voters in boroughs outside Manhattan. He added that Mr. Thompson, who could be the only black candidate for citywide office, would seek to resurrect the coalition that elected David N. Dinkins mayor in 1989: black, Hispanic and liberal white voters.
The candidates, however, disagree with the suggestion that the race could turn nasty, although they expect it to be heated. "We like each other," Mr. Berman said. "We are friends."
The two Democrats were both born and raised in Brooklyn and have deep roots in the borough's politics. Mr. Berman, 67, grew up in Brighton Beach and Coney Island. He is a lawyer who worked alongside Anthony J. Genovesi, the Brooklyn political leader who ran the Thomas Jefferson Democratic Club.
Mr. Thompson, 47, who grew up in Bedford-Stuyvesant, is the son of William C. Thompson Sr., a prominent Democratic councilman and state senator who recently retired as an appellate judge. The younger Mr. Thompson was an aide to Representative Frederick W. Richmond, a Brooklyn Democrat, then a deputy to Howard Golden, the Brooklyn borough president, who appointed him to the Board of Education in 1994.
While the campaign is just beginning to take shape, the candidates have been busy traveling the city and stressing their bona fides in fiscal management. Mr. Berman emphasizes his leadership of the City Council's Finance Committee and his experience with and grasp of the city's budget. Mr. Thompson discusses his years as a senior vice president in the New York office of George K. Baum & Company, a brokerage house based in Kansas City, Mo.
The two stress vastly different themes in their budding campaigns. Mr. Berman, for example, talks about the need for a comptroller who understands the city's budget process, particularly in light of expectations of a large turnover in Council members.
"As a consequence of term limits," Mr. Berman said, "there will be such a big upheaval in the government that we will need someone as comptroller who is experienced and a source of competent oversight of the budget."
Mr. Thompson discusses the need to make the comptroller "an activist." He said it was important for the comptroller to find ways "to continue to influence policy in this city, to use pension funds to supplement and improve economic development, to provide housing."
"How the comptroller uses his voice," he said, "can help determine the direction of this city."

GRAPHIC: Photo: Councilman Herbert E. Berman, left, and William C. Thompson Jr. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: POLITICAL CANDIDATES (92%); CITY GOVERNMENT (91%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (90%); POLITICAL ORGANIZATIONS (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); GOVERNMENT CONTROLLERS & AUDITORS (90%); ELECTIONS (90%); MAYORS (90%); FUNDRAISING (89%); CITIES (89%); BUDGETS (87%); POLITICAL PARTIES (78%); CAMPAIGN FINANCE (78%); INTERVIEWS (78%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (78%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (78%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (78%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (78%); WAGES & SALARIES (77%); BOARD CHANGES (74%); RESIGNATIONS (72%); FAMILY (72%); CONSULTING SERVICES (71%); VOTERS & VOTING (70%); ETHICS (68%); PUBLIC CONTRACTING (66%) ELECTIONS; COMPTROLLERS 

PERSON: RUDY GIULIANI (58%) HICKS, JONATHAN P; THOMPSON, WILLIAM C JR; BERMAN, HERBERT E (COUNCILMAN) 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (97%) NEW YORK, USA (97%) UNITED STATES (97%) NEW YORK CITY

LOAD-DATE: March 14, 2001 



350 of 868 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 14, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 3; Foreign Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1439 words

HEADLINE: MEAT FROM EUROPE IS BANNED BY U.S. AS ILLNESS SPREADS 

BYLINE:  By CHRISTOPHER MARQUIS with DONALD G. McNEIL Jr. 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, March 13 

 BODY:
The United States banned imports of animals and animal products from the European Union today after learning that foot-and-mouth disease had spread to France from Britain. 
 The Agriculture Department said it was taking the precaution to protect the domestic industry from a possible outbreak of the virus, which could cost the American industry billions of dollars in just one year. 
 The virus poses little danger to people, even if they eat the meat of infected animals. But it is virulently contagious and is devastating for cattle, swine, sheep, deer and other cloven-hoofed animals, which it generally debilitates and often leaves unable to grow or produce milk.
The ban, which applies to exports from all 15 countries of the European Union, prompted some European officials to complain that the Bush administration was overreacting. 
But three members of the European Union -- Belgium, Portugal and Spain -- are closing their borders to French meat, as is Switzerland. Norway banned imports of French farm products, and Germany and Italy took protective measures. Canada also banned meat imports from the European Union, as well as from Argentina, which has found foot-and-mouth disease in the northwest. Argentina said it would voluntarily restrict beef exports.
Kimberley Smith, a spokeswoman for the Agriculture Department, said many items, including most cheeses and cured or cooked meats, are not affected because they are heated in a way that kills the virus.
The ban is expected to hit pork producers the most. European beef is already banned by the United States because of mad cow disease, which can cause fatal Creutzfeldt-Jakob disease in humans.
The Agriculture Department is "taking this time to assess our exclusion activities as a precaution to ensure that we don't get foot-and-mouth disease in the United States," Ms. Smith said. She said the department could not say how long the ban would last. 
Department officials did not detail which European products would be subject to the ban. But they said it would prohibit the importation of live swine, pork and meat from sheep and goats, regardless of whether it is fresh or frozen. Yogurt and most cheeses would be permitted, they said, because those sold in the United States are made from pasteurized milk. 
Canned ham or any other food products that have been heated above 175 degrees Fahrenheit are permitted because such processing inactivates the virus, the officials said.
The production of such favored items as French brie and Italian prosciutto is closely monitored to meet stringent export standards, she said, so they are not affected by today's ban. Brie entering the United States is made from pasteurized milk and is considered safe.
A spokesman for the European Commission in Washington, Gerry Kiely, said the ban would cost European exporters as much as $458 million a year in sales. The agriculture department put the cost at $400 million at most. 
Earlier today French officials confirmed that foot-and-mouth disease was found among cattle at a dairy farm in Laval, in northwestern France. Officials said farmers in the area had imported sheep from Britain, which is at the center of the current outbreak and has already slaughtered about 170,000 animals to contain the disease. 
The disease, which is so infectious that it can be spread by footwear and cars, appeared in France despite tight precautions. The infected dairy farm, near La Baroche-Gondouin in the Mayenne district, was inside an isolation zone.
Last week France set up double sets of roadblocks in 19 regions and created a 1.8-mile ring around a suspect farm. Under these restrictions, animals are required to remain in the fields, dogs must be kept away and all people and vehicles leaving farms are disinfected. Within a wider radius of about six miles, no animals are allowed to circulate, even to go to slaughter.
Animals believed to be infected are killed and burned in the field on pyres of gasoline-soaked wood, then buried nearby. French farmers have already killed 50,000 sheep: 20,000 imported from Britain since Feb. 1, and 30,000 French sheep that had contact with them.
The foot-and-mouth disease in France was found in a herd of 114 cows that had been grazing near sheep from a neighboring farm that had been imported from Britain. The sheep were all slaughtered last week as a precaution. When six cows showed mouth lesions on Monday, the entire herd was killed immediately and incinerated. Only two tested positive for the disease, French officials said.
The director general for food of the Department of Agriculture and Fisheries, Catherine Geslain-Laneelle, tried to calm the situation today, saying, "At this stage, we shouldn't speak of an epidemic; we have a concentration."
European officials voiced dismay that their livestock producers would be kept from the American market by the second ban in four years. (The first was in reaction to the outbreak of mad cow disease.) 
The Bush administration announced the step just hours after a group of veterinarians working for the European Union objected to the existing ban on European beef, saying global fears of mad cow disease had led to restrictions that were "excessive and not supported by any technical arguments."
American agricultural experts and representatives of the livestock industry praised today's step as timely. Senator Tom Harkin of Iowa, the ranking Democrat on the Senate Agriculture Committee, said: "Right now, we just don't know how far this disease has spread. It is common sense to take protective measures."
American experts in animal disease said the United States should take draconian measures if necessary to avoid an outbreak of foot and mouth. In the first two decades of the last century, they noted, there were repeated and devastating outbreaks of the disease, which was likely transmitted when garbage from oceanliners were fed to pigs as food.
The last reported incidence of foot-and-mouth disease in this country was in 1929.
"I think it's a logical step to take," said John Maas, a veterinarian and food-safety specialist at the University of California at Davis. "Slam the door quick, before the damage is done."
Dr. Maas noted that the disease is still endemic in many parts of the world, most notably in parts of China, the Middle East and former Soviet republics. But the risk posed by the European animals was especially worrisome because American authorities have been less vigilant about products from that part of the world, he said.
"The threat is not new," Dr. Maas said. "It's just the direction it's coming from."
American livestock producers expressed sympathy with their European counterparts, even as they acknowledged that they might benefit by taking over European markets in Japan, Russia and elsewhere.
"It's a very unfortunate situation and our producers feel for the producers in the United Kingdom and France," said Nicholas Giordano, the international trade counsel for the National Pork Producers Council, which is based in Des Moines. "We're pleased with the action that the U.S.D.A. has taken, but we don't take any glee in it."
Even including the processed items that are not being banned, European pork exporters provide a small fraction of the pork consumed in the United States, about 4 percent, in sales valued at $200 million to $250 million a year, Mr. Giordano said. Denmark is by far the biggest supplier, accounting for about 70 percent of American imports.
Mr. Giordano predicted that depending on how long the ban lasts, American consumers might detect higher prices for pork ribs, frozen shoulders or unprocessed ham, which are being banned. 
But, he said, there may be a more significant economic impact for American producers, who could gain ground in sales to third countries at Europe's expense. The American pork industry, which generates farm income of $11 billion a year, sells to nearly 100 countries, he added. 
In addition to the ban on European Union products, the administration said, it plans to send a team of 40 experts to monitor efforts to contain the disease. It also has placed airports and other entry points on heightened alert to inspect travelers and their cargo, and begun a publicity campaign about steps to prevent the spread of the disease.
In an action related to mad cow disease, the McDonald's Corporation, the nation's largest buyer of beef, today announced steps it plans against the disease in this country. The chain has given meat packers until April 1 to document that the cattle they slaughter has been fed according to federal rules. Mad cow disease is contracted by animals that eat the tissue of other infected animals.

GRAPHIC: Photos: The foot-and-mouth disease ravaging British livestock has spread to France, where cattle were burned yesterday on a farm near Laval. (Associated Press)(pg. A1); The first case of foot-and-mouth disease in continental Western Europe in recent times has been found near Laval, France, where slaughtered cattle awaited a pyre yesterday. The tires at left anchor a supply of hay. (Associated Press)(pg. A8) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LIVESTOCK DISEASE (94%); EUROPEAN UNION (92%); FOOT & MOUTH DISEASE (91%); EXPORT TRADE (90%); IMPORT TRADE (90%); CHEESE (90%); AGRICULTURE DEPARTMENTS (90%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (90%); AGRICULTURAL COMMODITY REGULATION (90%); DAIRY PRODUCTS (90%); MEAT EXPORTS & IMPORTS (90%); DENTAL MOUTH & JAW DISORDERS (90%); IMPORT CONTROLS (90%); MAMMALS (90%); FOOD SAFETY REGULATION (90%); BOVINE SPONGIFORM ENCEPHALOPATHY (90%); ANIMALS (90%); AGRICULTURAL EXPORT & IMPORT CONTROLS (90%); BEEF (89%); LIVESTOCK EXPORTS & IMPORTS (89%); MILK (89%); HOG & PIG FARMING (89%); CREUTZFELDT JAKOB DISEASE (78%); ANIMAL SLAUGHTERING & PROCESSING (78%); AGRICULTURAL EXPORTS & IMPORTS (78%); PORK (78%); EUROPEAN UNION INSTITUTIONS (78%); MEATS (78%); FOOD & BEVERAGE (77%); ICE CREAM (77%); INFECTIOUS DISEASE (76%); SHEEP & GOAT FARMING (75%); DAIRY FARMING (74%); NEUROLOGICAL DISORDERS & INJURIES (73%); FOOD BORNE ILLNESS (72%); FROZEN FOODS (71%); FOOD INDUSTRY (70%); EPIDEMICS (58%); DISEASES & DISORDERS (58%); BEEF CATTLE FARMING (55%) LIVESTOCK; FOOT-AND-MOUTH DISEASE; LIVESTOCK DISEASES; FOOD CONTAMINATION AND POISONING; MAD COW DISEASE (BOVINE SPONGIFORM ENCEPHALOPATHY); CHEESE; DAIRY PRODUCTS; INTERNATIONAL TRADE AND WORLD MARKET; MEAT 

ORGANIZATION: EUROPEAN UNION (94%) EUROPEAN UNION; AGRICULTURE DEPARTMENT 

PERSON: ;MARQUIS, CHRISTOPHER; MCNEIL, DONALD G JR 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (98%); EUROPE (97%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (95%); FRANCE (94%); SPAIN (92%); BELGIUM (92%); ARGENTINA (92%); PORTUGAL (90%); NORWAY (79%); GERMANY (79%); UNITED KINGDOM (79%); WESTERN EUROPE (79%); SWITZERLAND (79%) EUROPE; FRANCE; GREAT BRITAIN; CANADA; ARGENTINA; BELGIUM; SPAIN; PORTUGAL; ARGENTINA

LOAD-DATE: March 14, 2001 



351 of 868 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 14, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section C; Column 6; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 496 words

HEADLINE: TECHNOLOGY; 
Motorola Sets A Further Cut Of 7,000 Jobs

BYLINE:  Reuters 

DATELINE: CHICAGO, March 13 

 BODY:
Motorola, the mobile phone maker, said today that it would eliminate 7,000 more jobs as it tries to strengthen its cellular phone unit amid an industrywide slowdown in sales.
 The company, based in Schaumburg, Ill., said the job cuts -- equivalent to 5 percent of the work force -- would increase the reductions in its cellular phone operations this year to 12,000, or 36 percent of the unit's employees at the end of last year. 
 Its announcement followed a warning on Monday by a rival, LM Ericsson, that it expected a first-quarter loss of perhaps $500 million, instead of breaking even as it forecast in January. Motorola issued its own profit warning last month. 
Motorola employs 140,000 people worldwide in all its businesses and ranks behind Nokia in cellular phone production. It said it would complete the job cuts in the next two quarters and take an unspecified charge against first- and second-quarter results.
A statement by Mike S. Zafirovski, the company's president for personal communications, said: "Unfortunately, this was a necessary next step for us to achieve renewal and stay competitive in today's dramatic business environment, particularly given the current slowdown in the economy. We anticipate growth, but at a slower pace. We must continue to adapt our overall cost structure, work force and production levels to a more competitive business model."
Today, Motorola's shares, trading ex dividend, rose 24 cents, to $15.20. In the last year, the shares have performed well below the broad market, falling from a 52-week closing high of $59.
The company said it was looking at a number of "promising opportunities" to improve its financial results in the second half of the year, including new strategic alliances, customer agreements and products.
A Deutsche Banc Alex. Brown analyst, Brian Modoff, called the job cuts unsurprising and said Motorola must get new products out faster, adding: "They need to reduce their overall expenses. We're not forecasting profitability in handsets this year."
The cellular phone unit's senior vice president for strategy, Leif Soderberg, declined to predict profitability. "The overall economic climate is changing pretty rapidly," he said. "A lot of people have been caught by surprise as to how fast that has changed, particularly in some of the technology sectors."
Projected cellular phone sales for 2001 industrywide have fallen sharply -- from a forecast of 500 million to 600 million earlier this year, to Motorola's below-500-million warning last month, to an estimate today, supported by Siemens, below 450 million. That would be a relatively modest 10 percent increase over the 410 million sold last year.
"Handset growth is slowing worse than expectations," said Tim Ghriskey, a senior portfolio manager at Dreyfus. "Therefore, you're going to see things like job cuts in the sector that's primarily a marketing and manufacturing business, where high talent is not as precious. Likely, we'll see more of this."

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MOBILE & CELLULAR TELEPHONES (92%); MOBILE & CELLULAR COMMUNICATIONS (92%); WIRELESS & BROADCAST EQUIPMENT MFG (90%); LAYOFFS (90%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS EQUIPMENT (90%); CONSUMER ELECTRONICS MFG (90%); TELEPHONIC EQUIPMENT (90%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS EQUIPMENT MFG (90%); LABOR FORCE (90%); COMPANY PROFITS (89%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (78%); ECONOMIC NEWS (77%); PROFIT WARNINGS (77%); INTERIM FINANCIAL RESULTS (77%); FINANCIAL RESULTS (77%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (77%); SECURITIES TRADING (77%); BUSINESS CLIMATE & CONDITIONS (74%); COMPANY LOSSES (72%); SALES & SELLING (72%); ALLIANCES & PARTNERSHIPS (72%); DIVIDENDS (70%); NEW PRODUCTS (70%); EXECUTIVES (67%) TELEPHONES AND TELECOMMUNICATIONS; CELLULAR TELEPHONES; LABOR; LAYOFFS AND JOB REDUCTIONS; SALES 

COMPANY: TELEFONAKTIEBOLAGET LM ERICSSON (91%); MOTOROLA SOLUTIONS INC (90%); SIEMENS AG (58%); DEUTSCHE BANC ALEX BROWN INC (53%)

ORGANIZATION: MOTOROLA INC 

TICKER: ERIC.B (STO) (91%); ERIC.A (STO) (91%); ERIC (NASDAQ) (91%); MSI (NYSE) (90%); SIN (SWX) (58%); SIE (LSE) (58%); SIE (FRA) (58%); SIE (BIT) (58%); SI (NYSE) (58%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS334220 RADIO & TELEVISION BROADCASTING & WIRELESS COMMUNICATIONS EQUIPMENT MANUFACTURING (91%); SIC3663 RADIO & TELEVISION BROADCASTING & COMMUNICATIONS EQUIPMENT (91%); NAICS335110 ELECTRIC LAMP BULB & PART MANUFACTURING (58%); NAICS334513 INSTRUMENTS & RELATED PRODUCTS MANUFACTURING FOR MEASURING, DISPLAYING & CONTROLLING INDUSTRIAL PROCESS VARIABLES (58%); NAICS334413 SEMICONDUCTOR & RELATED DEVICE MANUFACTURING (58%); NAICS334210 TELEPHONE APPARATUS MANUFACTURING (58%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (53%) SIC3663 RADIO & TV COMMUNICATIONS EQUIPMENT; 

GEOGRAPHIC: CHICAGO, IL, USA (79%) ILLINOIS, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: March 14, 2001 



352 of 868 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 14, 2001
Correction Appended 
 Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 2; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1404 words

HEADLINE: MANAGEMENT; 
Divided, an Airline Stumbles

BYLINE:  By LAURENCE ZUCKERMAN 

 BODY:
It was trumpeted on the cover of Business Week as a beacon for corporate America and hailed by none other than the conservative columnist George F. Will as "a promising new chapter in the history of capitalism." After workers bought a majority stake in United Airlines in the summer of 1994, creating the world's biggest employee-owned company, managers began referring to them as "owners" and the airline changed its motto to "fly our friendly skies."
 But as anyone who has flown United recently can attest, something has gone terribly wrong. 
 Last summer, United's pilots, which own the single largest stake in its parent, the UAL Corporation, staged a thinly veiled work slowdown during contract negotiations; United was forced to cancel thousands of flights. By fall, the machinists, the other big group of employee owners, followed suit. The airline took the machinists to court, accusing them of conducting an illegal job action. Their union is threatening to strike. The turmoil inconvenienced tens of thousands of customers, placed the airline at the bottom of industry on-time rankings, caused it to rack up huge losses and sent its stock, which is mostly held by the same frustrated employees, tumbling. 
What happened? 
In retrospect, it seems obvious: while everybody agreed to call workers "owners," they did not act like owners, and management did not treat them like owners.
If the two sides had worked hard to create a true ownership culture throughout the company, the experiment might have succeeded, industry analysts say. Instead, labor and management displayed a lack of commitment from the start. 
Such irresolution is hardly a formula for success in any endeavor. For the most ambitious employee-ownership project ever, it spelled trouble.
Employee ownership has not been a complete failure. United executives and labor leaders said it had accomplished its most important goal by saving the airline from a major restructuring in the mid-1990's, a move that would have cost thousands of jobs. But they also acknowledge that the opportunity to create a new breed of worker-owner who would propel the company into an era of corporate collaboration, a vision that seemed within reach seven years ago, has been squandered.
"One of the greatest opportunities we did not take advantage of was sitting down and agreeing on a joint vision of where we wanted to go," said James E. Goodwin, UAL's chief executive.
Rick Dubinsky, the head of the pilots union at United, described employee ownership as a big red box tied with a bright bow that is sitting in the middle of an arena filled with United workers and managers. 
"I think the present is still inside but nobody knows how to open up the box," Mr. Dubinsky said. "Neither side really attempted to work out what it was going to take to make it work. Everybody kind of took it for granted."
Which was a big mistake for such a monumental venture. Most of the 11,000 employee-owned companies in the United States have fewer than 500 workers, and only 5 percent are unionized. United had 75,500 employees in 1994 and was, and remains, highly unionized. As a measure of the difficulty of the task, the few other high-profile experiments in employee ownership, like the Weirton Steel Corporation, have quietly moved away from the concept.
Researchers say employee ownership can give companies a competitive edge, but only if workers believe they are helping to call the shots. 
"People bring all sorts of expectations and imaginations to this idea that we are owners of the company," said Christopher Mackin, president of Ownership Associates Inc., a consultant in Cambridge, Mass., who has worked for United. "You have to go through this interpretive process of what you mean by ownership."
But United's unions did not set out to change capitalism or make history. They set out to save jobs in perhaps the worst crisis the airline industry has endured since it was deregulated in 1978.
United lost nearly $1 billion in 1992, and Stephen M. Wolf, then its chief executive, threatened to sell assets and lay off workers unless they made wage and productivity concessions.
Some union leaders had dreamed of controlling United. They had tried and failed once, in 1989, to buy the airline. Now, they seized on the financial problems and tried again. And Mr. Wolf, who stood to make millions on his stock options, went along.
Here is how the agreement worked: The two biggest unions -- the Air Line Pilots Association and the International Association of Machinists and Aerospace Workers -- and a group of nonunion salaried employees agreed to wage cuts and work rule changes in exchange for a $4.9 billion loan to buy 55 percent of UAL's stock. The stock would be distributed to the employees in their retirement accounts over seven years. The two unions and the salaried workers received 3 of the 12 seats on the board. 
But the plan carried seeds of discontent. For starters, United's 18,000 flight attendants declined to participate, leaving the carrier's single biggest group of front-line employees out of the ownership equation.
Moreover, many workers resented having to take pay cuts. The machinists accepted the plan by a slim margin. Worse, the leaders of the pilots union did not even submit the agreement to a vote, even though their members absorbed the biggest cuts. For that and other reasons, Mr. Dubinsky of the pilots union, was voted out of office.
For all the discord bubbling underneath the surface, employee ownership appeared to be a huge success at first. Gerald Greenwald, the former vice chairman of the Chrysler Corporation who was picked by the unions to be UAL's chief executive, introduced task force teams, enabling workers to help streamline United's operations and cut costs.
And on the surface, solidarity seemed to prevail as Mr. Greenwald made the rounds, glad-handing workers and making symbolic gestures like eliminating weight requirements for flight attendants.
The economy also helped, fueling a recovery in the industry. United posted record profits in 1995, 1996, 1997 and 1999, ordered planes and went on a hiring binge. (It now has more than 100,000 employees.) Workers watched as the stock soared; employee ownership seemed to be working. In reality, the turn in fortunes eliminated any incentive to try to create an ownership culture of partnership and mutual sacrifice. 
Mr. Greenwald turned a deaf ear to the rumblings of middle managers who were opposed to the idea of worker ownership. And the unions failed to forge a common front. 
"You really had a union that had a leadership that wasn't part of the building of this thing," said Mr. Dubinsky, who was re-elected to lead the pilots in January, "and a management that was eager to take the path of least resistance." 
Many workers, whose stock was locked away in retirement accounts and who felt their sacrifice was responsible for the turnaround, began clamoring for raises.
Mr. Goodwin, who became chief executive in 1999 after the unions vetoed Mr. Greenwald's chosen successor, proceeded to upset the pilots by failing to deliver on a promise to negotiate a new contract by April of that year. He then infuriated them by announcing a $4.3 billion agreement to buy US Airways. 
The US Airways deal revealed the cracks in worker solidarity. The two union board members could have joined forces to block it, but the director representing the machinists gave his assent, leaving Mr. Dubinsky as the lone dissenter.
Last week the machinists reversed their approval of the merger and threatened to strike. But that is unlikely to block the deal, which is still being scrutinized by the Justice Department. Meantime, the union representing flight attendants is demanding a large raise in exchange for its approval of the takeover and has threatened to strike. 
United workers will continue to own a majority of the company for at least another 15 years, but there seems little enthusiasm for the concept these days. Mr. Goodwin said he remained committed to employee ownership, though he offered no particular vision. 
Mr. Dubinsky, returned from exile, said: "We now have six or seven years of this particular environment where people think this is what employee ownership means. It's going to be hard to turn that ship around."
But he insisted that he had not given up. "I'm just saying it is going to be more difficult," he said. "We paid $5 billion for this box. Somebody has to unwrap it."

CORRECTION-DATE: March 20, 2001

 CORRECTION:
An article in Business Day on Wednesday about the experience of employee ownership at the UAL Corporation, the parent of United Airlines, misstated the history of Capt. Rick Dubinsky in the United branch of the pilots union. Captain Dubinsky served out a second two-year term as chairman of the union's master executive council and left office in 1991. He was re-elected to a two-year term in October 1999 and took office on Jan. 1, 2000. He was not voted out for not having brought the buyout plan before members in 1994.

GRAPHIC: Photos: Employee ownership of United Airlines, hailed on the cover of Business Week magazine in March 1996, struggled last year as pilots and machinists staged work slowdowns. The actions forced the airline to cancel thousands of flights, inconveniencing passengers at airports around the country, including O'Hare in Chicago, right. The slowdowns also forced United's chief executive, James E. Goodwin, lower right, to apologize for the delays. (Associated Press) Chart: "Failed Expectations"The future of United Airlines looked bleak seven years ago. Then a plan unfolded that made workers the airline's owners -- and everything changed. Or so it seemed. As it turned out, the commitment of both workers and managers to the project fell short of their ambitions, and as tensions rose, the stock price fell. JULY 1994 -- Employee buyout of United APRIL 1997 -- Pilots and mechanics agree to wage increases in mid-contract arbitration OCT. 1997 -- Flight attendants approve a contract that runs through 2006 APRIL 2000 -- With no contract, pilots start a slowdown that forces thousands of flight cancellations AUG. 2000 -- Pilots sign a new contract with 23 to 28 percent wage increases (Source: Bloomberg Financial Markets)(pg. C6) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: AIRLINES (92%); FACTORY WORKERS (90%); STRIKES (90%); EMPLOYEE STOCK OWNERSHIP PLANS (90%); AIRCRAFT PILOTS (90%); DELAYS & POSTPONEMENTS (78%); EXECUTIVES (78%); LABOR UNIONS (77%); COLLECTIVE BARGAINING (74%); CONSERVATIVE MEDIA (73%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (69%); ALLIANCES & PARTNERSHIPS (67%) AIRLINES AND AIRPLANES; EMPLOYEE OWNED COMPANIES; COMPANY AND ORGANIZATION PROFILES; LABOR; SLOWDOWNS AND JOB ACTIONS; PILOTS; DELAYS (TRANSPORTATION) 

COMPANY: UNITED CONTINENTAL HOLDINGS INC (84%); UNITED AIR LINES INC (58%)

ORGANIZATION: UNITED AIRLINES; UAL CORP 

TICKER: UAL (NYSE) (84%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS481112 SCHEDULED FREIGHT AIR TRANSPORTATION (84%); NAICS481111 SCHEDULED PASSENGER AIR TRANSPORTATION (84%); SIC4512 AIR TRANSPORTATION, SCHEDULED (84%) SIC4512 AIR TRANSPORTATION; 

PERSON: ZUCKERMAN, LAURENCE; GOODWIN, JAMES E 

GEOGRAPHIC: CHICAGO, IL, USA (79%) ILLINOIS, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: March 14, 2001 



353 of 868 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 14, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Editorial Desk; Pg. 22

LENGTH: 640 words

HEADLINE: A Moment of Economic Suspense 

 BODY:
Wall Street's bull market formally expired Monday. Will the nation's longest-ever expansion follow suit? That is the pressing question confronting policy makers and the public at this moment of economic suspense. With more than half of all Americans now invested in the stock market, the Federal Reserve Board and the Bush administration face the daunting challenge of preventing the sustained fall in the financial markets from nudging the slowing real economy into a recession.
 The economy has been sending mixed signals of late. Corporate profits are slowing, prominent companies are announcing layoffs, and the consumer confidence index is falling. Last Friday the Federal Reserve reported that the net worth of American households dropped in 2000 for the first time in 55 years, and yesterday the Commerce Department reported weaker-than-expected retail sales for the month of February. But unemployment, inflation and productivity figures remain healthy, and there are certainly no foreign wars or other external threats to our well-being. 
 No one has a magic formula for ensuring prosperity. But there are important policy tools available and good reasons to believe that a recession is avoidable. The White House and the Fed, as well as Congress, must now work in concert to prop up consumer confidence. 
The Federal Reserve must continue to do its part by further dropping interest rates to encourage spending. It is important, too, for President Bush to quit talking down the economy in order to build Congressional and public support for his tax cut. Mr. Bush should take his cue from polls like that in today's Times showing that the public supports his tax cut but views it as skewed toward the rich. It would therefore be smart politics and a better test of the stimulative effect of the tax cut to direct it toward wage-earning families. At the same time, Democrats and moderate Republicans in the Senate must ensure that the tax cut is not so large as to risk a return of runaway deficits, further undermining consumer confidence.
On Monday, the broad-based Standard & Poor's 500 index closed more than 20 percent below its top, the classic definition of a bear market, and even yesterday's rebound left it in bear territory. Of course investors in volatile technology shares had already passed that painful milestone. Since reaching its peak of 5,048 a year ago, the Nasdaq composite, the market index driven by major technology stocks, has plummeted more than 3,000 points, or 60 percent. The new economy, it seems, produced a classic bubble. Investors lost $4 trillion in paper wealth, not to mention their passion for the stock market. 
We are in the aftermath of this spectacular decline, but still waiting to learn whether the patient, the real economy, has suffered just a few bruises or something far more serious. How deep and lasting will the ongoing slowdown turn out? In the lexicon of Wall Street, are we at the bottom of a V, a U or, most ominously, a Japanese-style L? Alan Greenspan, the Fed's chairman, has had a good record in assessing conflicting vital signs. The Federal Reserve must decide by its March 20 meeting whether -- or, most likely, how much -- to further cut interest rates.
A cut would help address public fears stemming from those trillions of dollars that vanished from the brokerage accounts of millions of Americans. Recessions are typically caused by declines in demand, and it is hard to imagine that their stock market losses will not have some impact on people's spending. This is particularly true at a time when Americans, accustomed to seeing the value of their assets rise dramatically in the past few years, have been spending more than they earn. Public confidence needs to be restored in the fundamental soundness of the economy, lest consumers' concerns become self-fulfilling. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Editorial 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC NEWS (91%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (91%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); CONSUMER CONFIDENCE (90%); RECESSION (90%); TAXES & TAXATION (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); PUBLIC POLICY (90%); STOCK INDEXES (89%); MARKET OPEN CLOSE (89%); TAX LAW (87%); BONDS (79%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (77%); CENTRAL BANKS (77%); NEW ECONOMY (77%); FAMILY (77%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (77%); COMPANY PROFITS (76%); FINANCIAL RESULTS (75%); LAYOFFS (75%); COMMERCE DEPARTMENTS (72%); CONTUSIONS (69%); POLITICS (69%); RETAIL SALES (68%); PRODUCTIVITY (68%); INTEREST RATES (50%) STOCKS AND BONDS; UNITED STATES ECONOMY; EDITORIALS 

ORGANIZATION: US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (56%)

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (76%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (95%)

LOAD-DATE: March 14, 2001 



354 of 868 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 14, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 2; National Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1226 words

HEADLINE: How Bill in Senate Would Add Hurdles To Erasing of Debt 

BYLINE:  By PHILIP SHENON 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, March 13 

 BODY:
For many Americans among the more than one million debtors whose financial troubles are expected to drive them into bankruptcy next year, the route to a fresh financial start would be far more complicated under a bill that is now before the Senate and appears likely to become law.
 The bill would overhaul the nation's century-old bankruptcy system and eliminate the concept that many types of debts -- notably credit-card debts and other loans that are not secured by a house or anything else of value -- can be wiped out by a trip to bankruptcy court. 
 For many debtors, the idea that bankruptcy offers a true, fresh start would disappear.
After emerging from bankruptcy, they would still be responsible for paying off some of their unsecured debts, even if that meant dividing their paychecks between old credit-card bills and current child-support payments, alimony and other court-enforced obligations.
The bill has been endorsed by President Bush and is being championed by the credit-card and banking industries, which say they have been harmed by a dramatic increase in the number of personal bankruptcies. 
During last year's election campaign, they backed up their lobbying effort with millions of dollars in political contributions to key members of Congress and with some of the largest corporate donations to Mr. Bush. The bill, which has already been passed by an overwhelming margin in the House, is expected to be approved by the Senate late this week.
About 1.3 million Americans declared bankruptcy last year, an increase of 75 percent since 1990. Financial analysts say enactment of the bill would mean billions of dollars in extra profits for credit-card issuers over the next decade.
The bill's goal, supporters say, is to stop abuse of the system by many debtors who are shirking their responsibility to pay back their debts, even though they have money to do so. 
"All of us end up paying for the unscrupulous who abuse our system," said Senator Orrin G. Hatch, the Utah Republican who is chairman of the Judiciary Committee. "People with high incomes can run up massive debts, and then use bankruptcy to get out of honoring them."
The banking industry says that bankruptcies drive up the cost of borrowing for everyone else by $400 to $500 per person per year. 
Todd J. Zywicki, a bankruptcy specialist at the law school at George Mason University in Virginia, said, "I can see no good reason why a schoolteacher earning $30,000 a year should have to pay more for a mortgage or more for a new couch because some guy making $100,000 a year finds it inconvenient to pay his debts."
The problem with the bill, opponents say, is that it would impose severe financial penalties on people who are forced into bankruptcy through no fault of their own -- because of medical problems or layoffs, for example. President Bill Clinton vetoed a nearly identical bill last year, describing it as too harsh on debtors.
Critics say the bill also does nothing to end what is perhaps the most notorious abuse of the system in some states: a loophole that allows people with extravagant spending habits who are facing bankruptcy to shift millions of dollars of assets into a house, which can then be shielded from creditors under what is known as the homesteading exemption.
The bill would deny the exemption for a home bought within two years of a bankruptcy filing, but critics say that would simply encourage people with lots of assets to buy a mansion and then hold off their creditors for two years before going to bankruptcy court.
The vast majority of people entering the bankruptcy court could only dream of such a home.
Economic researchers say that nearly two-thirds of the people who file for bankruptcy report significant periods of unemployment before their filings. According to a 1999 study by federal bankruptcy judges, the median income for Americans filing for bankruptcy the year before was $22,000 a year.
Perhaps the bill's most important provision is a requirement that people who meet a certain income test -- generally, that they have enough income to pay off at least 25 percent of their debts over five years -- be barred from filing under Chapter 7 of the bankruptcy code, which allows people to erase most of their unsecured debts.
Instead, they would be forced to file under Chapter 13, which requires some repayment under a court-approved plan. Currently, about three out of four people file for bankruptcy under Chapter 7. When debtors choose Chapter 13, it is often because they want to take advantage of the provision that allows them to keep their homes.
The bill would continue to allow the unemployed or people with relatively low incomes to file under Chapter 7, but it would impose several new logistical hurdles on them, including additional paperwork and the completion of a credit-counseling program.
While the bill's sponsors say that the income test and the paperwork requirements would not be onerous on truly impoverished debtors, critics say that even a few additional impediments could persuade them to give up entirely on the bankruptcy system.
"I fear this will end up creating an underground economy," said Lawrence P. King, a law professor at New York University. "People will go off the books. They'll ask to be paid in cash. They'll get a false Social Security number. They'll move.
"In my 40 years of dealing with Congress on bankruptcy legislation, this is the worst I've ever seen," Professor King continued. "It's the kind of bill that makes you want to point your fingers at individual congressmen and say, 'Shame on you.' "
Opponents of the bill include many economists and lawyers who say they are also alarmed about changes it makes in the system of business bankruptcies. Under the bill, a single creditor could block the bankruptcy reorganization of a company, threatening the company's viability and the paychecks of its employees.
If a reorganization is delayed too long, "the only other alternative is liquidation," said Brady C. Williamson, a Wisconsin lawyer who led a federal commission that reviewed bankruptcy laws in the 1990's. "And that's not good for either creditors or employees."
The opponents say they are also concerned about provisions of the bill that appear designed to benefit special interests at the expense of other creditors, creating the appearance of unfairness in what is being billed as "reform" legislation.
At the request of lobbyists for the automobile industry, the bill eliminates rules that allow debtors entering bankruptcy to repay only an automobile's market value, not the full loan amount. 
The White House has refused to say if Andrew H. Card Jr., President Bush's chief of staff, lobbied for the change before joining the White House while employed as a senior executive at General Motors and president of the American Automobile Manufacturers Association. "It has absolutely no bearing on his current role as chief of staff," said a spokesman, Scott McClellan.
Opponents of the bill had at least a moderate victory today, when Senator Charles E. Schumer, Democrat of New York, forced a voice vote on the Senate floor to approve an amendment intended to prevent lenders facing bankruptcy from trying to sell off high-interest "predatory" loans. It was the first -- and only -- amendment approved on the Senate floor in more than a week of debate on the bankruptcy bill.

GRAPHIC: Photo: Discussing the bankruptcy bill, from right: Senators Orrin G. Hatch, Patrick J. Leahy and Richard J. Durbin. (Paul Hosefros/The New York Times)(pg. A20) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (95%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); LEGISLATION (90%); PERSONAL DEBT (90%); BUSINESS FINANCIAL TROUBLE (90%); CREDIT CARDS (89%); APPROVALS (78%); BUSINESS FORECASTS (78%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY COURTS (78%); CONSUMER LENDING (78%); BANKING & FINANCE (78%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (78%); LAW SCHOOLS (77%); CAMPAIGN FINANCE (77%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (77%); CONSUMER LAW (77%); PAYMENT CARDS & SERVICES (76%); CONSUMER BEHAVIOR (74%); CONSUMER PROTECTION (74%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (73%); FINES & PENALTIES (72%); BANKING & FINANCE SECTOR PERFORMANCE (72%); LOBBYING (72%); CORPORATE GIVING (71%); CHILD CUSTODY & SUPPORT (70%); SPOUSAL SUPPORT (70%); MARKET RESEARCH (69%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (66%); UPPER INCOME PERSONS (60%); GRADUATE & PROFESSIONAL SCHOOLS (60%) BANKRUPTCIES; LAW AND LEGISLATION; CONSUMER PROTECTION; CREDIT AND MONEY CARDS; CONSUMER CREDIT; CONSUMER BEHAVIOR 

PERSON: ORRIN HATCH (77%); GEORGE W BUSH (71%); PATRICK LEAHY (57%); RICHARD DURBIN (57%) HATCH, ORRIN G (SEN); SHENON, PHILIP 

GEOGRAPHIC: VIRGINIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%) UNITED STATES

LOAD-DATE: March 14, 2001 



355 of 868 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 14, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 4; National Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1296 words

HEADLINE: Bush, in Reversal, Won't Seek Cut In Emissions of Carbon Dioxide 

BYLINE:  By DOUGLAS JEHL with ANDREW C. REVKIN 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, March 13 

 BODY:
Under strong pressure from conservative Republicans and industry groups, President Bush reversed a campaign pledge today and said his administration would not seek to regulate power plants' emissions of carbon dioxide, a gas that many scientists say is a key contributor to global warming.
 The decision left environmental groups and some Congressional Democrats angered at what they called a major betrayal. But the White House said a cabinet-level review had concluded that Mr. Bush's original promise had been a mistake inconsistent with the broader goal of increasing domestic energy production. 
 The president outlined his new view in a letter to four Republican senators, whose criticisms of Mr. Bush's initial plan had been among a torrent of protests by conservatives and industry leaders who warned that any effort to regulate carbon dioxide emissions could deal a severe blow to the energy industry and to the American economy. 
As recently as 10 days ago, Christie Whitman, the new administrator of the Environmental Protection Agency, had described Mr. Bush's campaign promise as if it were already policy. 
Administration officials would not say directly today whether Ms. Whitman had supported the change in position but suggested that she had not. They said the views of Vice President Dick Cheney and Energy Secretary Spencer Abraham had been most instrumental in the final decision.
A spokeswoman for Ms. Whitman, Tina Kreisher, said the E.P.A. chief would "follow the president's lead."
The burden of any plan to regulate carbon dioxide emissions would have fallen most heavily on coal-burning power plants, which still account for more than 50 percent of the electricity generated in the United States. Mr. Bush said today that a recent Energy Department study had concluded that regulating carbon dioxide emissions would have led to "significantly higher electricity prices."
"This is important new information that warrants a re-evaluation, especially at a time of rising energy prices and a serious energy shortage," Mr. Bush said.
"At a time when California has already experienced energy shortages, and other Western states are worried about price and availability of energy this summer, we must be very careful not to take actions that could harm consumers," Mr. Bush said in the letter. "This is especially true given the incomplete state of scientific knowledge of the causes of, and solutions to, global climate change and the lack of commercially available technologies for removing and storing carbon dioxide."
Mr. Bush said he remained committed to an energy policy that would seek to improve air quality by reducing emissions of nitrogen oxides, sulfur dioxide and mercury, which are already regulated as pollutants. But he said he no longer supported the position outlined in a campaign statement of Sept. 29, which had also promised to set "mandatory reduction targets" for carbon dioxide.
Some moderate Republicans who had been preparing to introduce legislation later this week supporting a power plant cleanup including carbon dioxide also expressed frustration with the sudden shift. They and some owners of coal-fired plants had supported the idea of regulating all four emissions from power plants at once, to avoid uncertainty and confusion in years to come.
The pressure to make the decision came in part from lobbyists for coal companies and utilities dependent on coal and from the conservative wing of the Republican Party, which saw any move to regulate carbon dioxide as an implicit endorsement of the goals of the Kyoto Protocol.
This treaty, negotiated and signed by the Clinton administration but as yet unratified, would commit 38 industrialized countries to sharp ongoing cuts in carbon dioxide emissions.
Many senators, particularly Jesse Helms, Republican of North Carolina, and Chuck Hagel, Republican of Nebraska, oppose it as a a potential harm to the economy and because it would allow American energy policy, in essence, to be governed by an international treaty. The letter was sent to Mr. Helms, Mr. Hagel, Senator Pat Roberts of Kansas and Senator Larry E. Craig of Idaho.
Mr. Bush's earlier embrace of the plan had won him praise from environmental leaders, who described the approach as an indication that the administration might be more sympathetic than they had expected.
The representatives of environmental organizations denounced Mr. Bush's turnabout.
"Bush is turning his back not only on his campaign pledge, but on his administrator of the E.P.A. and the world's scientists, who warn this problem is more serious than we previously thought," said Daniel A. Lashof, a senior scientist for the Natural Resources Defense Council.
In the offices of industry lobbyists and conservative Republican congressmen, on the other hand, there was a strong sense of triumph.
Glenn Kelly, the executive director of the Global Climate Coalition, which represents industry groups, said the White House had received "a lot of communications" from those critical of any attempt to regulate emissions that are viewed as contributing to global warming. "Fortunately, the president responded quickly," Mr. Kelly said.
Mr. Bush's earlier position had been more far-reaching even than that of his campaign opponent, former Vice President Al Gore, who had called for strong incentives to encourage voluntary moves by industry to reduce emissions.
The letter from Mr. Bush came in response to a letter sent last week by Senator Hagel, requesting that Mr. Bush clarify his stance.
Mr. Hagel has repeatedly said in recent months that he believes global warming is at least partly caused by emissions of gases from human activities, but he has opposed both the Kyoto Protocol and legislative moves to limit carbon dioxide emissions. Tonight, Mr. Hagel said he welcomed Mr. Bush's response. 
A number of members of Congress, including Senators James M. Jeffords, Republican of Vermont, and Joseph I. Lieberman, a Connecticut Democrat, are preparing various power plant bills that would have included carbon dioxide among regulated emissions. Tonight staff for the bill sponsors said identical bills would still be introduced in the Senate and House on Thursday, but they conceded that there was little hope, at least for now, that such measures could succeed.
Many people involved on both sides of the fight said the decision by Mr. Bush represented a sharp rebuke of Ms. Whitman, the former New Jersey governor.
Among others in the administration who had been seen as supporting restrictions on carbon dioxide was the Treasury secretary, Paul H. O'Neill, who in his previous post as chairman of Alcoa had said in a 1998 speech that the problem of global warming was on par with a potential nuclear holocaust in terms of demanding government action.
Ms. Kreisher, Ms. Whitman's spokeswoman, said: "The administrator has said in the past that President Bush regards climate change very seriously and supports a comprehensive, balanced energy policy that is intended to improve air quality, and the administrator is gratified that he supports that."
A senior E.P.A. official who spoke on condition of anonymity, however, left little doubt that the turnabout had left Ms. Whitman exposed. "If you look at her past statements, she said she was supporting what was in the president's campaign plan," the official said. "It's his prerogative to decide if he wants to change that, and she will follow his lead."
A White House spokesman, Scott McClellan, said Mr. Bush had made his decision in consultation with his cabinet. 
"The president is following through on his commitment to a multipollutant strategy that will significantly reduce pollutants," Mr. McClellan said. "CO2 should not have been included as a pollutant during the campaign. It was a mistake." 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: EMISSIONS (92%); GREENHOUSE GASES (91%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); ENVIRONMENTAL DEPARTMENTS (90%); POWER PLANTS (90%); LOBBYING (90%); ENERGY DEPARTMENTS (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); ENERGY REGULATION (90%); AIR QUALITY REGULATION (90%); BUSINESS & PROFESSIONAL ASSOCIATIONS (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); ELECTRIC POWER PLANTS (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); CONSERVATISM (90%); ENVIRONMENT & NATURAL RESOURCES (90%); UTILITIES INDUSTRY (90%); FOSSIL FUEL POWER PLANTS (89%); NITROGEN OXIDES (89%); CLIMATE CHANGE (89%); ELECTRIC POWER INDUSTRY (89%); CLIMATOLOGY (89%); ENERGY & UTILITY POLICY (89%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (78%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); PLATFORMS & ISSUES (78%); ENERGY & UTILITY TRADE (78%); PUBLIC POLICY (78%); EARTH & ATMOSPHERIC SCIENCE (77%); ENERGY & ENVIRONMENT (77%); SCIENCE & TECHNOLOGY (77%); ENVIRONMENTAL & WILDLIFE ORGANIZATIONS (77%); GLOBAL WARMING (77%); CARBON CAPTURE & STORAGE (77%); SCIENCE NEWS (77%); OIL & GAS PRICES (77%); UTILITY RATES (77%); AIR QUALITY (77%); PRICE INCREASES (75%); COAL FIRED PLANTS (73%); LEGISLATION (71%) AIR POLLUTION; ELECTION ISSUES; CARBON DIOXIDE; WEATHER; GREENHOUSE EFFECT; NITROGEN OXIDE; SULFUR DIOXIDE; FACTORIES AND INDUSTRIAL PLANTS; MERCURY (METAL); ELECTRIC LIGHT AND POWER; PRICES (FARES, FEES AND RATES); ENERGY AND POWER; SHORTAGES; LOBBYING AND LOBBYISTS 

ORGANIZATION: US ENVIRONMENTAL PROTECTION AGENCY (83%) ENVIRONMENTAL PROTECTION AGENCY; ENERGY DEPARTMENT 

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (90%); DICK CHENEY (58%) BUSH, GEORGE W (PRES); CHENEY, DICK (VICE PRES); WHITMAN, CHRISTINE TODD (ADMR); ABRAHAM, SPENCER (SEC); JEHL, DOUGLAS; REVKIN, ANDREW C 

GEOGRAPHIC: CALIFORNIA, USA (92%); WEST USA (79%) UNITED STATES (93%) ; CALIFORNIA

LOAD-DATE: March 14, 2001 



356 of 868 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 14, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section C; Column 5; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1109 words

HEADLINE: Fearing a Link To Japan Woes, Bush Advisers Ponder a Policy 

BYLINE:  By DAVID E. SANGER 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, March 13 

 BODY:
President Bush's economic advisers, in meetings at the Treasury, the Federal Reserve and the White House, are grappling with the implications of the recent political and economic distress in Japan, fearing it could worsen the slowdown here and in Asia.
 Mr. Bush and his aides came to office highly critical of the Clinton administration's dealings with Japan -- particularly its public criticism of the country's economic management -- and they promised they would not lecture the Japanese in public about economic strategy. So far, they have held to that promise. 
 But in recent days they have begun private meetings on the subject, at which several officials have expressed concern about what one senior aide called the "scary dynamic" under way between the world's two largest economies.
"The downturn here feeds the pessimism in Japan," the official said, because it is clear that the United States will not be buying as many Japanese goods in the coming year. "And the faster Japan drops, the more it undermines confidence here."
While there is debate over how much Japan's stock declines influence declines here, and vice versa, market analysts who watch both New York and Tokyo note that in the month of March Japanese companies often liquidate holdings in the United States. The proceeds are sent back to Tokyo to help bolster balance sheets before the close of the fiscal year for Japanese corporations, on March 31. The result is that Japanese investors, who might otherwise keep assets here to take advantage of the stronger dollar, are joining the selling.
Several Bush administration officials said that they were without the main weapon the Clinton administration used to contain the Asian economic crisis three years ago: a booming American economy that soaked up imports and provided liquidity to plunging markets in Asia.
The current troubles in Japan, which include the lack of huge government spending to stimulate the economy, the inability of regulators to clean up a banking system sinking in bad real estate loans and growing political disarray, are quite different from the currency crisis in Southeast Asia that began in 1997 and spread around the globe.
Nonetheless, it has been a long time since the United States and Japan, which together account for roughly 40 percent of the world's gross domestic product, were headed for zero growth at the same time. So an administration that has yet to put its economic team fully in place is trying to assess the risks to a world economy that cannot turn to a single engine of economic growth.
So far the White House has said nothing in public about Japan's simultaneous economic and political meltdowns. Mr. Bush's spokesman, Ari Fleischer, ducked a series of questions on the subject today, falling back on familiar bromides about the strength of the United States-Japan alliance.
But the White House cannot stay mute for long. Prime Minister Yoshiro Mori, barely surviving in office, will be at the White House on Monday for a meeting with President Bush.
"They know the reforms they have to make, and I'm not going to lecture them," Mr. Bush's chief economic adviser, Lawrence B. Lindsey, said in an interview today. "There are many talented people in the Japanese government, and they know the right things to do. I think their views will prevail."
But Mr. Mori's arrival underscores the nature of the problem: while Mr. Lindsey and other officials in the new administration have plenty of contacts in the Japanese government, it is not clear that any of them have the power to reverse a strategy that has clearly failed.
"Meeting him is a waste of time," one senior administration official said today of Mr. Mori's visit. "But protocol requires it."
This is not how the Bush administration envisioned opening up relations with America's most important ally in the Pacific. Mr. Bush said repeatedly that he wanted to reinvigorate the security relationship with Japan, an area he argued that Mr. Clinton let deteriorate. But that is not likely after an American submarine accidentally sank a Japanese fishing boat in Hawaii, causing distrust there of the American military.
There is no shortage of ideas here, even if they are not being publicly pressed. At the Treasury and the Federal Reserve, career officials have talked for a long time about the need to set up an equivalent of the Resolution Trust Corporation, which liquidated insolvent savings and loan institutions in the 1980's and sold their assets, often at fire-sale prices. But Japan has resisted doing that on a large scale, partly because of political concerns about closing banks, and partly because the sales themselves would establish how little the assets of the banks are worth.
Now, one senior official said recently, Tokyo may no longer have the money available to perform that kind of rescue of the banking system. That concern was reinforced when Japan's finance minister, Kiichi Miyazawa, declared last week that after years of spending on public works projects, the government's coffers were "near a state of collapse." He withdrew the comment, but the view here was that he was caught uttering a obvious truth in public.
Other officials have talked about encouraging Japan to spur inflation, essentially by printing money. But that would encounter political opposition, in part because Japanese have memories of the damage of rampant inflation before World War II.
The trade representative, Robert Zoellick, has said he plans to reinvigorate discussions about deregulation, perhaps starting with the telecommunications market. "We will be working with and urging the Japanese to deregulate their economy so as to create more competition for both Japanese and American firms," he said. But with deflation considered the immediate crisis facing Japan, few government officials are interested in actions that would further lower prices.
Treasury Secretary Paul H. O'Neill has suggested opening discussions with Japan's business leaders, whom he came to know as the chief executive of Alcoa. But while those leaders may eventually be persuaded to help with long-term reforms, like deregulation of Japan's telecommunications markets, they have little power on issues of fiscal and monetary policy, the immediate problem.
Others have suggested letting the yen fall, making Japanese goods far cheaper here. Some Japanese officials seem to be edging toward that approach. But the political cost for Mr. Bush could be high: a weak yen would hurt American automakers and cost jobs here, posing exactly the kind of problems that plagued his father's administration and contributed to his defeat by Bill Clinton in the 1992 election.

GRAPHIC: Photo: A businessman in front of an electronic board indicating a 351-point drop in the Nikkei yesterday. (Associated Press)(pg. C2) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC NEWS (91%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (90%); REAL ESTATE (90%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (90%); ECONOMIC POLICY (90%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (89%); BANKING & FINANCE (89%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (89%); TALKS & MEETINGS (79%); POLITICS (79%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (78%); BUDGETS (78%); PUBLIC FINANCE (78%); US DOLLAR (78%); GROSS DOMESTIC PRODUCT (78%); EMERGING MARKETS (77%); IMPORT TRADE (74%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (73%); TRENDS (73%); ANNUAL FINANCIAL RESULTS (71%); LIQUIDATIONS (71%); CURRENCIES (64%) ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS; UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; UNITED STATES ECONOMY; POLITICS AND GOVERNMENT; BANKS AND BANKING; REAL ESTATE; CREDIT; CURRENCY; FINANCES; BUDGETS AND BUDGETING 

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (92%) SANGER, DAVID E; CLINTON, BILL; BUSH, GEORGE W (PRES) 

GEOGRAPHIC: TOKYO, JAPAN (88%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%) NEW YORK, USA (79%) JAPAN (99%); UNITED STATES (97%); ASIA (95%); SOUTH-EASTERN ASIA (93%) JAPAN; FAR EAST, SOUTH AND SOUTHEAST ASIA AND PACIFIC AREAS; FAR EAST, SOUTH AND SOUTHEAST ASIA AND PACIFIC AREAS

LOAD-DATE: March 14, 2001 



357 of 868 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 14, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 3; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 998 words

HEADLINE: NEWS SUMMARY 

 BODY:
 INTERNATIONAL A3-11

U.S. Bans European Meat, Fearing Spread of Virus
The United States banned imports of animals and animal products from the European Union after learning that foot-and-mouth disease had spread to France from Britain. The Agriculture Department said it was taking the precaution to protect the domestic industry from a possible outbreak of the virus, which poses no danger to people but is devastating to cloven-hoofed animals. A1

Western Europe has chosen to deal with the virus largely by slaughtering and cremating infected animals rather than by inoculating them. A8

Pilot Had Approval to Bomb
Pentagon officials said an air controller on the ground at a Kuwaiti bombing range had cleared the pilot of a Navy fighter to release his three 500-pound bombs, which landed in the wrong area and killed six people. The officials said that seconds after issuing the clearance the controller realized the plane was aiming at the wrong target and tried to stop it. A3

Israel Loosens Roadblocks
Israel eased a tight blockade of Ramallah by opening two roads on the West Bank and allowing some Palestinians access to them after thorough security checks. Palestinian officials said the change was superficial. A7

Syria May Gain Council Seat
Syria appears likely to be elected to a rotating Security Council seat this year after gaining the backing of a majority of Middle Eastern and Asian nations and several important European governments, diplomats said. A8

North Korea Puts Off Talks
North Korea postponed meetings planned for this week between North and South Korean cabinet members on inter-Korean relations. There was speculation that the North's leader, Kim Jong Il, was unhappy about recent comments by President Bush after a meeting with President Kim Dae Jung of South Korea. A11

World Briefing A10

NATIONAL A12-20

Approval of Bush at 60%, Despite Some Misgivings
President Bush's job approval rating is 60 percent, although half the public believes he is not really in charge of what is going on in his administration, a New York Times/CBS News Poll found. And while more than half of all Americans accept Mr. Bush as the legitimate president, three-quarters of black Americans do not, an aftereffect of the Florida recount. A1

Reversal on Gas Emissions
President Bush, under pressure from conservative Republicans and industry groups, reversed a campaign pledge and said his administration would not seek to regulate emissions of carbon dioxide, which has been linked to global warming. A1

Vote on Medicare Revenue
The Senate blocked an effort by Democrats to restrict Congressional use of surplus Medicare revenue for a tax cut or general government spending. Republicans said the measure would not have had any practical effect, in part because the budget could be made to add up without using Medicare revenue for any purposes outside of Medicare. A16

Effort to Ease Air Delays
Transportation Secretary Norman Y. Mineta said he favored charging airlines more for flights at busy airports during peak hours to spread out traffic and cut delays, though that might make fewer seats available when most customers wanted to fly. A16

Pardon Inquiry Centralized
Attorney General John Ashcroft has decided to refer all accusations of criminal wrongdoing related to President Bill Clinton's final pardons to the United States attorney in New York, Mary Jo White. A14

Terrorism Trial Opens
Federal prosecutors in Los Angeles began their case against an Algerian man, Ahmed Ressam, 33, who is accused of transporting bomb-making equipment into the United States from Canada in the trunk of a rented car 15 months ago. A12

NEW YORK/REGION B1-10

Fewer Big Signs Reflect Cooler Economic Times
The economic slowdown is pinching advertising budgets, cooling the billboard frenzy that swept New York City over the last four years. One company with nearly 60 signs in Times Square said prices for some billboards were down 25 percent. A1

Nassau Leader Won't Run
Thomas S. Gulotta, the Nassau County executive since 1987, said he would not seek re-election. Mr. Gulotta, tarnished by the county fiscal crisis, is lagging in opinion polls and has been abandoned by fellow Republicans. B1

Egan Lobbies in Albany
Cardinal Edward M. Egan used his first visit to the state capital to seek support for the Roman Catholic Church's position on insurance coverage for birth control, financing for parochial schools and other issues. B1

ARTS E1-10

SCIENCE/HEALTH

Merged in Name Only
Most major health care institutions that were swept up in merger mania in recent years have not unified clinical programs, mainly because doctors have stood in the way. A1

SPORTS D1-8

OBITUARIES B9

EDUCATION B10

Coke to Ease School Marketing
Coca-Cola, reacting to concerns about commercialism in schools and the nutritional effects of soft drinks, is planning to scale back its aggressive school marketing strategy. A14

BUSINESS DAY C1-20

Nasdaq Claws Back Over 2,000
The Nasdaq gained 91.40 points, or 4.8 percent, to close at 2,014.78; on Monday it fell 6.3 percent. The S.& P. 500 rose 17.50 points, or 1.5 percent, to 1,197.66, and the Dow advanced 82.55 points, to 10,290.80. C1

Manufacturer Adds Finance
Tyco said it would buy CIT Group for $9.2 billion in cash and stock in order to offer finance services to buyers of its industrial products. C1

U.S. Wary of Japan's Ailments
President Bush's economic advisers, in meetings at the Treasury, Fed and White House, are grappling with the implications of Japan's recent political and economic distress, fearing it may worsen the slowdown in the United States as well as in Asia. C1

Prime Minister Yoshiro Mori and political allies set up a task force on the country's plunging stock market. C2

Business Digest C1

World Business W1

DINING F1-12

EDITORIAL A22-23

Editorials: A moment of economic suspense; barricading Ramallah; Philip Taubman on basketball.

Columns: Paul Krugman.

Crossword E6
TV Listings E10
Public Lives B2
Weather D7

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Summary 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: NEWS BRIEFS (90%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (90%); FOOT & MOUTH DISEASE (90%); US PRESIDENTS (89%); IMPORT TRADE (89%); EUROPEAN UNION (89%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (89%); POLITICAL PARTIES (86%); MEDICARE (83%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (78%); AGRICULTURE DEPARTMENTS (78%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); TALKS & MEETINGS (78%); MAMMALS (78%); IMPORT CONTROLS (78%); FOOD SAFETY REGULATION (78%); ANIMALS (78%); LIVESTOCK DISEASE (77%); BUSINESS & PROFESSIONAL ASSOCIATIONS (77%); PUBLIC FINANCE (77%); APPROVALS (75%); BOMBINGS (74%); BOMBS & EXPLOSIVE DEVICES (74%); AFRICAN AMERICANS (73%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (70%); CONSERVATISM (69%); VOTERS & VOTING (68%); POLLS & SURVEYS (64%); GREENHOUSE GASES (64%); EMISSIONS (64%); BUDGETS (62%); AIR QUALITY REGULATION (60%); GLOBAL WARMING (60%); TAX LAW (60%) NO INDEX TERMS FROM NYTIMES 

COMPANY: AL MUDON INTERNATIONAL REAL ESTATE CO KSCC (56%)

ORGANIZATION: EUROPEAN UNION (84%); UNITED NATIONS SECURITY COUNCIL (54%)

TICKER: ALMUDON (KUW) (56%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS531110 LESSORS OF RESIDENTIAL BUILDINGS & DWELLINGS (56%); SIC6513 OPERATORS OF APARTMENT BUILDINGS (56%)

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (86%); KIM JONG IL (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%); EUROPE (93%); KOREA, DEMOCRATIC PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF (93%); FRANCE (92%); SYRIA (92%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (92%); KOREA, REPUBLIC OF (92%); PALESTINIAN TERRITORY, OCCUPIED (92%); ISRAEL (92%); ASIA (79%); MIDDLE EAST (79%); WESTERN EUROPE (79%)

LOAD-DATE: March 14, 2001 



358 of 868 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 14, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 6; National Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1920 words

HEADLINE: 60% IN POLL FAVOR BUSH, BUT ECONOMY IS MAJOR CONCERN 

BYLINE:  By RICHARD L. BERKE and JANET ELDER

 BODY:
George W. Bush has drawn encouraging reviews for his presidential debut, but Americans are increasingly nervous about the economy and express concerns about Mr. Bush's ability to steer the nation to sustained prosperity, the latest New York Times/CBS News poll shows.
 After the most contentious election in the nation's history, many Americans have rallied behind their new president. His job approval rating is 60 percent, which is similar to that of his father, George Bush, and Bill Clinton in the opening months of their presidencies. 
 Even so, Mr. Bush is burdened by a perception that he is not fully in command. Half the public says that Mr. Bush is not really in charge of what is going on in his own administration. 
That perception is particularly striking when compared with that for President Ronald Reagan, who became widely known as a disengaged leader. But at the end of his first year in office, more than half the public still expressed the belief that Mr. Reagan was in charge and only 30 percent thought he delegated too much. A couple of years later, more than half told pollsters that others were in charge.
Even as people view Mr. Bush as rather hands-off, they are not aware that Vice President Dick Cheney has, arguably, a broader portfolio than any of his predecessors. More than half of those surveyed say Mr. Cheney has as much influence as past vice presidents. Since the election, in fact, he has faded somewhat in the eyes of the public, as do most vice presidents.
Still, Mr. Cheney's heart problems are a worry for many Americans. Four out of 10 say his recent procedure and history of heart disease make them concerned about his ability to serve effectively, and only 36 percent are fully confident that he will complete his four-year term. 
Another trouble spot for Mr. Bush is that there are deep and lingering resentments among black Americans toward his election. Although more than half of Americans now accept Mr. Bush as the legitimate president, three-quarters of black Americans do not. Mr. Bush's overtures to blacks in the opening days of his administration seemed to have done little to help; they say the new president cares little about their needs and problems.
On the immediate agenda, Mr. Bush should be encouraged that most Americans endorse his signature blueprint to cut taxes. Yet they do not seem deeply enthusiastic. Most see the plan as favoring the rich and doing little, if anything, to help average, middle-income people or to stimulate the economy.
The public continues to see the Democrats as more able to lead on issues they care about, like Social Security (46 percent, compared with 38 percent for the Republicans).
There is little support for some of the president's priorities, like drilling in the Arctic National Wildlife Refuge and withholding money from public schools that perform poorly. On a smattering of issues, including missile defense, school vouchers and federal grants to religious organizations, many poll respondents were initially supportive of Mr. Bush's proposals but changed their minds when told more about them.
On other matters, like keeping the country prosperous and managing the budget surplus, Democrats and Republicans are seen as equally likely to do a good job.
One reason the public may be supportive of Mr. Bush's tax cut is that this poll was taken in the flush of victory, just as the plan was being passed by the House of Representatives. The nationwide telephone poll of 1,105 adults was conducted March 8-12 and has a margin of sampling error of plus or minus three percentage points.
At the very least, Mr. Bush has had something of a public relations victory on the tax proposal. Americans are receptive to his argument that a tax cut is in order because otherwise the surplus would be spent recklessly by the Congress. Fifty-six percent of those polled agree that control of the money has to be taken from Congress. It is a strategy that may undermine Mr. Bush's own partisans given that Republicans control Congress -- and the president has made them the villains.
Although the public favors a tax cut, and more prefer Mr. Bush's plan, many Americans seemed unaware of the particulars of it. They were nearly as willing to sign off on a far less ambitious tax-cut plan than the Democrats'. Fifty-seven percent say they favor Mr. Bush's plan while 36 percent oppose it. The Democrats' plan is supported by 49 percent and opposed by 42 percent.
Support for Mr. Bush's measure may have more to do with its high visibility than any endorsement of its contents. Most people say the plan will not have much effect on their finances and that it favors the rich. Moreover, Americans do not seem to know much about either plan. Although twice as many Americans have heard far more about the Bush plan than the Democrats' plan, the number is still low: 31 percent.
People seem conflicted about what they want in a tax cut -- and whether it is the proper alternative. Most Americans say they prefer a tax cut to paying down the debt. But in response to another question, a majority say a large tax cut now would be bad for the economy or not make much difference at all. And when offered a choice, people still prefer using the surplus to shore up Social Security rather than to cut taxes.
A looming concern for Mr. Bush may be that 54 percent of Americans have a general sense that things in this country are going in the wrong direction, compared with 40 percent who say things are going in the right direction. Nearly three times as many Americans see the economy as getting worse than did just one year ago.
Already, some Democrats are pointing fingers at Mr. Bush. Ben Deloach, 54, a poll respondent from Norfolk, Va., said in a follow-up interview, "Everything just seems to be going in the wrong direction now; there are so many job cuts." Mr. Deloach, a financial analyst, added: "People I know are losing their jobs. This didn't happen during the Clinton administration."
Delane Mitchell, 30, a homemaker from Hickory, N.C., who voted for Mr. Bush, said, "The drop in the Dow doesn't encourage me, but since the economy has been booming you can expect a decline."
If the economy worsens, that could become a particular thicket for Mr. Bush. Approval of his handling of the economy now stands at 55 percent. But in a separate measure, only 34 percent say they have a lot of confidence in Mr. Bush's ability to keep the nation's economy strong; 36 percent have some confidence and 28 percent have little or none.
Mr. Bush is buoyed by the fact that he is personally well liked -- even though many Americans perceive him as more conservative than they are. For all of Mr. Bush's rhetorical efforts to appeal to a broad ideological spectrum, nearly half of all Americans see him as conservative.
While Mr. Bush's 60 percent approval rating is especially impressive given the wrenching postelection competition, several other presidents scored higher ratings around this point after their elections. Jimmy Carter's rating was 70 percent; Richard M. Nixon's, 65 percent; John F. Kennedy's, 73 percent; and Dwight D. Eisenhower's, 67 percent.
The country is still quite split between Democrats and Republicans over what they think of Mr. Bush.
"He looks like when you first get married and are trying to make a good impression -- you put on a good show," said Audrey Edwards, 46, a food service worker in Suffolk, Va., who voted for Al Gore. "In comparison to Clinton and Reagan, he is doing very little. He seems more concerned with traveling around and meeting people when he should be concerned about what is going on overseas and here."
Bill Dryden, 46, a building material estimater from Grass Valley, Calif., who voted for Mr. Bush, said, "As far as how Bush is doing, I'm not sure Clinton made it this far without any controversial issues." But, he added: "It's too early to make a real judgment. I think the media should back off on asking this and let things breathe until Bush has had more time."
People do seem to be gaining some confidence in Mr. Bush. Approval of his handling of foreign policy is 52 percent, and for the first time, half the public has confidence in his ability to deal wisely with thorny international crises.
At first blush, Americans seemed quite supportive of Mr. Bush's positions on a handful of issues. Only when they were told more did they register doubts.
For example, more than two-thirds of Americans endorse Mr. Bush's drive for a missile defense system. But that support dips to below a third when respondents are told that many scientists say a missile defense system is unlikely to work. So, too, support drops when respondents are told that such an initiative would mean breaking the United States' arms control agreement with Russia.
When asked about Mr. Bush's plan to give money to religious organizations for job counseling and other services, two-thirds say it is a good idea. But that number shrinks to about 3 in 10 when people are told that some of that money could wind up being channeled to the Nation of Islam, the Church of Scientology or the Hare Krishnas.
In another example that is something of a cause for Mr. Bush, 78 percent say they favor mandatory testing of students in public schools as a way to determine how well the school is doing educating students. But 68 percent oppose using the results of such tests to determine whether a school can receive federal money depending on how well the students score.

How the Poll Was Conducted
The latest New York Times/CBS News Poll is based on telephone interviews conducted Thursday through Monday with 1,105 adults throughout the United States.
Black Americans were sampled at a higher rate than normal to permit analysis of black opinions in greater depth. From all national polls completed by The Times and CBS News since last June, every household in which a black respondent had been interviewed was re-called during the new poll.
Of the total in the new poll, 599 said they were white and 448 said they were black. There were too few respondents of other races to show their results separately.
The new sample and the original samples of telephone exchanges called were randomly selected by a computer from a complete list of more than 42,000 active residential exchanges across the country.
Within each exchange, random digits were added to form a complete telephone number, thus permitting access to both listed and unlisted numbers. Within each household, both in the new poll and the earlier polls, one adult was designated by a random procedure to be the respondent for the survey.
The results of the new poll have been weighted to account for household size and number of telephone lines into the residence and to adjust for variations in the sample relating to geographic region, sex, age, marital status and education. Blacks and nonblacks were then weighted back to their proper proportion of the overall population.
In theory, in 19 cases out of 20, the results based on such samples will differ by no more than three to four percentage points in either direction from what would have been obtained by seeking out all American adults.
For smaller subgroups the margin of sampling error is larger. For example, it is four percentage points for whites and five points for blacks.
In addition to sampling error, the practical difficulties of conducting any survey of public opinion may introduce other sources of error into the poll. Variation in the wording and order of questions, for example, may lead to somewhat different results.

GRAPHIC: Chart: "How He's Doing"Do you approve or disapprove of the way George W. Bush is handling his job as president? Approve: 60%Disapprove: 22%No opinion: 18% Do you think George W. Bush is in charge of what goes on in his administration most of the time, or do you think other people are really running the government most of the time? Bush: 42%Other people: 50%Both equal: 3%No opinion: 5% Do you feel things in this country are generally going in the right direction today? Right: 40%Wrong: 54%No opinion: 6%(Source: The New York Times/CBS News)(pg. A1) Chart: "The Public Views Tax Cut Plans" THE PUBLIC DOESN'T KNOW MUCH ABOUT EITHER PLAN . . .How much have you heard or read about George W. Bush's proposed tax cut?A LOT: 31%SOME: 43%NOT MUCH: 26% How much have you heard or read about the Democrats' proposed tax cut?A LOT: 16%SOME: 40%NOT MUCH: 43% . . . BUT BOTH PLANS GAIN SUPPORT . . .The plan of George W. Bush to use about a third of the budget surplus to cut taxes, about a third to reduce the debt and the rest for other purposes, including government spendingFAVOR: 57%OPPOSE: 36% The plan of Democrats in Congress to use more than half of the budget surplus to reduce the debt, and divide the rest among a tax cut, other government spending and a reserve fundFAVOR: 49%OPPOSE: 42% . . . EVEN THOUGH PEOPLE SAY BUSH'S PLAN FAVORS RICH PEOPLEWho would benefit the most from George W. Bush's tax cut?RICH: 58%POOR: 5%MIDDLE INCOME: 24%EVERYBODY: 7% Who would benefit the most from the Democrats' tax cut?RICH: 18%POOR: 15%MIDDLE INCOME: 47%EVERYBODY: 4% MANY SAY IT WON'T MAKE MUCH DIFFERENCE TO THEM PERSONALLY . . .If adopted, will Bush's tax cut make a significant difference in the money you have after taxes?DIFFERENCE: 39%NO DIFFERENCE: 54% . . . AND DISAGREE OVER WHETHER IT WILL HELP THE ECONOMY . . .Do you think a large tax cut would be good for the economy?GOOD: 43%BAD: 20%NO DIFFERENCE: 33% . . . AND MANY SAY THAT WITHOUT TAX CUTS, THE SURPLUS WILL BE SPENTDo you think it necessary to cut taxes in order to keep Congress from spending the surplus?NECESSARY: 56%NOT NECESSARY: 35% Based on nationwide telephone interviews conducted March 8-12 with 1,105 adults. Those with no opinion are not shown. (pg. A18) Chart: "Policies That Sound Good at First, But Less So on Second Thought" MISSILE DEFENSE SYSTEMDo you favor the United States continuing to try to build a missile defense system in light of the fact that $60 billion has already been spent on it?YES: 67% Do you favor continuing to build such a system even if it means breaking the arms control treaty we now have with Russia?YES: 33% SOCIAL SERVICES THROUGH RELIGIOUS ORGANIZATIONSIs it a good idea for the federal government to give money to religious organizations to provide social services like job training and drug treatment counseling?YES: 66% Is it a good idea if that meant the government would be giving money to religious organizations like the Nation of Islam, the Church of Scientology and the Hare Krishnas?YES: 29% SCHOOL VOUCHERSShould parents get tax-funded vouchers they can use to help pay for tuition for their children to attend private or religious schools instead of public schools?YES: 49% Should parents get tax-funded vouchers even if that means public schools would receive less money?YES: 30% Based on nationwide telephone interviews conducted March 8-12 with 1,105 adults. Those who are opposed or with no opinion are not shown. (pg. A18) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: POLLS & SURVEYS (90%); INTERVIEWS (90%); AFRICAN AMERICANS (89%); US PRESIDENTS (79%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (79%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (79%); SOCIAL SECURITY (78%); HISTORY (72%); BONE FRACTURES (66%); DISEASES & DISORDERS (64%); HEART DISEASE (64%); MIDDLE INCOME PERSONS (50%); WILDLIFE (50%); WILDLIFE CONSERVATION (50%) Terms not available from NYTimes. 

ORGANIZATION: NATION OF ISLAM (59%); CHURCH OF SCIENTOLOGY (59%)

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (94%); BILL CLINTON (79%); RONALD REAGAN (79%); DICK CHENEY (78%)

GEOGRAPHIC: ALASKA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%); ARCTIC (64%)

LOAD-DATE: March 14, 2001 



359 of 868 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 15, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section F; Column 4; House & Home/Style Desk; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 240 words

HEADLINE: CURRENTS: DUBLIN -- FURNITURE; 
Even Reproductions of Georgian Style Have a Great Following

BYLINE:  By Mallery Lane 

 BODY:
With the booming Irish economy, nicknamed the Celtic Tiger, lovely Georgian houses no longer sell for a song. But now the Irish can buy reproductions of Georgian furniture by Kindel, an American furniture company in Grand Rapids, Mich. 
Over 15 years, Kindel has reproduced 22 pieces in its Irish Georgian Society collection, but it opened a showroom in Ireland only two years ago. 
 The collection includes the intricately inlaid Glin lamp table (left, $5,303). The original is in Glin Castle, above left, home of the Knight of Glin, Desmond FitzGerald. Also among the reproductions are pieces from Leixlip castle, above right, owned by Desmond Guinness, a member of the brewery family and the founder of the Irish Georgian Society. The Leixlip pieces include a Malahide chair (right, $3,029). Since the Kindel showroom opened at Leixlip just outside Dublin, sales have been brisk. The Dublin Four Seasons Hotel, which opened two weeks ago, bought Kindel reproductions, including the Glin table. 
 Mr. Guinness said 18th-century Irish Georgian pieces are so valuable that even 10-year-old Kindel reproductions have sold at Sotheby's in London for 20 percent more than their purchase price. 
The Kindel Furniture Company (www.kindelfurniture.com) can be reached at (616) 243-3676. The Irish Georgian Society collection is at E. J. Audi, 160 Fifth Avenue (20th Street) in New York and at Classic Galleries, 243 Main Street in Huntington, N.Y.

GRAPHIC: Photos 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: FURNITURE STORES (90%); FURNITURE MFG (90%); AUCTIONS (77%); BREWERIES (69%) FURNITURE 

COMPANY: AMERICAN HOME CO (91%); KINDEL FURNITURE CO (68%)

ORGANIZATION: KINDEL (CO) 

INDUSTRY: NAICS442110 FURNITURE STORES (91%); NAICS337121 UPHOLSTERED HOUSEHOLD FURNITURE MANUFACTURING (68%); SIC2512 UPHOLSTERED WOOD HOUSEHOLD FURNITURE (68%); SIC2511 WOOD HOUSEHOLD FURNITURE EX. UPHOLSTERED (68%) SIC2511 WOOD HOUSEHOLD FURNITURE; SIC2512 UPHOLSTERED WOOD HOUSEHOLD FURNITURE; 

PERSON: LANE, MALLERY 

GEOGRAPHIC: GRAND RAPIDS, MI, USA (92%); DUBLIN, IRELAND (90%); LONDON, ENGLAND (52%) MICHIGAN, USA (92%); NEW YORK, USA (78%) UNITED STATES (92%); IRELAND (90%) IRELAND

TITLE: CURRENTS (TIMES COLUMN) 

LOAD-DATE: March 15, 2001 



360 of 868 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 15, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section W; Column 3; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 849 words

HEADLINE: European Markets Post Losses in Tumultuous Trading 

BYLINE:  By EDMUND L. ANDREWS 

DATELINE: FRANKFURT, March 14 

 BODY:
Alarmed by fears of new troubles in the United States and Japan, European stock markets fell sharply today but then recovered slightly after American markets did not perform as poorly as had been expected.
 The tumultuous day left many traders and analysts bewildered, unable to point to any particular forces driving prices up or down except a general sense of anxious confusion. But the day did highlight the fears that have begun to erode European confidence. 
 European leaders and central bankers have been fond of saying that Europe is much less vulnerable than before to a slowdown in the United States, and most experts still say they believe that European growth will be hurt only slightly by American problems. 
But European investors are a different matter. They continue to mirror twists and turns in American markets with Pavlovian predictability, especially when the data about European growth and corporate profits fail to provide clear guidance or reassurance.
"There really is no driver," said Hasan Tevik, an equity strategist at Credit Suisse First Boston in London. "It's people tired of absorbing losses and pulling their money out. We can't pin it down to anything tangible."
From London and Frankfurt to Paris and Amsterdam, major stock indexes fell more than 4 percent by midday. And though there have been new signs of slower economic growth in recent days, the main source of worry was a decline in the price of futures tied to the benchmark Standard & Poor's 500-stock index. The price of those futures was down 3 percent as markets opened in Europe, convincing traders here that American markets would fall steeply as soon as they opened in New York.
The DAX index of blue-chip German stocks dropped nearly 5 percent this morning, and the Nemax index of 50 top stocks on the technology-heavy Neuer Markt in Frankfurt dropped 8.5 percent before recovering slightly. The Neuer Markt, which has grown explosively since its inception in 1997, has dropped nearly 80 percent from its peak a year ago -- even more than the Nasdaq stock market.
But sentiment picked up in the afternoon, after markets in New York had opened, as both blue-chip stocks and technology shares appeared to be performing better than had been expected.
"There aren't any new fundamentals today, nothing spectacular," said Jurgen Pieper, an analyst at B. Metzler & Sohn, a small private bank and asset manager in Frankfurt. "It seems to be driven by market sentiment, which is often more than the reality."
But if there was no startling news to drive markets today, there were more general reasons for heightened anxiety. Many banks have reduced their forecasts for growth this year in Germany, Europe's biggest economy, to about 2.3 percent from about 2.8 percent.
Many have also reduced their expectations for growth throughout the 12-nation euro-zone to similar levels.
By comparison with the United States, which grew 5 percent last year over 1999, but which is now perilously close to no growth at all, the European slowdown is fairly gentle. Exports to the United States constitute only a small fraction of Europe's total economic output, though countries like Germany are particularly heavy exporters and are likely to feel the pain more acutely.
Economic data in recent weeks have been ambiguous. Consumer confidence remains very strong in many countries. In Germany, figures released this week showed unexpect
edly sharp jumps in exports and industrial production. But business confidence has been slipping in many countries, and much of the existing confidence has been based on assumptions that the United States would begin to bounce back again in the second half of this year.
As in the United States, big European companies have begun to put out warnings about their earnings. Siemens of Germany, Alcatel of France and Ericsson of Sweden -- three of Europe's biggest electronics manufacturers -- all warned this week that their earnings would be lower than what analysts had been expecting.
Automobile sales are plunging across much of Europe, but particularly in Germany, where the government has imposed big increases in gasoline taxes in the last year. That, combined with higher oil and gasoline prices, has cut into disposable income and made people think twice about car purchases.
Investors are also becoming pessimistic about the chances for a reduction in interest rates. Until recently, many analysts were convinced that the European Central Bank would take its cue from the United States Federal Reserve and give the economy a nudge by cutting interest rates. But the European Central Bank has strongly hinted that it still sees signs of inflation and remains confident about the overall pace of European growth. With the prospect of cheaper money being postponed to some time later in the year, hopes of new buoyancy here have dwindled.
And shares of European banks were weaker after the rating agency Fitch said it might reduce its ratings on 19 Japanese banks amid concerns about their credit problems in Japan. 
But at the end of the day, what seemed to matter most was the United States.

GRAPHIC: Photo: A stock trader on the floor of the Frankfurt exchange yesterday. Stocks fell across Europe, leaving many traders and analysts bewildered. (Associated Press)(pg. W8) Chart: "Technology Leads Stocks Lower"As in the United States, weakness among technology stocks has infected the broader markets. BritainBROAD MARKET (FT 100)TECHNOLOGY -- DAX 100 software and technology GermanyBROAD MARKET (Xetra DAX)TECHNOLOGY -- SBF capital equipment FranceBROAD MARKET (CAC 40)TECHNOLOGY -- MSCI Nordic information technology ScandanaviaBROAD MARKET (MSCI Nordic)TECHNOLOGY -- FTSE all share telecommunications (Source: Bloomberg Financial Markets)(pg. W1)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: STOCK INDEXES (93%); COMPANY LOSSES (90%); STOCK EXCHANGES (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (89%); ECONOMIC NEWS (78%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (78%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (78%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (77%); BONDS (77%); BUSINESS FORECASTS (74%); PRICE INCREASES (72%); EURO ZONE (71%); CENTRAL BANKS (71%); COMPUTER SOFTWARE (67%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (65%) STOCKS AND BONDS 

COMPANY: CREDIT SUISSE GROUP AG (55%); NASDAQ OMX GROUP INC (52%)

TICKER: CSGN (SWX) (55%); CS (NYSE) (55%); NDAQ (NASDAQ) (52%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (55%); NAICS524126 DIRECT PROPERTY & CASUALTY INSURANCE CARRIERS (55%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (55%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (55%); NAICS523210 SECURITIES & COMMODITY EXCHANGES (52%); SIC6231 SECURITIES & COMMODITY EXCHANGES (52%)

PERSON: ANDREWS, EDMUND L 

GEOGRAPHIC: LONDON, ENGLAND (70%); AMSTERDAM, NETHERLANDS (58%); PARIS, FRANCE (55%) FRANKFURT AM MAIN, GERMANY (94%); NEW YORK, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (98%); EUROPE (96%); GERMANY (94%); JAPAN (92%); FRANCE (79%); UNITED KINGDOM (79%); NETHERLANDS (58%); CENTRAL EUROPE (58%) EUROPE; GREAT BRITAIN; FRANCE; GERMANY

LOAD-DATE: March 15, 2001 



361 of 868 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 15, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section F; Column 5; House & Home/Style Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 2197 words

HEADLINE: The Flying Saucer House Soars Again 

BYLINE:  By FRANCES ANDERTON 

DATELINE: LOS ANGELES 

 BODY:
WHEN Angelika Taschen gave a 40th-birthday party here for her husband, Benedikt, the artists Jeff Koons, Ed Ruscha and Mike Kelley attended, and so did the photographers Julius Shulman and Helmut Newton. Entertainment included mariachi singers and the presentation of an enormous cake baked in the shape of Chemosphere, their stunning futuristic residence designed by John Lautner in 1960. 
 What made the event perfect was that the Taschens, the German publishers of lush books on art, architecture and erotica, held the party inside Chemosphere after two years of loving restoration. They first saw the house, in a neglected state, in 1997. 
 "It was unique," Ms. Taschen recalled. "Authentic and intense, idealistic and full of fantasy, nonconformist. I felt immediately that it fit our characters perfectly." The couple bought the house and set about repairing not only the building but also John Lautner's reputation. The Taschen book "John Lautner" by Barbara-Ann Campbell-Lange, published in 1999, helped increase appreciation of an architect who was considered by his mentor, Frank Lloyd Wright, to be the second best architect in the world. Lautner -- a curmudgeonly, highly inventive designer of homes, as well as buildings like the influential 1949 Googies Coffee House, now defunct, on the Sunset Strip -- wed technological innnovation to a poetic understanding of site. Still, he was almost forgotten when he died in 1994 at 83. 
Chemosphere, his best-known building, is an eight-sided capsule perched on a single concrete column on a precipitous site in the North Hollywood Hills. It commands a staggering view of the San Fernando Valley. Ken Bernstein, director of preservation at the Los Angeles Conservancy, calls it "a space age masterpiece -- one of the icons of midcentury Modernism in Los Angeles." His organization recently gave the renovation of Chemosphere a preservation prize.
Mr. Taschen admires the house's optimistic spirit -- "Modernism with character," he calls it -- and its engineering.
Mrs. Taschen's reaction is personal. "The house is very calming, relaxing and harmonious, and it shelters you," she said. "I feel at home in Los Angeles, and a big part of it is living in this house."
Her sentiment is all the more remarkable, considering that Lautner tailored his buildings to his clients, and Chemosphere was intended for someone nothing like the globe-trotting Taschens. Leonard Malin, an aerospace engineer, was 27 when he left his job to help build Chemosphere. "Most people work an entire lifetime to buy the home of their dreams," he said by phone from his current home near Palm Springs. "I said: 'To heck with that. I'll build the home of my dreams and pay for it the rest of my life.' "
He hired Lautner because he was impressed by the nearby Harpel house by Lautner, and he trusted Lautner's judgment enough to give him free rein in finding a solution for his difficult site, a property that went 100 feet straight up the mountain behind his in-laws' house. "The solution he picked for me was not the one I chose," Mr. Malin said. 
While he first hoped for a more affordable solution, he subsequently agreed with Lautner. "He listened to your desires and needs and wants and put them together to fit your personality," he said.
What fitted Mr. Malin's hands-on personality, apparently, was a 2,200-square-foot octagonal pod, made of a bird cage of curved, laminated wood beams, tied at the center to a steel compression ring. Lautner's view, in Mr. Malin's words, was "I was an engineer, I would work it out." The house perched on a column five feet in diameter, poured into solid bedrock, and it required its own "hillevator," or funicular, to reach it. Mr. Malin designed the skylight himself. "Lautner had a dome in his drawing, but I didn't have the funds to build it," he explained. "So I made a skylight. I built it by hand right in place, with fiberglass and steel." 
The cost to build Chemosphere, $140,000, was subsidized partly by barter with two sponsoring companies, the Southern California Gas Company and the Chem Seal Corporation. Chem Seal provided the experimental epoxies, coatings and resins to put the house together and inspired the name Chemosphere. (Lautner originally wanted to call the house Chapiteau.) In the end Mr. Malin paid $80,000 in cash.
"I traded six months of the house being shown by the gas company in exchange for things like tile that went through the whole house," he said. 
Chemosphere was soon called "the flying saucer house." It was built the year President John F. Kennedy exhorted his countrymen to reach for the moon. "A lot of people would drive up from the valley to see what it was," Mr. Malin said. But it was never intended to look like a U.F.O, he continued, adding, "It was just the best structural application that met my personality." 
The Malins and their four children lived there until rising costs and the demise of the aerospace industry forced them to sell in 1972. In the next 25 years, three owners lived in Chemosphere and modified it.
Then the Taschens arrived. They paid almost $1 million for the property and a substantial amount to restore it, a job for which they hired the architects Frank Escher, who wrote the first monograph about Lautner, published in 1994, and who is in charge of the John Lautner Archives, and his partner Ravi GuneWardena. Both, like Mr. Taschen, are just into their 40's.
"These Lautner houses are like custom clothes," Mr. Escher said. "It's kind of difficult to find new owners for the house. The Taschens very quickly understood what the house was about."
Among Lautner's best known projects, many of which have served as space-age bachelor-pad backdrops in movies, are the Reiner house, or Silvertop, an adventure in poured concrete in nearby Silver Lake, and the swooping colossus in Acapulco, Mexico, known as the Arango house. Chemosphere was deemed the most modern house in the world in 1961 by the Encyclopaedia Britannica and selected almost 40 years later by the Museum of Contemporary Art in Los Angeles to represent Lautner's work in its "End of the Century" architecture exhibition. 
The Taschens and their architects are remodeling, but not precisely according to Lautner's plans. They have instead followed what they believe was the spirit of his vision and introduced details that Lautner designed but that were unaffordable at the time. (They discussed most design decisions with Mr. Malin and consulted with him on technical issues.)
Team Taschen added details that were unavailable 40 years ago because the technology simply did not exist. The gas company tile has been replaced by random-cut slate, which could not be cut thin enough in 1960, despite Lautner's desire for such a finish. The architects replaced the original thick framed windows with frameless glass, some pieces so huge, Mr. Escher said, "they had to be flown in by helicopter." They changed a large bedroom into an office. They replaced black vinyl countertops in the kitchen with ash. Mr. Malin said he approved and had even told them he would have done the same thing if he could have afforded it.
They purged the house of what Escher GuneWardena described as "built-in furniture of questionable design," a legacy of the third owner. They are adding final touches, like replacing the bridge that leads to the entrance, with its spaghetti tangle of utility cables dangling underneath. "Right now, it takes away from the idea of a mushroom growing out of a hill," Mr. Escher said. To remedy that, he and his partner have designed a cantilevered structure of steel and glass that will gracefully bridge the gap and conceal utility lines.
Chemosphere's furniture is almost all built in, so the Taschens have added only a Florence Knoll dining table, some Eames and Pierre Paulin chairs and, resting on its own Philippe Starck-designed coffee table, a copy of "Sumo," their book with fetishistic photographs by Helmut Newton, the so-called king of kink.
Kink factor notwithstanding, there is no question about the Taschens' passion for Los Angeles Modernism. They have published books on the subject, including "Modernism Rediscovered," a compilation of lesser, even unknown Modernist gems, written by Pierluigi Serraino with pictures by Mr. Shulman. The books have helped draw attention to landmarks that have not yet been torn down or altered beyond recognition. 
"Thank God for the Taschens," Mr. Malin said. "It'll be my home no matter what, because I built it. But it's very rewarding for me right now to see the Taschens putting it into shape. I was very concerned, and now I'm elated."
With a primary home in Cologne, Germany, and interests around the world, the Taschens have not made Chemosphere their sole residence. If nothing else, Chemosphere is a wonderful place for entertaining. For Mr. Taschen's birthday party last month, Chemosphere comfortably held 60 guests.
When this reporter visited the Taschens at their quiet, secluded aerie, Angelika (pronounced on-GAY-leek-ah) Taschen, tall and sunny, chopped salad at the new kitchen countertop with the poise of a dancer (which she was) and the confidence of a doctor of art history (which she is). Her husband is even taller, but less poised and so reserved at first that he barely looks you in the eye. 
But the reserve soon gives way to bawdy humor, shrewd observations, fond clucking to the deer that wander near his home and a river of recollections. He said he regretted never having met Carl Barks, the creator of Donald Duck, whose "Donald Duck universe" shaped his view of Los Angeles when he first visited around 1980. "I always wanted to meet with him and once wrote him a letter telling him how much I admired what he did and that he was a great source of inspiration in my life," Mr. Taschen said. "The same with Lautner." 
They are trying to honor Lautner by living gracefully in the house. They have commissioned a carpet by Albert Oehlen and a hanging lamp by Jorge Pardo, a Los Angeles artist. Otherwise, with no walls to hang anything on, "we can't have any art because it's built as a piece of art in itself," Ms. Taschen said. 
They intend to remedy this by having Jeff Koons create a sculpture on the hills behind the house and by commissioning Rem Koolhaas to build a large new guesthouse at the base of Chemosphere on the site once owned by Mr. Malin's in-laws. 
The aim is for Mr. Koolhaas to design them a 21st-century house as conceptually strong as Chemosphere. "John Lautner is the American architect who invented his own grammar of forms," Mr. Taschen said. "So did Frank Gehry. Let's see what Rem will do."
The new house is intended to hold an art collection and library and to provide rooms enough for the four children the Taschens have between them. It will also provide a spectacular vantage point from which to view the underside of Chemosphere.
"It's like having 'Independence Day' above you," Mr. Taschen said.

No Strangers To Levitation
THE architects of the Chemosphere renovation, Frank Escher, 40, and Ravi GuneWardena, 41 -- like John Lautner himself -- maintain that buildings should be designed from the inside out, starting with the client's needs. Their position is out of keeping, they say, with current thinking in Los Angeles, where even some architects working in the Modernist tradition favor the "outside in" approach of form-driven designs. 
Their unorthodox stance will soon be on display in the Sola residence, to be built for a Los Angeles artist. The home will consist of a series of stepped tubular containers open on both ends to views of the city and a park. 
Such fresh thinking may come from their long view. Mr. GuneWardena is originally from Sri Lanka and was schooled at California State Polytechnic University, Pomona. He also spent a year studying in Florence, Italy. Mr. Escher, a kindred spirit who was born and educated in Switzerland, has a sense of reserve that would resist any froufrou.
A devout Modernist, Mr. Escher arrived in Los Angeles in 1988, saw Lautner's Sheats-Goldstein residence and became fascinated. His monograph, "John Lautner, Architect," was published in 1994, the year Lautner died. Lautner's family asked him to look after the Lautner archives.
Their commissions -- a string of private houses and stylish tanning parlors in Los Angeles -- have already brought them considerable attention, though their practice began only in 1995. They are currently designing an addition to the 1959 Loring residence by Richard Neutra. Last year, Wallpaper magazine voted the firm one of 20 in an international "smart set."
Recently, Escher GuneWardena completed the Jamie residence in Pasadena. The design (built on an Ikea budget, they say) provoked two years of hearings and criticism over the building's naked cement underbelly. Today, however, the house stands strong and free above the hillside, an expression of their interest in structure, engineering and economy over mere aesthetics. 
Their Zugsmith house in Sherman Oaks will be a floating sandwich of concrete and frameless glass, to maximize the view. But they are not above a small commission like the salon whose plexiglass tanning cubicles glow when occupied. 
 FRANCES ANDERTON

GRAPHIC: Photos: SPACE CASE -- John Lautner designed Chemosphere, top left, high above the San Fernando Valley in Los Angeles. Top right, access is from a funicular that climbs 100 feet. Bottom right, Benedikt and Angelika Taschen. Bottom left, at night, the valley is their decor. (Photographs by Fred R. Conrad/The New York Times)(pg. F1); MASTER BUILDER -- The architect John Lautner, above in 1982, dreamed up Chemosphere during the race to the moon. Top, the house as it looked in 1968 in Life magazine.; OLD AND NEW -- Inset, during restoration, the skylight built by Leonard Malin, the original owner, was kept, and hanging lamps by the artist Jorge Pardo were added. Top, the new windows were made without dividers. Middle, in the master bedroom, the bed was turned to face the view. Below, on a terrace, thin slate replaced old tile. (Julius Shulman; inset left, Jeffrey Scales/HSP Archive); (Photographs by Fred R. Conrad/The New York Times); (Alan Weintraub for The New York Times); CLIFF DWELLERS -- Escher GuneWardena restored Chemosphere, top, and designed the boxy Jamie residence in Pasadena. (Todd Hido); (Julius Shulman)(pg. F9) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ARTISTS & PERFORMERS (78%); VISUAL ARTISTS (78%); PUBLISHING (76%); BUILDING RENOVATION (75%) ARCHITECTURE; BIOGRAPHICAL INFORMATION 

PERSON: LAUTNER, JOHN (1911-94); ANDERTON, FRANCES; TASCHEN, BENEDIKT; TASCHEN, ANGELIKA 

GEOGRAPHIC: LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (92%); PALM SPRINGS, CA, USA (54%) CALIFORNIA, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (92%) LOS ANGELES (CALIF)

LOAD-DATE: March 15, 2001 



362 of 868 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 15, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 2; Editorial Desk; Pg. 25

LENGTH: 1152 words

HEADLINE: Paying for the Potemkin Boom 

BYLINE:  By Ron Chernow; Ron Chernow, the author of "Titan: The Life of John D. Rockefeller Sr.," is currently writing a biography of Alexander Hamilton.

 BODY:
Let us be clear about the magnitude of the Nasdaq collapse. The tumble has been so steep and so bloody -- close to $4 trillion in market value erased in one year -- that it amounts to nearly four times the carnage recorded in the October 1987 crash. And with the Standard and Poor's 500 index down almost 31 points yesterday, and the Dow Jones industrial index down 317, the broader market continues to be dragged toward the abyss.
 A fierce, short correction in the technology-laden Nasdaq would have been more merciful. During the past year, the market has exhibited the classic pattern of lethal drops: not big, swooping dives, but a slow, relentless erosion of prices. (The October 1929 drop was dwarfed by the gradual deterioration over the next three years.) While the Nasdaq still trades at lofty levels by historic standards, the bubble has mostly burst. The economic distortions left in its wake, however, will undoubtedly bedevil us for some time as the boom's chief beneficiaries turn into its conspicuous casualties. 
 At first, the most traumatic impact may be on consumer spending. Economists note that rising stock prices translate into vigorous spending, and vice versa -- the famous wealth effect. As tech stocks boomed, people not only spent freely but dispensed with conventional savings since their retirement funds soared even as they partied. Now, spooked by the plunging market, people are unlikely to count on stock gains for long-term security. Forced to rebuild depleted bank accounts and bond portfolios, they will scale back on consumption. 
This retrenchment will probably unfold on a grander scale than in any previous downturn. Back in the 1950's, many Americans, veterans of 1929, remained skittish about stocks, and only 5 percent owned them directly or via pension plans. Today an estimated 45 percent dabble in stocks and the nation's nervous system is entangled in ticker tape. We must brace for an unsettling national experiment: what happens to consumer spending when nearly half of all Americans see their stock portfolios savaged day after day? Much of the apprehension among Wall Street professionals must stem from a queasy sense of treading upon terra incognita.
Many financial reforms of the past two decades presupposed that small investors could govern their financial destiny. By the end of the 1990's, mutual funds eclipsed banks as the major repository of savings. Many companies swapped old-fashioned pension plans, run by professionals, for defined contribution plans, controlled by employees. Touched by pre-bubble optimism, the Bush administration touts private Social Security accounts to enhance retirement savings. Now, after the Alice-in-Wonderland behavior of novice investors in the technology mania, this trend toward "democratized" investing will be questioned.
To some investors, it may seem poetic justice that their Wall Street mentors should share in the punishment. Over the past generation, many investment houses were merged into financial conglomerates that featured both wholesale operations, originating new stock issues, and retail brokerage chains, which pumped out these shares to small investors. This fusion of wholesale and retail firms produced glaring conflicts of interest. High-tech analysts wooed new companies to offer stock to the public, then pitched these profitless wonders to credulous customers. Meanwhile, an unholy combination of venture capitalists and investment bankers teamed up to fob off phantom companies -- sometimes mere artists' conceptions of companies rather than going concerns -- on the public. Investment banks booked record profits from dot-com initial public offerings and then from the huge mergers made possible by the exorbitant share prices. Wall Street firms grew to bloated sizes that will be no more sustainable than the Nasdaq bubble itself.
Concern has centered on the misery of small investors maimed in the tech wreckage. But what happened to all the money they squandered in the I.P.O.'s? Think of the stock market in recent years as a lunatic control tower that directed most incoming planes to a bustling, congested airport known as the New Economy while another, depressed airport, the Old Economy, stagnated with empty runways. The market has functioned as a vast, erratic mechanism for misallocating capital across America.
In such an atmosphere, the little people of America, egged on by Wall Street's hired optimists, wrote blank checks to indulge the giddy fantasies of high-tech entrepreneurs. In the early stages, this sparked robust expansion and innovation among software, computer, telecommunications, biotechnology, semiconductor and fiber optic companies. To many New Economy gurus, the pot of gold from Wall Street seemed fully justified and certain proof of their own genius. 
The sheer number of companies going public guaranteed an indigestible surplus of new stock. The cash windfall also warped the judgment of chief executives. Intoxicated with capital, they expanded their companies too quickly and embarked on overly expensive acquisitions. Economic discipline was frowned upon as a decided lack of vision. The proliferation of Nasdaq companies ensured overcapacity in many high-tech markets, which spawned ruthless price cutting and caused profitability to plummet.
Though the most dire effects of the Nasdaq bubble may be self-contained, there are worrisome signs that it has spread, and not just to other stocks. Look at any financial or high-tech center, and you will see that funny money from the Nasdaq flowed into local real estate, blowing up more bubbles. In their haste to establish brand names, dot-coms funneled Nasdaq money into costly advertising campaigns, providing a fleeting bonanza for media companies. The most serious glut may appear among the dot-coms' suppliers, like Cisco Systems and Sun Microsystems, which must compete against a secondhand market in their own Internet equipment -- used goods auctioned off after the demise of dot-com customers.
In despair, many investors now pray for divine intervention -- that is, interest rate cuts by the Federal Reserve Board. During the bubble, many assumed that the Fed had considerately suspended the business cycle and acquired magical powers over stocks. Alan Greenspan was transformed from an aging, if competent, bureaucrat into the all-powerful Merlin of finance. The last casualty of the Nasdaq bubble may well be the Fed's aura of invincibility. 
In the aftermath of a speculative boom, the policy options become terribly limited. Almost without question, we will see more interest rate cuts at the Fed's March 20 meeting. At the same time, an easy money policy, however necessary and welcome, won't remedy the structural imbalances produced by the bubble. 
Last year, the Nasdaq boom soared to unprecedented heights. If history proves an accurate guide, the bust may mirror it in depth and duration. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: STOCK INDEXES (92%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); STOCK EXCHANGES (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (89%); BONDS (89%); ECONOMIC NEWS (87%); PERSONAL FINANCE (87%); PENSION & RETIREMENT PLANS (86%); MUTUAL FUNDS (86%); PROFILES & BIOGRAPHIES (79%); STOCK MARKET CRASHES (78%); TRENDS (76%); PRICE INCREASES (74%); SOCIAL SECURITY (72%); RETIREMENT & RETIREES (70%) STOCKS AND BONDS; NASDAQ COMPOSITE INDEX 

PERSON: CHERNOW, RON 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: March 15, 2001 



363 of 868 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 15, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section C; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 343 words

HEADLINE: Stockpiles Rose At Businesses In January 

BYLINE:  Bloomberg News 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, March 14 

 BODY:
Stockpiles of unsold goods rose more than expected in January as sales stalled, a government report showed today, signaling that manufacturing may be slow to pick up in coming months.
 Inventories rose 0.4 percent, the largest increase since October, after no change a month earlier, according to the Commerce Department. Sales were unchanged in January, after rising 0.1 percent the previous month. Stockpiles were sitting at businesses longer in January than at any time since March 1999, suggesting consumer demand is not picking up enough to encourage companies to increase production and help lift the economy. General Motors and Ford are both making fewer cars and trucks because they had almost three months' worth of unsold vehicles at the end of last month. 
 "There are still some imbalances" said William Sullivan, an economist at Morgan Stanley Dean Witter in New York. "That's going to keep manufacturing weak for the foreseeable future."
The January increase in inventories, double what analysts expected, was the largest since a 0.7 percent surge in October of last year. The inventory-sales ratio, which measures the time goods sit unsold, rose to 1.37 months in January from 1.36 months during December. The ratio is the highest since March 1999.
Retail inventories rose 0.6 percent in January after rising 0.2 percent in December, reflecting an increase in unsold cars, building materials and furniture. Sales at retailers rose 1.3 percent in January after rising 0.2 percent in December. Stockpiles of vehicles on auto dealer lots rose 0.9 percent in January after a 0.1 percent increase in December. At furniture retailers, inventories rose 0.5 percent in January after a 1.1 percent December decline. Inventories also rose at building materials outlets and clothing and general merchandise stores.
Wholesaler inventories, which make up about one-fourth of the combined report, fell 0.3 percent in January after no change in December.
Stockpiles at manufacturers, which account for almost half of all inventories, rose 0.7 percent in January.

GRAPHIC: Chart: "Inventory-Sales Ratio"Total month-end business inventories divided by total monthly business sales, seasonally adjusted. Graph shows figures from August 1999-January 2001. Business Inventories and Sales (Billions of dollars, seasonally adjusted.) Jan.Inventories: $1,220.34Sales: 896.59 Dec.Inventories: $1,224.77Sales: 896.60 (Source: Commerce Department)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: INVENTORIES (93%); INVENTORY MANAGEMENT (90%); SALES FIGURES (90%); RETAILERS (89%); WHOLESALE TRADE FIGURES (78%); RETAIL SALES (78%); RETAIL TRADE FIGURES (77%); GENERAL MERCHANDISE STORES (77%); MOTOR VEHICLES (75%); ECONOMIC INDICATORS (72%); COMMERCE DEPARTMENTS (72%); FURNITURE STORES (70%); BUILDING SUPPLY (70%); NEW CAR DEALERS (70%) UNITED STATES ECONOMY; SALES; INVENTORIES (ECONOMIC INDICATOR) 

COMPANY: GENERAL MOTORS CO (57%); MORGAN STANLEY (56%)

ORGANIZATION: US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (84%)

TICKER: GM (NYSE) (57%); MS (NYSE) (56%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS336112 LIGHT TRUCK & UTILITY VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (57%); NAICS336111 AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING (57%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (56%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (56%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: March 15, 2001 



364 of 868 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 15, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section C; Column 5; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 16

LENGTH: 35 words

HEADLINE: THE MARKETS: CURRENCIES 

 BODY:
 YEN FALLS. The yen dropped on concern that falling stocks and slowing growth in the United States will crimp a rebound in Japan. In New York, the dollar settled at 121.11 yen, up from 119.83 yen on Tuesday.

GRAPHIC: Graph tracks the Japanese yen to the dollar, since September 1999. (Source: Bloomberg Financial Markets). It also shows yesterday's closes for the British pound (in U.S. dollars), the Canadian dollar (per U.S. dollar), the German mark (per U.S. dollar), the Japanese yen (per U.S. dollar), the Mexican peso (pers U.S. dollar), and the South Korean won (per U.S. dollar). 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CURRENCIES (90%); JAPANESE YEN (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (86%); TRENDS (86%) CURRENCY; ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (94%); JAPAN (91%); MEXICO (79%); CANADA (79%); GERMANY (59%) JAPAN

LOAD-DATE: March 15, 2001 



365 of 868 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 15, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section B; Column 1; Style Desk; Fashion Page; Pg. 9

LENGTH: 767 words

HEADLINE: Missing a Beat: A Somber Mood Amid the Hoopla 

BYLINE:  By GINIA BELLAFANTE 

DATELINE: PARIS, March 14 

 BODY:
On Tuesday, 24 hours after the declining Standard & Poor's 500 Index ushered in a bear market, on a day during which the French shoe house Rodolphe Menudier offered a collection that centered, not all that presciently, on the theme of "new American money," Maria Bartiromo, the CNBC anchor in New York, asked a financial analyst to name the stock he liked best at the moment. The answer he gave was telling: Bed Bath & Beyond, a company not easily matched as an analog for the dull, quotidian ways of life during the old old economy, when buying a pair of Wamsutta sheets still passed for extravagance.
 The current mood has made it all the more difficult to collude in the hoopla of the Paris fashion week. Still, only a fool would suggest that the market for high fashion is over and that everyone should pack up and go home. 
 Propelling this optimistic view is the fact that the world's supply of rich people will never reach the status of endangered. More to the point, there are legions of women on several continents for whom clothes will always remain a visceral passion regardless of personal circumstance. Lily Bart is alive and well in the 29-year-old Manhattan publicist who has amassed a mound of credit card debt but sees no real reason to let that $1,600 Fendi doctor bag remain on the shelf.
You would think the outlandishness that typifies Paris fashion would send the blood boiling this week. But the outlandish has been fairly inspired. Instead, it was a show like Stella McCartney's for Chloe, with its emphasis on jazzing up a whole lot of nothing, that winded up offending. For the umpteenth season, Ms. McCartney sent pencil-thin jeans that cost as much as television sets down the runway, and if that had not seemed a gesture of arrogance before, it certainly did today. 
Ms. McCartney is a vocal proponent of animal rights, and yet, curiously, she picked a moment in which the mood has started to shift away from ostentation to introduce a series of faux fur coats and jackets made all the more pointlessly flashy with the random application of sequins. Ms. McCartney did not seem to grasp that churning out knockoffs does nothing to strip the mythology from the real thing.
At Dries van Noten's show on Monday night, one was also left peeved at the idea that hundreds of people had been convened in a space that resembled a hockey rink to witness little more than a parade of belted plaid coats and floral print dresses that harked back to first-generation Diane Von Furstenberg. It was especially disappointing given the skill with which Mr. van Noten has always fused the commercial and the inventive.
Happily, Olivier Theyskens brilliantly married those ideas at his show later that evening. Mr. Theyskens seemed an Olympian on a field of junior varsity players this week.
In a sense, Mr. Theyskens hands out Rubik's Cubes to his audience, challenging them to figure out how he manipulates the components of his garments to fall the way they do. In one rather mind-boggling outfit, a red leather coat was designed with a white lining that was revealed to grow into a skirt in front. 
Mr. Theyskens also used contrasting tweeds to create suits with insets that sinuously outlined one side of the body from shoulder down to leg. And a simple-looking white halter gown wrapped around the body in bias-cut panels.
Hussein Chalayan, who canceled his London show and held a small presentation here on Tuesday is, like Mr. Theyskens, a designer who lives in the world of ideas. Most designers who try to attach notions of profundity to their clothes wind up sounding drugged. Mr. Chalayan's clothes, however, actually embody the concepts that genuinely seem to be on his mind.
He is fascinated by the idea of how identity is reshaped in the process of cultural assimilation, and in this collection a series of clothes shared parts of one another.
For example, he conceived a pair of low-slung trousers with the bottom few inches of a man's button-down shirt affixed to the waist. When paired with the white top meant to go with the trousers, the shirt and waist detail resembled a unified whole, even though the outfit was in some sense a fraud.
One might have taken issue with the excesses at Valentino's show on Tuesday -- wide-legged tweeds topped not only with sequined jackets but also with fur vests.
Mr. Valentino's collection seemed interminable -- a bomber jacket appeared twice -- but one cannot fault him for turning out straight-up glamour clothes that border on the camp. The woman he caters to -- the one always in the process of remarrying up -- is, reports indicate, extant.

GRAPHIC: Photos: Tweed trousers worn with a sequined jacket and topped by a fur vest at Valentino.; Faux fur coat and pencil jeans by Stella McCartney for Chloe.; Bell-sleeved dress with elasticized Empire waist by Dries van Noten.; Red leather coat with a skirt attached to the lining by Olivier Theyskens. (Photographs by Jean-Luce Hure) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: STOCK INDEXES (91%); FASHION DESIGNERS (90%); FASHION & APPAREL (78%); FASHION SHOWS (77%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (72%); PERSONAL DEBT (66%); SPORTS & RECREATION FACILITIES & VENUES (60%) APPAREL 

COMPANY: BED BATH & BEYOND INC (57%)

TICKER: BBBY (NASDAQ) (57%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS442299 ALL OTHER HOME FURNISHINGS STORES (57%); NAICS442110 FURNITURE STORES (57%); NAICS423210 FURNITURE MERCHANT WHOLESALERS (57%)

PERSON: DIANE VON FURSTENBERG (57%); MARIA BARTIROMO (56%) BELLAFANTE, GINIA 

GEOGRAPHIC: PARIS, FRANCE (94%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (77%) NEW YORK, USA (88%) FRANCE (94%); UNITED STATES (88%) PARIS (FRANCE)

LOAD-DATE: March 15, 2001 



366 of 868 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 15, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section C; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 1039 words

HEADLINE: Economic Scene; 
Tax cuts are in the air, and both political parties have their heads in the sand.

BYLINE:  By Jeff Madrick; This column appears here every Thursday. Jeff Madrick is the editor of Challenge Magazine and a new collection of essays, "Unconventional Wisdom: Alternative Perspectives on the New Economy." E-mail: jgmadrick@mesharpe.com

 BODY:
THE new economy is temporarily dead on Wall Street, but Washington is acting as if it did not even know it ever existed. The Republicans are setting the antediluvian tone with a tax-cut proposal and a new budget that almost completely ignore vast changes in American life the last 25 years. But the Democratic response is almost as unenlightened. It is as if we are being led by a bunch of 19th-century lawmakers.
 The benefits and durability of the new economy were inevitably exaggerated. If the economy of the 1990's was indeed "new," America enjoyed a new economy in every generation of its history, beginning with the cotton economy after the War of 1812 and extending over the next two centuries through canals, water mills, steamships, mass retailers, steel and petroleum, railroads, electric appliances, autos and television. 
 But if the potency of the new economy is in question, the changes in the way Americans live are undeniable. There have been extraordinary opportunities for those positioned to exploit them, and a host of affordable electronic devices to entertain and inform. But jobs are generally less secure, families must work more hours, typical Americans need more education to remain in the middle class, increasingly sophisticated health care is out of reach for an enormous portion of Americans, men's wages are still well behind their historical growth curve and income remains strikingly unequal.
The new administration's first economic proposals reflect almost no recognition of any of these. Instead, we are plied with talk about how Americans deserve to get their money back from government. This ignores the inconvenient fact that they could not have made their money without government in the first place. It is government that educates their employees, enforces their contracts, protects them against fraud, takes care of their elderly, defends their land, keeps their air clean and, in general, creates a stable, optimistic and free way of life for most.
Advocates of tax cuts also say taxes make up an unusually high portion of the gross domestic product. But much of the tax revenue is from capital gains paid on stock market winnings, and those are rapidly disappearing. The high tax intake also reflects that it was mostly those who were better off who did well in America in recent years, and they pay taxes at a higher rate. Some might contend this is remarkably just. 
Democrats insist, I think correctly, that the poor should be the priority, and tax relief should be directed at them. But otherwise they lack a cogent vision of the needs of a new economy.
Consider four or five new economic trends, none of them obscure.
Most Americans are well aware, for example, that work is increasingly insecure. And it is likely to stay that way, as a new economy of accelerated innovation takes deeper root. 
Partly as a result, about a third of the work force is now made up of temporary, part-time or self-employed workers, who usually have no benefits and are typically not covered by unemployment insurance. Similarly, full-time workers lose jobs more frequently, and their pension and health benefits as well. When they get new jobs, it is usually for less pay.
In such an environment, it makes sense to reform the unemployment insurance system. Only about a third of jobless workers qualify today, compared with half in the 1950's. The states run the insurance program, but Washington could lead the reform. Similarly, Washington could more aggressively address the portability of pension and health benefits as workers migrate from job to job.
Another important new fact of economic life that has attracted a lot of attention -- except, it seems, in Washington -- is the rise in hours worked by families. Stagnating wages for American men have forced many women to work when they would prefer not to. Even families that do relatively well need more money to be sure their children get the best possible education and other amenities that middle-class life now requires.
But the widespread movement of women to work did not even become a campaign issue in 2000. An example of useful reform would be more flexible work schedules and more part-time jobs that do not penalize careers and enable workers to attend to family life. But without direction from Washington, such reforms are unlikely.
In the meantime, the nation grows older. This is certainly no secret, but Washington sees no farther than the great Social Security debate. Yet an aging work force provides potential skilled labor for a new economy straining for well-trained and well-schooled help. What the elderly need are jobs that are flexible and part-time. In addition, if the elderly can fend better for themselves, it could also diminish the future burden on Social Security and Medicare. Where is Washington? 
As for education, all politicians favor improving it. But few have acknowledged how thoroughly education is now integrated into a successful worker's life. They talk about vouchers and charter schools as if primary education were the nation's only concern. 
A new economy has made work life more complex than that. In the 1800's, a good primary education was enough. Then, in the early 1900's, high school was a requirement for a middle-class life. By the 1980's, college had become a necessity. The newest step is continuing education right into the later years. But government has essentially been saying that even with these new needs, you are out there on your own.
A global world of intensifying competition will also keep constant pressure on American wages. As so many industries consolidate to compete internationally, Washington cannot ignore the new economy's shift of power from worker to employer. Strong unions were once a way to keep such corporations in check. Now, government regulations undermine union organizing while antitrust authorities too often look the other way when giants merge. Furthermore, unless wages rise, only full-scale health care reform will bring coverage to those now left out. 
Most Americans know their lives have changed. What they may not know is that once Washington addressed the new needs of changing times. Under the current leadership of both parties, America looks awfully tired. 

GRAPHIC: Photo: Americans seem to have forgotten the role government has played in their prosperity. Supporters listened to President Bush at a tax-cut rally last Friday in Sioux Falls, S.D. (Agence France-Presse) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: NEW ECONOMY (91%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); TAXES & TAXATION (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); EMPLOYMENT (90%); TAX LAW (90%); US POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); TAX RELIEF (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (78%); BUDGETS (78%); GROSS DOMESTIC PRODUCT (78%); POLITICAL ORGANIZATIONS (78%); LABOR FORCE (78%); CAPITAL GAINS TAX (77%); EMPLOYMENT CONTRACTS (77%); OLDER WORKERS (76%); POLITICS (76%); UNEMPLOYMENT INSURANCE (76%); WAGES & SALARIES (76%); TRENDS (72%); TEMPORARY EMPLOYMENT (71%); PART TIME EMPLOYMENT (71%); BULK SHIPPING (54%); COTTON & COTTONSEED (54%) LABOR; UNITED STATES ECONOMY; UNEMPLOYMENT; UNEMPLOYMENT INSURANCE; TEMPORARY EMPLOYMENT; PART-TIME EMPLOYMENT; WORKING HOURS; OLDER WORKERS 

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (53%) MADRICK, JEFF 

GEOGRAPHIC: SIOUX FALLS, SD, USA (59%) SOUTH DAKOTA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (99%)

LOAD-DATE: March 15, 2001 



367 of 868 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 15, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Editorial Desk; Pg. 24

LENGTH: 373 words

HEADLINE: The Burden of Containment 

 BODY:
The effort to contain foot and mouth disease has created a nightmarish reality: pyres of farm animals in Britain and France, the abrupt closing of trade borders around the world, a sense of grief and panic among farmers and confusion among consumers. Although foot and mouth disease is not widespread in Europe, the mere presence of this highly contagious pathogen forced the swift slaughter, incineration and burial of some 200,000 farm animals in Britain and France in the past month and led the United States this week to ban imports of animals and animal products from the European Union. It was a sad but necessary step. 
 While foot and mouth disease itself does not usually kill farm animals, the fear of it does. Nearly all of the animals that have been killed and burned in the past weeks had been headed for slaughter sooner or later, but for slaughter of a kind that would have been invisible and economically productive. The disease changes all that. At the level of individual farms and farmers, profit margins are so narrow that any loss of productivity from infected herds -- a drop in weight gain or milk output, for instance -- is unsustainable. Even the suspicion of foot and mouth disease means that markets instantly evaporate. No one will buy animals that have had the disease and recovered from it, and no one will knowingly eat products derived from those animals, though no harm has been proved from doing so. 
 American livestock producers will benefit from the exclusion of European products from this and other markets. But no one can rejoice in the proliferating trade bans, which come at a time when globalization is the economic mantra and when an agriculture without borders is the ideal embraced by many governments, if not necessarily by farmers. 
The trouble is that for foot and mouth disease, there really are no borders. It moves with a fluidity that is rivaled only by the movement of money. Wherever the disease appears, paradoxically, it has the effect of stopping the movement of animals and people and turning borders into rigid barriers. But it is only strict animal quarantines and constant vigilance at the borders that have kept this country free of foot and mouth disease for the past 72 years. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Editorial 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LIVESTOCK DISEASE (94%); FOOT & MOUTH DISEASE (93%); ANIMALS (91%); ANIMAL QUARANTINE (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); DENTAL MOUTH & JAW DISORDERS (90%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (89%); ANIMAL FARMING & BREEDING (78%); CLOSINGS (78%); LIVESTOCK EXPORTS & IMPORTS (75%); DISEASE AGENTS & VECTORS (73%); EUROPEAN UNION (73%); MILK (72%); IMPORT CONTROLS (70%); DAIRY INDUSTRY (67%); GLOBALIZATION (63%) LIVESTOCK; EDITORIALS; LIVESTOCK DISEASES; FOOT-AND-MOUTH DISEASE; INTERNATIONAL TRADE AND WORLD MARKET; QUARANTINE 

ORGANIZATION: EUROPEAN UNION (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED KINGDOM (94%); FRANCE (93%); EUROPE (93%); UNITED STATES (92%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (79%) GREAT BRITAIN; FRANCE

LOAD-DATE: March 15, 2001 



368 of 868 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 15, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section C; Column 4; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 945 words

HEADLINE: Push to Merge Is Driving Insurance Industry 

BYLINE:  By JOSEPH B. TREASTER 

 BODY:
Investors watched closely yesterday as the Prudential Insurance Company of America took another step toward becoming a publicly traded company. 
 In midafternoon, the company delivered a 146-page restructuring plan to New Jersey regulators -- a move that comes as the industry is being transformed by a wave of mergers in which only the largest companies or those with well-defined specialties are expected to prosper. 
 Prudential's conversion from a mutual company, a kind of cooperative owned by policyholders, is being driven mainly by a conviction that it can stay at the head of the pack only if it has a new currency -- stock -- to use in acquiring rivals. And its entry as another acquisitive giant, analysts say, is forcing competitors, both at home and abroad, to step up efforts to gain control of choice American insurers. 
"It's like a game of musical chairs," said Andrew Kligerman, an analyst at Bear, Stearns. "There aren't that many chairs. And if you don't get one, you're going to be left behind."
At the heart of the consolidation is a quest for economies of scale and commanding market share.
Prudential P.L.C., Britain's No. 2 insurer, added to the anxiety this week by agreeing to pay $26.5 billion for American General of Houston.
While investors quickly signaled concerns that Prudential had overpaid -- at three times book value -- the deal would still make the British company the American leader in variable annuities, a combination of insurance and mutual funds whose sales were soaring until recently. 
The British Prudential, not related to the American company, would also become the fifth-largest seller of life insurance in the United States and move to the top tier of global insurers.
The acquisition embodied a growing fear among American insurers. Because of higher market valuations in Europe and lower expectations of return on investment, foreign giants like AXA of France, Allianz of Germany and Generali of Italy are willing to pay higher prices and accept less stellar performances than American insurers consider prudent.
So, as in the deal for American General, the bidding is expected to be high for potential targets like John Hancock, which went public last spring but loses its takeover protection early next year, as well as Lincoln National, Jefferson-Pilot, Hartford Financial and Protective Life. Most are strong players in variable annuities, which has been the fastest-growing life insurance product.
Their share prices are depressed because the decline in the markets has hurt variable annuity sales as well as the fees insurers collect for managing variable annuity accounts. 
"Given the likelihood of consolidation, we think these stocks are extremely attractive," Mr. Kligerman said. "They may be hitting a speed bump now, but over the next year they clearly should be moneymakers."
Three companies -- Lincoln National, the Hartford and Protective -- have said that they prefer to remain independent, Mr. Kligerman said, adding that "things change."
Colin Devine, an analyst at Salomon Smith Barney, said a blockbuster deal would involve a big company like American International or General Electric, which has a big insurance operation, or one of the European behemoths buying John Hancock and Lincoln National, two of the strongest targets. 
"If somebody wanted to paralyze the competition," Mr. Devine said, "that would be the deal to do. I think you could get both of them for what Prudential U.K. paid for American General."
A year ago ING, the Dutch insurer, which has been operating quietly in the United States for years, jump-started its business by buying ReliaStar and parts of Aetna, which, together, were only slightly smaller than John Hancock and Lincoln National combined. 
Under pressure to grow, even as it has been struggling with one of the biggest changes in its 126-year history, Prudential has started new ventures in several countries and is completing the takeover of the Kyoei Mutual Life Insurance Company in Japan.
If the recent experience of MetLife is any guide, Prudential is unlikely to try to take over any big American rivals soon after it goes public, probably toward the end of the year. As sales ebb and flow, MetLife, a former mutual itself, has been swapping the title of largest American life insurer with Prudential. And, as with MetLife, Prudential's conversion plan protects it from immediately becoming a takeover target.
"But for others," Mr. Kligerman said, "the time to move is now. It doesn't make sense to wait for these guys to catch up." 
Shares in the American Prudential, which is based in Newark, are expected to be scooped up because John Hancock and MetLife have done so well. Their share prices have more than doubled since they went public a little less than a year ago. 
More than those of the other recently converted companies, the plan that Prudential handed to New Jersey regulators was intended to appeal to investors. One difference is that it makes its biggest unit, the Prudential Insurance Company of America, a subsidiary of a new parent holding company, Prudential Financial Inc. That separates other subsidiaries like Prudential Securities from the insurer and gives them more freedom to invest and grow than would be permitted under insurance regulations.
Prudential's stock offer will be one of the biggest in history. As the owners of the mutual company, Prudential's 11 million policyholders will share roughly $20 billion in equity or accumulated profits, an average of $1,818 per policyholder. They will receive stock, cash or enhancements to their coverage. The money will be distributed on the basis of each policyholders' contribution to profits. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: INSURANCE (92%); INDUSTRY CONSOLIDATION (90%); LIFE INSURANCE (89%); ANNUITIES (88%); BUSINESS FORECASTS (79%); TAKEOVERS (79%); MERGERS (77%); RETURN ON INVESTMENT (74%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (74%); MUTUAL FUNDS (74%); CURRENCIES (73%); PRICE INCREASES (69%); MARKET SHARE (69%); PRICE CHANGES (69%) INSURANCE; MERGERS, ACQUISITIONS AND DIVESTITURES 

COMPANY: PRUDENTIAL PLC (94%); PRUDENTIAL INSURANCE CO OF AMERICA (91%); AXA (58%); ALLIANZ SE (58%); BEAR STEARNS COS INC (56%)

ORGANIZATION: PRUDENTIAL INSURANCE CO OF AMERICA 

TICKER: PUK (NYSE) (94%); PRU (LSE) (94%); K6S (SGX) (94%); 2378 (HKSE) (94%); CS (PAR) (58%); AXJ (ASX) (58%); AXA (BIT) (58%); ALV (FRA) (58%); ALV (BIT) (58%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS525110 PENSION FUNDS (94%); NAICS524126 DIRECT PROPERTY & CASUALTY INSURANCE CARRIERS (94%); NAICS524114 DIRECT HEALTH & MEDICAL INSURANCE CARRIERS (94%); NAICS524113 DIRECT LIFE INSURANCE CARRIERS (94%); SIC6311 LIFE INSURANCE (91%); SIC6331 FIRE, MARINE, & CASUALTY INSURANCE (58%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (58%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (56%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (56%) SIC6311 LIFE INSURANCE; 

PERSON: TREASTER, JOSEPH B 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (96%); GERMANY (79%); EUROPE (79%); FRANCE (67%) NEW JERSEY

LOAD-DATE: March 15, 2001 



369 of 868 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 15, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Editorial Desk; Pg. 25

LENGTH: 722 words

HEADLINE: Essay; 
The Sinking Sun?

BYLINE:  By WILLIAM SAFIRE 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON 

 BODY:
Stock markets are slumping because the world's second-largest economy has admitted that it is near collapse and shows no sign of knowing what to do.
 Your assets and mine have been dwindling for other reasons as well. High-tech tulip bulbs were fated to wither. The soaring U.S. economy had to land sometime, softly or otherwise: the vaunted "new economy" did not repeal the business cycle. 
 Yet what most concerns many institutional investors and other heavy hitters is the effect on world markets of the trauma of Japan. While our stock indexes dip toward 1998 levels, its has just gone through 1985.
Why? Because Japanese executives and the government they control never understood their need for competition. While the Sonys and Toyotas set world standards for innovation and marketing, the rest of Japan's companies -- producing 90 percent of that nation's goods -- refused to let outsiders compete.
Mom-and-pop stores were protected from domestic chains; those chains were protected from overseas competition; bankers, industrialists and politicians protected one another. The consequence: productivity plunged to less than two-thirds of that in the U.S. That false protection has been ruining Japan. 
Liberal economists around the world confidently gave the Japanese the answer a decade ago: cut interest rates to stimulate the economy and have the government spend, spend, spend. Tokyo officials dutifully slashed rates to zero, subsidized failing companies to prevent unemployment and went on a Keynesian spending spree. That led to the current disaster. And the same gurus are advising another decade of similarly misguided medicine. 
Small wonder that the Japanese resist gaiatsu, "outside pressure." When the lame duck prime minister, Yoshiro Mori, arrives in Washington next week, he will become a conduit for a wholly different approach. 
I deduce this from papers now being studied in the Bush White House and at Treasury, State and Defense. These include the National Defense University's November 2000 report by Richard Armitage and Paul Wolfowitz; the McKinsey Global Institute paper by Masahiko Aoki and Paul Romer on "Why the Japanese Economy is Not Growing," and the article by Michael Porter and Hirotaka Takeuchi in the May-June 1999 Foreign Affairs, "Fixing What Really Ails Japan."
The economic heart of these documents is in a line from McKinsey: "In a misguided effort to protect jobs and maintain stability, the government subsidizes the inefficient players and blocks the entry of competitors." 
The Bush people will not be so crude as to say: "Look, Prime Minister, the way to avoid dragging the world down the drain is to close 20 of your weakest banks and make those remaining write off bad loans. Let hundreds of inefficient companies go bankrupt and save face by giving them long-term no-interest bonds. Join the deregulation revolution, stop depending only on exports for growth and open your markets to global competition. Then resign and be remembered in history as a hero." 
That would be impolite and impolitic. Instead, we can hope that Treasury Secretary Paul O'Neill will fondly reminisce about how the U.S. taxpayers combined with private industry to spend $160 billion in 1980's dollars to bail out the crazily lending S.& L.'s, thereby returning our financial system to a firm footing. O'Neill can also expound on the wisdom of tax cutting, spending restraint and buying dollars with yen.
At the same time, Secretaries Colin Powell and Don Rumsfeld (with deputies Armitage and Wolfowitz prepared to give other aides a pop quiz on their N.D.U. report), will bolster Japanese morale with assurances that Japan, not China, will be the "bedrock" of our Asian strategic defense policy. (Powell's rhetoric rests heavily on bedrocks.) 
Bush's new take on Japan offers no quick fix for the stock market shakeout. But the current turmoil focuses minds on the need for talk with Japanese reformists about ways competition can help turn their economy around. The sinking sun can rise again; needed most to restore confidence is to know that the big, slow fix is under way.
The paradox: Japan got into trouble by protecting its businesses from overseas competition. America can get into trouble by failing to enable its medium-size businesses to compete with giants. We should both put our trust in antitrust. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); NEW ECONOMY (79%); BANKING & FINANCE (79%); GOVERNMENT GRANTS & SUBSIDIES (78%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (78%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (78%); BUSINESS CLIMATE & CONDITIONS (76%); SMALL BUSINESS (76%); BUSINESS FINANCIAL TROUBLE (76%); BONDS (75%); PRIME MINISTERS (74%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (74%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (73%); DEREGULATION (73%); BUSINESS INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (71%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (70%); TRENDS (70%); INTEREST RATES (70%); ECONOMIC POLICY (70%); LIBERALISM (69%) ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS; STOCKS AND BONDS; INSTITUTIONAL INVESTORS; UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS 

PERSON: SAFIRE, WILLIAM; MORI, YOSHIRO (PRIME MIN); BUSH, GEORGE W (PRES) 

GEOGRAPHIC: TOKYO, JAPAN (57%) UNITED STATES (95%); JAPAN (94%) JAPAN

LOAD-DATE: March 15, 2001 



370 of 868 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 15, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section B; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 771 words

HEADLINE: Eight Public Servants Serve Unhonored No Longer 

BYLINE:  By CHARLIE LeDUFF 

 BODY:
"It's a miracle that New York works at all. The whole thing is implausible," wrote E. B. White, who marveled at the warren of electric lines, the water tunnels and the railways. "By rights New York should have destroyed itself."
 The civil servant is the one who keeps the city from suffocation, collapse and ignorance. And it was in that spirit that the Fund for the City of New York made its annual presentation of Sloan Public Service Awards yesterday to people who have toiled in anonymity in all levels of city government. 
 All eight recipients, selected from the 250,000 eligible city workers, deserve their own profiles in the news pages, but a small mention, a check for $7,500 and the gift of an original drawing of them at work will have to do.
An eight-hour bus tour of the city (there were no recipients from the Bronx or Staten Island) was arranged so that the fund's staff could bestow the prize on the winners in front of their co-workers.
The safari began at 7:48 a.m. The bus driver was Percival Chambers, 57, who retired from the city bus system after 23 years of service. Mr. Chambers is a polite man, an unrecognized worker himself, a driver who never had an accident and sent two daughters through college. Also on the bus was a bishop, a former newspaper editor, a retired banker and various charitable-minded people.
The first stop was in Long Island City, Queens, to see the mole. His name is Michael Greenman. His title is chief of the subsurface section in the department of design and construction. His job is to make sure that buildings stay standing and are not built on sand and water. In the course of his 31-year career, Mr. Greenman, 53, has collected more than 70,000 ground samples and used them to create a geologic map of the city. He accepted the check and sketch in the presence of his colleagues in a room of poor design and bad lighting.
"New York has been a hobby for me," he said.
The second stop was in Starrett City, Brooklyn, to see a bear. His name is Parnel Legros, and he is a gym teacher. His job is building young hearts and minds at Gateway Intermediate School 364. 
Before Mr. Legros came to the school 12 years ago, there were no gym classes at all. In fact, the school has no gymnasium and sits below a three-level parking garage.
So Mr. Legros, a 44-year-old former Olympian who holds a master's degree in applied physiology and sports nutrition, walks the students over to a local fitness center a few blocks away, because fitness is important, he said. He monitors his students' diet and grades. His students go to college. "He's strong and big and wise like a bear," said Jeremy Bayard, 14. "I respect him, and he's my favorite teacher."
In the gymnasium filled with students, he said: "Today, like all days, will pass, children. Always remember that it is in your name that I accept this award."
The next stop came in Lower Manhattan in the conference room of a nondescript building to honor Alan Leidner of the Department of Information Technology and Telecommunications; Wendy Dorf of the Department of Environmental Protection, and Richard Steinberg of the Department of City Planning, who battled interagency bureaucracy to create the NYCMap of the city's infrastructure.
Across Lower Manhattan works H. Hardy Adasko, 54, who described himself as an octopus. As a senior vice president for planning with the Economic Development Corporation, he has his fingers in many jars. There were many admiring office workers in attendance. The bishop, Joseph M. Sullivan of Brooklyn, told the joke about the giant fake check for the fourth time. "It's fresh for the recipients," said Lorin Silverman, a selection panel member. It is true, he knows how to get a laugh.
Then came the bookworm, Alice Hudson, better known as the chief of the map division of the New York Public Library. Over her 30-year career, Ms. Hudson, 53, has developed the second-largest public library collection of maps in the country, with more than 400,000. It is also the most-used public map room in the world with more than 7,000 visitors last year, said Mary McCormick, president of the fund.
There was loud applause among the library elite congregated in a small reading room in the south wing, and there was a cake on a nearby table, but Ms. Hudson opted for a slice of humble pie. "This belongs to all of us," she told them. 
Finally, came Esther Coupet, the mother hen who single-handedly navigates the social services and home care agencies on behalf of 1,500 elderly Bellevue Hospital Center patients every year. She saves lives in her own way, others will say, but not she. Ms. Coupet just blushes.

GRAPHIC: Photo: Parnel Legros, left, runs a gym program even though his school, Gateway Intermediate School 364 in Starrett City, Brooklyn, has no gym. The school principal, Bob Ciccone, congratulated him on his award. (Andrea Mohin/The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MOTORCOACHES & BUSES (90%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (89%); CITY GOVERNMENT (89%); EXERCISE & FITNESS (84%); PHYSICAL EDUCATION (84%); AWARDS & PRIZES (76%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (76%); CITIES (76%); SPORTS & RECREATION FACILITIES & VENUES (64%); NUTRITION (60%); URBAN BUS SYSTEMS (51%); PARKING SPACES & FACILITIES (50%) POLITICS AND GOVERNMENT; AWARDS, DECORATIONS AND HONORS; GOVERNMENT EMPLOYEES 

ORGANIZATION: FUND FOR THE CITY OF NEW YORK 

PERSON: LEDUFF, CHARLIE 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (98%) NEW YORK, USA (98%) UNITED STATES (98%) NEW YORK CITY; NEW YORK CITY

LOAD-DATE: March 15, 2001 



371 of 868 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 15, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section C; Column 2; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1196 words

HEADLINE: THE MARKETS: STOCKS & BONDS: The Collapse Of the 10,000-Point Floor; 
Dow Plunges 3% as Blue Chips Join Free Fall

BYLINE:  By MICHAEL BRICK 

 BODY:
The stock market fell sharply yesterday, with the Dow Jones industrial average falling below 10,000 for the first time in five months as investors grew more concerned about the global reach of the economic slowdown.
 The Dow fell more than 3 percent, a greater percentage than either the technology-heavy Nasdaq composite index or the broader Standard & Poor's 500-stock index. That was a new development in the current market decline, which had been far greater among the onetime darlings, the technology sector. On Monday, the S.& P. 500 entered a bear market, mostly driven by extraordinarily sharp declines in technology stocks. 
 In Europe, stocks initially dropped sharply yesterday because of fears about the United States and Japan, though they rebounded a bit. Page W1. 
American financial stocks, which had once climbed ever higher alongside the booming economy, posted big declines. And fund managers, who had been shifting their holdings from technology issues to include the more cautious pharmaceutical, consumer products, food and medical stocks, began abandoning those industries.
As even those stocks that had been considered safe came under pressure, money appeared to be flowing into Treasury bonds. The yield on 10-year Treasuries fell to 4.82 percent, from 4.93 percent the previous day. The Federal Reserve, which has cut short-term interest rates twice this year, is widely expected to cut rates again next week, but investors appear to be losing faith in the Fed's ability to engineer a quick recovery. Until recently, the spate of weak corporate and economic news ravaged mainly the stocks of technology companies, leaving many industrial stocks with surprisingly controlled losses of only about 5 percent from their highs, said John C. Forelli, an institutional money manager for Independence Investment Associates.
"Investors are beginning to say this isn't just a technology-related thing," said Brett Gallagher, a vice president of Julius Baer Investment Management, who manages $400 million in equity holdings for foundations and wealthy individuals. "If there's a slowdown, it's going to affect those industrials. I'm beginning to believe the safest place for us is cash."
There is also growing concern that the economic malaise is spreading and that the decreased pace of American business may be destined to spread overseas.
"We've sort of broadened the wall of worry to the global economy," said Arthur Hogan, chief market analyst for Jefferies & Company.
Wall Street was shaken at the opening of trading in New York after the European markets plunged.
"People have just begun to factor in the prospect of weaker markets elsewhere in the world," said Robert D. Hormats, vice chairman of Goldman Sachs (International).
After a sharp early sell-off, the United States stock markets failed to recover. Weighed down in part by losses in Citigroup, J. P. Morgan Chase and American Express, the Dow fell 317.34 points, or 3.1 percent, to close at 9,973.46, after trading as low as 9,817.74. The last time the Dow closed below 10,000 was on Oct. 18.
The Nasdaq composite index dropped 42.69 points, or 2.1 percent, to 1,972.09. The S.& P. 500 lost 30.95 points, or 2.6 percent, to 1,166.71.
The falling market drew increasing attention from the government. The decline "worries me," President Bush said, speaking in New Jersey to promote his plan for a $1.6 trillion tax cut. "With the right policies, I'm confident the economy will recover."
The so-called old-economy stocks that make up most of the Dow industrials have largely been shielded by perceptions that a slowdown in the technology sector would not spread to the rest of the economy.
Financial stocks and other old-economy issues have "proven to be safer than tech stocks, but by no means are they immune to the economic cycle," Mr. Forelli of Independence Investment Associates said.
"If economists start writing off 2001 as a recession year," he added, "maybe it's too early to start buying stocks."
Earnings warnings came from McDonald's, one of the 30 components of the Dow, and from Northwest Airlines. McDonald's fell 25 cents, to $27.55, after it cut its 2001 earnings projection by 4 to 5 cents a share. It said the outbreaks of mad cow disease and foot-and-mouth disease in Europe were causing some consumers to avoid hamburgers. 
Northwest fell 94 cents, to $19.75, after it said its first-quarter loss might reach $150 million as the economic slowdown cuts into business travel.
Within the technology sector, even companies that reported strong performances suffered. Comverse Technology, an Israeli company that makes telecommunications software, reported late on Tuesday that quarterly earnings had exceeded Wall Street's expectations. It raised its forecast to analysts for the coming quarter, only to be dropped from the Goldman, Sachs recommendation list. Its shares fell $3, to $67.
"Brokerage firms are downgrading anything that is still standing to get out of the way of the selling pressure," said Mary C. Sunderland, a portfolio manager who oversees $2 billion in assets for Invista Capital Management. "Once investor psychology starts turning, you can find something wrong with every stock."
One of the day's largest losers was in wireless communications, an area that has already been hit hard. Nextel Communications plunged $5.81 -- a 28 percent loss -- to $14.63, after the company said its first-quarter results would be depressed by the slowing economy and rising costs.
Over all, though, technology stocks fell less sharply than others and did not erase their gains from Tuesday, when the stock market regained some of the ground lost in Monday's sharp fall. The Dow fell to its lowest level in a year, and the S.& P. 500 fell to a two-year low.
American financial stocks came under pressure after Fitch, a credit rating agency, placed negative ratings on 19 Japanese banks. Fitch said that falling stock prices had added to the banks' difficulties maintaining capital and that government intervention might be needed.
Prices for goods and services have sharply fallen in Japan, feeding a cycle of rising credit risks and falling asset values, wages and salaries. Japanese stock prices have fallen to the levels of more than 15 years ago.
Adding to those pressures, analysts at Goldman, Sachs lowered their earnings forecasts for German and French banks, including Deutsche Bank, saying the drop in stock prices was likely to cut into their trading profits. 
The American economy slowed sharply late last year, but some indicators have pointed to a recovery early this year. That outlook was worsened, though, by a Commerce Department report yesterday that business inventories rose 0.4 percent in January, faster than expected and an indication that consumer demand was not growing.
Economists and market analysts are expecting the Fed's policy makers to reduce interest rates at their regular meeting on Tuesday. A rate cut of half a percentage point is widely expected, although some people on Wall Street are beginning to speculate that with the financial market turbulence and further signs of economic weakness, the Fed might cut short-term rates by three-quarters of a percent.

GRAPHIC: Photos: At the Chicago Mercantile Exchange, Brad Grossman, left, and Kirk Johnson, relayed trades from the Standard & Poor's 500 futures pit. (Reuters)(pg. C11); Ten looks said it all, as traders on the New York Stock Exchange and the Chicago Board of Trade reacted to a sell-off led by a 317-point loss in the Dow industrials. (Agence France-Presse); (Reuters); (Agence France-Presse); (Associated Press); (Reuters); (Chang W. Lee/The New York Times); (Agence France-Presse); (Chang W. Lee/The New York Times); (Agence France-Presse); (Agence France-Presse)(pg. C1) Graph tracks the Dow Jones industrial average over the past year. (Sources: Associated Press; Bloomberg Financial Markets) Tables: "Hot & Cold" provides a look at stocks with large percentage gains and losses; "The Favorites" lists stocks held by largest number of accounts at Merrill Lynch. (Compiled from staff reports, The Associated Press, Bloomberg News, Bridge News, Dow Jones, Reuters)(pg. C11) Graph: "Freddie Mac Yields" tracks average weekly yields on Federal Home Loan Mortgage Corporation 30-year and 15-year participation certificates since November 2000. Yields track changes in fixed-rate mortgages. (Source: Federal Home Loan Mortgage Corp.)(pg. C11) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: STOCK INDEXES (99%); BONDS (91%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); TREASURY SECURITIES (90%); BOND MARKETS (90%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (90%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (90%); INVESTMENT MANAGEMENT (89%); STOCK EXCHANGES (89%); MUTUAL FUNDS (89%); GLOBALIZATION (78%); BANKING & FINANCE (78%); MANUFACTURING OUTPUT (78%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (77%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (74%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (73%); AFFLUENT MARKET (73%); GOVERNMENT BONDS (72%); INTEREST RATES (65%) STOCKS AND BONDS; DOW JONES INDUSTRIAL AVERAGE; NASDAQ COMPOSITE INDEX; STANDARD & POOR'S 500-STOCK INDEX 

COMPANY: JEFFERIES & CO INC (62%); GOLDMAN SACHS GROUP INC (58%); AMERICAN EXPRESS CO (58%); CITIGROUP INC (58%); JPMORGAN CHASE & CO (56%); ARTIO GLOBAL MANAGEMENT LLC (53%); INDEPENDENCE INVESTMENT ASSOCIATES INC (53%)

ORGANIZATION: CHICAGO MERCANTILE EXCHANGE (59%)

TICKER: GS (NYSE) (58%); AXP (NYSE) (58%); C (NYSE) (58%); C (BMV) (58%); 8710 (TSE) (58%); JPM (NYSE) (56%); JPM (LSE) (56%); 8634 (TSE) (56%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (58%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (58%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (58%); SIC6289 SERVICES ALLIED WITH THE EXCHANGE OF SECURITIES OR COMMODITIES, NEC (58%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (58%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (58%); NAICS522210 CREDIT CARD ISSUING (58%); SIC6141 PERSONAL CREDIT INSTITUTIONS (58%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (58%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (58%); NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (56%); NAICS523999 MISCELLANEOUS FINANCIAL INVESTMENT ACTIVITIES (56%); SIC6022 STATE COMMERCIAL BANKS (56%)

PERSON: BRICK, MICHAEL 

GEOGRAPHIC: CHICAGO, IL, USA (74%) NEW YORK, USA (79%); ILLINOIS, USA (74%) UNITED STATES (94%); EUROPE (92%); JAPAN (79%)

LOAD-DATE: March 15, 2001 



372 of 868 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 15, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section C; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 611 words

HEADLINE: BUSINESS DIGEST 

 BODY:
Slumping Sales in Europe To Hurt McDonald's Profit
McDonald's said that its first-quarter earnings would fall more than expected because of slumping sales in Europe, where consumers scared of mad cow disease are buying fewer hamburgers.
 For the quarter, McDonald's expects to earn 29 to 30 cents a share, down from 33 cents in the quarter a year earlier. Analysts had expected McDonald's to earn 32 cents. In addition to its problems in Europe, McDonald's said its first-quarter results would be hurt by the rise in the value of the dollar. Page C4. 

Bristol to Cut Price of AIDS Drugs
Bristol-Myers Squibb said that it would no longer try to stop generic-drug makers from selling low-cost versions of one of its H.I.V. drugs in Africa and that it would cut the price of its AIDS drugs in the country. A1.

Xerox Is Accused of Racial Bias
Eighteen former and current sales representatives for Xerox are filing charges with the Equal Employment Opportunity Commission, contending that they were discriminated against on the basis of race. C6.

Prudential Files Plan to Go Public
As the insurance industry is being transformed by a wave of mergers in which only the largest companies or those with well-defined specialties are expected to prosper, Prudential took another step toward becoming a public company, delivering a 146-page restructuring plan to New Jersey regulators. C2.

Inflated Energy Prices Suspected
The Federal Energy Regulatory Commission said that two companies that sell electricity to power-plagued California, Williams Energy Marketing and Trading and AES Southland, may have engaged in actions designed to inflate prices in that market, potentially earning $10.8 million in excessive profits. A18.

New Power Plants Urged in New York
The rule-making organization for New York State's electricity market warned that New York would face a dire energy squeeze over the next few years unless new power plants are approved by the state this year. B7.

Sotheby's Posts a Quarterly Loss
Sotheby's, the auction house staggered by a price-fixing scandal, posted a fourth-quarter loss and said its auction sales for all of 2000 declined 14 percent. Its rival, Christie's, announced that its auction sales rose 12 percent. For the quarter, Sotheby's reported a loss of $6.5 million, or 11 cents a share, compared with net income of $34.4 million, or 57 cents a share, in the period a year earlier. Sotheby's auction sales for all of 2000 fell to $1.9 billion from $2.2 billion in 1999. Auction sales at Christie's rose to $2.3 billion from $2.2 billion. Shares of Sotheby's fell 62 cents, to $23.12. C7.

Big Board to Augment Price Display
The New York Stock Exchange, concerned that the transition to decimal pricing has diminished transparency, said that it planned to adjust the price displays available to brokerage firms to indicate whether significant numbers of shares are available to buy or sell within a few cents of the current market. C10.

CNN Anchor, Stuart Varney, Quits
Stuart Varney, an anchor at CNN, resigned while the Fox News Channel signed its rising star, Bill O'Reilly, to a six-year deal. C6.

N.A.S.D. to Set Online Guidelines
The regulatory arm of the National Association of Securities Dealers plans to set guidelines on when online brokerage firms have to consider whether the securities they sell fit customers' needs and tolerance for risk. C16.

Lawmakers Out of Step on Taxes
The G.O.P. tax-cut plan and new budget almost completely ignore vast changes in American life over the last 25 years. But the Democratic response is almost as unenlightened. It is as if we are being led by 19th-century lawmakers. Jeff Madrick: Economic Scene. C2.

GRAPHIC: Photo Chart: "YESTERDAY"Dow industrials -- 9,973.46 down 317.34Nasdaq composite -- 1,972.09 down 42.6910-yr. Treasury yield -- 4.82% down 0.11The euro -- $0.9117 down 0.0025The dollar -- 121.11 yen up 1.28 Graph shows Sotheby's share prices for the week.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Summary 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PHARMACEUTICALS INDUSTRY (90%); INTERIM FINANCIAL RESULTS (90%); STOCK INDEXES (90%); NEWS BRIEFS (90%); COMPANY EARNINGS (90%); AUCTIONS (89%); COMPANY LOSSES (89%); PRICE CHANGES (89%); STOCK EXCHANGES (89%); DRUG PRICES (88%); ELECTRICITY TRANSMISSION & DISTRIBUTION (87%); SALES FORCE (78%); ENERGY & UTILITY SECTOR PERFORMANCE (78%); SALES FIGURES (78%); SALES & SELLING (78%); AIDS & HIV (77%); INITIAL PUBLIC OFFERINGS (76%); GENERIC DRUGS (75%); AIDS & HIV TREATMENT (75%); ENERGY MARKETS (74%); OIL & GAS PRICES (74%); DISCRIMINATION (74%); INSURANCE (73%); APPROVALS (73%); BOVINE SPONGIFORM ENCEPHALOPATHY (72%); PRICE FIXING (72%); ENERGY & UTILITY LAW (71%); ENERGY & UTILITY POLICY (71%); ENERGY DEPARTMENTS (71%); US DOLLAR (70%); ENERGY REGULATION (69%); PRICE CUTTING (69%); POWER PLANTS (69%); PHARMACEUTICAL PREPARATION MFG (69%); ANTIVIRALS (69%); ELECTRIC POWER PLANTS (69%); SCANDALS (69%); EMPLOYMENT (67%); CORPORATE WRONGDOING (65%); ANTITRUST & TRADE LAW (64%) NO INDEX TERMS FROM NYTIMES 

COMPANY: SOTHEBY'S (82%); BRISTOL-MYERS SQUIBB CO (56%); NEW YORK STOCK EXCHANGE LLC (50%)

ORGANIZATION: US EQUAL EMPLOYMENT OPPORTUNITY COMMISSION (55%)

TICKER: BID (NYSE) (82%); BMY (NYSE) (56%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS454390 OTHER DIRECT SELLING ESTABLISHMENTS (82%); SIC5963 DIRECT SELLING ESTABLISHMENTS (82%); NAICS325412 PHARMACEUTICAL PREPARATION MANUFACTURING (56%); NAICS325411 MEDICINAL & BOTANICAL MANUFACTURING (56%); SIC2834 PHARMACEUTICAL PREPARATIONS (56%) SIC5812 EATING & DRINKING PLACES; 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (91%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (91%); EUROPE (91%); AFRICA (79%)

LOAD-DATE: March 15, 2001 



373 of 868 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 15, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 2; National Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1509 words

HEADLINE: Truck-Choked Border City Fears Being Bypassed 

BYLINE:  By JIM YARDLEY 

DATELINE: LAREDO, Tex., March 13 

 BODY:
Inside the storage warehouse of Exim Forwarding, the fruits of the North American Free Trade Agreement are stacked in every corner. There are pallets with American motor oil awaiting shipment to Mexican retailers, a bundle of Mexican wire on its way to a manufacturer in the United States, a truckload of Canadian wood veneer headed to Mexico for cutting and smoothing.
 Outside, in the sprawl of warehouses and truck yards near the two international bridges leading to Mexico, the burdens of Nafta are equally evident. The 18-wheelers are backed up for hundreds of yards at the entrance to Interstate 35, the north-south artery that connects this city with Dallas, Kansas City and points north. Diesel fumes marinate the air. 
 The estimated 12,000 trucks moving in the city every day often seem like an occupying army. 
For Laredo, which in the last five years has become the busiest inland port with Mexico, the trucks are inescapable, and despite the noise and dirt and foul air, no one really wants to escape them. The city's gritty progress is built upon the trucks pouring into its critical location at the mouth of I-35.
Until now, the trucks had to stop at the border, making Laredo the handoff point for tens of billions of dollars in international cargo and creating a miniature economy of transfer trucks, warehouses and hundreds of customs brokers.
But now the Bush administration is negotiating with Mexican officials over guidelines to allow Mexican trucks to travel freely in the United States, a move that could threaten Laredo's pre-eminence as a Nafta hub while leaving problems like pollution, potholes and congestion.
"We're concerned, of course we're concerned," said Laredo's mayor, Betty Flores. "We would like things to remain the same, but they never do. This is one more thing that they are going to throw at us. The border is a lesson in survival."
Local officials are already pleading for federal and state help to build more roads and bridges as traffic problems on I-35, aggravated by Nafta and the region's rapid growth, have crept as far north as Austin and Dallas. A state study predicts that truck traffic at all border crossings will nearly double in the next 30 years. 
A group of 50 state legislators from border counties have introduced an eight-year plan to invest billions of dollars in the region. And members of the Congressional Hispanic Caucus recently called for $1 billion in new spending for roads, bridges and customs officers on the border.
"You are asking these border counties to subsidize trade for 400 million people," State Senator Eliot Shapleigh, Democrat of El Paso, said of the trade agreement. "In fits and starts, the benefits have accrued both north and south, but the burdens have been placed on the border."
Here in Laredo, a trade hub with Mexico for centuries, the benefits and burdens are evident. Unemployment has dropped by half since Nafta took effect in 1994, yet it is still above the national average. Laredo has become one of the nation's fastest growing cities, its population rising to about 180,000 people, a gain of nearly 44 percent since 1990. 
There are still neighborhoods without water and sewer service, but there are also new subdivisions rising near the year-old World Trade Bridge. The new bridge has eased traffic downtown, where trucks once backed up for several miles on I-35, but it has shifted the congestion to the northern parts of the city.
"From being one of the poorest counties in the United States, it has certainly helped," said Sam Whipps, 38, as he worked in his yard not far from the World Trade Bridge. "You've got to sacrifice something in the name of progress."
There is disagreement about the depth of that progress. Nearly 60 percent of all merchandise traded with Mexico passes through the city, and roughly one million square feet of new warehouse space is being built every month to accommodate it, officials say. Because of this, many Laredo officials say the city can maintain its trade role even with the proposed truck policy changes.
"No one ever thought Nafta would be where we are right now," said John Adams, director of the Laredo Development Foundation, which spearheads industrial recruitment. "We are rocking and rolling here."
M. Ray Perryman, an economist who publishes a newsletter analyzing economic trends in Texas, agreed that Nafta had brought new jobs and growth to the border region. But Mr. Perryman noted that per capita income in border counties remained just over half of the state average of $28,000 and that problems brought by the trucks were not yet solved.
"The border region has benefited, certainly," he said. "But the border hasn't really gotten a lot of high paying jobs. Its infrastructure hasn't kept up and there have been environmental problems. The border has had a mixed blessing: a lot of growth but not accompanying prosperity."
This week, an organization established as part of Nafta to address environmental issues, the North American Commission for Environmental Cooperation, based in Montreal, released a study that found air pollution had risen markedly in five principal transportation corridors, including through Laredo. The study concluded that some pollutants from trucks and trains could double or quadruple in the Laredo corridor by 2020. In Laredo, where the winds help blow away the diesel fumes, pollution levels have risen but not enough to violate federal ozone standards.
There is no timetable yet for when Mexican trucks will be allowed to enter or what sort of regulations will be established, but an announcement could come soon. Many officials on the American side of the border believe the changes will be phased in. The provision was supposed to begin in 1995, but the Clinton administration blocked it, partly to appease unions that feared Mexican truckers could undercut American jobs. In February, an arbitration panel found that the American stance violated Nafta and said Mexico could impose sanctions, a step considered unlikely since President Bush has signaled his support for the change.
Negotiators from both countries are supposed to meet soon for a second time to develop safety regulations and other guidelines. The plans to open the border have particularly stirred the interest of cities like San Antonio, which has looked on the growth in Laredo with some envy.
San Antonio officials hope the new truck rules will help them create a trade corridor with Monterrey, the industrial center of Mexico, essentially bypassing Laredo. Officials are already marketing Kelly Air Force Base, which will be turned over to the city in July, as a distribution center for companies to dispatch trucks on direct hauls to and from Monterrey.
"The closed border trucking provision has held us back from developing that," said Jose E. Martinez, president and chief executive of Free Trade Alliance San Antonio. Other Texas cities, like Dallas, Houston and Fort Worth, are also expected to try to pursue business with Mexico.
Publicly, Laredo and San Antonio are talking about forming a trade alliance, with officials saying there is enough Nafta business for both cities. But friction clearly exists between them. "They are paranoid about the border," said Mr. Adams, the Laredo development official, of San Antonio officials. "It's like if Laredo does something, it will destroy them."
In theory, lifting the restrictions on Mexican truckers is supposed to help unclog the bottleneck of goods at the border and reduce costs for shippers. The current system in Laredo is an elaborate handoff: A Mexican trucker delivers goods to the border, where a transfer truck carries the goods across the Rio Grande, with an American truck picking up the load for delivery to its final destination. A similar process works for goods going into Mexico. At best, a truck can cross in two or three hours; trucking officials say that a day or two is more common.
James R. Giermanski, director of international business studies at Belmont Abbey College in North Carolina, attributed the delays to the Mexican customs brokers who control both sides of the border for goods coming into Mexico.
"The Mexican brokers dictate when goods cross the border," said Dr. Giermanski, who recently left a teaching position at Texas A&M International University in Laredo. "You can open the border for trucks, but if you don't have the documents for the cargo, you can't cross. The border is open? So what."
Francisco Benavides, who manages the Laredo office for M. S. Carriers, one of the nation's largest trucking companies, predicted that Mexican trucks would face practical problems in the United States, like language difficulties for drivers and a lack of emergency repair crews. He said American companies would also be reluctant to venture into Mexico because many roads were substandard and most American drivers were not bilingual.
"Most people are under the impression that if they open it tomorrow, we are going to be bombarded by Mexican carriers on United States highways," Mr. Benavides said. "It's going to be gradual."

GRAPHIC: Photo: Thousands of trucks jam the United States-Mexican border at Laredo, Tex., each day. Elaborate cargo transfers have been required, but soon truckers from both nations may have a green light to continue driving across the border. This could threaten Laredo's pre-eminence as a Nafta hub. (Bryce Harper for The New York Times)(pg. A18) Map of Mexico highlighting Laredo: A plan would let Mexican trucks into Laredo and points north. (pg. A18)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: FREE TRADE TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (91%); TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (90%); TRADE TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (90%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (90%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE LAW (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); EXCISE & CUSTOMS (89%); AGRICULTURAL TRADE (89%); VEHICLE TRAFFIC (89%); TERRITORIAL & NATIONAL BORDERS (89%); BORDER CONTROL (88%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (88%); TRUCKING (78%); GENERAL WAREHOUSING (78%); TRANSPORTATION SUPPORT SERVICES (78%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (77%); CITY GOVERNMENT (74%); CITY LIFE (74%); ECONOMIC NEWS (70%); TRENDS (70%); CAUCUSES (60%); BRIDGES & TUNNELS (59%) INTERNATIONAL TRADE AND WORLD MARKET; NORTH AMERICAN FREE TRADE AGREEMENT; ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS; UNEMPLOYMENT; ROADS AND TRAFFIC; BRIDGES AND TUNNELS; LABOR 

ORGANIZATION: NORTH AMERICAN FREE TRADE AGREEMENT (94%)

PERSON: YARDLEY, JIM; BUSH, GEORGE W (PRES) 

GEOGRAPHIC: LAREDO, TX, USA (97%); DALLAS, TX, USA (93%); EL PASO, TX, USA (79%) TEXAS, USA (97%) UNITED STATES (97%); MEXICO (96%); NORTH AMERICA (93%); CANADA (92%) LAREDO (TEX); MEXICO; AUSTIN (TEX); DALLAS (TEX)

LOAD-DATE: March 15, 2001 



374 of 868 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 15, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 5; National Desk; Pg. 16

LENGTH: 891 words

HEADLINE: Chicago Reverses 50 Years Of Declining Population 

BYLINE:  By PAM BELLUCK 

DATELINE: CHICAGO, March 14 

 BODY:
After half a century of seeing its population dwindle as people abandoned the core of the city and moved to the suburbs, Chicago has finally rebounded, census figures released today show. 
 For the first time since 1950, the city's population grew, and by a larger number than demographers and historians had been expecting. Census figures show the city now has nearly 2.9 million people, an increase of 4 percent since 1990. The increase of about 112,000 people was about double what some demographers had been expecting. 
 "It's quite a momentous event, and it's an important event to other cities in America, too," said Alan Ehrenhalt, executive editor of Governing magazine and the author of "The Lost City," a history of the 1950's in Chicago. "Chicago is just riding the crest of a great wave of enthusiasm and attraction. There's gentrifying residential territory all over the city."
The growth is primarily the result of an influx of immigrants, especially Mexicans and other Hispanics, who have grown to more than a quarter of the city's population, up from about a fifth. The number of Asians also increased significantly, by about 20 percent from 1990, to about 126,000. 
But the figures also show that the numbers of whites and blacks declined only slightly, said Kenneth M. Johnson, a demographer at Loyola University here. 
Experts credit a combination of factors for the population increase, including the way the city took advantage of the vibrant economy of the 1990's and efforts by Mayor Richard M. Daley to make the city attractive to middle-class families. 
And while other Midwestern cities that have been trying to revitalize, like Cleveland and Detroit, are generally not expected to see a payoff in population growth in the 2000 census, demographers expect that cities like Boston, Seattle and Denver will show growth for the first time in years.
"I think you'll be seeing this in other cities too," Mr. Ehrenhalt said. "The idea that these cities were growing in the 1990's is a revolutionary event." 
But demographers also said that Chicago had been in a better position to capitalize on the economic boom than most cities. 
"There's no other place in the Midwest that has some of the advantages Chicago has," said Reynolds Farley, a demographer at the University of Michigan. Those include the options market and a growing financial services sector, which benefited from the stock market growth in the 1990's; a large number of hospitals and health care businesses that provide both entry-level jobs and higher paying jobs; a variety of tourism and convention-related jobs; plus traditional manufacturing jobs as well.
In addition, Chicago's jewel of a lakefront has always been a draw to middle-class whites and blacks. 
City officials, not surprisingly, said they consider the census figures a validation of city policies aimed at improving neighborhoods, renovating old buildings, luring businesses with tax incentives and other economic benefits, supporting cultural programs and improving public spaces with trees, flowers and wrought-iron accents. 
The city also made a major effort last year to encourage people who are typically missed by the census to fill out forms.
Still, Mayor Daley said today that because the census had not been statistically adjusted to account for people who might have been missed, "the numbers announced today are incomplete." 
This week, the city joined a lawsuit filed by Los Angeles, San Francisco and other cities to try to compel the Commerce Department to make the statistical adjustments. The Census Bureau said experts had been unable in the time allowed them to determine whether adjusted figures would be more accurate. 
Experts generally agreed that Mr. Daley's policies had helped attract people to Chicago. 
"Daley has been effective in putting together a rather broad coalition to run the city," said Michael Dawson, chairman of the political science department at the University of Chicago. "There's been a lot of effort of redevelopment along the lakefront and all racial and ethnic groups now feel comfortable along the lakefront. That's a pretty major change. There's also been an effort to put money back into the neighborhoods, not only the downtown neighborhoods." 
The biggest change in Chicago's population mosaic is the increase in Hispanics, up more than 200,000 from 1990. While partly the result of better counting efforts, demographers say there has been a rapid stream of Mexicans coming from Mexico and from other American cities, and a growing influx of immigrants from El Salvador, Guatemala, Colombia and other countries.
"There has been a huge expansion of both neighborhood and citywide cultural and political influence," said Josef Barton, a history professor at Northwestern University. "I expect that their importance will broaden significantly."
Experts cautioned today that a sliding economy could undo some of the population gains, especially since several intractable problems still plague Chicago.
"Chicago is absolutely still a segregated city," Dr. Dawson said. "And it still has a long way to go with the public schools. There's still been a significant portion of population which has not been able to partake in the economic expansion of the 90's. And to the degree that the economy begins to soften those groups could rapidly feel very much at sea."

GRAPHIC: Chart: "Population Trends for Chicago . . ."New 2000 census data show Chicago gaining population for the first time since 1950. 1990Race and EthnicityHispanic: 19%Non-Hispanic:Other: 4%Black: 39%White: 38% 2000Race and EthnicityHispanic: 26%Non-Hispanic:Other: 6%Black Only: 36%White Only: 31% Graph tracks population in millions from 1920 to 2000.(Source: Census Bureau; Dr. Kenneth M. Johnson, Loyola University) . . . and for IllinoisData for the state of Illinois were also released yesterday. 1990 CensusIllinois: 11,592,305 Non-HispanicWhite: 8,614,847Black: 1,751,201Asian or Pacific Islander: 281,193American Indian or Alaska Native: 18,439Other: 8,660Multiracial (not an option in 1990): --Hispanic (may be of any race): 917,965 2000 CensusNumber Listing Just One Racial CategoryIllinois: 12,419,293 Non-HispanicWhite: 8,424,140Black: 1,856,152Asian or Pacific Islander: 423,032American Indian or Alaska Native: 18,232Other: 13,479Multiracial (not an option in 1990): 153,996Hispanic (may be of any race): 1,530,262 2000 CensusNumber Listing This Race With Other Race(s) Non-HispanicWhite: 127,729Black: 50,561Asian or Pacific Islander: 50,807American Indian or Alaska Native: 34,591Other: 53,445Multiracial (not an option in 1990): --Hispanic (may be of any race): -- 1990Non HispanicWhite: 74%Black: 15%Other: 3%Hispanic: 8% 2000Non HispanicWhite Only: 68%Black Only: 15%Other: 5%Hispanic: 12% 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CENSUS (91%); POPULATION SIZE (90%); DEMOGRAPHIC GROUPS (90%); POPULATION & DEMOGRAPHICS (90%); CITY LIFE (90%); STATISTICS (90%); POPULATION DECLINE (90%); POPULATION GROWTH (90%); CITIES (89%); SUBURBS (78%); MIDDLE INCOME PERSONS (78%); CITY GOVERNMENT (78%); HISPANIC AMERICANS (78%); HUMANITIES & SOCIAL SCIENCE (77%); WRITERS (74%); HISTORY (73%); FAMILY (64%); BANKING & FINANCE (60%); TOURISM (50%) POPULATION; HISPANIC-AMERICANS 

ORGANIZATION: US CENSUS BUREAU (59%)

PERSON: BELLUCK, PAM 

GEOGRAPHIC: CHICAGO, IL, USA (94%); BOSTON, MA, USA (79%); DETROIT, MI, USA (79%); CLEVELAND, OH, USA (79%) ILLINOIS, USA (94%); MIDWEST USA (92%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%); MICHIGAN, USA (79%); OHIO, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%) CHICAGO (ILL)

LOAD-DATE: March 15, 2001 



375 of 868 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 15, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; National Desk; Pg. 16

LENGTH: 1181 words

HEADLINE: Flood of Ex-Convicts Finds Job Market Tight 

BYLINE:  By PETER T. KILBORN 

DATELINE: NEW ORLEANS 

 BODY:
After a decadelong surge of people into the nation's prisons, sociologists and economists are warning of a new challenge for the labor force: the steady stream of people coming out.
 The prison population soared in the 1990's, to 2 million from 1.2 million, and now tens of thousands of inmates are leaving prison each year, having completed their sentences or been granted parole. Though these ex-convicts are under pressure to find jobs and rejoin society, labor experts say that many have become the untouchables of the work force. 
 "This is a major upcoming issue," said Harry J. Holzer, a labor economist and professor of public policy at Georgetown University. "Half a million people are being released from prison over the next several years. Many of these guys come out with almost every characteristic that makes employers reluctant to hire. They're not just ex-offenders. They're high school dropouts. They have poor skills and substance-abuse problems." 
The hurdles faced by ex-convicts seeking work can be staggering. Many employers flatly rule out hiring people with criminal records, regardless of the offense or when it occurred. Antidiscrimination laws rarely protect them.
And yet most of these ex-convicts, who are typically men, have a compelling need for a paycheck. Beyond court orders to work, they may also owe court costs -- an average of $600 here in New Orleans. Many are also required to pay restitution to victims and to start child-support payments.
In today's tight labor market, some employers make exceptions for ex-convicts. But often they offer only the most menial jobs -- washing dishes and lugging cinderblocks, worse jobs than many ex-convicts held before their arrests.
For Bobby Eubanks, 25, the temporary jobs he could sometimes get were dead ends that could not begin to support him, his three children by two women and the unborn child of his fiancee, a home health aide.
As a senior in high school, Mr. Eubanks was caught selling cocaine and was sent to a juvenile jail. He was released to his mother in Yazoo City, Miss., and later returned to New Orleans, where he was caught selling cocaine again and imprisoned for 34 months. Paroled last May, he found jobs as a common laborer, but the pay was less than $6 an hour and work stopped when it rained.
"I need a steady job," Mr. Eubanks said, sitting at a table in the parole office here. He was a muscular picture of dejection, now and then folding his face into the crook of an arm.
"I've been all over New Orleans filling out applications," he said. "But they don't call. All the applications ask if you have ever been convicted of a crime, and that kills the whole thing right there."
On St. Charles Avenue, ex-convicts sign in daily at a spartan, beige and linoleum office of the Louisiana Division of Probation and Parole. It is a busy place. Violent crime fell sharply here in the 1990's, in part because of tough enforcement of drug-dealing laws, leading to today's tide of newly released offenders. 
About 8,200 are on the city's rolls, said Susan B. Lindsey, the division's New Orleans regional director. Except for a few hundred aged and disabled clients, she said, "all have an obligation to secure and maintain employment." But only half are working. While the others search, the office assigns them community service work -- stuffing envelopes and washing state cars.
To help clients find work, the office enrolls them in free literacy classes and helps to prepare resumes and job applications. It offers twice-weekly classes with recruiters from Manpower, a temporary-work agency, and a few other employers openly willing to hire ex-convicts.
The clients checking in cover the spectrum from cocky to hopeless. One was Stennis May, a 30-year-old on parole after seven years in prison for armed robbery. Turned down for a food-plant job, he said: "I held strong. I just kept trying." 
Finally a Shoney's restaurant took him on in the kitchen at $7 an hour, hardly enough to lift himself, much less his family of five, above the poverty line. But in late February Shoney's raised him to $9.
"I've been moved up to assistant manager," he said proudly. "I train cooks."
But for every beaming Stennis May, there is a Bobby Eubanks. Mr. Eubanks's girlfriend, Kimberly Derischebourg, said that as Mardi Gras approached last month, he heard of a bellhop job. He applied and was told to come back in an hour. He returned three times, and was told each time to wait -- all for naught. 
Mr. Eubanks said: "I'm trying to do the right thing. I'd like to get married. I just want a chance. That's all I want."
But on Sunday night, March 4, two days after he was interviewed for this article, Mr. Eubanks was shot and killed in a nightclub in Yazoo City, his home town. Detective Michael Wallace of the Yazoo City Police said: "From information gathered at the scene and from witnesses, he and another individual were attempting to rob the owner of the nightclub after closing. Gunfire was exchanged, and he died."
For the least educated young American black men like Mr. Eubanks, jail is more the norm than a job. Bruce Western, a professor of sociology at Princeton University who examined the effects of prison on jobs in a study in January, said that on a typical day two years ago, 29 percent of the nation's black male high school dropouts ages 22 to 30 were employed. Far more -- 41 percent, up from 26 percent in 1990 -- were in prison. 
Once released, Professor Western said, bleak prospects for good jobs tempt the men back into crime. He said they start work making 10 percent to 30 percent less than other young black dropouts without criminal records, and remain stuck there. 
"We know that employment discourages crime," Professor Western said. "And because their employment opportunities are poor, they're more likely to commit crime again."
With New Orleans's rising population of probationers and parolees, programs have begun to tackle the barriers to ex-convicts' employment.
But there is only so much the programs can do. 
Joseph Thomas, 27, is nearing the end of probation for selling drugs. He recently completed a commercial truck driving course at Transport Safe Training Center, through a federally financed project of Tulane and Xavier Universities' National Center for the Urban Community. 
Short, wiry and affable, Mr. Thomas says he has been drug-free since his conviction and is all charged up to hit the Interstates making $40,000 a year in the cab of an 18-wheeler.
"I jump in the truck," Mr. Thomas said excitedly. "Adjust the mirror. Put on my seat belt. Release the brake. Whooooosh! It's fun. I'm driving something bigger than me."
Jerry L. Jones, the school's director, is proud of Mr. Thomas, who left school in the ninth grade. "He's an excellent student," Mr. Jones said. "He's made excellent progress."
But at best, Mr. Jones said, Mr. Thomas will have to spend some years driving a delivery van around New Orleans for wages closer to $14,000 a year. Until he finds a trucking company that disregards his conviction, Mr. Jones said, "he's going to get stuck on a certain level."

GRAPHIC: Photo: Joseph Thomas, second from left, with classmates and his instructors, Dennis Noonan, right, and Larry Harris, left, at a New Orleans center where Mr. Thomas recently completed a commercial driving course. (David Rae Morris/Impact Visuals for The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: EMPLOYMENT (93%); PRISONS (91%); RECRUITMENT & HIRING (90%); LABOR SECTOR PERFORMANCE (90%); LABOR FORCE (90%); CRIMINAL CONVICTIONS (90%); PAROLE (89%); SENTENCING (78%); PUBLIC POLICY (78%); JUVENILE JUSTICE (78%); WAGES & SALARIES (78%); SOCIOLOGY (78%); JAIL SENTENCING (78%); LITIGATION (77%); CRIMINAL OFFENSES (76%); COURT COST FINES (76%); SCHOOL DROP OUTS (76%); EMPLOYMENT SEARCH (76%); TEMPORARY EMPLOYMENT (73%); CHILDREN (72%); VICTIMS RIGHTS (70%); COSTS & ATTORNEY FEES (70%); CHILD CUSTODY & SUPPORT (70%); SECONDARY SCHOOLS (69%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (69%); SUBSTANCE ABUSE (67%); ARRESTS (66%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (65%); COCAINE (61%) LABOR; HIRING AND PROMOTION; PRISONS AND PRISONERS; DISCRIMINATION 

ORGANIZATION: GEORGETOWN UNIVERSITY (56%)

PERSON: KILBORN, PETER T 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW ORLEANS, LA, USA (94%) LOUISIANA, USA (94%); MISSISSIPPI, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: March 15, 2001 



376 of 868 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 15, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Foreign Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1381 words

HEADLINE: Channel Tunnel's Risks Defied For a Dream of Life in Britain 

BYLINE:  By SUZANNE DALEY 

DATELINE: SANGATTE, France, March 8 

 BODY:
In four languages, the signs on the walls in the Red Cross shelter warn of the hazards of trying to sneak into England through the Channel Tunnel: electrocution risk, squashing risk, very high-speed train, mortal danger. 
 But even the people who have posted the lists don't expect them to do much good. 
 The hundreds of illegal immigrants housed in the shelter, a cavernous, hangar-like former factory in the middle of potato fields have a common goal: getting through the tunnel that is just down the road from here. Some are seeking asylum but many just hope to find work once in Britain, while others will use it as a stopping point until they can reach the United States or Canada.
Night after night they try. One young Afghan says he has tried 41 times in the past two and a half months. He might try again tonight, he says, his eagerness clear. "The smugglers will tell us this afternoon whether we go again tonight." 
In the last year, tunnel authorities have spent millions trying to stem a clandestine flow of immigrants who have managed to enter Europe and are now trying to stowaway on the vehicles that are boarded on trains going through the tunnel. The 22-acre complex of concrete lanes and train tracks that converge at the mouth of the tunnel has become a fortress with barbed wire, electric fencing, floodlights, infrared sensors and police officers patrolling with dogs.
But still the immigrants try, made more reckless and inventive by the new barriers.
Nowadays they jump onto the tops of moving trucks from bridges. They hang around gas stations hoping to hide in vehicles heading for the tunnel. Some jump in front of freight trains, to slow them down so that others will be able to climb aboard.
Just last week, nine Romanian immigrants including a 3-year-old girl, were found hidden in the undercarriage of a high-speed passenger train that had arrived in London. In near freezing temperatures, they had been traveling at speeds of 180 miles an hour. Passengers heard them banging for help. 
For many, these risks are worth taking because tens of thousands are believed to have made it through the tunnel, while only one death has been reported. Earlier this month, an Iraqi man was found dead after he apparently got caught between a platform and the undercarriage of a train. 
In the last few months, security officials have found 150 to 200 illegal immigrants a night trying to get across. "You can see the whole thing start around 8 or 9 p.m.," said Francois Borel, the director of communications for Eurotunnel, a privately financed British-French group that operates the tunnel. 
"They start coming out of the Red Cross shelter in groups of 20 or 30 making their way over here," Mr. Borel said, "ready to take their chances. It is taking more and more of our resources and, of course, it is extremely dangerous for them."
Some local officials have called for the dismantling of the Red Cross shelter that opened just 18 months ago because they think it draws the illegal immigrants and provides them a base from which to make repeated efforts to enter the tunnel. But others say that the immigrants were squatting all over town, long before the shelter opened. Red Cross officials point out that their role is to provide aid to those in need -- not to police the comings and goings of the immigrants or their activities. 
The immigrants' numbers began to mount when war broke out in Kosovo, but other conflicts have fueled the flow. The shelter has also housed Russians, Ukrainians and Czechs. These days, most immigrants in the shelter are Kurds, Iranians and Afghans. 
Some have paid $25,000 to $40,000 to get this far, and will pay smugglers another $300 to $500 to get across the English Channel, if they have it. 
Those who do not pay often face the wrath of gangs that control this market. Shelter officials said that a recent group of Afghans who tried to enter the tunnel complex on their own were turned away at knife point by smugglers. Fifteen people were injured in a melee at the shelter last week when one agent for the gangs tried to extort a fee from a young Afghan who refused to pay. 
But many of the immigrants are well educated and have been doctors, engineers or are relatives of successful businessmen in their own countries. They simply pay the fees, putting themselves in the hands of the smugglers. 
The young Afghan, who in khaki pants and a Polartech sweater could pass for a university student anywhere in the world, says he has been told to jump off bridges and has done so. He has also tried to sneak into the backs of trucks. For all of his efforts, he said, he has been beaten up by the police, beaten up by a truck driver and once, he badly gashed his hand on barbed wire.
"I will keep trying because I have no way back," he said. "I have to keep trying."
The young man said he hopes to be able to study in England, though he has nothing particular in mind. He and a dozen other young Afghans share one of the prefabricated cabins the Red Cross has set up inside the building, once a staging area while the tunnel was being built. They all talk of avoiding the military service in their homeland, which has grown from two years to five. "Either you fight or you are killed," he said. "conditions are very bad."
Like the others he bunks with, he has only two sets of clothes. He wears both when he goes to the tunnel. But their cabin is spotless and everyone appears upbeat. This is not true in all the cabins. Some reek of stale sweat and despair.
The lives and movement of these immigrants from one European country to another is a touchy subject among the 15 members of the European Union. 
Several times, Britain has made its displeasure known with France's willingness to let illegal immigrants move around the country unsupervised. When a boatload of 900 Kurds arrived in Frejus last month, France was heavily criticized for giving the new arrivals eight passes that allowed them to travel where they wanted. 
Britain quickly told France to deal with the Kurds themselves, saying they would be deported to France if found in England.
France responded that the Kurds would be invited to apply for asylum in France. But eight days later, more than 200 were missing. Germany caught more than two dozen of them trying to get across the border and quickly returned them to France. Swiss border police turned back another nine. No one knows if any passed through Sangatte, but it is clearly possible.
Britain is now the most popular destination for immigrants in Europe. In 2000, the country received the largest number of asylum applications, 97,900 or 22 percent of the total number of applications lodged in Europe. Germany was second with 78,800 or 17 percent.
Experts say immigrants are drawn to Britain for many reasons, including cultural and historical ties. In addition, most are aware that Britain is the only country in the European Union that does not demand that its citizens carry identification papers at all times, making it that much easier to move around and work illegally.
But many note as well that the immigrants often get poor information about where they are going. At the shelter in Sangatte, several immigrants said they were choosing England because they would get free housing and an allowance when they arrived, which is far from true.
"There is what we call the CNN factor at work," said Jean Pierre Garson, an immigration expert with the Organization for Economic Cooperation and Development. " And you have the fact that a lot of people are selling them dreams, they are just victims of false dreams."
On a chilly, rainy day there is little to do at the shelter, where noise echoes harshly on the concrete floor. Mothers bathe their children in the sinks as men shave nearby. But the most activity is around the pay phones, just outside the front door. Everyone waits for word from the smugglers.
Since the shelter opened, more than 26,000 men, women and children have passed through the Red Cross shelter. 
Michael Derr, the director, says he has no doubt that almost all of them are in Britain now, with most having passed through the tunnel while some used boats or ferries to cross. A family of four was not back in the cabin they had occupied. "It could be that they made it," said another of the shelter's residents.

GRAPHIC: Photo: Cots piled with belongings at a shelter in Sangatte, France. The number of immigrants headed for Britain began to grow with the war in Kosovo; these days most shelter residents are Kurds, Iranians and Afghans. (Fabien Calcavecchia for The New York Times)(pg. A12) Map of France highlighting Sangatte: In a Red Cross shelter in Sangatte, immigrants wait for their chance. (pg. A12)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BRIDGES & TUNNELS (93%); ILLEGAL IMMIGRANTS (90%); HIGH SPEED TRAINS (90%); IMMIGRATION (89%); TRAINS (89%); EMERGENCY SHELTERS (89%); DOGS (78%); LONG DISTANCE PASSENGER RAIL (77%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (76%); SMUGGLING (76%); POLITICAL ASYLUM (70%); THERMAL SENSORS (64%); WEATHER (61%) ILLEGAL ALIENS; CHANNEL TUNNEL; ASYLUM (POLITICAL); KURDS 

ORGANIZATION: RED CROSS 

PERSON: DALEY, SUZANNE 

GEOGRAPHIC: LONDON, ENGLAND (58%) UNITED KINGDOM (94%); SERBIA (94%); KOSOVO (92%); IRAQ (92%); SERBIA & MONTENEGRO (92%); IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (92%); FRANCE (91%); ENGLAND (88%); AFGHANISTAN (87%); EUROPE (79%); CANADA (79%); UNITED STATES (79%) GREAT BRITAIN; SANGATTE (FRANCE); KOSOVO (SERBIA); SERBIA; IRAN; AFGHANISTAN; IRAQ

LOAD-DATE: March 15, 2001 



377 of 868 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 15, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section W; Column 2; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 94 words

HEADLINE: WORLD BUSINESS BRIEFING: EUROPE; 
MINING COMPANY PARES OUTLOOK

BYLINE:  By Suzanne Kapner 

 BODY:
 Joining a long and growing list of European companies voicing concern about the slowdown in the United States economy, Anglo American, the world's largest mining company, tempered its outlook for this year, even as it reported that profit in 2000 surged 26 percent. 
Anglo American, which is in the process of a bid to privatize De Beers, the diamond miner and trader, said profit for the year totaled $1.9 billion, compared with $1.5 billion a year earlier. Sales grew 7 percent, to $20.6 billion, compared with $19.2 billion the previous year. Suzanne Kapner

GRAPHIC: Chart shows Anglo American share prices for the week.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MINING & EXTRACTION SECTOR PERFORMANCE (90%); ANNUAL FINANCIAL RESULTS (90%); MINES & MINING (90%); SALES FIGURES (88%); DIAMOND MINING (87%); DIAMOND MARKETS (86%); PRIVATIZATION (85%); COMMERCIAL LENDING (59%) COMPANY REPORTS 

COMPANY: ANGLO PLATINUM LTD (92%); ANGLO AMERICAN PLC (92%)

ORGANIZATION: ANGLO AMERICAN PLC 

TICKER: ANAAL (JSE) (92%); AAM (SWX) (92%); AAL (LSE) (92%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS212299 ALL OTHER METAL ORE MINING (92%); SIC1099 MISCELLANEOUS METAL ORES, NEC (92%); NAICS322220 PAPER BAG & COATED & TREATED PAPER MANUFACTURING (92%); NAICS322211 CORRUGATED & SOLID FIBER BOX MANUFACTURING (92%); NAICS212221 GOLD ORE MINING (92%) SIC1041 GOLD ORES; SIC6159 MISC. BUSINESS CREDIT INSTITUTIONS; 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%); EUROPE (91%)

LOAD-DATE: March 15, 2001 



378 of 868 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 15, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section B; Column 2; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 989 words

HEADLINE: As Gulotta Exits, Nassau Republicans Try to Retool Their Broken Machine 

BYLINE:  By MICHAEL COOPER 

DATELINE: GARDEN CITY, N.Y., March 14 

 BODY:
The good news, Nassau County Republicans were saying today, is that County Executive Thomas S. Gulotta has decided not to run for re-election, clearing the way for them to run their own candidate for his post. The bad news, they lamented, is that the county's mighty Republican machine is now more a memory than a reality. 
 The party's kingmakers, who once had a say in choosing governors and even presidents, had to wage an all-out battle last year to reclaim control of their home base: the Town of Hempstead. Their state senators won re-election last year -- after expunging all mention of party affiliation from many ads. Democrats took over the County Legislature in 1999 and are slowly closing their yawning gap in voter registration. 
 It is quite a reversal for the organization that was once one of the premier political machines in the country. The Nassau Republicans brought thousands of former New York City Democrats into their fold when they moved to the suburbs after World War II, wooing the new converts by decrying the Tammany-style corruption of the city while creating their own brand of political patronage machine with a suburban face.
Now the party is trying to chart a course back to dominance. Some officials say they should simply run against the 15.4 percent tax increase the Democrats proposed last year to balance the county's books. Others say they should run against the legacy of Mr. Gulotta, whose management was criticized for bringing about the fiscal crisis. Still others say they should be doing more to woo the county's black, Hispanic, Indian and Pakistani residents, in the way the old party once wooed new Italian and Jewish residents.
Whatever they do, many Republicans agree that they must do something to win back the public. 
"There was basically an unspoken agreement between the Republican Party and the voters," recalled Representative Peter T. King, a Nassau County Republican. "We would give them competency, provide good services, get the job done. They might pay a little extra in taxes, there might be a little patronage, but we would get the job done well. But we haven't lived up to our end of the bargain in recent years." 
The county comptroller, Frederick E. Parola, who is often mentioned as a possible candidate to replace Mr. Gulotta, said that the party could no longer survive in its old guise.
"I think that the monolith, the machine, is history," he said. "We are going to have to survive on what have been traditional Republican positions -- fiscal conservatism, no taxes unless as a last resort, local control. But we'll never be the kind of conservatives you find in the Midwest or the South. We are sui generis."
Joseph N. Mondello, the party's county chairman, declined to be interviewed about his party's prospects. An aide, speaking on the condition of anonymity, said there were three leading Republican contenders for county executive: Mr. Parola; Bruce R. Bent, a financier who has never held office; and former Representative Rick A. Lazio of Suffolk County.
Mr. Mondello's difficulty courting candidates over the last year has only underscored how far the party has come from its formerly seamless transitions.
For years the organization was able to anoint its chosen candidates without the inconveniences of nominating conventions and primaries. Its preferred method was to persuade elected officials to resign, so the organization could replace them with handpicked successors to finish out their terms and then run for re-election as incumbents.
The circle was unbroken until recently. When Alfonse M. D'Amato stepped down as the presiding supervisor of Hempstead to become a United States senator in 1981, his successor, chosen by the party, was Mr. Gulotta. Then, in 1987, when County Executive Francis T. Purcell stepped down to take a job in the private sector, the party again turned to Mr. Gulotta to finish his term as county executive.
In those days, running as a Republican incumbent nearly guaranteed victory in overwhelmingly Republican Nassau. Officials fear that the fiscal crisis has changed that.
For years the Nassau Republicans have bucked national trends and resisted labels. While the rest of the country came to think of the Democrats as the party of active government and social services, the Nassau Republicans built what one high-ranking party official described today as the "Cadillac of public service systems."
In those days, the postwar boom was expanding the county's population -- and its tax base -- exponentially. It was easy to pay for more services without raising taxes.
Anne Freedman, a former political science professor who studied the county for her book "Patronage: An American Tradition" (Nelson-Hall, 1994), said those investments paid off for years in terms of party loyalty. "For a long time, people felt that they were being taken care of," she said. "The jobs were good, they were high-paying, in general the services were good."
But by the recession of the early 1990's, the county was trying to figure out how to pay for the services residents had come to expect without alienating voters by raising taxes. The solution adopted by the Gulotta administration -- selling off assets and borrowing to cover costs -- only served in the end to postpone the pain. By 1999 the county was at the brink of insolvency. Residents voted Democrats into power in the legislative branch for the first time in more than 80 years. In 1999 there were 347,347 enrolled Republicans in the county and 250,761 enrolled Democrats. In 2000 there were 359,547 enrolled Republicans and 280,583 enrolled Democrats.
Representative King noted that while the county had voted Democratic in the past, he believed that all other things being equal, most Nassau voters were inclined to vote Republican. "They want to vote Republican," he said. "We have to acknowledge that we realize mistakes were made, and have a realistic agenda as to how to fix things."

GRAPHIC: Photo: Frederick E. Parola, the comptroller of Nassau County. (Vic DeLucia/The New York Times)(pg. B5) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: COUNTIES (92%); COUNTY GOVERNMENT (91%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); ELECTIONS (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); CONSERVATISM (89%); VOTERS & VOTING (78%); US POLITICAL PARTIES (78%); POLITICAL CORRUPTION (76%); GOVERNMENT CONTROLLERS & AUDITORS (73%); SUBURBS (72%); WORLD WAR II (70%); TAX LAW (70%); TAXES & TAXATION (67%); TAX INCREASES (65%) ELECTIONS; COUNTY EXECUTIVES 

PERSON: PETER T KING (58%) COOPER, MICHAEL; GULOTTA, THOMAS S (COUNTY EXEC) 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%) NEW YORK, USA (79%); MIDWEST USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%); INDIA (79%) NASSAU COUNTY (NY)

LOAD-DATE: March 15, 2001 



379 of 868 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 15, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section W; Column 3; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 470 words

HEADLINE: Britain's Jobless Rate Falls to Lowest Level in 25 Years 

BYLINE:  By SUZANNE KAPNER 

DATELINE: LONDON, March 14 

 BODY:
Britain's unemployment fell below the one million level last month, the lowest in a quarter of a century, government officials said today.
 The drop was accompanied by low inflation, a combination that is expected to encourage the central bank to leave interest rates unchanged at its next meeting, economists said. 
 The data are a bright spot in a global economy battered by a sharp slowdown in America and an increasingly fragile Japan. The figures are also a boon to Prime Minister Tony Blair, who is considering calling elections for May, a year before he is required to, to capitalize on favorable opinion polls. 
"These are very good numbers," said Robert Barrie, an economist at Credit Suisse First Boston. "Getting low unemployment and low inflation at the same time is what the economics game is all about."
Such a mix helped drive the recent boom in the United States, though effects of the new economy played a larger role there. Britain, Mr. Barrie said, is benefiting less from a productivity surge in the new economy and more from a rejiggering of the old economy. 
He cited industrial privatization campaigns, changes to the labor market and the introduction of a target inflation rate -- moves that are also under way elsewhere in Europe.
The number of people out of work and claiming benefits in February fell to 996,200, down 10,600 from January's revised figures, the National Statistics office said. The jobless rate remained at 3.4 percent. By comparison, the rate in the United States was 4.2 percent.
The average earnings growth rate in Britain held steady at 4.4 percent, slightly less than the 4.5 percent rate the Bank of England has said could signal inflationary pressures. The bank's monetary policy committee, which is set to meet April 4 and 5, kept borrowing costs unchanged at its meeting last week after cutting the benchmark rate a quarter-point in February.
Mr. Blair and the Labor government championed the data as proof that reforms were bearing fruit. 
"These figures show the success of our welfare-to-work program aimed at achieving full employment," said the education and employment secretary, David Blunkett.
While cautioning against reading too much into one month's figures, Mr. Blair said that "unemployment below one million for the first time in a generation is a significant milestone."
Unemployment last hit such low levels when Harold Wilson of the Labor Party was prime minister. Margaret Thatcher, the opposition leader, used rising jobless figures to win office in 1979, ushering in 18 years of Conservative rule.
Unemployment peaked in 1986 at 3.1 million, and then fell until Britain entered a recession in 1990. When Mr. Blair took office in 1997, 1.6 million people were out of work.
But a steadily expanding economy has helped create jobs, mainly in the service sector. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (93%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); NEW ECONOMY (90%); INFLATION (90%); ELECTIONS (90%); PRIME MINISTERS (89%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (89%); BANKING & FINANCE (89%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (89%); BRITISH PRIME MINISTERS (89%); CENTRAL BANKS (89%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (78%); POLITICAL PARTIES (78%); FULL EMPLOYMENT (78%); LABOR SECTOR PERFORMANCE (78%); UNEMPLOYED PERSONS (78%); PRODUCTIVITY (78%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (78%); TALKS & MEETINGS (78%); PUBLIC POLICY (78%); RECESSION (78%); JOB CREATION (78%); PRIVATIZATION (78%); MONETARY POLICY (77%); TRENDS (77%); ECONOMIC POLICY (77%); STATISTICS (77%); POLITICS (75%); COMPANY EARNINGS (73%); POLLS & SURVEYS (72%); INTEREST RATES (72%); GLOBALIZATION (71%) LABOR; UNEMPLOYMENT; PRICES (FARES, FEES AND RATES); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS; POLITICS AND GOVERNMENT; ELECTIONS 

COMPANY: CREDIT SUISSE GROUP AG (58%); BANK OF ENGLAND (53%)

TICKER: CSGN (SWX) (58%); CS (NYSE) (58%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (58%); NAICS524126 DIRECT PROPERTY & CASUALTY INSURANCE CARRIERS (58%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (58%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (58%); NAICS521110 MONETARY AUTHORITIES - CENTRAL BANK (53%); SIC6011 FEDERAL RESERVE BANKS (53%)

PERSON: TONY BLAIR (89%) BLAIR, TONY (PRIME MIN); KAPNER, SUZANNE 

GEOGRAPHIC: LONDON, ENGLAND (79%) UNITED KINGDOM (96%); UNITED STATES (94%); EUROPE (79%) GREAT BRITAIN

LOAD-DATE: March 15, 2001 



380 of 868 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 15, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Foreign Desk; Pg. 12

LENGTH: 520 words

HEADLINE: As the Disease Marches On, Britain Dooms More Animals 

BYLINE:  By WARREN HOGE 

DATELINE: LONDON, March 14 

 BODY:
The confirmation of 27 new cases of foot-and-mouth disease today brought the total in Britain to 232 and prompted Prime Minister Tony Blair to order an intensified slaughter of animals in areas directly affected. He also said the government should consider easing restrictions caused by the disease in economically hard-hit regions that are free of the virus.
 About 180,000 pigs, sheep and cows have been destroyed since the disease was first discovered in Britain three weeks ago. Government officials estimated that today's directive to step up and broaden the cull would doom an additional 100,000 animals that show no symptoms but that might have come into contact with those that were infected. 
 Mr. Blair did not dispute a claim by the Conservative leader William Hague in Parliament that the situation had now become a "national crisis" affecting many sectors dependent upon farming and the countryside. He said, though, that the difficulty was weighing any relaxation of the rules with the need to make sure that the government was taking the right precautions.
"At the present time I believe we have got the balance right," Mr. Blair told the Commons. "But at both ends of the spectrum, we keep it under constant review. We don't want to place unnecessary restrictions on people. On the other hand we must do everything we can to eradicate the disease." 
Evidence that the highly contagious disease was not coming under control as quickly as hoped was calling into question plans to go ahead with scheduled local elections on May 3 and Mr. Blair's widely suspected wish to hold a national election on that same day. 
"I cannot conceive of how you can possibly have a general election while we have restrictions on movements and disease in significant parts of the country," said Ben Gill, president of the National Farmers' Union. Mr. Blair, whose Labor Party is currently ahead of the Tories by 20 points in polls, deflected parliamentary questions on the subject, saying today was not the day to take up that decision.
The spread of the disease ceased being a purely British problem on Tuesday when the first cases of the disease on the Continent were found on a farm in France and the United States subsequently moved to ban imports of animals and animal products from the 15-nation European Union.
And today Australia, which earlier in the week had banned importing horses from Britain, expanded its ban immediately to include all livestock and their products from Europe because of the outbreak of the disease in France. 
The highly communicable virus is considered a scourge that must be eradicated immediately even though it poses no danger to humans who consume the meat of infected animals. The only apparent way to contain the disease is to kill and burn entire herds and to restrict the movement of people and animals in the countryside.
The devastating effect the steps have had on agriculture are affecting other businesses in Britain. The culture secretary, Chris Smith, said today that tourism officials had warned that the travel restrictions were already costing the industry $150 million a week. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LIVESTOCK DISEASE (91%); FOOT & MOUTH DISEASE (90%); PRIME MINISTERS (90%); DENTAL MOUTH & JAW DISORDERS (90%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (90%); MAMMALS (90%); BRITISH PRIME MINISTERS (90%); IMPORT TRADE (89%); POLITICAL PARTIES (89%); LIVESTOCK EXPORTS & IMPORTS (89%); ELECTIONS (89%); ANIMALS (89%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); BRITISH PARLIAMENT (78%); EUROPEAN UNION (78%); IMPORT CONTROLS (77%); EXPORT & IMPORT LAW (75%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (64%); EPIDEMICS (58%); DISEASES & DISORDERS (58%); COMMUNICABLE DISEASE CONTROL (55%); INFECTIOUS DISEASE (52%) LIVESTOCK; LIVESTOCK DISEASES; FOOT-AND-MOUTH DISEASE; INTERNATIONAL TRADE AND WORLD MARKET 

PERSON: TONY BLAIR (90%) HOGE, WARREN; BLAIR, TONY (PRIME MIN) 

GEOGRAPHIC: LONDON, ENGLAND (79%) UNITED KINGDOM (95%); FRANCE (92%); EUROPE (92%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (79%); UNITED STATES (79%) GREAT BRITAIN; AUSTRALIA

LOAD-DATE: March 15, 2001 



381 of 868 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 15, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section C; Column 4; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1123 words

HEADLINE: THE MARKETS: Market Place; 
Awaiting Fed Rescue, Even as Fed Discourages Dependency

BYLINE:  By JONATHAN FUERBRINGER 

 BODY:
The Federal Reserve is being pushed into a tight corner. Just as the pressure grows for quicker and bigger interest rate cuts, Fed officials are trying to wean investors and traders away from their belief that the Fed will rescue them from losses.
 Yesterday, as the Dow Jones industrial average fell as low as 9,817.74, some analysts and strategists were talking about the Fed's doing more when its policy committee meets on Tuesday. 
 "I think the Fed is clearly going to have to take the more aggressive posture here," said Thomas M. Galvin, chief investment officer at Credit Suisse First Boston. "I think this is probably going to force their hands to provide bigger changes sooner." 
Mr. Galvin now expects a cut in the benchmark federal funds rate of three-quarters of a percentage point -- more than the half-point reduction he foresaw earlier. 
The expectation of a larger cut was reflected yesterday in the sharply declining yield on the Treasury's two-year note. The yield plunged to 4.29 percent from 4.44 percent on Tuesday, its lowest level since the fall of 1998. Futures contracts on federal funds also moved in that direction.
But the Fed's reluctance even to appear as if it was responding to a falling stock market -- besides broad economic conditions like unemployment, inflation and the pace of growth -- could leave investors disappointed.
"They have labored to wean the market from the perception that they are out there supporting markets," said Richard Berner, chief United States economist at Morgan Stanley Dean Witter. "If the Fed is perceived to be supporting markets, investors will take more risks than they should."
In some ways, the problem is of the Fed's making because, in recent times, it has brought a relatively quick end to market plunges. In 1987, when Alan Greenspan was the new chairman of the Federal Reserve, the bank cut interest rates immediately after the October crash. In the Russian financial crisis in the summer of 1998, the Fed gave the market three quick quarter-point rate cuts as stocks were falling and bond markets seized up. 
Right after the first trading day of this year, when the Nasdaq composite index plunged 7.2 percent, the Fed announced a surprise half-percent reduction between meetings. At the end of the month, policy makers followed with another half-point cut at their regular meeting.
The impact of these rescues can be heard in an odd Wall Street refrain these days: The economy is not slowing enough. Not slowing enough? As if that were good for stocks.
But in the odd way that many investors look at the world, they seem to want an economy in enough trouble to force the Fed to make deeper and quicker interest rate cuts.
Take last Friday, for example. The government announced that 135,000 new jobs had been created in February, more than expected. That was good news because the economy might not be slowing so sharply and perhaps that would help slow the decline in corporate earnings.
But to many investors, this meant that the Fed might go slower on future rate cuts. And that conclusion played a role as stocks fell on Friday, and again Monday and yesterday. "That is convoluted thinking," said Alfred Goldman, chief market strategist at A. G. Edwards in St. Louis. "But I think there is a distorted hope that the Fed can make things better immediately."
The reasoning would seem simple. Investors think that rate cuts are the quickest and surest way to ensure that the economic slowdown will reverse and, therefore, make it safe to pile into stocks again.
Robert J. Barbera, chief economist at Hoenig & Company, said money managers he talks with say they already know that business is bad for the companies they own. "So the only hope they get from the macroeconomic data is that the economy stinks enough so that they will get a big dose of interest rate relief."
That is why it is hard to keep investors away from their favorite tonic. But if the Fed slows the doses, that could slow the recovery of the stock market until the Fed moves much further into this rate-cut cycle.
This is not to say that policy makers do not worry about the stock market. Stocks can have a major impact on the economy through what is known as the wealth effect. As the value of people's investments rise, they feel richer and are likely to increase their spending. And when the market falls, the reverse can occur. So a continued decline now could curtail spending and make the economy much weaker -- a danger the Fed chairman, Alan Greenspan, has acknowledged.
But he has also tried to make clear that the Fed is not focusing directly on the stock market and letting it lead policy decisions.
When the Fed was raising rates in 1999 and in 2000, Mr. Greenspan said it was responding to how stocks affected the economy. And at the end of last month, before a House committee, Mr. Greenspan said it was too early to tell if the stock market was sufficiently affecting the economy to cause a recession.
"In fact, as an old colleague of mine once said, 'The stock market forecasted five of the last two recessions,' " he remarked then. "And so we have to be careful about being fairly strict in analyzing what stock prices and equity values are doing and what is happening to demand."
Whether the market, through the wealth effect, is "enough to actually induce a significant contraction which in retrospect we'll call a recession, is yet too early to make a judgment on," he said.
He added that policy makers preferred to make their interest-rate decisions at regular meetings, not in between.
Before the market fell further this week, there were even some analysts suggesting that Fed policy makers might cut the benchmark short-term interest rate just a quarter of a percentage point, to 5.25 percent. Given that there are some signs the economy may not be as weak as thought, such a move would emphasize the Fed's distance from the stock market.
But with plunging stocks now, many analysts are emphasizing what they forecast weeks ago -- a half-percentage-point cut in the federal funds rate, the rate on overnight loans between banks. What is less likely, assuming the Fed keeps its distance from the stock market, is the three-quarters-of-a-point rate cut now being talked about on Wall Street.
This does not mean that things will not change. This is because with this week's sharp fall in stock prices, another ingredient has been added to the Fed's mix. That is the financial and political trouble in Japan, where the Nikkei index of 225 stocks has fallen to its lowest level in 16 years.
If things worsen in Japan, with the world's second-largest economy, then the outlook could worsen globally, and that could change the Fed's thinking, regardless of what happens in the stock market here.

GRAPHIC: Chart: "Falling Indexes"Yesterday's decline as share of total decline Nasdaq CompositePEAK: 5,048.62DATE: March 10, 2000YESTERDAY: 1,972.09DECLINE: -60.9% S.&P. 500PEAK: 1,527.46DATE: March 24, 2000YESTERDAY: 1,166.71DECLINE: -23.6% Dow Jones IndustrialsPEAK: 11,722.98DATE: Jan. 14, 2000YESTERDAY: 9,973.46DECLINE: -14.9% (Source: Bloomberg Financial Markets) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: STOCK INDEXES (92%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (91%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); US FEDERAL FUNDS RATES (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); INTEREST RATES (89%); STOCK EXCHANGES (89%); BONDS (89%); PUBLIC POLICY (89%); FUTURES (78%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (78%); TREASURY SECURITIES (78%); CENTRAL BANKS (78%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (78%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (78%); BOND MARKETS (77%); ECONOMIC POLICY (77%); EXECUTIVES (70%) UNITED STATES ECONOMY; CREDIT; STOCKS AND BONDS 

COMPANY: CREDIT SUISSE GROUP AG (57%); MORGAN STANLEY (54%)

ORGANIZATION: FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM (59%) FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 

TICKER: CSGN (SWX) (57%); CS (NYSE) (57%); MS (NYSE) (54%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (57%); NAICS524126 DIRECT PROPERTY & CASUALTY INSURANCE CARRIERS (57%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (57%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (57%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (54%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (54%)

PERSON: ALAN GREENSPAN (58%) FUERBRINGER, JONATHAN 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: March 15, 2001 



382 of 868 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 15, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 6; National Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1159 words

HEADLINE: AS STOCKS TUMBLE, PRESIDENT SOUNDS A NOTE OF CONCERN 

BYLINE:  By DAVID E. SANGER with RICHARD W. STEVENSON 

DATELINE: EAST BRUNSWICK, N.J., March 14 

 BODY:
With the stock market tumbling again and fears growing about economic problems at home and abroad, President Bush said today that he was "concerned that a lot of Americans' portfolios have been affected" by the steep sell-off in the first two months of his presidency.
 In his comments, first to reporters and then in a speech to several chambers of commerce here, Mr. Bush seemed intent on conveying at least a glancing sense of optimism after months in which Democrats have accused him of talking down the economy as a way of building support for his $1.6 trillion tax cut. 
 "I've got great faith in our economy," Mr. Bush said. 
A senior aide to the president said today that if Mr. Bush's tone had changed, it was "because he has a direct understanding that what is happening in the markets affects real lives."
The president first spoke only minutes after the market opened with a 300-point plunge in the Dow Jones industrial average, as investors reacted to a deteriorating corporate earnings outlook in the United States and growing questions about financial stability in Japan. Although prices fluctuated throughout the day, the Dow lost 317.34 to close at 9,973.46, the first time since October that the bellwether index finished a day below 10,000. Page C1. 
The Nasdaq composite index continued its long decline, dropping 42.69 to close at 1,972.09. It has fallen 20.18 percent this year, and 60.9 percent from its all-time high just over a year ago. 
Those declines have made Mr. Bush and his advisers increasingly aware that the president's political standing is likely to be affected by his economic management skills over the next few months. During the presidential campaign Mr. Bush had insisted that the economic boom was the product of entrepreneurship rather than policy decisions in Washington. 
Today he argued that "good public policy" was the path to a "second wind for economic growth."
At the same time, Mr. Bush justified on economic grounds his decision on Tuesday to back off a campaign pledge to regulate levels of carbon dioxide emitted by power plants. He suggested that such regulations would add to the burden on consumers at a time of economic downturn. 
The president also said that the country faced a long-term "energy crisis," a comment he repeated four times.
Mr. Bush's comments here came in a trip that took him to a church that provides after-school care for children, part of his effort to promote aid to what he calls faith-based organizations, and then to a lunch of four New Jersey chambers of commerce. As he has for months, he made the case that the best medicine for what ails the economy is his tax cut, and he tried to win over Senator Jon Corzine, a newly elected Democrat, who traveled here with the president. Also along were several members of the House and New Jersey's other Democratic senator, Robert G. Torricelli, who has been more sympathetic to a large tax cut, though he has urged reshaping it to provide more help to low-income and middle-class families.
"Senator Corzine and I on the plane talked about how we make sure money gets into the economy as quickly as possible," Mr. Bush said, again backing moves to speed the tax cuts, an action that would cost considerably more than the money Mr. Bush has allocated in the budget proposal he has sent to Congress.
In flavoring his blunt talk about the bad news with a morsel of optimism, Mr. Bush was tweaking but not fundamentally altering a strategy he and members of his administration have maintained since before the election was settled late last year.
They say they are upbeat about the economy's long-term prospects. But they emphasize that the new president inherited a deteriorating situation from his predecessor, and they suggest that to oppose the tax cut is to risk recession.
"I'm sorry people are losing value in their portfolios," Mr. Bush said in his speech. "But with the right policies, I'm confident our economy will recover. The right policies, fiscal policies. And that means giving people money back, in plain language."
Reacting to criticism from former members of the Clinton administration that Mr. Bush's comments have fed the market's pessimism, Mr. Bush's aides say he is doing nothing more than being realistic. 
"He is a straight shooter," one of the aides traveling with him said today, "and he can be sympathetic without sugarcoating the reality."
Indeed, the Bush team's forecasting record has been better than that of many Wall Street firms. In early December, when the political battle in Florida was still raging and most economists were sanguine about the economic outlook, Dick Cheney predicted, more or less accurately as it turned out, that the nation might be "on the front edge of a recession."
But in speaking so openly and frequently about economic problems, Mr. Bush has also opened himself to accusations that he is talking down the economy for short-run political gain. 
He has also created some longer term risks for himself. Should his tax cut pass but do little to help the economy rebound -- an outcome that analysts and members of both parties say is possible, if not likely -- it could backfire on the president. What this White House has subtly tried to position as the "Clinton downturn" could quickly become the Bush downturn, or the Bush recession, regardless of when it technically began.
There are other risks. 
Mr. Bush's plan to add private investment accounts to Social Security seemed like an easier sell when the market was rising. Now, he may well have to defend the idea against critics who will point out how those accounts would have declined in the past year. And in his speech today, Mr. Bush promoted the plan, saying, "We need to think differently and let younger workers manage some of their own money in the private markets, to make sure there is a Social Security system around tomorrow."
However Mr. Bush adjusts his tone these days, experts say his influence on the markets may be marginal.
"Presidents have very little impact on economic performance," said James A. Thurber, the director of the Center for Congressional and Presidential Studies at American University in Washington. "But to have a president talk down the economy during a historic drop in the market since last March -- and certainly the last couple of days -- is unique. And it may in fact be not wise."
Saying that Mr. Bush could not have it both ways, Democrats said they did not understand how he could talk about the economic pitfalls ahead in one breath and then promote his Social Security privatization plan in the next, as he did today.
"When the market was going from 3,000 to 10,000, people were saying, 'Why not allow us to invest in the stock market?' " said Representative Robert T. Matsui, Democrat of California. "Now, with the market dipping, it's a reality check, particularly for the middle class that has invested in the market and is now seeing their portfolios diminish or their returns fall."

GRAPHIC: Photo: President Bush, in New Jersey, said "good public policy" was the path to a "second wind for economic growth." (Richard Perry/The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: STOCK INDEXES (92%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (89%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (89%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (89%); TAXES & TAXATION (89%); TAX INCENTIVES (89%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (89%); TAX LAW (89%); PUBLIC POLICY (89%); CHEMICALS (87%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (78%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (78%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (78%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (78%); POLITICS (78%); CHILDREN (78%); ELECTIONS (78%); BONDS (77%); BUSINESS & PROFESSIONAL ASSOCIATIONS (76%); PLATFORMS & ISSUES (75%); TAX RELIEF (75%); RELIGION (74%); CLIMATE CHANGE (73%); COMPANY EARNINGS (71%); ENERGY & UTILITY POLICY (68%); ELECTRIC POWER PLANTS (66%); ENTREPRENEURSHIP (66%); UTILITIES INDUSTRY (66%); GREENHOUSE GASES (65%); POWER PLANTS (61%) STOCKS AND BONDS; DOW JONES STOCK AVERAGE; NASDAQ COMPOSITE INDEX; UNITED STATES ECONOMY; TAXATION; ELECTION ISSUES; PRESIDENTIAL ELECTION OF 2000; GREENHOUSE EFFECT; AIR POLLUTION; CARBON DIOXIDE; WEATHER; ELECTRIC LIGHT AND POWER; UNITED STATES POLITICS AND GOVERNMENT 

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (93%); RICK PERRY (73%) SANGER, DAVID E; STEVENSON, RICHARD W; BUSH, GEORGE W (PRES) 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW JERSEY, USA (93%) UNITED STATES (95%); JAPAN (79%)

LOAD-DATE: March 15, 2001 



383 of 868 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 15, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Foreign Desk; Pg. 13

LENGTH: 572 words

HEADLINE: U.S. Mutes Criticism of Russia's Plans for Arms Sales to Iran 

BYLINE:  By JANE PERLEZ 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, March 14 

 BODY:
The Bush administration took a muted public approach today to Russia's decision to resume sales of conventional arms to Iran, using the arrival of Moscow's senior national security official to express concerns that fell short of sharp criticism.
 Secretary of State Colin L. Powell said that the United States had to be "candid with the Russians" in telling them that they should not be "investing in weapons sales in countries such as Iran which have no future." 
 During the visit to Moscow on Monday of the Iranian president, Mohammad Khatami, the Russian government announced that it would resume sales of conventional arms to Iran and repeated its intention to help Iran complete a long-stalled nuclear power plant. Air-defense missile systems and up-to-date aircraft are reported to be among the items in the Russian package to Iran. 
Russia's arms sales to Iran have long been a sore point between Washington and Moscow. Republicans in Congress were particularly critical of the Clinton administration, accusing it of not being tough enough on Russia for its sales of military hardware to Iran. 
General Powell spoke just before he met with Sergei B. Ivanov, who heads President Vladimir V. Putin's security council and is described as the second most powerful official in Russia. 
Mr. Ivanov also met for the first time with President Bush's national security adviser, Condoleezza Rice, who was his host during the visit here. Some unflattering remarks Ms. Rice made about Russia before taking office have been posted on a Kremlin-backed Internet site. For her part, Ms. Rice has said she will not concentrate on the relationship with Russia as much as the Clinton administration had. Before today's encounter, the National Security Council went out of its way to note that Ms. Rice had met with her counterparts from Britain, France and Germany before inviting Mr. Ivanov here. 
Ms. Rice said nothing publicly about her two-and-a-half-hour meeting with Mr. Ivanov, and her aides gave only a scanty account of the topics discussed. 
Today, unlike during the Clinton era, Mr. Ivanov did not ask for economic assistance, officials said. The Bush administration has said publicly that the international financial institutions were too generous to the Russian economy in the past. 
In the brief account of the Rice-Ivanov meeting, a National Security Council press assistant, Mary Ellen Countryman, declined to say whether they discussed the case of Robert Hanssen, the F.B.I. agent who was arrested last month on charges of spying for Russia. The Hanssen matter was discussed by General Powell and Mr. Ivanov, a senior State Department official said. 
On Iraq, the secretary said that the United States would be looking for Moscow's support at the United Nations in its efforts to streamline the sanctions, the official said. 
Overall, General Powell said that the new administration would adopt an approach to Russia not unlike that toward the Soviet Union by the Reagan administration. He called it "realism."
"In some way, the approach to Russia shouldn't be terribly different than the very realistic approach we had to the old Soviet Union in the late 80's," he said. "We told them what bothered us. We told them where we could engage on things. We tried to convince them of the power of our values and our system. They argued back. We should be realistic and keep encouraging them to move in the direction of solid democracy." 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US PRESIDENTS (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (90%); DEFENSE INDUSTRY (90%); ARMS TRADE (90%); NATIONAL SECURITY (90%); MILITARY WEAPONS (90%); TALKS & MEETINGS (89%); STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (89%); UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (87%); DEFENSE SECTOR PERFORMANCE (78%); ESPIONAGE (77%); SPECIAL INVESTIGATIVE FORCES (77%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (77%); BANKING & FINANCE (71%); AIR DEFENSE SYSTEMS (69%); MISSILE SYSTEMS (69%); ELECTRIC POWER PLANTS (69%); ARRESTS (67%); INTERNATIONAL ASSISTANCE (65%); POWER PLANTS (54%); NUCLEAR ENERGY (54%); NUCLEAR POWER PLANTS (54%) ARMS SALES ABROAD; UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS 

ORGANIZATION: UNITED NATIONS SECURITY COUNCIL (55%)

PERSON: SERGEI IVANOV (89%); GEORGE W BUSH (79%); CONDOLEEZZA RICE (79%); VLADIMIR PUTIN (58%) PERLEZ, JANE; BUSH, GEORGE W (PRES); CLINTON, BILL (PRES); IVANOV, SERGEI N 

GEOGRAPHIC: MOSCOW, RUSSIAN FEDERATION (90%) RUSSIAN FEDERATION (99%); UNITED STATES (97%); IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (94%); IRAQ (79%); GERMANY (79%); FRANCE (53%) IRAN; RUSSIA

LOAD-DATE: March 15, 2001 



384 of 868 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 15, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Editorial Desk; Pg. 24

LENGTH: 650 words

HEADLINE: Mr. Bush Reverses Course 

 BODY:
President Bush's decision not to regulate emissions of carbon dioxide, the main global warming gas, does more than betray a campaign promise. It embarrasses the administrator of his Environmental Protection Agency, Christie Whitman, angers the Europeans and creates needless headaches for his secretary of state, Colin Powell. It also undercuts some of his natural allies in the energy industry who have been willing to go out on a limb in favor of a more aggressive strategy.
 During a broad policy speech on energy last Sept. 29, Mr. Bush promised to "establish mandatory reduction targets" for emissions of four major pollutants, including carbon dioxide, a gas that has never been regulated under the federal Clean Air Act. In later remarks, Mr. Bush made quite a point of the fact that he was calling for mandatory targets, whereas Al Gore was asking for only voluntary reductions. 
 Because the burden of regulating carbon emissions would fall most heavily on coal-burning power plants, the coal producers and some utilities urged Mr. Bush to change his mind. But his campaign stance delighted most atmospheric scientists, who believe that warming over the next century will increase far more than was originally thought, with potentially devastating consequences to the natural systems in some regions. 
European leaders, persuaded by the gathering evidence on the causes and dangers of global warming, have been urging the United States to help put some teeth into the Kyoto Protocol, the draft agreement to curb greenhouse gases negotiated in 1997. Meanwhile, the country's more progressive utilities, like Consolidated Edison and New Jersey's Public Service Electric and Gas, are on record as favoring clear targets and timetables for carbon dioxide as part of a multipollutant approach that would create a more predictable regulatory climate and a surer guide to making costly pollution-control investments.
Indeed, as recently as 10 days ago, Ms. Whitman was describing Mr. Bush's campaign promise as if it were already policy. Then came the president's reversal. In a letter to four Republican senators who had criticized the Kyoto agreement, Mr. Bush said he would proceed with plans for further cuts in sulfur dioxide, which causes acid rain, and nitrogen oxides, which contribute to smog, as well as with new regulations on mercury emissions. But carbon dioxide was off the table, for two main reasons.
One was that the science about global warming was "incomplete," by which he meant that it was insufficient as a basis for taking action. That was an astonishing statement in view of the recent documentation assembled by the Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change.
The second was that reducing emissions would require converting older coal-fired plants to natural gas, which, in turn, could "harm consumers" by causing a spike in gas prices -- as California's energy crisis has demonstrated.
This was a particularly slippery piece of reasoning. It is true that switching fuels will be necessary and costly. But by cynically invoking the California crisis and the specter of sudden price spikes, Mr. Bush made it sound as if a policy aimed at gradual reductions in carbon dioxide emissions would have an immediate and devastating effect on American consumers and the economy.
Despite Mr. Bush's protestations to the contrary yesterday, one can conclude only that political considerations carried the day. His reversal came as a shock to moderate Republicans like Senator Jim Jeffords of Vermont and Representative Sherwood Boehlert of New York, who were preparing to join Democrats in a bipartisan effort to reduce carbon dioxide emissions in power plants over the next six years. They should push ahead anyway. At the moment, Mr. Bush's evolving energy strategy seems to consist largely of finding new sources of energy without giving any real thought to their global consequences. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Editorial 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: GREENHOUSE GASES (92%); AIR QUALITY REGULATION (92%); EMISSIONS (91%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); ENVIRONMENTAL DEPARTMENTS (90%); CLIMATE CHANGE (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); GLOBAL WARMING (90%); CLIMATOLOGY (90%); ELECTRIC POWER PLANTS (90%); NATURAL GAS & ELECTRIC UTILITIES (90%); ENVIRONMENT & NATURAL RESOURCES (90%); TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (89%); COAL FIRED PLANTS (89%); EARTH & ATMOSPHERIC SCIENCE (87%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (79%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (79%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (79%); ELECTIONS (79%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (78%); POWER PLANTS (78%); NITROGEN OXIDES (78%); ENVIRONMENTAL TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (78%); SECURITIES LAW (78%); US ENVIRONMENTAL LAW (78%); SCIENCE & TECHNOLOGY (78%); ELECTRIC POWER INDUSTRY (78%); SMOG (78%); PLATFORMS & ISSUES (78%); SCIENCE NEWS (78%); ENERGY & UTILITY TRADE (78%); STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (78%); AIR QUALITY (78%); UTILITIES INDUSTRY (78%); AGENCY RULEMAKING (77%); ENERGY & UTILITY POLICY (77%); REGULATORY COMPLIANCE (77%); ACID RAIN (73%); HEAVY METALS & TOXIC MINERALS (73%); OIL & GAS PRICES (73%); METEOROLOGY (72%); COAL INDUSTRY (72%); FOSSIL FUEL POWER PLANTS (72%); COAL MINING (67%); NATURAL GAS PRODUCTS (58%) WEATHER; EDITORIALS; ELECTION ISSUES; PRESIDENTIAL ELECTION OF 2000; CARBON DIOXIDE; GREENHOUSE EFFECT; AIR POLLUTION 

COMPANY: PUBLIC SERVICE ELECTRIC & GAS CO (66%); CONSOLIDATED EDISON INC (57%)

ORGANIZATION: US ENVIRONMENTAL PROTECTION AGENCY (91%) ENVIRONMENTAL PROTECTION AGENCY 

TICKER: ED (NYSE) (57%)

INDUSTRY: SIC4931 ELECTRIC & OTHER SERVICES COMBINED (66%); NAICS221210 NATURAL GAS DISTRIBUTION (57%); NAICS221122 ELECTRIC POWER DISTRIBUTION (57%); SIC4924 NATURAL GAS DISTRIBUTION (57%); SIC4911 ELECTRIC SERVICES (57%)

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (92%); AL GORE (59%) BUSH, GEORGE W (PRES); WHITMAN, CHRISTINE TODD (GOV); POWELL, COLIN L (SEC) 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW JERSEY, USA (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%) EUROPE (93%); UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: March 15, 2001 



385 of 868 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 15, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; National Desk; Pg. 23

LENGTH: 1043 words

HEADLINE: Bush Defends Emissions Stance 

BYLINE:  By DOUGLAS JEHL 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, March 14 

 BODY:
Defending his reversal of a campaign pledge, President Bush said today that "an energy crisis" that threatened the nation's economic health caused him to decide not to try to regulate power plants' emissions of carbon dioxide. 
 "I was responding to realities, and the reality is our nation has a real problem when it comes to energy," Mr. Bush told reporters in New Jersey today. 
 White House officials said any plan to limit emissions of the gas, widely seen as a contributor to global warming, would have pushed electricity prices up, and could have compounded energy shortages like those being felt in California. They said Mr. Bush decided on Monday, hours before the White House announced the move, after concluding a week ago that the promise he had made in the campaign was "an error." 
But many of Mr. Bush's supporters outside the White House said they had little doubt that the president's move also reflected the power of a last-minute pressure campaign from Congressional Republicans and industry leaders. Among the top corporate officials said by Washington lobbyists to have been in direct contact with either the president or Vice President Dick Cheney to win the turnabout was Tom Kuhn, a close friend of Mr. Bush's who is president of the Edison Electric Institute, the power plants' main lobbying organization.
"We had been convinced that we were done for," a top industry lobbyist said today of what he said was widespread resignation that Mr. Bush would honor his campaign promise, which called for mandatory reductions in power plants' emissions of the gas. Characterizing the lobbying of the last several weeks, this industry official said, "The very top people on our side were talking to the very highest levels of the administration."
Among people critical of Mr. Bush's move, several suggested in particular today that his diagnosis of "energy crisis" was overstated and was being offered at least in part as a cover for a decision driven by a desire to satisfy the oil and coal industries, the biggest beneficiaries of his decision, as well as to preserve good ties with their supporters on Capitol Hill.
"In every energy decision, politics plays a big role," said Bill Richardson, who was the Clinton administration's last energy secretary. "But the emissions decision is a particularly unfortunate one because it basically says we're for coal and not for any alternative, including natural gas, which should be our future source of energy in this country."
A decision to regulate power plants' emissions of carbon dioxide would have been felt most heavily by coal- and oil-burning plants, which are the largest emitters of the gas among the electric utilities. The adoption of the standards would have almost certainly resulted in a shift toward more widespread use of natural gas, a cleaner fuel, in power generation.
White House officials said today that such a shift would have taken place too quickly for the natural gas industry to come up with the supplies necessary to meet the new demand, and that higher prices would have resulted. But Skip Horvath, president of the Natural Gas Supply Association, said his industry regarded Mr. Bush's decision as a mistake.
"The policy seems to view a shift toward natural gas use as some kind of problem, and it seems to us that natural gas is the solution," Mr. Horvath said.
The energy problems now facing California have little to do with oil and coal because most of the state's electricity is generated from hydropower, nuclear power and natural-gas fired plants. But White House officials said Mr. Bush's comments about "an energy crisis" reflected a broader concern about the need to expand the domestic energy supply, by increasing production and use of all possible sources.
Mr. Bush's decision was warmly welcomed today by spokesmen for the oil and gas industries, as well as by a top official of the United States Chamber of Commerce, which had warned that any regulation of carbon dioxide emissions could have hurt the economy.
"It's very positive in that they've balanced environmental needs against our needs for energy security, and the decision is going to mean that we can both protect and begin increasing our domestic energy supplies," said the official, William L. Kovacs, the industry group's vice president for environment, technology and regulatory affairs.
The pressure on the White House to reverse Mr. Bush's decision began early this month, after Christie Whitman, the new administrator of the Environmental Protection Agency, began publicly to describe the president's campaign pledge as if it were already policy.
Four Republican senators strongly opposed to regulation of carbon dioxide emissions, led by Chuck Hagel, Republican of Nebraska, then sent Mr. Bush a letter asking that he clarify his position. That set in motion an internal White House review and the furious lobbying effort that culminated in the policy shift on Tuesday, White House and industry officials said.
"It was very good that they made a swift decision here, rather than let this issue fester and fester," said John Grasser, a spokesman for the National Mining Association, the coal industry's main representative.
Environmentalists have been sharply critical of Mr. Bush's move, and some elaborated on their criticisms today, saying that the president had passed up an important chance to address the most dire problem facing the environment.
"The energy crisis we have is a short-term phenomenon, but the global warming phenomenon is a long-term issue, and what's important is to begin to put in place a solution that will reduce our consumption of fossil fuels and cut our emissions of carbon dioxide," said Michael Oppenheimer, chief scientist for Environmental Defense, a New York-based environmental group. 
A former Clinton administration official who was one of the chief State Department negotiators in recent talks aimed at completing a global warming treaty, the Kyoto Protocol, said today that Mr. Bush's decision would undercut efforts to find a solution to the problem.
"The only silver lining I can see here is that it makes things so stark and clear," said the official, David B. Sandalow. "There's not ambiguity, no attempt to greenwash this. He's just going back on his promise."

GRAPHIC: Photo: Three Senate Democrats -- Harry Reid, Joseph I. Lieberman and Hillary Rodham Clinton -- conferring yesterday on President Bush's decision against legislation to regulate power plants' carbon dioxide emissions. (Paul Hosefros/The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: EMISSIONS (91%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); POWER PLANTS (90%); ELECTRIC POWER PLANTS (90%); LOBBYING (90%); ENERGY & UTILITY POLICY (90%); GREENHOUSE GASES (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); UTILITIES INDUSTRY (90%); FOSSIL FUEL POWER PLANTS (89%); ELECTRICITY TRANSMISSION & DISTRIBUTION (89%); NATURAL GAS & ELECTRIC UTILITIES (89%); ENERGY DEPARTMENTS (89%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (78%); PLATFORMS & ISSUES (78%); POLITICS (78%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (78%); ELECTIONS (78%); UTILITY RATES (78%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (78%); AIR QUALITY REGULATION (77%); COAL INDUSTRY (77%); CLIMATE CHANGE (77%); ELECTRIC POWER INDUSTRY (77%); PRICE CHANGES (75%); GLOBAL WARMING (72%); PRICE INCREASES (70%); NATURAL GAS PRODUCTS (58%) WEATHER; ELECTION ISSUES; PRESIDENTIAL ELECTION OF 2000; GREENHOUSE EFFECT; CARBON DIOXIDE; AIR POLLUTION; ELECTRIC LIGHT AND POWER; PRICES (FARES, FEES AND RATES) 

COMPANY: EDISON ELECTRIC INSTITUTE (54%)

ORGANIZATION: EDISON ELECTRIC INSTITUTE (54%)

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (93%); HILLARY RODHAM CLINTON (79%); BILL RICHARDSON (58%); HARRY REID (58%); JOE LIEBERMAN (58%); DICK CHENEY (58%) JEHL, DOUGLAS; BUSH, GEORGE W (PRES) 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW JERSEY, USA (92%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: March 15, 2001 



386 of 868 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 15, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 3; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 1079 words

HEADLINE: NEWS SUMMARY 

 BODY:
 INTERNATIONAL A3-15

AIDS Drug Maker Drops Patent Fight in Africa
Bristol-Myers Squibb said it would no longer try to stop generic-drug makers from selling low-cost versions of the H.I.V. drug Zerit in Africa. The company also said it would cut the price of Zerit and the AIDS drug Videx in Africa, to a combined price of $1 a day. A1

President Thabo Mbeki of South Africa said his government would not declare AIDS a national emergency as a way to gain access to generic AIDS drugs, indicating he would seek other ways to achieve that goal. A14

Uganda Leader Re-elected
President Yoweri Museveni received 69.3 percent of the vote, a victory he called an affirmation of 15 years of peaceful rule. His main opponent, Kizza Besigye, attributed Mr. Museveni's victory to vote-rigging. A3

Yugoslav Troops Near Kosovo
NATO let the Yugoslav Army and special police back into a zone bordering Kosovo that has become a haven for Albanian gunmen. The gunmen's attacks are spreading to Macedonia and alarming the West. A1

More Livestock Slaughtered
The confirmation of 27 new cases of foot-and-mouth disease brought the total in Britain to 232 and prompted Prime Minister Tony Blair to order an intensified slaughter of animals in areas directly affected. A12

China Assails Missile Shield
Beijing's top arms-control negotiator, Sha Zukang, reiterated opposition to American development of a national missile-defense system or a smaller "theater" system in Asia, but said China was willing to discuss such shields with the United States to "narrow our differences." A10

North Korea Turns Up Heat
North Korea, criticizing American missile-defense plans in a Communist Party newspaper editorial, called the United States "a cannibals' nation" and accused the Bush administration of "escalating its provocative and reckless diatribe." The North has intensified its criticism since President Bush, in talks with the South Korean president, expressed "skepticism" about the North Korean leader, Kim Jong Il. A8

World Briefing A6

NATIONAL A16-23

In Economy, Bush Finds Both Concern and Optimism
President Bush said he was "concerned that a lot of Americans' portfolios have been affected" by the stock market sell-off, but he also expressed "great faith in our economy." Mr. Bush seemed intent on conveying some sense of optimism after months in which Democrats accused him of talking down the economy to build support for his $1.6 trillion tax cut. A1

Mr. Bush said "an energy crisis" threatening the economy had led him to decide against regulating power plants' emissions of carbon dioxide, a reversal of a campaign pledge. A23

Assurances on Medicare Funds
The Bush administration told Congress that all payroll tax revenue flowing into the Medicare trust fund would be used only for Medicare. A20

House G.O.P. Tax Plan
Influential House Republicans proposed several tax breaks that would sizably increase the cost and scope of President Bush's tax cut plan. A22

Clintons Falter in Public Eye
Bill Clinton's public approval rating has plunged to 38 percent, a New York Times/CBS News poll found, though most people appear to believe his pardon explanations. More than 40 percent of Americans view Senator Hillary Rodham Clinton unfavorably. A21

'Terrible Metal Hitting Sound'
The captain of the Ehime Maru, the Japanese trawler sunk by the submarine Greeneville, recounted the collision to a naval court of inquiry. A1

Survey of Gay Bias in Military
Reports of harassment of gays in the military declined slightly last year, largely because of improved training programs in the Army, a study by a legal aid group for gay and lesbian service members found. A22

Job Challenges for Ex-Convicts
Sociologists and economists are warning of a new challenge for the labor force: the steady stream of people coming out of prisons, many of them hard to employ. A16

Chicago Population Rebounds
Census figures show that Chicago, whose population declined for decades, has risen 4 percent, to nearly 2.9 million people, since 1990. A16

NEW YORK/REGION B1-7

Study Finds Poor Areas Are Sites for Generators
A study by the Pataki administration acknowledges that the sites the state has chosen for new electric generators in New York City are in poor, heavily minority communities, a finding that supports some arguments of the plan's opponents. B1

Jury Gets Combs Case
A Manhattan jury began deciding the fate of Sean Combs on charges of gun possession and bribery arising from a 1999 nightclub shooting. The judge took two hours to instruct the jury on deciding the case against Mr. Combs and two associates. B3

ARTS E1-12

Of Famine, Exodus and New Life
Governor Pataki will unveil the design today for a memorial at Battery Park City commemorating Ireland's famine of the 1840's, which prompted waves of immigrants to New York. E1

FASHION B9

CIRCUITS G1-10

SPORTS D1-10

Ali Apologizes to Frazier
Muhammad Ali said in an interview that he was wrong to call Joe Frazier an "Uncle Tom" and other names before their first fight 30 years ago. D1

OBITUARIES B8

Leopold Page
No. 173 on "Schindler's list," he was 87 years old. His relentless campaign to honor the German businessman who saved his life and the lives of 1,300 other Jews during World War II led to the book and the film. B8

Carl A. Capasso
A businessman who played a central role in a bizarre municipal scandal involving a former Miss America, Bess Myerson, he was 55. B8

BUSINESS DAY C1-16

Dow Drops Below 10,000
The Dow fell 317.34 points, or 3.1 percent, to 9,973.46; the Nasdaq dropped 42.69 points, or 2.1 percent, to 1,972.09; and the S.& P. 500 lost 30.95 points, or 2.6 percent, to 1,166.71. The Dow last closed below 10,000 on Oct. 18. C1

Some investors are looking for a big interest rate cut next week, but the Fed is typically reluctant to appear as if it is responding to a decline in the market rather than to broader economic conditions. C1

Coke Bias Settlement at Risk
A groundswell of dissatisfaction has formed among the African-Americans who settled a discrimination lawsuit against Coca-Cola for $192 million, threatening to destabilize or even derail the nation's largest settlement in a racial bias case. C1

Business Digest C1

World Business W1

HOUSE & HOME F1-16

EDITORIAL A24-25

Editorials: Mr. Bush reverses course; the burden of containment; Tina Rosenberg on destroying history's treasures.

Columns: Bob Herbert, William Safire.

Bridge E6
TV Listings E11
Crossword E6
Weather A20
Public Lives B2

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Summary 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: AIDS & HIV TREATMENT (91%); PHARMACEUTICALS INDUSTRY (90%); AIDS & HIV (90%); NEWS BRIEFS (90%); PHARMACEUTICAL PREPARATION MFG (90%); GENERIC DRUGS (90%); US PRESIDENTS (89%); MISSILE SYSTEMS (86%); MISSILE DEFENSE SYSTEMS (86%); DEFENSE INDUSTRY (78%); ANTIVIRALS (78%); MEDICARE (77%); POLITICS (76%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (76%); ARMIES (75%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (75%); POLITICAL PARTIES (75%); PRIME MINISTERS (75%); ARMS CONTROL & DISARMAMENT (73%); ENERGY REGULATION (73%); PRICE CUTTING (72%); FOOT & MOUTH DISEASE (71%); ELECTION FRAUD (70%); ENERGY DEPARTMENTS (70%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (69%); ARMED FORCES (68%); ENERGY & UTILITY POLICY (67%); BRITISH PRIME MINISTERS (65%); MISSILE RESEARCH & DEVELOPMENT (64%); TAX LAW (62%); POWER PLANTS (60%); EMISSIONS (60%); ELECTRIC POWER PLANTS (60%); TAX RELIEF (60%); LIVESTOCK DISEASE (51%) NO INDEX TERMS FROM NYTIMES 

COMPANY: BRISTOL-MYERS SQUIBB CO (91%)

ORGANIZATION: NORTH ATLANTIC TREATY ORGANIZATION (83%)

TICKER: BMY (NYSE) (91%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS325412 PHARMACEUTICAL PREPARATION MANUFACTURING (91%); NAICS325411 MEDICINAL & BOTANICAL MANUFACTURING (91%); SIC2834 PHARMACEUTICAL PREPARATIONS (91%)

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (89%); THABO MBEKI (58%); TONY BLAIR (55%); KIM JONG IL (54%)

GEOGRAPHIC: BEIJING, CHINA (69%) NORTH CENTRAL CHINA (69%) UNITED STATES (96%); AFRICA (94%); KOREA, DEMOCRATIC PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF (93%); KOSOVO (92%); UNITED KINGDOM (92%); SERBIA (92%); CHINA (92%); SOUTH AFRICA (79%); UGANDA (79%); ALBANIA (79%); MACEDONIA, THE FORMER YUGOSLAV REPUBLIC OF (79%); KOREA, REPUBLIC OF (79%); ASIA (77%)

LOAD-DATE: March 15, 2001 



387 of 868 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 16, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section E; Part 2; Column 1; Leisure/Weekend Desk; Pg. 35

LENGTH: 951 words

HEADLINE: ART REVIEW; 
For a Sporting Squire, Nice to Come Home To

BYLINE:  By JOHN RUSSELL

DATELINE: NEW HAVEN 

 BODY:
Throughout many years as a collector, Paul Mellon gave with both hands, and after long thought. (Complimented upon his liberality, he once said, "Oh, well, I never wanted to hoard, you know.")
 After his death in 1999 it emerged that among other final disposals he had left 1,500 works of art and more than 7,000 books to the Yale Center for British Art, which he had built, paid for, endowed and maintained since it opened here in 1977. 
 "The Paul Mellon Bequest: Treasures of a Lifetime" includes many paintings that he had lived with and looked at closely, day by day, either in Virginia or in his house in New York. They had, in fact, been his private museum, never named. 
There are classic "museum pieces" among them. One is the first picture he ever bought (in London, in 1936, when he was 29). This was "Pumpkin With a Stableboy" by his favorite, George Stubbs. He had been "bowled over," as he said later, "by the charming horse, the young boy in a cherry-colored jacket and the beautiful landscape background."
In paintings like these, feeling banishes formula. Stubbs was both a scientist (in his mastery of the horse's anatomy) and a poet (in his portrayal of a magical moment in a young life).
But, almost throughout, the show is intimate in scale and conversational in tone. In that, it is characteristic of the works of art (and of the books) that Mellon liked to come home to.
He had bought big-scale masterpieces of the British school, like Turner's "Staffa, Fingal's Cave" and Constable's "Hadleigh Castle," and they look their best at Yale.
But at home he never hung for effect, any more than he wanted to highlight his bookshelves with unique acquisitions like the vellum-bound library of the English philosopher John Locke. (This he gave in time to the Bodleian Library at Oxford.)
In his study in New York, Mellon took hammer and nails and hung very small paintings by the dozen. "The Horse" by William Blake might have been painted expressly for him, but it measures just four inches by two. There was a painting of a sleeping leopard by Stubbs, but it measures four inches by six and a half. (Stubbs could also give a foxhound its individual dignity in less than six by eight inches in oils on paper.)
As for Constable's sketch for "Hadleigh Castle" (eight inches by nine and a half), it yields not at all to the size and the massive eloquence of the finished painting. With just a few inches, Constable took the stump of the shattered tree and made us see it as a symbol of grief for the recent death of his wife.
As Mellon said, "Preliminary drawings or sketches often have an immediacy and an emotional appeal far greater than that of the finished canvas." This is also true of Constable's sketch (six by seven and a half inches) of "Somerset House Terrace From Waterloo Bridge."
This reads as if every last touch of paint had been blown in on the whirlwind we detect in the tumultuous sky. All London is there, pictured in 1819 by Constable in a frenzy of concentration.
For many a severe judge, sporting art is minor art. Mellon was well aware of that, and he once spoke of what some people might consider his "glutinous forays into the sporting art field."
But crisp, not glutinous, is the word for those forays. This is a collection that darts this way and that across every aspect of the countryside in pre-industrial England. If something out of the way happened, we get to see it, as when, in the year 1765, a fox ran all the way up the roof of a house and down the other side, with the hounds at its heels.
When the business of the racecourse goes on as usual, we see it in its every detail. Owner, trainer, jockey, stable boy, auctioneer -- all are there. And all of them are minutely characterized. No novelist ever handled this material better.
Mellon himself had a gift for immediacy in sporting matters. Writing of his Irish hunter Dublin, whom he had ridden in his 20's, he remembered almost 60 years later: "Dublin was as strong as a locomotive. He could have jumped the Eiffel Tower. He had huge quarters and a wonderful long front, and his eye had the 'look of eagles.' "
Visitors to the Yale Center can check this out when they come to "Paul Mellon on Dublin" (1932-33) by Alfred Munnings. But this show is not about, or for, a privileged few. The economic importance and the gradual decline of the working horse are vividly present. As to that, there is an implicit finality in the elegiac painting by Robert Bevan, dated 1923, that documents a London in which a working horse was still welcome to stop for water in the middle of a major street.
The book section at the Yale Center is a multitudinous affair that skips through more than five centuries. Starting with an Italian treatise on falconry, circa 1425, it moves on to include "Ten Minutes of Advice" (Philadelphia, 1787) as to how a gentleman should set about buying a horse.
Elsewhere there are a collection of English hunting songs (London, 1788) and an example of the Parisian fashion in the 1860's for board games based upon racing at Newmarket.
Visitors who wish to judge the age of a horse by the state of its teeth will find some relentlessly informative color plates on that subject (London, 1848). And near the end of the tour there is a cigar box in which a horseshoe once worn by Mill Reef, Mellon's Derby winner, is inset on the lid.
Altogether, and even if, like this critic, you have never sat on a horse, let alone aspired to jump the Eiffel Tower on one, you will find yourself in sure hands at the Yale Center for British Art.
 "The Paul Mellon Bequest: Treasures of a Lifetime" remains at the Yale Center for British Art, 1080 Chapel Street, at High Street, New Haven, (203) 432-2800, through April 29.

GRAPHIC: Photo: Detail of "Paul Mellon on Dublin" (1932-33), by Alfred Munnings. (Yale Center for British Art) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Review 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PAINTING (90%); MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (89%); WRITERS (76%); ENDOWMENTS (76%); ACADEMIC LIBRARIES (71%); DOGS (64%) Terms not available from NYTimes. 

GEOGRAPHIC: LONDON, ENGLAND (77%); NEW HAVEN, CT, USA (57%); DUBLIN, IRELAND (53%) NEW YORK, USA (71%); CONNECTICUT, USA (57%) UNITED STATES (71%); UNITED KINGDOM (57%); IRELAND (53%)

LOAD-DATE: March 16, 2001 



388 of 868 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 16, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section E; Part 2; Column 1; Leisure/Weekend Desk; Pg. 31

LENGTH: 1350 words

HEADLINE: ART REVIEW; 
Inside India's Painted Realm of Gold

BYLINE:  By HOLLAND COTTER

DATELINE: PHILADELPHIA 

 BODY:
THE woman in the painting is a study in contrasts. Her dark face looks fierce; her smile is sweet. She wears a necklace of lotus blossoms and a choker of writhing snakes. Like a warrior-queen, she stands on a corpse; behind her glows the sun, egg-yolk yellow, rich with life. A presence of tremendous power, she's petite, delicate, decorative even, in her pretty gilt-trimmed gown.
 The image is of Bhadrakali, the Great Goddess as depicted in a 17th-century Indian manuscript known as the "Tantric Devi." And what is true of her is true of Indian art as a whole. It encompasses the most far-out thoughts you can think and the everyday things you know. Death and spring sunlight; the cosmos and haute couture. No wonder the people who love this art love it deeply, utterly, in all its variety. 
 Even those who find it perplexing, which means many Western viewers, usually fall for the paintings known as miniatures. Most are the size of the page of a book or a laptop-computer screen. Their colors are vivid, their forms high-resolution crisp. And they were designed for instant personal access: close-up, in private, one on one. 
A superb selection of such painting, including two extraordinary "Tantric Devi" images, can be found in "Intimate Worlds: Masterpieces of Indian Painting From the Alvin O. Bellak Collection" at the Philadelphia Museum of Art. Mr. Bellak, a retired psychologist, began buying in 1975. He sought advice, trained his eye and shaped a collection of distinctive beauty and historical weight, which he has promised as a gift to the museum.
All 90 pieces of that gift are on view in an eloquent show organized by Darielle Mason, the museum's curator of Indian and Himalayan art. Spanning some 500 years, they are arranged more or less chronologically, then sorted into regional styles and genres. As with any time-spanning display, though, there's no way to make such diversity coherent. And manuscript painting presents inherent problems of its own. Its origins are sketchy, artists are largely unidentified, meanings of images are often obscure.
Still, the story gets off to a clean start with what is possibly one of the earliest surviving works on paper from the subcontinent: a page from a 14th-century book produced in western India. It's a modest thing, horizontally oriented in imitation of older palm-leaf manuscripts. Most of the space is filled with Sanskrit text telling the story of Kalaka, one of the jinas, or spiritual heroes, of the Jain religion. But in a small compartment off to the right sit two tiny figures, a king and queen, having a chat.
As Kalaka's parents, they're featured players in the religious epic. But with their Slim-Fast figures and floating eyes, they don't look particularly like V.I.P.'s. Perched on gold chairs covered with a jazzy red-swirl print, they just talk away, gesturing decorously as if to say: "Sorry, I interrupted." "No, I did. You go first."
Hanging nearby in the first gallery, like a kind of optical detonation, is a second Jain piece, a large painting on cloth of scenes from the life of another hero, Parshvanatha. Every inch of the crimson ground is packed with figures, plants and pavilions, and smack at the center is the jina himself, in a fanned-out, Ziegfeld-type cobra hat. Here, as in all Indian art, natural and supernatural are one, and the ornamental is an apt vehicle for the divine.
By the time this work was executed, in the 15th century, Islam had arrived from the north, taking local painting in new, hybrid directions. In a lively Mughal depiction of the Persian hero Rustam upending a demon as if trying to shake change from its pockets, Western Asia and India meet. And European styles show up. A landscape in the background of a 16th-century image titled, somewhat inscrutably, "Evangelist Writing With the Aid of a Woman Holding an Inkwell" uses Western conventions to convey recession in space.
Having established these fundamental lines of influence, the show tackles the distribution of styles in India itself. It divides them, textbook fashion, into two major areas, the Punjab hills in the north and the Rajput lands of the west, each of which, in its turn, was incubator to dozens of distinctive court styles.
From Mewar in Rajasthan, for example, come scenes from the life of the lover boy Krishna, with vivacious, sharp-featured figures and hot-hot dry-fever colors. The kingdom of Kota in the same region favored a hallucinatory brand of naturalism, as seen in a fantastic drawing of elephant combat in which everything seems to be vertiginously hurtling through space.
And dot-on-the-map Kishangarh did something entirely else. Its artists had a blistering eye for caricature. Don't miss the devastating portrait of a Swami Hanuhaak, apparently a court guru in residence, who is shown as a potbellied nincompoop wearing elevator sandals and a peacock headdress that nearly doubles his height.
Interestingly, the basic ingredients of Rajput painting are also found, with different uses and meanings, in work from the Punjab.
A portrait of Raja Sidh Sen of Mandi as a chinless wonder may look like a sendup but it's not. This giant of a man was a formidable ruler and a tantric adept. In fact, as noted in the exhibition catalog (which is excellent), one of the most arresting pieces in the entire group given by Mr. Bellak -- an image of the Great Goddess in her most fearsome and bloodthirsty guise -- may well have been commissioned by Sidh Sen.
It was the hill courts of Guler and Kangra that produced the painting style most admired in the West: cool, colored, moody romantic scenes in which the erotic and the elegiac mingle. In the unusually animated pictured titled "The Gods Sing and Dance for Shiva and Parvati," a celestial party is in progress, though giddy abandon, Kangra-style, has the slo-mo rhythm of a Purcell masque. In another painting, a woman wanders the night in search of an errant lover. She's disconsolate, crushed. But no need to worry. She'll perk up the minute he reappears, and he always does in this most tender of alternative universes.
The show is rounded out with work from the cusp of the 20th century, when photography was giving painting a run for its money. One of the latest entries is also one of the largest, as if trying to command attention. It is a group portrait, from around 1890, of Maharajah Bhavant Singh presiding over his cramped Jaipur household, where he and his courtiers stare out with glum suspicion, as if at a camera lens.
Indian painting doesn't end there, not by a long shot, though from this point much of its energy flows into folk traditions. The Philadelphia Museum has fabulous holdings in this area, thanks to a bequest by a renowned former curator, Stella Kramrisch. A fascinating selection of this understudied material was organized by Ms. Mason a few years ago, in a small but tightly focused show. 
"Intimate Worlds" follows a different, catch-all, sampler format, one that could stand to take a rest. It's time to both sharpen and expand our view of Indian art. Carefully thought-through thematic shows are not only crucial for scholarship but also can be immensely persuasive viewing experiences, as "Devi: The Great Goddess" at the Arthur M. Sackler Gallery in Washington proved two years ago. 
Among its many merits, that exhibition brought sculpture, historically supreme as an expressive medium in South Asia, to the fore. Now one of our major East Coast museums should take that lead and run with it, big time, in a way nobody in this part of the world really has in years. Until then, collection showcases, particularly on the exalted level of the Bellak group, are more than mere compensation. I would go a long way to see the phenomenal little sun-haloed goddess in Philadelphia. (She was also at the Sackler.) Even among the fabulously varied work that surrounds her, she shines out, as India does in the history of art.
 "Intimate Worlds: Masterpieces of Indian Painting From the Alvin O. Bellak Collection" is at the Philadelphia Museum of Art, Benjamin Franklin Parkway at 26th Street, (215) 763-8100, through April 29.

GRAPHIC: Photos: Western Asia and India meet in this Mughal portrayal of the Persian hero Rustam upending a demon (about 1575).; "An Elephant Combat" (circa 1660), a drawing from Kota in Rajasthan, at the Philadelphia Museum of Art. (Photographs from the Philadelphia Museum of Art)(pg. E34); "Bhadrakali With the Rising Sun" and "The Gods Sing and Dance for Shiva and Parvati," below, from the Bellak collection at the Philadelphia Museum. (Photographs from the Philadelphia Museum of Art)(pg. E31) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Review 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (89%); ARTISTS & PERFORMERS (78%); PAINTING (78%); LUXURY GOODS (77%); FASHION DESIGNERS (76%); HAUTE COUTURE (76%); MONITORS & DISPLAYS (71%); RELIGION (62%) Terms not available from NYTimes. 

GEOGRAPHIC: PHILADELPHIA, PA, USA (94%) PENNSYLVANIA, USA (94%); WEST INDIA (79%) INDIA (94%); UNITED STATES (94%); ASIA (72%); WESTERN ASIA (67%)

LOAD-DATE: March 16, 2001 



389 of 868 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 16, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section W; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 493 words

HEADLINE: Nokia Says Profits Are Flat, Much to the Relief of Investors 

BYLINE:  By SUZANNE KAPNER

DATELINE: LONDON, March 15 

 BODY:
Nokia, the world's largest maker of mobile phones, confirmed today that profits for the first quarter would be about the same as a year earlier, even though sales are falling short of expectations.
 The news reassured investors wearied by a a string of earnings warnings and disappointments in recent weeks. It helped ignite a broader rally in technology stocks that pushed Nokia shares up 13.2 percent, to 27.79 euros ($25.31) in Helsinki. 
 Still, the report showed just how far expectations have fallen for the once highflying mobile-phone industry, which is now in a painful period of transition. A year ago, a similar announcement from Nokia, then trading at 100 times earnings, would have devastated shareholders. But today, with the stock at a more modest 30 times earnings, it was taken as reassuring, given the bad news emanating this week from competitors like L. M. Ericsson, which said it would report a first-quarter loss, and Motorola, which announced 7,000 more job cuts in its cellular phone unit. 
"The main point is, this is not a profit warning," said John Ferrario, a hedge fund manager with Thames River Capital. "The market had been expecting cataclysmic news, whereas the reality is not as bad."
Jorma Ollila, Nokia's chief executive, said, "Despite the more difficult market conditions, we have been able to show good progress."
Nokia is widely seen as the most efficient maker of handsets, and its low costs will help it expand its industry-leading market share during a slowdown, analysts said. Even more promising, it has not had to resort to deep discounts to clear inventory, as rivals have, said Scott Searle, an analyst with SG Cowen.
Nokia is also making inroads in the business of building mobile-phone infrastructure, a field Ericsson has dominated. Though still much smaller than Ericsson's, Nokia's infrastructure unit has won contracts with companies like AT&T.
But even market leaders suffer when an industry is in turmoil. Nokia said it now expected overall sales in the current quarter to grow only 20 percent, not 25 percent to 30 percent, as was forecast. Nokia, based in Helsinki, also lowered its projections for industrywide handset sales this year to 450 million to 500 million, from 550 million.
The pace of growth in mobile- phone sales is clearly slowing, as the Western European markets approach saturation and the economic clouds gathering in the United States threaten to spread.
"The impact of the American economy is not defined and clear," said Lauri Kivinen, a Nokia spokesman. "That creates uncertainty across the market."
Adding to the uncertainty are delays in bringing a new generation of advanced services to market. Mr. Searle said growth might resume when services driven by data rather than just voice communication are introduced later this year and early in 2002. "We are not out of the woods yet," he said. "There is some risk over the next few quarters, but the longer-term picture is healthy." 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: WIRELESS & BROADCAST EQUIPMENT MFG (90%); INTERIM FINANCIAL RESULTS (90%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS EQUIPMENT (90%); CONSUMER ELECTRONICS MFG (90%); TELEPHONIC EQUIPMENT (90%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS EQUIPMENT MFG (90%); MOBILE & CELLULAR TELEPHONES (90%); WIRELESS INDUSTRY (90%); MOBILE & CELLULAR COMMUNICATIONS (90%); COMPANY EARNINGS (90%); BUSINESS FORECASTS (89%); PROFIT WARNINGS (78%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (78%); COMPANY PROFITS (78%); DELAYS & POSTPONEMENTS (78%); MARKET SHARE (77%); LAYOFFS (74%); COMPANY LOSSES (73%); SHAREHOLDERS (72%); SALES & SELLING (72%); EXECUTIVES (71%); ECONOMIC NEWS (69%); CONTRACT AWARDS (69%); CONTRACTS & BIDS (64%); HEDGE FUNDS (52%) Terms not available from NYTimes. 

COMPANY: NOKIA CORP (93%); TELEFONAKTIEBOLAGET LM ERICSSON (93%); MOTOROLA SOLUTIONS INC (56%)

TICKER: NOK1V (HEL) (93%); NOK1V (BIT) (93%); NOK (NYSE) (93%); ERIC.B (STO) (93%); ERIC.A (STO) (93%); ERIC (NASDAQ) (93%); MSI (NYSE) (56%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS334220 RADIO & TELEVISION BROADCASTING & WIRELESS COMMUNICATIONS EQUIPMENT MANUFACTURING (93%); SIC3663 RADIO & TELEVISION BROADCASTING & COMMUNICATIONS EQUIPMENT (93%); NAICS334210 TELEPHONE APPARATUS MANUFACTURING (93%)

GEOGRAPHIC: HELSINKI, FINLAND (72%); LONDON, ENGLAND (55%) UNITED STATES (92%); FINLAND (90%); EUROPE (79%); WESTERN EUROPE (67%)

LOAD-DATE: March 16, 2001 



390 of 868 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 16, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 2; Editorial Desk; Pg. 19

LENGTH: 757 words

HEADLINE: Palestinians in a State of Siege 

BYLINE:  By Allegra Pacheco; Allegra Pacheco, an Israeli lawyer who represents Palestinians in the West Bank and Gaza, is a fellow at the Bunting Institute at Radcliffe.

DATELINE: CAMBRIDGE, Mass. 

 BODY:
On any given day or night, 200,000 Israeli settlers move freely in and out of the West Bank and Gaza to go to work, shop, run errands and attend school or university. Israeli trucks supply their settlements with food, fuel and the necessities to keep these areas running, their gardens green and their supermarkets well stocked.
 For Adel Ibrahim T'nuh from the Palestinian village of Teqoa, things don't run so smoothly. A father of four young children and a day laborer in Israel, Mr. T'nuh hasn't worked for five months because the Israelis have put West Bank and Gazan Palestinians under total closure. 
 Mr. T'nuh recently tried to enter Israel through the Bethlehem-Gilo checkpoint in a desperate effort to find work. There, at 6 a.m., he was chased down by dogs and sent back by Israeli soldiers for trying to enter Israel. He tried again to enter, but was arrested and beaten. Fortunately, Israeli and Palestinian human rights workers happened to be at the scene and intervened.
Since September, three million Palestinian civilians in the West Bank and Gaza have been living under a siege imposed by the Israeli military occupation. All movement of people and goods is completely restricted and controlled by the Israeli army. The army has dug trenches and moats and built mounds of dirt to close Palestinian towns and villages. Only a few days ago, Ramallah, a city that provides education, health, social and economic services for 80,000 Palestinians in the surrounding area, was totally sealed off. The Israeli government's attempt to dampen international criticism by easing the blockade in Ramallah has had little effect on the siege in the rest of the West Bank and Gaza.
Food, fuel and other basic necessities have become scarce in those areas. After announcing that Palestinians have become among the poorest people in the world, the World Food Program, a United Nations agency, is now distributing flour in Gaza. Poverty levels have doubled in five months. The siege has caused over $2 billion in losses to the Palestinian economy, and unemployment levels have soared to 48 percent. 
The cause of all this suffering is not an act of nature. It is collective punishment that the Israelis can reverse at any time. The failure of other nations to oppose these basic human rights violations has allowed the Israelis to continue impoverishing a whole civilian population.
The latest siege is an expansion of the closure policy that restricts Palestinian movement, a policy that has been in effect since 1993. The Oslo peace agreement further enforced the closure policy by conscripting the Palestinian Authority to serve as the local intake office for processing travel permit applications. But the power of final approval still remained in Israeli hands. Since most Palestinian officials received special exemptions from closure restrictions, the authority made only half-hearted demands over the years to end them. Some even profited from the closure through exclusive permits from the Israelis to import goods and maintain monopolies over basic goods in Palestinian markets. However, for Adel T'nuh and the remaining 99 percent of the Palestinians, closure simply made life worse and a real peace more elusive.
Israeli officials admit that the closure in all its forms cannot protect Israel from suicide bombers or other potential attacks. Yet the desperation and bitterness this policy creates among the Palestinian communities makes the situation more volatile and less safe for all Israelis.
When former Israeli prime minister Yitzhak Rabin imposed the closure policy in 1993, he convinced his supporters that it was part of a "separation" policy that would be the first step toward the two-state solution. But in reality, Israel's 34 years of military occupation, the integration of electric and water systems, and the building of Jewish settlements and bypass roads have made it all but impossible to separate the Palestinian West Bank and Gazan communities from Israel's control. Separation leading to Palestinian statehood is a myth. The closure policy has instead solidified an apartheid-like system of separate rights and privileges for Jews and Palestinians.
Americans have learned in their history that separate cannot be equal. Israelis must understand that the way to end the cycle of violence cannot be through closure and sieges against entire civilian populations. Only when Israel dismantles the closure policy and accepts equality for Jews and Palestinians alike as a matter of human rights will peace be attainable. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); POOR POPULATION (89%); ARMIES (75%); FOOD CHARITIES (72%); CHILDREN (72%); INTERNATIONAL ASSISTANCE (69%); ARMED FORCES (68%); POVERTY & HOMELESSNESS (67%); HUMAN RIGHTS (67%); HUMAN RIGHTS VIOLATIONS (67%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (64%); APPROVALS (62%); UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (62%); GROCERY STORES & SUPERMARKETS (57%); ARRESTS (53%); TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (50%) Terms not available from NYTimes. 

GEOGRAPHIC: MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%) PALESTINIAN TERRITORY, OCCUPIED (99%); ISRAEL (99%); UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: March 16, 2001 



391 of 868 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 16, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section C; Column 5; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 37 words

HEADLINE: THE MARKETS: CURRENCIES 

 BODY:
 EURO SLIDES. The euro fell on concern the European Central Bank, which left interest rates unchanged, is reacting too slowly to signs of cooling growth. In New York, the euro settled at 89.97 cents, down from 91.17 cents.

GRAPHIC: Graph tracks euro to the dollar, since September 1999. (Source: Bloomberg Financial Markets). It also shows yesterday's closes for the British pound (in U.S. dollars), the Canadian dollar (per U.S. dollar), the German mark (per U.S. dollar), the Japanese yen (per U.S. dollar), the Mexican peso (pers U.S. dollar), and the South Korean won (per U.S. dollar). 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CURRENCIES (90%); EURO (90%); CENTRAL BANKS (87%); INTEREST RATES (85%); ECONOMIC NEWS (85%) Terms not available from NYTimes. 

COMPANY: EUROPEAN CENTRAL BANK (91%)

ORGANIZATION: EUROPEAN CENTRAL BANK (84%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (93%); EUROPE (92%); GERMANY (79%); MEXICO (79%); CANADA (79%)

LOAD-DATE: March 16, 2001 



392 of 868 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 16, 2001
Correction Appended 
 Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 3; Foreign Desk; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 1287 words

HEADLINE: Foot-and-Mouth Damages English Tourism, Too 

BYLINE:  By ALAN COWELL

DATELINE: STONETHWAITE, England, March 15 

 BODY:
Donna and Gary MacRae's hotel, the Langstrath Country Inn, stands in bucolic splendor at the end of a curling lane where the tarred road ends and serious walking begins in the valleys and craggy ramparts of the Lake District.
 But since an outbreak of foot-and-mouth disease began three weeks ago, closing rural trails and country footpaths, the mountains that the MacRaes see from their windows might as well be on the moon. Off-road walking has been outlawed. Outsiders are staying away. 
 And that is taking its toll on entire regions where people like hoteliers, shopkeepers and suppliers depend on visitors for their livelihoods. 
"This outbreak is not just affecting farmers," said Robert Perkins, who runs a company that makes walkers' boots and other gear. "It's affecting the whole rural infrastructure. It's only a matter of weeks before some small retailers go bust."
Many hotels are all but empty. The companies that supply them with beer, milk and eggs are losing orders. The roads are eerily free of tourists' cars and delivery vans. Some stores offer discounts on goods like parkas and fleeces. Farmers are canceling equipment orders, and employees in the tourism business are being laid off.
"This time last year, we had eight people working for us," Mr. MacRae said at his 10-room inn. "Now we have one, on a three-day week."
In such small places, said Michael Taylor, an economist at Merrill Lynch in London, the effects are draconian.
The MacRaes decided this week to close their inn for the foreseeable future because they have no guests, and cancellations have cost them $15,000 over the last three weeks. 
"It's just not worth it," Mrs. MacRae said.
And that gloomy assessment rattles along a chain of businesses.
As part of the government measures to contain the disease, much of Britain, including 46 million acres of farmland, or 76 percent of the nation, has been placed off limits to walkers and outsiders for fear that they may carry foot-and-mouth to infect new animals. Even though the nearest case is 10 miles from the Langstrath Country Inn, the Lake District has been hard hit. Of 251 cases reported across Britain by Thursday, about 70 were in Cumbria, which includes this scenic area. The outbreak is now reckoned to be more severe than the last major scourge, in 1967.
The disease, which has leaped the Channel to France, prompting an American ban on many European meat imports, shows no sign of abating. No one can tell when the disease will peak. Since the outbreak began on Feb. 20 in Essex, more than 200,000 animals have been marked for slaughter, and pyres of carcasses have become grim, almost medieval, totems of the disease, generating columns of smoke. 
Today, the government announced even harsher measures, saying an additional 100,000 animals that may simply have been near infected animals will be killed.
In these parts, where tens of thousands of sheep freckle the hillsides, the first blossoms of spring bring lambing time. But some farmers may not even visit flocks put out to winter pasture. Some of the 193,000 full-time farmers and farm owners in Britain say they may well go out of business, mainly those who have spent generations building up pedigree herds that could be wiped out. 
"It will just be devastating," said Lisa Randall, a spokeswoman for the National Farmers Union.
The timing could not be worse. Outdoor tourist centers like the Lake District and Snowdonia or the Cotswolds would usually be preparing for school vacations, the time when the earnings season begins in earnest for many hotels and stores and tea shops. "We might just as well forget Easter," Mrs. MacRae said.
The malaise, though, goes further. In Keswick, just north of here, Michael Standring owns an outdoor store called George Fisher where walkers buy boots and parkas and other gear. This year, they have stayed away. "It's hurting very hard," Mr. Standring said.
Earnings are down by 40 percent, he said, and the losses stand to increase if enough of the 15 million people who typically visit the Lake District each year stay home. The losses, Mr. Standring said, could exceed $200,000 in April, the popular time for selling gear for the new season. "I don't think people in the cities fully understand what's happening," he said.
Some do. South of the Lake District, in Lancaster, Mr. Perkins said his company, Brasher Boots, was losing $15,000 a day because stores like George Fisher are not reordering, all part of a chain that ends in the forlorn sign on Mrs. MacRae's hotel here, "Sorry, closed due to foot and mouth crisis."
Even the owners of hotels that are staying open face say they had to scramble for business. One owner, Hans Bonkenburg at the Dale Head Hall Hotel south of Keswick, said that because of overhead, "I have no choice. I have to open."
Ian Stephens of the Cumbria Tourist Board, which promotes the Lake District tourism industry, said: "People are facing catastrophe. Many businesses have spent money on improving premises, taken out quite hefty loans, and this should be the time they start making income to pay off the debts." 
He estimated the district's losses at $15 million a week, with 350 jobs being lost weekly.
High-ticket horse races like the Cheltenham Gold Cup have been postponed. Hunting has been banned, and cattle movement has been restricted. Fishing in farming areas has stopped, and zoos and amusement parks are threatened. 
Some sports teams, including hockey and rugby players, have canceled games because they involve moving around the country and possibly spreading the disease.
"The feelers go out a long way," Phillipa Swain of the British Tourist Authority said. "You have gift shops, tea shops, souvenir stands, cabdrivers, bus companies."
Unlike the situation with mad cow disease, which battered the dwindling $21 billion farming industry, foot-and-mouth disease is not generally fatal to the cloven-hooved animals it infects like sheep, cows, pigs and goats. They normally recover after a few weeks.
Only rarely are humans infected.
But the disease, which can be borne on a zephyr of wind, on the tires of cars or on shoes and clothes, is so contagious that the standard response is to destroy infected animals rapidly.
In economic terms, agriculture accounts for 1.8 percent of output, according to Mr. Taylor at Merrill Lynch. According to the Agriculture Ministry, the profits and earnings from farming have fallen to less than one-third of their 1973 level, hitting $:2 billion, or $3 billion, last year.
Although farmers are to receive compensation for lost animals, hoteliers and other business people have not been promised similar help. 
The threat to rural tourism, which employs one-fourth of the work force in the Lake District, is considerable. The overall value of tourism, including daytrippers, other domestic travelers and foreign visitors, is $96 billion, Ms. Swain of the tourist authority said. An estimated $13 billion of that is from rural tourism.
The disease has yet to affect the thousands who congregate each day at Buckingham Palace or throng London's West End. But beyond the cities, the disease has brought strains between farmers and other industries. "There are people who are saying, 'Get the sheep off the hills and let's get the walkers back on,' " Mr. Stephens of the Cumbria Tourist Board said.
The outbreak, which the Conservatives have called a national crisis, has not dented the overall economy. It depends for two-thirds of its strength on city-bound services like banks and restaurants and relies for one-fifth of its activity on industries like automobile plants and steel mills. But, Mr. Taylor said, if the disease persists into early summer and foreign visitors stay away, "that could have a major effect."

CORRECTION-DATE: March 22, 2001

 CORRECTION:
A picture caption on Friday with an article about the effect of foot-and-mouth disease on tourism in England misstated the reason an agricultural event in Cheshire was canceled. It was because of the discovery of the disease in Cheshire, not around the Lake District, which is in a different part of England. 

GRAPHIC: Photo: Important events like this one in Cheshire are being postponed and canceled because of foot-and-mouth in and around the Lake District. (Agence France-Presse) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: HOTELS & MOTELS (91%); FOOT & MOUTH DISEASE (90%); RETAILERS (90%); LIVESTOCK DISEASE (90%); TRANSPORTATION INFRASTRUCTURE (78%); HOSPITALITY INDUSTRY (78%); RURAL COMMUNITIES (78%); MOUNTAINS (77%); DISEASE REPORTING (77%); DENTAL MOUTH & JAW DISORDERS (77%); LAYOFFS (76%); SMALL BUSINESS (76%); AGRICULTURAL EXPORT & IMPORT CONTROLS (72%); INFRASTRUCTURE (70%); MEAT EXPORTS & IMPORTS (50%) Terms not available from NYTimes.

COMPANY: MERRILL LYNCH & CO INC (55%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (55%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (55%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (55%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (55%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (55%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (55%)

GEOGRAPHIC: LONDON, ENGLAND (79%) UNITED KINGDOM (92%); ENGLAND (79%); UNITED STATES (79%); FRANCE (77%)

LOAD-DATE: March 16, 2001 



393 of 868 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 16, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Editorial Desk; Pg. 19

LENGTH: 738 words

HEADLINE: Foreign Affairs; 
Digital Divide or Dividend?

BYLINE:  By THOMAS L. FRIEDMAN

 BODY:
I was in Anchorage, Alaska, a couple of weeks ago for a seminar on globalization, and afterward a woman approached me with a fascinating question. "Hi," she said, "my name is Maryann Flowers. I'm part Eskimo and I work for AT&T in Alaska. My job is to connect Eskimo villages and rural health centers around Alaska to the Internet. But every time we connect one of these native villages, I feel that a little of my native Eskimo culture is lost. So, I have a question: Isn't the digital divide actually a good thing?"
 Hmmmm, what an interesting question. Isn't the digital divide a good thing? Isn't it better for indigenous people like the Eskimo in Alaska not to be connected, in order to preserve their own unique traditions and not have them washed away by a flood of pop culture and smut that comes in through the Internet? 
 "I've been flying out to the Alaskan bush for the last four years, trying to get native communities connected," said Maryann. "But they've never been exposed to a lot of this stuff. They think it all must be good, because it comes over the Internet. Many of them live in subsistence villages. They don't understand that some of it is bad or fictitious. We've tested free Internet access for a rural school, but at the time they had no fire walls, so you had these kids going all over the place, including pornography sites."
"I feel torn," she added. "On the one hand, I want my own culture to be protected from bad influences, so that makes me want them to be digitally divided. On the other hand, my job is to connect them to the Internet, particularly to improve rural health care, which the Internet can really help with. So for native people, I guess the Internet is good and bad, sweet and sour, yin and yang."
Shortly after I met Maryann, I got an e-mail from a company called Viatru Inc., which offered the yin to Maryann's yang. Viatru uses the Internet to enable native peoples to stay at home and globally market their traditional crafts or farm products.
Started by four M.B.A. students in Seattle, Viatru is creating Internet linkages between stores in the U.S. -- like the museum shop at the Boston Museum of Fine Arts -- and artisans in places like Jaipur, India. Visitors to the Boston museum shop Web site (www.mfa.org/poppy) can see where their craft is being made, who is making it and how it is being made. You can hear the villagers speaking in their own voices about the traditional block-printing that goes into their duvets, pillow shams and bed skirts, and then use your credit card to order one. Viatru coordinates the whole chain.
These Indian craftspeople are plugged into a global market, so they are not totally dependent on the local economy, and are not faced, when the local market is saturated, with the choice of driving a taxi in the city or going hungry.
"We call it visible commerce," says Michelle Long, Viatru's founder. "We live in an age where people increasingly want to know about the company behind their toothpaste. The idea behind Viatru is to give people a window into the community where their products are sourced. This enables consumers to differentiate which products are being made in a sustainable way, it identifies the sustainable suppliers and it rewards those retailers who are ready to work with sustainable suppliers."
For instance, Viatru has created a link for Bridgehead, a Canadian coffee company, that enables its customers to see the village outside Lima, Peru, that makes its custom-made coffee mugs. In May, Viatru is expected to announce an alliance with a major U.S. retailer that will link its customers with village suppliers around the world.
"We believe that through the Internet we can preserve culture by rewarding sustainable cultural practices and by creating a global market for them -- a digital dividend," says Michelle. "If you want to change the world in a big way you have to work through markets."
Interesting. Imagine if consumers start demanding that major American clothing manufacturers give them an Internet link to their factories in Indonesia or China. Many consumers won't ask, but enough could to make a difference.
It's still early. It's still small. But Viatru's on to something -- another example that globalization is everything and its opposite: homogenizing and particularizing, empowering and disenfranchising, democratizing and pulverizing. It all depends how it's managed. Just ask Maryann and Michelle. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); INTERNET & WWW (90%); ENTERPRISE GLOBALIZATION (89%); MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (89%); GLOBALIZATION (78%); RURAL COMMUNITIES (76%); RURAL SCHOOLS (76%); PORNOGRAPHY (76%); ARTISTS & PERFORMERS (75%); RURAL HEALTH (71%); FREE INTERNET ACCESS (71%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (69%) Terms not available from NYTimes. 

GEOGRAPHIC: ANCHORAGE, AK, USA (92%); BOSTON, MA, USA (91%); SEATTLE, WA, USA (79%) ALASKA, USA (97%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (91%); WASHINGTON, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (97%); INDIA (79%)

LOAD-DATE: March 16, 2001 



394 of 868 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 16, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section C; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 822 words

HEADLINE: OPEC Is Expected to Announce Reduction in Output of Crude 

BYLINE:  By NEELA BANERJEE

 BODY:
Hoping to shore up declining oil prices, the Organization of the Petroleum Exporting Countries is expected to announce a reduction of daily output by 700,000 to one million barrels, or about 3 percent to 4 percent, when it convenes today in Vienna, industry analysts said. 
 But coming at a time of falling industrial activity and rising consumer nervousness in the United States and elsewhere, OPEC's gamble may backfire, analysts warned, if a sharp increase in oil prices sinks the shaky world economy. 
 "There are two things that make the environment extremely unstable: the global economy and low inventories of petroleum products, and that makes any forecasting extremely uncertain," said Mark M. Zandi, chief economist with economy.com, a research organization in West Chester, Pa. "The surge in energy prices over the last two years is the most important reason the U.S. economy has hit the wall." 
OPEC hopes to keep the price of oil at $25 to $30 a barrel, a level, it contends, that will not damage the world economy. With the global outlook clouded by conflicting indicators, what OPEC's members apparently have fixed on is the gradual slide in demand for oil. Their concern is that if they continue to export at current levels, there might be a glut of oil and prices would fall. 
OPEC, which produces 40 percent of the world's oil, tracks a basket of oil prices from various commodities markets that has slipped recently to $23 to $24 a barrel. The countries of the 10-member cartel are almost wholly dependent on oil revenue, and they fear that if prices drop further, their own economies will be badly hurt.
After raising production in 2000, OPEC cut output in January by 1.5 million barrels a day, or 5 percent, to bolster prices. Some members that usually lobby for higher prices have called for another cut of 1.5 million barrels. Besides wanting to keep prices high, the so-called price hawks contend that the American economy is not so frail and that demand could rebound.
But Saudi Arabia, the de facto leader of OPEC and its most powerful moderating force, would like to see a smaller cut in production. As a result, most analysts say that OPEC will agree on a cut of 750,000 barrels to 800,000 barrels a day.
"The risk they run is that they will cut too much," said Roger Diwan, a managing director for the Petroleum Finance Company, a Washington consulting firm. "So the Saudis don't want to cut too much, because the cuts will hit just as refining kicks into high gear in May for the U.S. gasoline market."
Indeed, some analysts argue that OPEC is misinterpreting economic and industry signals. Worldwide demand has slowed, they note -- but it is still rising, not falling. Although the slackening of the world economy certainly contributes to that reduced demand, appetite for oil traditionally wanes a bit in the second quarter of a year as refiners build inventories of crude and shift production from heating oil to gasoline.
Low supplies of oil last year, a result of OPEC production cuts in 1999, helped drive up summer gasoline prices in the United States. Then, a booming economy sheltered most consumers and businesses from the pain of high fuel prices. But with a weaker economy this year, Americans may feel the pinch.
"Refining is starting to build now, and they're going through their stocks of oil at a fair pace," said Leonidas P. Drollas, chief economist for the Centre for Global Energy Studies in London. "The danger is that the U.S. can go through the same cycles as last year. And if OPEC decides to increase output this summer, it will be too late."
Substantially higher oil prices would add to the burden on consumers already paying high prices for natural gas and electricity. The cost of natural gas has more than doubled since last year, and because many power plants run on gas, electricity bills have gone up sharply, too. 
"Natural gas, electricity and oil are all now coming at us," said Stephen Thumb, a principal with Energy Ventures Analysis Inc., a Washington consulting firm. "It really starts to become a pocketbook issue. Without the stock market there, you'll have a 1-2-3 punch."
Of course, OPEC's members may soften the blow of any export reductions they announce. Cartel members routinely, albeit unofficially, overproduce to cash in on high prices. For example, analysts estimate, January's announced cut of 1.5 million barrels a day translated, in reality, into 900,000 to 1.1 million barrels less production. An announced cut of 750,000 barrels may take about 500,000 barrels out of production. 
Indeed, if the price of oil keeps falling despite OPEC's move, overproduction may become rampant. "OPEC has the best management capability in many years to shore up prices," said Gary N. Ross, head of the PIRA Energy Group, a consulting firm. "They're very scared of it breaking down. Any lack of success in shoring up the price will lead to a deterioration of their unity." 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PETROLEUM PRODUCTS (92%); OIL & GAS PRICES (91%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (90%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (90%); PETROLEUM EXPORTS & IMPORTS (90%); PRICE INCREASES (90%); CRUDE OIL MARKETS (90%); BUSINESS FORECASTS (90%); OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (90%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (89%); EXPORT TRADE (89%); CARTELS (89%); PRICE CHANGES (89%); GLOBALIZATION (78%); ENERGY MARKETS (78%); COMMODITIES TRADING (78%); MANUFACTURING OUTPUT (78%); GASOLINE PRICES (78%); ENERGY & UTILITY SECTOR PERFORMANCE (78%); LOBBYING (76%); CONSULTING SERVICES (69%); GASOLINE MARKETS (64%) Terms not available from NYTimes. 

ORGANIZATION: ORGANIZATION OF THE PETROLEUM EXPORTING COUNTRIES (94%)

GEOGRAPHIC: VIENNA, AUSTRIA (73%) PENNSYLVANIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (95%); SAUDI ARABIA (92%); AUSTRIA (73%)

LOAD-DATE: March 16, 2001 



395 of 868 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 16, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section C; Column 2; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 587 words

HEADLINE: A Tale of Two Bubbles. Could This One Be Painless? 

BYLINE:  By FLOYD NORRIS

 BODY:
'WE have a strong economy, long term," Richard C. Koo was told this week on his visit to New York. "This is a temporary slowdown."
 For Mr. Koo, an American economist who has worked in Japan since 1984 as the chief economist of the Nomura Research Institute, the confidence he heard brought back memories of Tokyo's days of glory. "A lot of things that are being said in this country now were being said in Japan 10 years ago," he said in an interview. 
 The bubble that burst in this country last year was nowhere near as large as the one that burst a decade ago in Japan. Theirs affected the entire stock market, plus the property market and nearly everything else the banks accepted as collateral for loans. Ours was large, but concentrated in a part of the economy. There is no reason to think that a decade from now commentators will be mocking our inability to recover.
But the American bubble was real, and its bursting will have consequences. There was economic strength, but some of it came from excessive investment in certain industries, and from the spending of the profits, real and anticipated, that came from the boom. Now the money borrowed, either to finance wasted investments or in expectation of wealth to come, will have to be paid back. That will take time. Tax and interest rate reductions will help, but are not magic potions.
In the year before the Japanese bubble burst, the export-oriented Japanese economy seemed to be untroubled by the fact the yen had soared in value. "Japan looked so strong," Mr. Koo said. "After the bubble burst, we came to realize it was bubble-driven economic demand that made the economy so strong."
Many still deny that the end of the bubble is a fundamental change for the American economy. Companies and investors expect their stocks to recover. The economy may be down, but surely that is just an inventory correction that the Federal Reserve will be able to fix in a quarter or two.
It won't be that easy. By the time the economy really hits bottom, there is likely to be talk that the Fed has failed, is "pushing on a string." Companies are starting to take serious steps to cut expenses, but that process is not far along, in part because the profit squeeze that began with the technology companies is only beginning to spread.
After the corporate sector begins to be really worried, consumers fearful of layoffs are likely to do the same, further damaging profits as they cut back on purchases.
The stock market is likely to begin its recovery before the economy does, and to some this week's two really bad days have the feel of the long-awaited capitulation that signals a bottom. But even if that is the case, it is hard to believe that the old days of 20-percent-a-year gains will return. The biggest beneficiaries of the bubble are not likely to come back all the way, said Robert Barbera, the chief economist of Hoenig & Company, "any more than land of the Imperial Palace in Tokyo will again be worth more than the state of California." Yahoo shares are not going to $200 again. Nor will government tax receipts continue to be swollen by stock option profits and capital gains. 
A decade ago there was widespread confidence that the Japanese economy would remain strong, even if there was a temporary problem after stock prices fell. Now the pessimism on Japan is overwhelming, while a quick American recovery is expected. But the lesson to be learned from Japan's woes is not that it will never recover; it is that bursting bubbles can have surprising effects.

GRAPHIC: Chart tracks Yahoo stock prices from 1998 through 2001. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); REAL ESTATE BUBBLE (89%); ECONOMIC BUBBLE (89%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (78%); INTERVIEWS (77%); BANKING & FINANCE (74%); INVENTORIES (73%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (71%); LAYOFFS (64%); RESEARCH INSTITUTES (57%); EXPORT TRADE (50%); INTEREST RATES (50%) Terms not available from NYTimes. 

COMPANY: NOMURA RESEARCH INSTITUTE LTD (58%)

TICKER: 4307 (TSE) (58%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS541512 COMPUTER SYSTEMS DESIGN SERVICES (58%); SIC7379 COMPUTER RELATED SERVICES, NEC (58%); SIC7373 COMPUTER INTEGRATED SYSTEMS DESIGN (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: TOKYO, JAPAN (73%) JAPAN (95%); UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: March 16, 2001 



396 of 868 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 16, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section C; Column 3; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 301 words

HEADLINE: Account Deficit Hit Record $435 Billion in 2000 

BYLINE:  Bloomberg News

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, March 15 

 BODY:
The United States trade deficit in goods, services and investments widened in the fourth quarter, pushing the shortfall for 2000 to a record $435.4 billion, government figures showed today.
 The shortfall, known as the current account deficit, is the broadest measure of trade because it incorporates financial transactions. 
It grew to a record $115.3 billion in the fourth quarter after widening to a revised $113.1 billion in the third quarter, the Commerce Department said. 
 The fourth-quarter increase resulted from a rise in imports and a drop in exports. At the same time, overseas investors earned less on their United States holdings than Americans earned abroad.
The shortfall represents money the United States has to borrow overseas to pay for all the goods and services Americans import and to finance investment not covered by savings. The annual deficit amounts to about 4.4 percent of the almost $10 trillion gross domestic product, up from about 3.6 percent of G.D.P. in 1999 and 2.5 percent a year earlier.
Analysts expected a fourth-quarter deficit of $117.7 billion after a previously reported shortfall of $113.8 billion in the third.
The deficit in merchandise trade expanded in the fourth quarter as imports fell 0.1 percent, to $315.4 billion. A drop in automotive products exceeded an increase in consumer goods and industrial supplies, the government said. Goods exports fell 1.9 percent, to $197.1 billion.
Trade in services posted a larger surplus, as exports rose 0.8 percent, to $75.2 billion, and imports rose 0.5 percent, to $55.8 billion. The export increase was largely a result of travel and payments of royalties.
Income on overseas assets held by Americans grew to $89.1 billion from $86.8 billion. Foreign earnings on American assets fell to $88.2 billion from $89.9 billion. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CURRENT ACCOUNT BALANCE (92%); GOODS & SERVICES TRADE BALANCE (91%); EXPORT TRADE (90%); IMPORT TRADE (90%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (90%); BUDGET DEFICITS (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (78%); FOREIGN INVESTMENT (78%); COMPANY EARNINGS (78%); GROSS DOMESTIC PRODUCT (78%); FOREIGN LENDING (73%); COMMERCE DEPARTMENTS (73%); ROYALTIES (71%) Terms not available from NYTimes. 

ORGANIZATION: US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (97%)

LOAD-DATE: March 16, 2001 



397 of 868 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 16, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section C; Column 3; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 691 words

HEADLINE: THE MARKETS: STOCKS & BONDS; 
Blue Chips Recoup Some Losses; Technology Shares Fall

BYLINE:  By DANIEL J. WAKIN

 BODY:
Blue-chip investors won a modest reprieve from the week's heavy selling yesterday as the Dow Jones industrial average nudged back above 10,000, helped modestly by sharpening hopes for an interest rate cut next week. Technology shares, though, were lower.
 Analysts were divided over whether the stock market had shown its worst. Many were looking to the Producer Price Index for February, to be released today, for a further indication of how aggressively the Federal Reserve might cut rates at its meeting on Tuesday. Until the stock market fell sharply twice this week, many on Wall Street had expected a half-point reduction, but some are now talking about a cut of three-quarters of a percentage point. 
 "What you're seeing," said Jonathan Glaser, a hedge fund manager at JMG Capital Partners, "is some optimism over the Fed coming to the rescue here and people trying to find some bargains. It's very quiet, at least for the moment. I think we're on hold."
The possibility of a bigger rate cut sent investors toward interest-rate-sensitive stocks yesterday, like those of banks and utilities, said James W. Paulsen, chief investment officer of Wells Capital Management.
The Dow industrials rose 57.82 points, or 0.6 percent, to 10,031.28, rebounding from a drop exceeding 3 percent on Wednesday that resulted in its closing below 10,000 for the first time in five months.
The Dow picked up part of its strength from financial stocks like Citigroup and American Express, which recouped some of their losses on Wednesday after new questions emerged about the stability of Japanese banks. A 2.6 percent gain in Japanese stocks yesterday infused American investors with a small dose of optimism. 
Citigroup rose $1.50, to $46.40; American Express gained $1.32, to $39.80, and J. P. Morgan Chase was up $1.51, to $45.26.
The Standard & Poor's 500-stock index gained 6.85 points, or 0.6 percent, to 1,173.56.
But sharp declines in Intuit and Oracle weighed on technology stocks. The Nasdaq composite index fell by a further 31.38 points, or 1.6 percent, to 1,940.71, after a modest rally in the morning. Market breadth on Nasdaq was negative.
After a plunge on Monday, stocks rebounded somewhat as they attracted bargain hunters on Tuesday. "Over the last several days, you have seen at least the beginning of a rotation into some of the beat-up technology companies," said William V. Fries, manager of the Thornburg Value Fund. 
Underlying the market's recent performance are concerns over the weakening American economy and a continuing series of warnings of disappointing corporate financial results. "Clearly, the market knows the next couple of quarters are going to stink," Mr. Glaser said. "The major question is whether we'll see some turnaround later in the year for earnings, or whether we're in a protracted period of low growth or no growth for some of these companies."
Given the prospects for another interest rate cut and the amount of cash on the sidelines, Charles Pradilla, chief investment strategist at SG Cowen, said he was somewhat surprised that stocks had not rebounded more strongly. "The market's still treading water here," he said. "This is a very anemic rally."
Among technology stocks, Intuit, which makes personal finance software, fell $12.63, or 29.9 percent, to $29.63 after it cut its third-quarter and 2001 sales estimates, though it said it was still comfortable with profit projections.
Oracle dropped $1.38, to $14.69, ahead of its earnings report. After the market closed, Oracle reported that third-quarter profit rose 15 percent, matching forecasts that had been lowered two weeks ago after the company said the sluggish economy was cutting into its software sales. --------------------

Treasury Prices Mixed
By Reuters
Treasury prices were mixed yesterday as investors hopd for an aggressive rate cut by the Federal Reserve next week.
The price of the benchmark 10-year Treasury note rose 10/32, to 101 23/32. Its yield, which moves in the opposite direction from the price, fell to 4.78 percent from 4.82 percent on Wednesday. The 30-year Treasury bond fell 3/32, to 101 17/32. Its yield was unchanged at 5.27 percent.

GRAPHIC: Graph tracks the Dow Jones industrial average over the past year. (Sources: Associated Press; Bloomberg Financial Markets) Tables: "Hot & Cold" provides a look at stocks with large percentage gains and losses; "The Favorites" lists stocks held by largest number of accounts at Merrill Lynch. (Compiled from staff reports, The Associated Press, Bloomberg News, Bridge News, Dow Jones, Reuters) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: STOCK INDEXES (93%); INTEREST RATES (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); BONDS (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (78%); MANUFACTURING OUTPUT (78%); BOND MARKETS (77%); EXECUTIVES (73%); FINANCIAL RESULTS (72%); PRODUCER PRICES (72%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (71%); HEDGE FUNDS (68%) Terms not available from NYTimes. 

COMPANY: CITIGROUP INC (91%); AMERICAN EXPRESS CO (58%); JPMORGAN CHASE & CO (55%); INTUIT INC (52%)

TICKER: C (NYSE) (91%); C (BMV) (91%); 8710 (TSE) (91%); AXP (NYSE) (58%); JPM (NYSE) (55%); JPM (LSE) (55%); 8634 (TSE) (55%); INTU (NASDAQ) (52%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS522210 CREDIT CARD ISSUING (91%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (91%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (91%); SIC6141 PERSONAL CREDIT INSTITUTIONS (58%); NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (55%); NAICS523999 MISCELLANEOUS FINANCIAL INVESTMENT ACTIVITIES (55%); SIC6022 STATE COMMERCIAL BANKS (55%); NAICS541611 ADMINISTRATIVE MANAGEMENT & GENERAL MANAGEMENT CONSULTING SERVICES (52%); NAICS511210 SOFTWARE PUBLISHERS (52%); NAICS334614 SOFTWARE & OTHER PRERECORDED COMPACT DISC, TAPE & RECORD REPRODUCING (52%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%); JAPAN (79%)

LOAD-DATE: March 16, 2001 



398 of 868 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 16, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section B; Column 3; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 644 words

HEADLINE: Goodbye to Mr. Hello and Goodbye 

BYLINE:  By CHARLIE LeDUFF

 BODY:
Robert E. Mitchell will retire on March 29. He will take his belongings and his doorman's pension and go back home to New Orleans, where he plans to grow old on the front porch with his relations.
 No one need apply, as Mr. Mitchell's job was filled just days after he announced his retirement. "That's the way it goes," he said at 4 one afternoon as he dragged his broom and dustpan around the perimeter of 801 West End Avenue, a pre-World War II building with 70 apartments on the west side of the avenue between 99th and 100th Streets. "Time moves along and things are forgotten. Including the memories of you." 
 There are, after all, 8,000 doormen in the city, according to the Service Employees International Union. And maybe the new guy will make the residents of 801 forget that for 33 years, Mr. Mitchell was the man who mopped their hallways and shoveled their snow. Or that he was the man who took their children by the scruff of the neck when he saw them doing wrong. Or that he was the man who ran down the wig-wearing mugger who attacked their mother. Or that he was the man who discovered their dead locked away behind the doors.
But it seems unlikely, if the card the 6-year-old girl gave him the other day is any indication. "I love you. Please don't go, Robert," it read.
Nearly every block in New York has its mayor. Some acquire the title through milk crate endurance, passing away the hours in the same spot on the same corner, becoming such a fixture and spectacle that people just start calling out, "Hey Mayor." But others earn it by giving of themselves.
"He was my second father after my father moved away," said Beck Lee, 40, who grew into a man in Apartment 1B. The neighborhood was tough in the 60's and 70's, Mr. Lee said. Schoolchildren were robbed so often that fathers gave their children broken watches and expired bus passes to give the muggers. 
But the children developed their own method of self-defense. They learned to stall, pat their pockets and wait for Mr. Mitchell to catch sight of the larceny from his perch near the building's column.
In the 70's, there was a parade of fathers who packed their bags and walked out through the marble foyer for the last time. Mr. Mitchell was there to help them with their bags. And he was there to help the women put a fresh coat of paint in their apartments and move their furniture around. He was there to teach their kids the curveball. He was, Mr. Lee said, a surrogate man of the house.
Mr. Mitchell cut a handsome figure in his gray uniform with white piping. He wore a colorful sweater, a threadbare tie and smooth hair the color of the uniform. At 65, he is thin and stands erectly. When the neighborhood started changing in the 80's, and the silk-stocking crowd moved in, they asked him to wear a hat. He refused. He has never worn a hat on the job and is proud of it. They do that on the East Side. He's a West Side doorman.
"I opened this door so much they'd run out of numbers if they attempted to calculate it," he said, standing in the cold foyer in thin shoes and no coat. "I'm going to miss this building. It's been my whole life for half my life."
Sept. 28, 1967, was the beginning of that life. That's when the unemployment office sent him to the building's superintendent. "The super told me, 'If you like it, you've got the job for life,' " he said. "I been here ever since."
The true gentleman never insinuates himself into other people's business, Mr. Mitchell said. He keeps to his own, never talks about things unless asked and never talks about people in the building, period. 
"Which doesn't mean I don't know what's going on," he said. "I know just about everything that goes on around here. If I didn't, I wouldn't be a good doorman."
Maybe the people of 801 West End Avenue will forget him, he said. But he'll be thinking of them on his porch down in Louisiana. 

GRAPHIC: Photos: Robert E. Mitchell gets ready to leave after his shift as doorman at 801 West End Avenue. He will retire March 29 after 33 years. "He was my second father after my father moved away," a resident said.; From his post, Robert Mitchell has run down a mugger, tended children and generally been the unofficial mayor of his building. (Photographs by Ting-Li Wang/The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CHILDREN (89%); WORLD WAR II (55%) Terms not available from NYTimes. 

COMPANY: AQUANTIVE INC (57%)

ORGANIZATION: SERVICE EMPLOYEES INTERNATIONAL UNION (56%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS541830 MEDIA BUYING AGENCIES (57%); NAICS541810 ADVERTISING AGENCIES (57%); SIC7319 ADVERTISING, NEC (57%); SIC7311 ADVERTISING AGENCIES (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW ORLEANS, LA, USA (91%) LOUISIANA, USA (91%); NEW YORK, USA (76%) UNITED STATES (91%)

LOAD-DATE: March 16, 2001 



399 of 868 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 16, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section C; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 499 words

HEADLINE: BUSINESS DIGEST 

 BODY:
Compaq to Cut 5,000 Jobs; Earnings to Come Up Short
Compaq Computer said that it would cut 5,000 jobs and predicted that its first-quarter per-share earnings would be about one-third lower than expectations.
 Analysts said the announcement underscored how long it might take the sector to recover from the slowdown in consumer buying and corporate capital spending. Page C6. 

Oracle met lowered earnings estimates but said its fortunes could worsen. C8.

Senate Approves Bankruptcy Bill
The Senate voted 83 to 15 to approve a bill that would overhaul the nation's bankruptcy laws and make it harder for people to erase their debts. The House has passed a similar bill, and President Bush has signaled that he will sign whatever compromise is reached in a House-Senate conference committee. A1.

UAL and AMR Warn About Results
UAL, the parent of United Airlines, and AMR, the parent of American Airlines, warned that a decline in passengers amid a weakening economy would hurt their first-quarter results more than expected. Investors seemed to take the news in stride after earlier warnings from other carriers. AMR rose $1.73, to $34.54. UAL climbed $1.45, to $36.55. C7.

OPEC Is Expected to Reduce Output
OPEC is convening today in Vienna and is expected to announce a reduction of daily output of 3 percent to 4 percent in an effort to shore up falling oil prices. The move could backfire, analysts warned, if a sharp increase in oil prices sinks the shaky world economy. C5.

Dow Nudges Back Above 10,000
Blue-chip investors won a modest reprieve from the week's heavy selling as the Dow Jones industrial average nudged back above 10,000. The Dow rose 57.82 points, or 0.6 percent, to 10,031.28. The Standard & Poor's 500-stock index gained 6.85 points, to 1,173.56, while the Nasdaq composite index slipped 31.38 points, or 1.6 percent, to 1,940.71. C8.

The stock market's shrapnel is spraying all over York, Pa., an industrial town, just under 200 miles from Wall Street. A1.

Nokia Quarterly Profits Are Flat
Nokia said first-quarter profits would be about the same as a year earlier, even though sales of its mobile phones are falling short of expectations. World Business, Section W.

Ex-Labor Official to Lead Coke Panel
Alexis M. Herman, the former labor secretary, will be the chairwoman of a seven-member panel that will oversee Coca-Cola's diversity efforts. The panel was created by the terms of a settlement of a class-action discrimination suit against Coke and has the power to make binding recommendations about how the company hires, promotes and evaluates employees who are women or minorities. Ms. Herman represents the tie-breaking vote. C7.

The Past Repeats Itself in Japan
A strong sense of the past repeating itself hung over Japan, as policy makers scrambled to brake a falling stock market and revive the flagging economy. The government appeared poised to once again use public funds to prop up stocks, two years after swearing off such interference. World Business, Section W.

GRAPHIC: Photo Graph tracks the daily closing price of UAL shares since Thursday. Chart: "YESTERDAY"Dow industrials -- 10,031.28 up 57.82Nasdaq composite -- 1,940.71 down 31.3810-yr. Treasury yield -- 4.78% down 0.04The euro -- $0.8997 down 0.0120The dollar -- 122.32 yen up 1.21 Graph: "TODAY" shows Housing ConstructionFebruary figures due at 8:30 a.m. Eastern time.Expected: -3.1%Graph tracks figures from August to January. Producer Price IndexFebruary figures due at 8:30 a.m. Eastern time.Expected: No changeGraph tracks index from August to January. Industrial ProductionFebruary figures due at 9:15 a.m. Eastern time.Expected: -0.3%Graph tracks figures from August to Janary.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Summary 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: APPROVALS (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); STOCK INDEXES (90%); NEWS BRIEFS (90%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY LAW (90%); LAYOFFS (90%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (90%); PETROLEUM PRODUCTS (90%); COMPANY EARNINGS (90%); EARNINGS PER SHARE (89%); INTERIM FINANCIAL RESULTS (89%); COMPANY PROFITS (89%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (78%); BUSINESS FORECASTS (78%); WORKPLACE DIVERSITY (78%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (78%); EARNINGS PREANNOUNCEMENTS (78%); WOMEN (76%); PERSONAL DEBT (76%); LEGISLATION (75%); SETTLEMENT & COMPROMISE (74%); CAPITAL EXPENDITURES (73%); RECRUITMENT & HIRING (73%); AIRLINES (73%); LABOR DEPARTMENTS (73%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (73%); PRICE INCREASES (71%); WIRELESS INDUSTRY (71%); OIL & GAS PRICES (70%); EMPLOYEE PROMOTIONS (69%); MOBILE & CELLULAR COMMUNICATIONS (66%); SUITS & CLAIMS (65%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS EQUIPMENT (60%); CLASS ACTIONS (60%); MOBILE & CELLULAR TELEPHONES (60%); DISCRIMINATION (60%) NO INDEX TERMS FROM NYTIMES 

COMPANY: AMR CORP (92%); UNITED AIR LINES INC (56%); COCA-COLA CO (51%)

ORGANIZATION: ORGANIZATION OF THE PETROLEUM EXPORTING COUNTRIES (82%)

TICKER: KO (NYSE) (51%)

INDUSTRY: SIC4512 AIR TRANSPORTATION, SCHEDULED (92%); NAICS312111 SOFT DRINK MANUFACTURING (51%); SIC2086 BOTTLED & CANNED SOFT DRINKS & CARBONATED WATER (51%)

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (55%)

GEOGRAPHIC: VIENNA, AUSTRIA (76%); YORK, PA, USA (52%) PENNSYLVANIA, USA (70%) UNITED STATES (79%); AUSTRIA (76%)

LOAD-DATE: March 16, 2001 



400 of 868 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 16, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section C; Column 5; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1141 words

HEADLINE: Bankruptcy Bill Tightens Rules For Businesses 

BYLINE:  By RIVA D. ATLAS

 BODY:
Most of the proposed changes in the bankruptcy bill passed by the Senate yesterday concern individuals, but the new rules for corporations could ultimately affect far more people.
 The revised law would give faltering businesses less time to settle their debts and reorganize. The changes, intended to prevent companies from languishing in bankruptcy court, could force more small companies out of business, even supporters of the bill say. And critics say the result may be a loss of jobs at a time when the employment outlook is already weakening. 
 The bill would define small businesses as companies with debts of $3 million or less. Such companies account for more than 80 percent of the 9,000 companies that filed for protection from creditors under Chapter 11 of the bankruptcy code last year, according to the National Bankruptcy Conference, a nonpartisan group of academics, judges and lawyers that has studied changes to the bankruptcy law since the 1930's.
The proposed legislation would set strict timetables for small companies to reorganize, including a deadline of 175 days for a court confirmation of a bankruptcy plan if there is no organized creditors' group monitoring the case.
Some judges now put companies on such a fast track but are willing to be flexible if a company needs extra time, because of seasonal business swings or other factors.
Companies that cannot meet the deadline will have their cases dismissed or be pushed from Chapter 11, which is intended to give them time to get their house in order, into Chapter 7, which forces them to liquidate their assets.
"Here we are on the precipice of a serious recession," said Elizabeth Warren, a professor at Harvard Law School and an expert on bankruptcies. "Why would you be pushing for liquidation of companies at a time like this?"
The proposed deadline and certain other provisions affecting corporations have been opposed by academics and lawyers as well as union officials who are worried about their members' jobs. Last year, companies with an estimated two million workers filed for bankruptcy, while 1.2 million individuals filed, Professor Warren said.
Damon Silvers, associate general counsel of the A.F.L.-C.I.O., said, "The bill contains a group of rather technical provisions that we think damage the ability of the bankruptcy system to preserve companies as going concerns."
Small businesses generally owe relatively small sums, and typically no creditors are actively lobbying to get their money back. As a result, many of these companies now linger in Chapter 11 rather than speedily dispensing with their debts.
Supporters of the bill say the changes are necessary to preserve the rights of creditors. "Normally, it takes two to three years before creditors see a dime," said Judge Edith H. Jones of the United States Court of Appeals for the Fifth Circuit in Texas. "Time is money."
Judge Jones, one of the biggest supporters of the small-business changes, served on a commission set up by Congress in 1994 to make recommendations on overhauling the bankruptcy code. A prominent Republican, she is viewed as a potential candidate for the Supreme Court.
The bill's supporters acknowledge that some companies that would be able to reorganize under the current law would probably suffer. "The assessment was that maybe we're better off liquidating a handful of companies too soon," said Todd J. Zywicki, a professor at the George Mason University Law School, who advised Congress on the bill.
Senator Christopher S. Bond, Republican of Missouri, chairman of the Senate's Small Business Committee, promoted an amendment giving judges discretion on how quickly small companies have to file reorganization plans, but that amendment failed to win the support yesterday of Senator Charles E. Grassley, a sponsor of the bankruptcy bill, according to a Senate official. Senator Bond settled for a change that clarified the bill's various deadlines, rather than eliminated them. 
Companies of all sizes would be affected by some other provisions in the bill. After filing under Chapter 11, companies would have only seven months to reject a property lease. Retailers would be hurt the most by that. The current system "creates instability in a strip mall," Professor Zywicki said. "It's hard for a landlord to fill space when you know the anchor tenant might not be there." 
The amount recovered by creditors could actually be diminished by the new provisions, said Harvey Miller, head of the bankruptcy practice at Weil, Gotshal & Manges, who advised Macy's on its reorganization, which took nearly four years during the 1990's. If the lease provision had been in effect, he said, unsecured creditors would have wound up with far less.
Macy's creditors would also have been hurt by a change in the law that would limit to 18 months a large debtor's exclusive right to file a reorganization plan. Such debtors now have 120 days, but a bankruptcy judge can extend this period of exclusivity indefinitely.
Supporters of the law say the change will keep management from stalling for time and will make it easier for creditors and others to offer their own proposals. But Mr. Miller said that by staying in bankruptcy longer, Macy's ultimately increased creditors' recoveries by 30 percent.
The bill would also make it impossible for a company to settle debts owed to a creditor who, according to an analysis by the National Bankruptcy Conference, "can persuade a court that it relied on a writing that was materially false respecting the debtor's financial condition."
This provision could be used by a renegade creditor, such as the financier Carl C. Icahn in the pending reorganization of Trans World Airlines, to impede a company's getting a fresh start.
Another, more obscure, provision of the bill would affect certain loans that are secured by assets. The bill would allow creditors to seize those assets, and that could make it difficult for the corporation to continue to operate. Last month, a bankruptcy judge ruled against such an asset transfer in the bankruptcy case of LTV, a steel maker that filed for bankruptcy in December. The judge noted that the transfer of assets would mean LTV would be "forced to shut its doors and cease operations."
While a technicality in the bill could have exempted LTV, the measure "could affect other companies in similar circumstances," said Bruce Bennett, a lawyer who represented LTV. 
Bankruptcy experts say they are frustrated that the changes in corporate reorganizations have received so little attention from lawmakers. "There was not significant consideration of the business provisions in any of the hearings," said J. Ronald Trost, chairman of the National Bankruptcy Conference and until recently the head of the bankruptcy practice at Sidley & Austin. "Most of these changes were swept in without any real analysis." 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY LAW (93%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (92%); LEGISLATION (91%); US CHAPTER 11 BANKRUPTCY (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); BUSINESS INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (90%); LIQUIDATIONS (89%); SMALL BUSINESS (89%); LAWYERS (89%); BUSINESS CLOSINGS (78%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY COURTS (78%); APPELLATE DECISIONS (78%); US CHAPTER 7 BANKRUPTCY (78%); LOBBYING (78%); COMPANY LIQUIDATIONS & DISSOLUTIONS (78%); JUDGES (76%); LAYOFFS (76%); EMPLOYMENT (76%); RECESSION (75%); ECONOMIC NEWS (75%); LAW SCHOOLS (72%); CORPORATE COUNSEL (72%); APPEALS COURTS (71%); LABOR UNIONS (70%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (63%) Terms not available from NYTimes. 

PERSON: ELIZABETH WARREN (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: March 16, 2001 

 
