

601 of 738 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 25, 1999

SECTION: Section 1; Page 13; Column 1; Foreign Desk

LENGTH: 1245 words

HEADLINE: Venezuelan Leader Pushes for New Charter, but Is It Reformist Tool or a Power Grab?

BYLINE: By LARRY ROHTER

DATELINE: CARACAS, Venezuela, July 24

 BODY:
The fate of South America's longest-running, if turbulent, democracy hangs in the balance in the vote on Sunday to select delegates to write a new constitution -- the 27th in Venezuela's history, although the first since 1961.
But that may be the only point on which President Hugo Chavez and his opponents agree. 
 Mr. Chavez maintains that only a new charter will enable him to carry out the "peaceful social revolution" he promised in his successful presidential campaign last year.
His critics contend that the election of the 131 members of the National Constituent Assembly is their last chance to prevent Venezuela, the largest foreign supplier of oil to the United States in recent years, from slipping into what they see as a coming one-man dictatorship.
"On paper, this is a laudable initiative, an effort to get representatives of the people together to discuss where we have failed and to rethink who we are," said Jorge Olavarria, a lawyer and historian who was an early political adviser to Mr. Chavez but has now broken with the President and is running for an assembly seat on an anti-Chavez slate. "But in reality, it is a plan for Chavez to carry out a coup under legal cover."
Among the changes that Mr. Chavez, a 45-year-old former army colonel who organized an unsuccessful coup attempt in 1992, wants enshrined in a new constitution is the right to succeed himself in office. When sworn in early in February, he contemptuously described the current 1961 Constitution as "moribund," and on repeated occasions he has acted as if the charter had already been revoked and his own powers expanded.
This month, for instance, Mr. Chavez promoted 34 military officers who had been part of his 1992 uprising, defying a warning by the Senate that his action was unconstitutional.
He has also made Gen. Lucas Rincon his chief of staff, a move thatopposition leaders said also violates a law prohibiting active duty soldiers from holding such posts.
And he tried to put military officers in charge of the police, provoking threats of resignations there.
"The decision is mine," Mr. Chavez said in brushing aside the disapproval of the Senate, whose powers of advise and consent are even more extensive than those of its American counterpart.
"I am commander in chief of the armed forces."
In addition, Mr. Chavez has bypassed Government ministries and put some 70,000 soldiers to work on huge public works projects, building schools and hospitals, providing free medical services and selling food to the poor below market cost.
Beginning in September, the Government also intends to send soldiers into the schools to teach military doctrine to students.
"Chavez's ultimate goal is to remain in power, converting the traditional political class into a scapegoat and making the armed forces his political party," said Anibal Romero, author of "Security, Defense and Democracy in Venezuela," and other books. "Some of the things he is doing, such as his flirtation with Fidel Castro, bother them, but they like the fact that he is incorporating them into his Government and giving them civilian posts."
The election, which will take Venezuelans to the polls for the fourth time in less than a year, is nominally nonpartisan. But the campaign has turned into a bare-knuckles display of political brinkmanship, with Mr. Chavez, who enjoys an 80 percent approval rating in the latest polls, inevitably at the center of the fray.
When the National Electoral Council, for instance, ruled that Mr. Chavez could not actively campaign for candidates from his own party, he was defiant.
"If they want to take me to jail, let them come for me," he said. "Here I am."
But when the same body last week barred his weekly radio and television shows until after the vote, his response was to comply with the letter of the verdict, though not the spirit.
He sent aides to substitute for him at the radio program last Sunday and then called in as a guest. The President then circumvented the ban on his television show by using his powers as head of state to convoke a national network for a speech that all stations were obliged to carry.
"They can bind me with 1,000 chains, but Hugo Chavez will keep on talking," he said during the telephone call to the radio program. Fined the equivalent of $7,700 by the tribunal because of the violations, Mr. Chavez has set up stands on the street to collect donations from supporters to pay the penalty.
"We must help Chavez root out the corruption that is eating away at this country," Pedro Rafael Hernandez Ochoa, a supporter of the President, said Thursday night at a ceremony at which money was delivered to Mr. Chavez at the Presidential Palace to pay the fine. "The rotten political elite is blocking his way, and only with a new Magna Carta can he make the changes we need to make Venezuela a true democracy."
Forbidden by law from being a candidate himself, Mr. Chavez has urged his wife, Marisabel, a radio broadcaster with no previous political experience, to run as his standard-bearer. In addition, five members of his Cabinet resigned to run for assembly seats, joining former President Carlos Andres Perez, against whom the 1992 coup was directed, and lawyers, economists, athletes, journalists and even an astrologer among the 1,059 candidates.
 The President is also facing an investigation into whether he has misused state funds to promote his candidates. He has described that effort as part of a politically motivated conspiracy to weaken his fight "against the tyranny of corruption and the elites that destroyed this country."
Eduardo Roche, the nation's Comptroller General, retorted: "The President can be certain that insults and falsehoods do not frighten me. He must understand that this office will never be subservient."
Despite the passions aroused by the issues, and the country's history of military strongmen and coups before the 1961 Constitution, the campaign his been generally peaceful.
On Wednesday, though, four people in white hoods interrupted a university forum featuring Alberto Franceschi, an outspoken opposition leader who is expected to be the principal anti-Chavez spokesman in the assembly, and detonated a series of bombs. No one was injured in the incident. But Mr. Franceschi described the episode as "a humiliating display of Chavez-style democracy," intended to "silence the voice of the opposition."
There are persistent reports that Mr. Chavez's ruling coalition, the Patriotic Pole, has agreed that the top vote-getter will be made president of the assembly, with powers to control the agenda and pace of work.
In a television interview this week, Mrs. Chavez, who polls indicate may win that distinction, said she was unaware of such an arrangement, but added, "I feel prepared and would accept the challenge."
Whatever the result, further conflict is expected. Despite rulings by the Supreme Court to the contrary, Mr. Chavez has said the assembly will have the power to dissolve Congress and the courts and assume their powers until a new charter is approved, indicating on several occasions that he wants it to do precisely that.
"The Constituent Assembly is going to be the moment of truth for Chavez," said Dr. Romero, who is a professor of political science at Simon Bolivar University here. "It is going to force him to define a path, and I believe that path is going to be one of military populism and anti-imperialism."
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photos: President Hugo Chavez wooed a future voter after an Independence Day ceremony this month. He was accompanied by his wife, Marisabel (Reuters). Supporters filled a box with money and delivered it to Mr. Chavez to help him pay a $7,700 fine imposed for violating campaign laws. (Associated Press)
 
Map showing the location of Caracas: Venezuelans will vote today for a National Constituent Assembly.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: VENEZUELA, BOLIVARIAN REPUBLIC OF (96%); SOUTH AMERICA (92%); UNITED STATES (92%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: VENEZUELA, BOLIVARIAN REPUBLIC OF (96%); SOUTH AMERICA (92%); UNITED STATES (92%); 

SUBJECT: Terms not available from NYTimes. COUPS (90%); ARMED FORCES (89%); HISTORY (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (78%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (78%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (78%); ARMIES (73%); MEDICAL CHARITIES (60%); SCHOOL BUILDINGS (60%); INFRASTRUCTURE (50%); 

PERSON: HUGO CHAVEZ (91%); 

LOAD-DATE: July 27, 1999



602 of 738 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 25, 1999

SECTION: Section 1; Page 3; Column 1; Foreign Desk

LENGTH: 1090 words

HEADLINE: To Spur German Economy, Schroder Offers Veer to Right

BYLINE: By ROGER COHEN

DATELINE: BERLIN, July 24

 BODY:
After nine months of confused inertia in economic policy, Chancellor Gerhard Schroder has at last set out where his New Middle in politics lies -- and it is a long way to the right of anything previously embraced by the German leader's Social Democratic Party.
Abandoning the hesitations that have left Europe's economic engine stalled with unemployment at more than 10 percent, Mr. Schroder's Government this week set out a radical agenda of American-inspired changes aimed at making Germany more nimble, less regulated, more entrepreneurial and less dependent on the state. 
 A glossy Economics Ministry report on the sweeping program of cutbacks in state spending and plans for tax changes and deregulation quoted the chairman of the Bertelsmann media company, Dr. Mark Wossner, as saying, "A piece of America -- without losing the social aspect of our market economy -- that is the road to greater German prosperity."
Embracing such a message amounts to a big political gamble by Mr. Schroder, whose political style has previously been one of sit-on-the-fence prudence in economic matters and whose party still finds the bedrock of its support among workers, labor unions, teachers and other state employees who have little enthusiasm for the wonders of Wall Street.
"As with Kosovo in military questions, the Social Democrats are now trying to go way beyond what Chancellor Kohl and the Christian Democrats ever dared in economic matters," Karsten Voigt, a Social Democrat, said. "But there are considerable dangers, because many feel the party's traditions have been betrayed."
Those dangers include possible defeat in elections in 5 of the 16 states in the next few months, including a vote in the capital, Berlin. It remains far from clear that the Social Democrats, with no Thatcherite legacy to build on, can follow Tony Blair's Labor Party in veering steeply rightward without heavy cost.
But with Europe's long-term prospects and its new currency, the euro, dependent on Germany's economic performance and high unemployment sapping the country's self-esteem, Mr. Schroder evidently felt that further hesitation was unacceptable. Although his reputation was salvaged as the "war chancellor" in the Kosovo conflict, the Social Democratic leader has seen his popularity sag since the fighting ended.
His proposed medicine looks dire -- slashing state spending by $16 billion next year, freezing pensions for two years, ending many subsidies and cutting the state's share of national income, from 48.8 percent today to 40 over the next several years.
In addition, Mr. Schroder has made clear that he wants to balance the budget, lower taxes and abandon the collective sector-by-sector wage bargaining that has been a feature of the social-market economy in favor of wage negotiations based on productivity gains in individual companies.
The Government produced a welter of grim statistics to back the need for change. The share of long-term unemployed, those out of work for more than a year, has risen, from 9.6 percent in 1975 to more than 36 percent today. The state's share of the economy has jumped, from 39 percent in 1970 to almost 49 today.
Although unemployment in the United States was far higher than in Germany in 1983, it now stands at less than half the German level. And the share of wages represented by payments for various social insurance programs has soared, from 26.5 percent in 1970 to 42.3 percent today.
On that basis, Economic Minister Werner Muller roundly dismissed Germany's hugely successful postwar economic model as one "now stumbling along at the cost of future generations."
Mr. Wossner said the chief problem lay in a "leveling of wages" and an "oversupply of Social Security" that had resulted in a lack of "performance-related incentive for those willing to work."
Bertelsmann has acquired Random House over the last year, and other big German companies like banks and automakers have also been investing heavily overseas, partly to offset their dependence on a sluggish German economy, which has the highest labor costs in the world.
It is clear that it is the global outlook of such corporations that Mr. Schroder, who was on the board of Volkswagen before he became Chancellor last year, is trying to bring to the German economy as a whole. His sympathies have long stood further to the right than those of many of his fellow party members, but he had previously hesitated to discuss them.
In finally doing so, he risks reinforcing a widespread sense in Germany that tax and other economic policy has tended to favor the wealthy while penalizing workers on the pretext that they have to adjust to the realities of global competition.
"The New Middle is full of slogans like responsibility, self-reliance and new entrepreneurship, but the reality is that most Germans are employees and workers, and once again they are being asked to make sacrifices," said Susanne Stumpenhusen, a Social Democrat who is head of the union of public-sector workers in Berlin.
"For example," Ms. Stumpenhusen said, "we are now told that labor unions must exercise wage restraint, because tax cuts will more than compensate for any salary losses. But we have yet to see any of those tax benefits. Only when the tax money is in our pockets can we discuss this sort of thing."
Like many union members, she expressed sympathy for the alternative proposals put forward by Oskar Lafontaine, who was ousted this year as Finance Minister. Those centered on raising wages to stimulate demand and jump-start the economy.
"The economic program is one-sided, a pure expression of neo-liberal economics," Michael Knoche of the IG Bau construction union said. "Instead of adopting the view of big companies, Mr. Schroder should have focused on some of Mr. Lafontaine's ideas."
But the fact is that Mr. Lafontaine is gone, and Mr. Schroder knows that he almost certainly cannot win the elections in 2002 with unemployment at its current level and Europe's biggest economy stalled.
The essence of his political gamble this week appears to be that short-term setbacks are acceptable if a real reform can be pushed through that would restore Germany's confidence in its ability to find employment for its people.
"Schroder has thrown down a gauntlet, declaring that yesterday's ideology has no place, even if most of his party does not support him," Lutz Erbring, a political scientist, said. "In essence, he is gambling that a majority of Germans have the common sense to see that he is right." 
http://www.nytimes.com

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

INDUSTRY: SIC2731 BOOKS: PUBLISHING, OR PUBLISHING & PRINTING (56%); 

COUNTRY: GERMANY (96%); EUROPE (93%); KOSOVO (92%); UNITED STATES (92%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (92%); 

CITY: BERLIN, GERMANY (92%); 

COMPANY: BERTELSMANN MEDIA SP ZOO (56%); SOCIAL DEMOCRATIC PARTY (58%); SOCIAL DEMOCRATIC PARTY (58%); 

ORGANIZATION: SOCIAL DEMOCRATIC PARTY (58%); SOCIAL DEMOCRATIC PARTY (58%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: GERMANY (96%); EUROPE (93%); KOSOVO (92%); UNITED STATES (92%); NEW YORK, USA (92%); BERLIN, GERMANY (92%); 

SUBJECT: Terms not available from NYTimes. ECONOMIC NEWS (91%); POLITICS (90%); PUBLIC POLICY (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (89%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (78%); BUDGETS (78%); ELECTIONS (77%); TAXES & TAXATION (77%); CIVIL SERVICES (76%); ENTREPRENEURSHIP (75%); TAX LAW (74%); DEREGULATION (74%); PRODUCTIVITY (71%); LABOR UNIONS (66%); CURRENCIES (61%); 

PERSON: GERHARD SCHRODER (91%); TONY BLAIR (55%); 

LOAD-DATE: July 27, 1999



603 of 738 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 25, 1999

SECTION: Section 1; Page 14; Column 1; National Desk

LENGTH: 1542 words

HEADLINE: Two-Way Presidential Coattails

BYLINE: By RICHARD L. BERKE

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, July 24

 BODY:
After his galling defeat by the Governor of Arkansas in 1992, President George Bush became something of an outcast in his own party. At Republican functions, speakers rattled on longingly about Ronald Reagan. But never about Mr. Bush. It was as if Republicans had collective amnesia about the man who led their party and the nation from 1989 to 1992.
Not anymore. The President who was belittled for breaking his no-new-taxes pledge and ridiculed as a passive, in-box President who dealt only with matters in front of him, is now basking in the glow of a surprisingly early, and positive, reassessment of his stewardship. 
 It is common for Americans to like their Presidents better after they leave office. But the resurgence of respect for Mr. Bush -- a view demonstrated in polls and expressed in interviews with dozens of Republicans at all levels, and even held by some Democrats -- has occurred surprisingly quickly.
History books aside, the shift carries more immediate political implications. Worried that Mr. Bush's enhanced stature is helping his son, Gov. George W. Bush of Texas, stampede to the Republican Presidential nomination, the Governor's foes are trying to tamp down the reassessment of the Bush Presidency.
Just last week, President Clinton offered a not-so-nostalgic recollection of the Bush years in a speech in Baltimore. And two of Governor Bush's rivals for the nomination, Steve Forbes, the multimillionaire publisher, and Lamar Alexander, a former Education Secretary, have ridiculed the elder Mr. Bush's slogan about a "kinder and gentler" country -- a not-so-subtle effort to condemn the Governor's similarly feel-good slogan of "compassionate conservatism."
Sixty percent of Americans have a favorable view of the former President and only 17 percent have an unfavorable view, a CBS News Poll conducted last month found. It is not the adulation Mr. Bush enjoyed after the Persian Gulf war, when his job approval rating catapulted as high as 90 percent. But it is far better than in a CBS News/New York Times poll the month before he was ousted by Mr. Clinton. Then, Mr. Bush was rated favorably by 35 percent and unfavorably by 45 percent.
"People have in retrospect a rosy nostalgic view and warm feelings toward him," said Gary Orren, a professor of public policy at Harvard's Kennedy School of Government.
"The difficulties that Bill Clinton has had have only amplified the contrasts: in retrospect he looks even more virtuous. That George W. is the moon getting a lot of bright light off his father is something you might not have predicted in November of 1992, when the economy was bad and there was all the hopefulness about Clinton."
Indeed, many people, particularly Republicans, said that after the Clinton scandals they have a new appreciation for Mr. Bush's personal rectitude. Many also cited a greater appreciation for his effort to end the cold war.
Sounding a familiar refrain among active Republicans, Michael McDaniel, chairman of the Indiana Republican Party, said, "Believe me, there's a big buyer's remorse out there."
Mr. Bush, who is 75, and his son, 53, appear to be drawing residual benefit from each other. Governor Bush is so enormously popular in his party that many Republicans look fondly upon the former President for being part of his son's winning aura, even as they praise the son as a far looser and more natural politician.
"We are in a country that excessively loves winners and we tend to be hard on Presidents who were defeated in office after one term," said Michael R. Beschloss, a Presidential historian. "But when you have a son who seems the likely favorite to be a Republican nominee and possibly the next President, it causes people to look for good things about his father."
He said a similar dynamic was last at play with the Roosevelts; people had a much more positive view of Theodore Roosevelt after he left office because of the popularity of his cousin, President Franklin D. Roosevelt.
Yet the dynamic works both ways: the younger Mr. Bush benefits from his father's name and reputation: he draws instant credibility as the offspring of someone who served in the Oval Office and left Washington with his integrity intact. (The same factors affect another Bush son, Jeb, the Governor of Florida.)
"The romanticism of his being the son of a former President just makes it that much more sexy," said Georgette Mosbacher, a co-chairwoman of Senator John McCain's Presidential campaign whose former husband, Robert, was Mr. Bush's Commerce Secretary.
Robert M. Teeter, a pollster in Michigan who ran the 1992 Bush campaign, said: "People just automatically say, 'If this guy is George and Barbara Bush's son, we don't have any question about those personal qualities that we were fooled on by Clinton.' That's where his family heritage really works for him."
Except for two high-profile parachute jumps, the last in June to celebrate his 75th birthday, the elder Mr. Bush has done nothing to aggressively reshape his image. Unlike most Presidents, he has no plans to write his memoirs, though he did write a book on foreign policy with Brent Scowcroft, "A World Transformed" (Knopf, 1998). If anything, Mr. Bush's decision not to speak out about the transgressions of his successor has probably enhanced his reputation as an elder statesman who is above politics.
Characteristically, Mr. Bush went out of his way not to gloat when asked to comment for this article. "I am unfamiliar with the polling numbers you talked about," Mr. Bush said in a typewritten note faxed from his home in Kennebunkport, Me. "But if what you say is true -- well, that is very nice. Since leaving the White House, I have tried hard to stay out of the limelight. I also have not tried to shape history. I will leave it up to the historians and academics to figure all that out. What I hope they will say is that we got some things right, made some mistakes, but served with honor."
Ronald Kaufman, who was Mr. Bush's political director in the White House and is still his political adviser, said there had been a dramatic rise in requests for the former President to appear at party functions.
"In '93, we'd get maybe two or three requests a month, max, like, 'Can he do the Lincoln Day speech for the Harris County Republican Party in Texas?' " Mr. Kaufman said. "I'd get calls, 'Do you think the President would mind asking his son if he'd be the speaker?' But this year, I probably get from 25 to 30 requests a week for him to be the headliner at events like the Republican National Committee's annual gala."
Mr. Bush is not as adored as Mr. Reagan in his party. There are still lingering hard feelings from the 1992 campaign; a month before that election Mr. Bush was faring so poorly that only two dozen of more than 400 Republican Congressional candidates accepted Mr. Bush's offer to appear in campaign videos with him.
In fact, his improved popularity may come as much from moderates as from hard-core conservatives who never quite trusted Mr. Bush as a genuine conservative -- and still do not. "I think he's a more beloved figure in the country than in the party," Mr. Teeter said. "It's the marginal, more independent Republicans who look back and say, 'Gee, compared to Clinton, he's wonderful.' "
A poll conducted in March for Fox television found that if the 1992 election were held now -- certainly a fanciful notion -- Mr. Bush would draw 58 percent of the vote; Mr. Clinton, 37 percent. But it is impossible to decipher the accuracy of a survey that asks people to re-evaluate how they voted. For all anyone knows, respondents were confusing Mr. Bush with his son, who has dominated the political news for months.
In his speech last week, Mr. Clinton did not mention his predecessor by name, but clearly sought to dash any fond memories of the Bush era. "We may have to remind our fellow citizens in times to come just what it was like back then," Mr. Clinton said. "How high the unemployment was, how stagnant the wages were, how steeply growing the inequality was, how fast the social conditions were worsening."
The efforts to link the younger Bush with his father are inevitable because of their similarities. They both have sought to take any harsh edge off their Republican principles. They both toiled in the Texas oil business. But while the elder Bush had long expertise in foreign policy and Federal matters, the Governor's has been limited to state government.
But the biggest difference, cited by many Republicans, is that Governor Bush's hands-on, wade-into-the-crowd campaigning style more resembles Mr. Clinton's than that of President Bush.
"George W. has that Clintonesque, Reaganesque ability of relating to people that was George senior's major problem," said Mike Kiedrowski, executive director of the Republican Party in Montana. "He's much more like Ronald Reagan than his father. But in retrospect, President Bush has gained over the years. I may not agree with every policy, certainly not the '90 tax increase. But he was a good leader."
Billy Van Devender, a Republican national committeeman from Mississippi, said of the younger Bush, "He's got all the attributes of his dad, but his son can do it a lot better."
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photo: Former President George Bush, left, has grown in stature with the public, according to popularity polls. Mr. Bush campaigned 10 days ago in Providence, R.I., with Lincoln Chafee, who is running for the Senate. (Associated Press)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (95%); 

STATE: ARKANSAS, USA (92%); TEXAS, USA (79%); RHODE ISLAND, USA (79%); 

CITY: PROVIDENCE, RI, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: INDIANA REPUBLICAN PARTY (65%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (95%); ARKANSAS, USA (92%); TEXAS, USA (79%); RHODE ISLAND, USA (79%); PROVIDENCE, RI, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: Terms not available from NYTimes. US PRESIDENTS (91%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); GOVERNORS (90%); CONSERVATISM (78%); INTERVIEWS (78%); PUBLIC POLICY (78%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (78%); POLLS & SURVEYS (75%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (73%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (71%); EDUCATION DEPARTMENTS (64%); DESERT STORM (61%); 

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (94%); RONALD REAGAN (92%); BILL CLINTON (91%); LINCOLN CHAFEE (58%); LAMAR ALEXANDER (58%); 

LOAD-DATE: July 27, 1999



604 of 738 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 25, 1999

SECTION: Section 1; Page 12; Column 6; Foreign Desk

LENGTH: 333 words

HEADLINE: Asian Group Lends Support To Beijing Over Taiwan

BYLINE: Reuters

DATELINE: SINGAPORE, July 24

 BODY:
Southeast Asian foreign ministers weighed into the China-Taiwan dispute today, giving support to Beijing's "one China" policy in a communique that also warned that rising tensions could harm economic growth.
Tensions between China and Taiwan will be the backdrop for a meeting between Secretary of State Madeleine K. Albright and the Chinese Foreign Minister, Tang Jiaxuan, on Sunday. It will be the highest level diplomatic meeting between China and the United States since the NATO bombing of Beijing's embassy in Belgrade in May. 
 The two will hold talks on the sidelines of the annual meeting of foreign ministers from the Association of Southeast Asian Nations, which runs until Wednesday.
The foreign ministers at the meeting said they hope for a peaceful resolution to the conflict between China and Taiwan, which was renewed when President Lee Teng-hui of Taiwan said on July 9 that it was ending the "one China" policy, which had kept the peace in the Taiwan Strait for decades.
Negotiations with China would take place on a state-to-state basis, Mr. Lee said.
China continues to consider Taiwan a renegade province. The notion of "one China" stems from the civil war that ended in 1949, when Taipei and Beijing both claimed to be the one legitimate government of all of China.
"We expressed our concern over the tension that arose in the Taiwan Strait after July, 9, 1999, which could seriously affect regional peace and stability and prospects for economic recovery," the communique said.
"We hoped for a quick and peaceful return to normalcy. We reaffirmed our commitment to our 'One China Policy.' "
The organization includes Malaysia, Singapore, Indonesia, the Philippines, Thailand, Vietnam, Cambodia, Laos, Brunei and Myanmar.
The communique also included a reference to a code of conduct for the Spratly Islands, a contested cluster of potentially oil- and gas-rich islands that are claimed by China, the Philippines, Brunei, Taiwan, Malaysia and Vietnam. 
http://www.nytimes.com

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: CHINA (99%); TAIWAN (97%); SOUTH-EASTERN ASIA (93%); ASIA (93%); PHILIPPINES (92%); MALAYSIA (92%); UNITED STATES (92%); SINGAPORE (92%); BRUNEI DARUSSALAM (92%); LAO PEOPLE'S DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC (79%); INDONESIA (79%); SERBIA (79%); SPRATLY ISLANDS (79%); MYANMAR (79%); THAILAND (79%); CAMBODIA (79%); 

STATE: NORTH CENTRAL CHINA (93%); 

CITY: BEIJING, CHINA (94%); BELGRADE, SERBIA (79%); TAIPEI, TAIWAN (79%); 

COMPANY: ASSOCIATION OF SOUTHEAST ASIAN NATIONS (57%); NORTH ATLANTIC TREATY ORGANIZATION (57%); 

ORGANIZATION: ASSOCIATION OF SOUTHEAST ASIAN NATIONS (57%); NORTH ATLANTIC TREATY ORGANIZATION (57%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: CHINA (99%); TAIWAN (97%); SOUTH-EASTERN ASIA (93%); ASIA (93%); PHILIPPINES (92%); MALAYSIA (92%); UNITED STATES (92%); SINGAPORE (92%); BRUNEI DARUSSALAM (92%); LAO PEOPLE'S DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC (79%); INDONESIA (79%); SERBIA (79%); SPRATLY ISLANDS (79%); MYANMAR (79%); THAILAND (79%); CAMBODIA (79%); NORTH CENTRAL CHINA (93%); BEIJING, CHINA (94%); BELGRADE, SERBIA (79%); TAIPEI, TAIWAN (79%); 

SUBJECT: Terms not available from NYTimes. INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (90%); FOREIGN RELATIONS (90%); STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (90%); TALKS & MEETINGS (90%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (90%); FOREIGN POLICY (78%); EMBASSIES & CONSULATES (78%); WAR & CONFLICT (78%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (77%); ECONOMIC RECOVERY (77%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (74%); BOMBINGS (70%); 

PERSON: LEE TENG-HUI (64%); 

LOAD-DATE: July 27, 1999



605 of 738 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 25, 1999

SECTION: Section 1; Page 14; Column 6; National Desk

LENGTH: 328 words

HEADLINE: Black Groups Switch Sites For Meetings In Flag Protest

BYLINE: AP

DATELINE: CHARLESTON, S.C., July 24

 BODY:
The National Urban League has become the second group this week to cancel a convention in Charleston to protest state lawmakers' refusal to remove the Confederate battle flag from the Capitol dome in Columbia.
Milton Little, the League's executive vice president and chief operating officer, said the group would select another site for a regional convention next spring. 
 On Tuesday, four days before it was to convene, the Southern Christian Leadership Conference canceled its convention in Charleston in protest over the flag.
The African Methodist Episcopal Churches also has said it will relocate its statewide youth conference scheduled for next year in Columbia.
The National Association for the Advancement of Colored People voted earlier this month, at the urging of its South Carolina chapter, to boycott the state for flying the banner.
The Urban League conference would have attracted members from 11 Southern states, said Maxine Martin, executive director of the Charleston Urban League.
Mr. Little said the withdrawal was a way to punish the state economically.
South Carolina's display of the Confederate battle flag raises concerns about its willingness to provide equal access for economic opportunity, Mr. Little said.
Gov. Jim Hodges, a Democrat, has said he supports removing the flag but will not push the issue. Former Gov. David Beasley, a Republican, encountered heavy opposition when he proposed removing the flag.
The effects of an N.A.A.C.P. boycott of South Carolina's convention industry could produce mixed results, The Charleston Post and Courier reported last week.
Some officials are worried that the number of moderately lucrative black family reunions could drop off, but others predict that the state's convention business will not be harmed much, the newspaper said.
That is because very few large conventions are held in South Carolina, primarily because space for meeting rooms and hotels is limited. 
http://www.nytimes.com

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (95%); 

STATE: SOUTH CAROLINA, USA (95%); SOUTHEAST USA (79%); 

CITY: CHARLESTON, SC, USA (95%); COLUMBIA, SC, USA (93%); 

COMPANY: NATIONAL ASSOCIATION OF SECURITIES DEALERS INC (57%); NATIONAL URBAN LEAGUE (91%); NATIONAL URBAN LEAGUE (91%); NATIONAL ASSOCIATION FOR THE ADVANCEMENT OF COLORED PEOPLE (54%); 

ORGANIZATION: NATIONAL URBAN LEAGUE (91%); NATIONAL URBAN LEAGUE (91%); NATIONAL ASSOCIATION FOR THE ADVANCEMENT OF COLORED PEOPLE (54%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (95%); SOUTH CAROLINA, USA (95%); SOUTHEAST USA (79%); CHARLESTON, SC, USA (95%); COLUMBIA, SC, USA (93%); 

SUBJECT: Terms not available from NYTimes. CONFERENCES & CONVENTIONS (91%); PROTESTS & DEMONSTRATIONS (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); BOYCOTTS (90%); EXECUTIVES (90%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (90%); HOSPITALITY INDUSTRY (78%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (78%); PROTESTANTS & PROTESTANTISM (76%); HOTEL MEETING FACILITIES (76%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (74%); RELIGION (71%); RELOCATIONS (71%); 

PERSON: MILTON LITTLE (88%); 

LOAD-DATE: July 27, 1999



606 of 738 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 25, 1999

SECTION: Section 1; Page 1; Column 2; National Desk

LENGTH: 1344 words

HEADLINE: National Parks, Strained by Record Crowds, Face a Crisis

BYLINE: By MICHAEL JANOFSKY

DATELINE: YELLOWSTONE NATIONAL PARK, Wyo., July 22

 BODY:
In growing numbers that now exceed 3.1 million a year, visitors travel here to America's oldest national park to marvel at wildlife, towering mountains, pristine rivers and geological curiosities like geysers, hot springs and volcanic mudpots.
Yet many things tourists may not see on a typical trip through Yellowstone's 2.2 million acres spread across parts of Idaho, Montana and Wyoming could have a greater impact on the park's future than the growl of a grizzly or spew of Old Faithful. 
 For all its beauty, Yellowstone is broken. Hordes of summer tourists and the increasing numbers now visiting in the spring, fall and winter are overwhelming the park's ability to accommodate them properly.
In recent years, the park's popularity has created such enormous demands on water lines, roads and personnel that park management has been forced to spend most of Yellowstone's annual operating budget, about $30 million, on immediate problems rather than investing in long-term solutions that would eliminate the troublesome areas.
Yellowstone is not the only national park suffering. With the nation's 378 national park areas expected to attract almost 300 million visitors this year, after a record 286 million in 1998, many parks are deferring urgently needed capital improvements.
For instance, damaged sewage pipes at Yellowstone have let so much ground water from spring thaws into the system that crews have had to siphon off millions of gallons of treated water into meadows each of the last four years.
And with budget restraints forcing personnel cutbacks in every department, even the number of park rangers with law-enforcement authority has dropped, contributing to a steady increase in crime throughout Yellowstone.
"It's so frustrating," Michael V. Finley, Yellowstone's superintendent, said. "As the park continues to deteriorate, the service level continues to decline. You see how many Americans enjoy this park. They deserve better."
Over the last decade the annual budget of the National Park Service, an agency of the Interior Department, has nearly doubled, to $1.9 billion for the fiscal year 1999 from $1.13 billion in 1990, an increase that narrowly outpaced inflation.
But in an assessment made last year, the park service estimated that it would cost $3.54 billion to repair maintenance problems at national parks, monuments and wilderness areas that have been put off -- for decades, in some cases -- because of a lack of money.
The cost of needed repairs at Yellowstone was put at $46 million, the most of any park area in the system. But the park service report shows that budget limits have forced virtually all national parks to set aside big maintenance projects, delays that many park officials say compromise visitor enjoyment and occasionally threaten their health and safety.
Senator Craig Thomas, a Wyoming Republican who is chairman of the Subcommittee on National Parks, and Bob Stanton, director of the park service, negotiated a deal this week to spend $12 million over the next three years for Yellowstone repairs.
Other parks may have to wait longer. The Grand Canyon National Park depends on a water treatment system that has not been upgraded in 30 years, a $20 million problem, park officials say. Parts of the Chesapeake and Ohio Canal National Historical Park along the Potomac River are crumbling, another $10 million expense. The Everglades National Park in South Florida needs a $15 million water treatment plant.
Even with a heightened awareness of need among Federal lawmakers and Clinton Administration officials, money to repair those problems may be hard to find at a time when Congress is wrestling over the true size of a projected budget surplus and how much of it will pay for tax cuts. If billions were to become available for new spending, the park service would still have to slug it out with every other Federal agency, and few predict that parks would emerge a big winner.
It is a disturbing prospect to conservationists, parks officials and those lawmakers who support increased spending to help the parks address their backlog of maintenance problems.
"It's kind of like a decayed tooth," said Dave Simon, the Southwest regional director for the National Parks and Conservation Association, a citizens' group that is working with Yellowstone to solve some of the long-term needs. "If you don't take care of it, one day you'll wake up with a mouthful of cavities."
The parks' supporters like Representative Ralph S. Regula, an Ohio Republican who is chairman of Appropriations Subcommittee on the Interior, concede that budgetary increases as well as revenue from new programs that allow parks to keep a greater share of entrance fees and concession sales have been offset by inflation, rising costs and daily operational demands that now accommodate 8.9 percent more people than those who visited national parks a decade ago.
With few dollars available for maintenance programs, the parks suffered "benign neglect," Mr. Regula said, adding: "It's not very sexy to fix a sewer system or maintain a trail. You don't get headlines for that. It would be nice to get them more money, but we're constrained."
Denis P. Galvin, the deputy director of the National Park Service, noted that only twice this century, in the 1930's and in 1966, has the Federal Government authorized money for systemwide capital improvements, and he said he was not expecting another windfall soon.
"Generally," Mr. Galvin said, "domestic programs come at the back of the line when they're formulating the Federal budget, and I just don't think parks are a priority."
Perhaps no park in America reflects the array of hidden problems more than Yellowstone, which opened in 1872, years before Idaho, Montana and Wyoming became states.
Park officials here say that the longer problems go unattended, the more expensive and threatening they become.
The budget restraints have meant reducing the number of rangers who carry guns and have the authority to make arrests.
Rick Obernesser, Yellowstone's chief ranger, said the roster had dwindled to 112 from 144 over the last 10 years, which often means leaving the park without any of these rangers from 2 A.M. to 6 A.M.
Next year, Mr. Obernesser said, the park will have only 93 of these rangers, about 1 for every 23,000 acres, compared with 1 for every 15,000 acres when his staff was at peak strength.
That has not only led to slower response times to emergencies, like auto accidents and heart attacks, he said, but also to an increase in crime. Since the peak staffing year of 1989, he said, the park has experienced significant increases in the killing of wildlife, thefts, weapons charges against visitors and violations by snowmobile drivers.
Yellowstone's 446 miles of roads are also a constant concern. Some of the most widely traveled routes have not been improved or widened in almost 65 years, and many are littered with potholes so deep that cars have broken axles.
Not all roadways that snake along mountain ledges at 10,000 feet have guard rails.
Alan Sumeriski, acting assistant chief of maintenance at Yellowstone, said some of the park's broken water lines are 60 years old and had been strained beyond reason by the growing use of of bathing facilities and toilets.
Senior parks officials like Mr. Galvin and Mr. Finley say the maintenance backlog has grown, in part, because of their own inability to convince Congress that the need is critical. And in an era when lawmakers are pressing Federal agencies to operate more efficiently, some are not convinced that senior parks officials know how to manage their budgets and set their priorities.
Mr. Finley, 51, who has worked more than half his life for the park service, conceded that management had been lax in some places. But he said the magnitude of problems has convinced him that the time for assigning blame is over.
"These parks are the goose that keeps on laying even larger golden eggs," Mr. Finley said. "All you have to do is take care of it."
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photos: AN INCREASE IN CRIME Although this bull elk is being shot on film, the killing of wildlife in Yellowstone Park has more than tripled in the last 10 years.; NOT ENOUGH PLUMBING -- Record visitors are overwhelming Yellowstone's restrooms.; TWO'S A CROWD -- Yellowstone anglers can't escape company.; TOO MANY CARS -- Auto accidents and traffic jams are increasing at Yellowstone with fewer rangers available to assist drivers.; HIDDEN TROUBLE -- A thermal pond can distract visitors from the park's deterioration. (Photographs by MONICA ALMEIDA/The New York Times)(pg. 15); In the Wyoming wilds, visitors waited last week for the eruption of the Old Faithful geyser at Yellowstone National Park. (Monica Almeida/The New York Times)(pg. 1)
 
Map showing the location of Yellowstone National Park: The cost of needed repairs at Yellowstone is put at $46 million. (pg. 15)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: MONTANA, USA (94%); WYOMING, USA (94%); IDAHO, USA (92%); 

COMPANY: NATIONAL PARK CONCESSIONS INC (90%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%); MONTANA, USA (94%); WYOMING, USA (94%); IDAHO, USA (92%); 

SUBJECT: Terms not available from NYTimes. NATIONAL PARKS (92%); GEOLOGY & GEOPHYSICS (89%); BUDGETS (89%); CRIME RATES (78%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (78%); DELAYS & POSTPONEMENTS (76%); CAPITAL EXPENDITURES (73%); WILDERNESS (73%); MAINTENANCE & REPAIR (70%); SEWERAGE SYSTEMS (70%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (69%); PARKS & PLAYGROUNDS (58%); 

LOAD-DATE: July 27, 1999



607 of 738 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 25, 1999

SECTION: Section 1; Page 9; Column 1; Foreign Desk

LENGTH: 1248 words

HEADLINE: Serb Opposition Leader Criticizes NATO Forces in Kosovo

BYLINE: By STEVEN ERLANGER

DATELINE: NIS, Serbia, July 24

 BODY:
A leading Serbian opposition leader, Vuk Draskovic, today made an emotional attack on NATO forces, saying they had allowed the ethnic purging of Serbs from Kosovo and the creation of an Albanian state in the province.
Speaking at a rally of some 25,000 supporters here, he condemned the killing of 14 Serbian farmers in the Kosovo village of Gracko. He said the incident would promote anti-Western feelings in Serbia and hurt the political opposition to President Slobodan Milosevic of Yugoslavia. 
 Breaking into English, Mr. Draskovic appealed to the American people "to stop, please, with the collective punishment of the Serbian people and to stop supporting the project of a Greater Albania in the Balkans." He said a Kosovo that was deprived of its ethnic mix under NATO control would undermine the fundamentals of the American commitment to a "multi-ethnic, multi-racial" state that protects the rights of all citizens.
"I'm indicting KFOR and the United Nations mission in Kosovo for the massacre that has happened," he said after the rally, using the initials for the Kosovo peacekeeping force and echoing a similar statement made by Mr. Milosevic. "Gangs and bandits committed crimes against Albanians in the name of the Serbian people. And now, when Albanians commit crimes against Serbs, no one is against them."
But in his speech, Mr. Draskovic blamed Mr. Milosevic for the tragedy of Kosovo, which has a strong emotional and religious pull on Serbs, and for everything else that has gone wrong in Yugoslavia for the last 10 years, as his supporters shouted, "Slobo, resign!"
"Guilty or not," Mr. Draskovic shouted, "the interests of the nation require you to give up your armchair and resign!"
But this will be Mr. Draskovic's last mass rally for some time, senior aides said today, because they believe that the moment is not yet ripe for ousting Mr. Milosevic. Such a conclusion could fuel speculation among Mr. Draskovic's rivals in the Serbian opposition that all he really wants is to replace Mr. Milosevic, rather than really change Serbia.
The aides said they believed that the opposition was wasting energy by holding an endless series of summertime rallies that were not attracting enough people to put any real pressure on Mr. Milosevic.
Mr. Milosevic must go, Mr. Draskovic believes, but he must be induced to go in a way that avoids civil conflict and significant bloodshed.
His aides say he will hold no more meetings for at least several weeks, although the other main opposition grouping, the Alliance for Change, has scheduled further rallies and hopes to lead a grand march on Belgrade in September.
"Every one says Milosevic must go," a senior Draskovic aide said. "But how? He doesn't even contemplate going. You can ask him to go for 1,000 days, but asking him isn't serious."
Mr. Draskovic will resume mass meetings as an important part of the strategy to get Mr. Milosevic to resign, "but we want to pick the right moment, when we can create momentum and there is something important to say," the aide said.
Mr. Draskovic is concentrating instead on trying to choose a transitional government of experts agreed on by most or all opposition parties, and then trying to push Mr. Milosevic to empower that government and finally to step aside after new elections.
That too has prompted other opposition leaders to suspect that Mr. Draskovic wants only to replace Mr. Milosevic with himself.
The Alliance for Change demands Mr. Milosevic's resignation first, before any transitional government. Under pressure from American and European diplomats, however, Mr. Draskovic and alliance leaders are working on a joint platform as a way to bridge their differences, if not to solve them all. That platform will include the idea of Mr. Milosevic's ouster and of new elections.
Mr. Draskovic and the Democratic Party leader Zoran Djindjic, who were allies in the 1996-97 marches against Mr. Milosevic, are now bitter rivals, which has undermined both of their reputations and the credibility of the opposition generally.
Washington and the Serbian opposition are also hoping that Mr. Milosevic's Government will begin to crumble from within, particularly if there are new indictments of those close to Mr. Milosevic from the international tribunal on war crimes in The Hague. Mr. Milosevic and four of his closest aides were indicted in late May on charges of war crimes for their role as commanders of Serbian forces that killed Kosovo Albanians.
Indictments may come soon of Mirjana Markovic, Mr. Milosevic's wife and the leader of the party that partners his in government, and of Vojislav Seselj, the ultranationalist leader of the Radical Party and a Serbian deputy Prime Minister, American officials say.
The officials and the opposition are hopeful that the former army chief of staff, Momcilo Perisic, who came out this week in sharp opposition to Mr. Milosevic and the Government, will attract more army and police support to the idea of the President's ouster. But Mr. Perisic is likely to form his own party, given his lack of respect for Mr. Draskovic, Mr. Djindjic or another former general, Vuk Obradovic, who heads the Social Democracy Party.
Washington and its European partners will also resume aid to independent media and opposition parties here, buying the argument that there will be no ouster of Mr. Milosevic otherwise.
The Americans are pushing a revered economist, Dragoslav Avramovic, who helped end Yugoslav hyperinflation in January 1994, as a uniting figure for the opposition and even as prime minister of a transitional Serbian government. Mr. Draskovic said tonight that the transitional government of experts should be nonpartisan and nonpolitical, and that its members should vow not to seek elected office.
But Mr. Draskovic believes that it is not yet the right time to name such a government, his aides said. And he believes that the opposition is dissipating anger at Mr. Milosevic by rallies now that have no idea except Mr. Milosevic's ouster and that offer no serious alternative program for citizens to unite behind.
The main tasks of the transitional federal and Serbian Governments would be to restore diplomatic and economic ties with the West, to prepare for free and fair elections monitored by outsiders and "to stop the genocide of the Serbian people," Mr. Draskovic said at the rally.
Mr. Draskovic, a nationalist, believes that the West is harming the opposition cause by allowing the majority Albanians to sweep most of the Serbian minority from Kosovo through intimidation and killings.
"There is now no border with Albania, but they make only a Serbian-Kosovo border," he said of NATO. "Albanian criminal gangs go over to burn Serbian churches and the roots of our religion, raping Serbs and kidnapping them and burning their houses. If KFOR came to protect innocent Albanians, who will now help the Serbs?"
After his speech, Mr. Draskovic said, "Our friends in the U.S. and European Union, through their support to Albanian terrorists, are supporting Milosevic."
There are growing feelings in Serbia that NATO and the West are not serious about protecting the rights of all the citizens of Kosovo, including the Serbs. NATO and the United Nations have been slow to start policing the province in earnest, the Serbs feel, and Government officials have started to suggest that the Yugoslav police and even army troops should return to Kosovo if such killings continue. 
http://www.nytimes.com

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: SERBIA (98%); SERBIA & MONTENEGRO (96%); KOSOVO (95%); ALBANIA (94%); UNITED STATES (92%); 

CITY: BELGRADE, SERBIA (79%); 

COMPANY: NORTH ATLANTIC TREATY ORGANIZATION (94%); UNITED NATIONS INTERIM ADMINISTRATION MISSION IN KOSOVO (55%); 

ORGANIZATION: NORTH ATLANTIC TREATY ORGANIZATION (94%); UNITED NATIONS INTERIM ADMINISTRATION MISSION IN KOSOVO (55%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: SERBIA (98%); SERBIA & MONTENEGRO (96%); KOSOVO (95%); ALBANIA (94%); UNITED STATES (92%); BELGRADE, SERBIA (79%); 

SUBJECT: Terms not available from NYTimes. ARMED FORCES (90%); WAR & CONFLICT (90%); PROTESTS & DEMONSTRATIONS (78%); PEACEKEEPING (73%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (68%); INDICTMENTS (67%); 

PERSON: SLOBODAN MILOSEVIC (71%); 

LOAD-DATE: July 27, 1999



608 of 738 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 25, 1999

SECTION: Section 1; Page 23; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 1390 words

HEADLINE: Up, But Not Running, on the West Side

BYLINE: By THOMAS J. LUECK

 BODY:
Covered with rust and weeds, it stands as a grim memorial to New York City's faded industrial might, an elevated freight train platform running 1.6 miles down Manhattan's West Side, from 34th Street to Greenwich Village.
For nearly two decades, through a succession of mayors, City Hall joined with private developers in trying to get Conrail, the platform's owner, to tear it down to clear the way for development. 
 Now, a new owner has proposed that the city or a private organization transform the platform, unused since 1982, into an elevated park, bike path or promenade with shops and outdoor cafes.
The new owner, the CSX Corporation, insists that the 65-year-old platform must be retained, possibly for future rail service as development of the West Side continues.
"We are trying to avoid tearing it down, and would consider turning it over to a public entity or entrepreneurs," said Michael Brimmer, regional vice president for government relations at CSX, which has enlisted the Regional Plan Association, a nongovernment advisory group, to look at alternatives.
A report by the planning group, which was circulated quietly last week among community boards and city officials, concluded that the platform -- 14 feet above the ground at its lowest level and 50 feet wide at its narrowest -- could support a variety of public amenities, including a bike trail, light rail service, restaurants and art galleries.
At City Hall, advisers to Mayor Rudolph W. Giuliani dismissed such proposals as idle fantasy.
"That platform has no right to be there except for transportation, and that use is long gone," Joseph Rose, the City Planning Commissioner, said in an interview on Friday. Because of the city's protracted efforts to have it demolished, he said, "this has become the Vietnam of old railroad trestles."
Private developers hold similar views.
"It's all about money, and they are just trying to stall," said Jerome Gottesman, the owner of an entire block on the west side of 10th Avenue, between 17th and 18th Streets. He plans to build a new Federal Express distribution center on the site, which now is bisected by the elevated platform.
"By dragging its feet, CSX is just maintaining the blight on the West Side of Manhattan," he said.
For years, the platform has been the subject of lawsuits and petitions to Federal regulators, all seeking to have it demolished. And CSX acknowledges that it would be liable for at least $7 million in such demolition and cleanup costs.
Whatever its fate, the platform sits at the center of a wave of new development pressures, making it either a cornerstone or a barrier in what real estate experts say could be a sweeping renaissance of the far West Side of Manhattan.
Few sections of the city have attracted such active new development interest as the blocks along the elevated structure, where recent additions like the Chelsea Piers sports complex and newly opened galleries along 10th Avenue have come amid even more ambitious proposals for a sports stadium, expanded convention center and hotels on the blocks west of the Farley Post Office Building.
Such commercial interests would have seemed remote when the platform, known as the High Line, was completed in 1934 by the New York Central Line and praised as an engineering marvel of its day. Built on huge steel girders, the platform extends south from 34th Street through the middle of more than 20 blocks and ends at Gansevoort Street in Greenwich Village.
The platform was built to support four rail lines, and was part of a burst of industrial construction up and down the West Side. While the rail platform itself was unusually large, its connection to warehouses and industrial buildings made it even more remarkable. Even today, sidings from the platform run into second-story bays in several neighboring buildings.
For its day, it was an engineering feat of a heft and intricacy rarely found in the nation's large cities. But as Manhattan's industrial economy began to be replaced by finance, advertising, publishing and other enterprise in the 1960's, the need for such heavy freight moving up and down the West Side diminished.
After the last trains rumbled down the High Line in 1982, what was left was an aged urban curiosity. Like other railroad companies that were scaling back service and abandoning tracks, Conrail resisted pressure by government regulators to sacrifice either its rights of way in Manhattan or its tracks, saying that they could prove useful in the future.
That contention is now at the core of CSX's efforts to keep the High Line intact. "If we are going to have several new high-rise buildings along this part of the West Side, wouldn't it make sense to have a rail line in place to connect them with some form of public transit?" said Mr. Brimmer of CSX.
He said the proposal for shops and recreational activity on the platform was particularly appealing because of the spurs already connecting it to buildings, since restaurants, galleries and retail activity on the second floors of those buildings could easily be connected to outdoor seating or display areas.
CSX may gain support for its plan from the Federal Government, which has sought to encourage the preservation of railroad rights of way through what has become known as the "Rails to Trails" program. The Federal guidelines for that program allow railroad companies to sell or donate their tracks to local governments or civic groups, which in turn clear away old tracks to make way for recreational corridors. But the guidelines also enable the rail companies to reclaim their rights of way far into the future if they elect to restore rail service.
Since the Federal guidelines took effect in 1982, 3,620 miles of track have been set aside across the nation for hiking trails, bike paths and other public amenities, said Karen Stewart, a spokesman for the Rails-to-Trails Conservancy, a nonprofit group based in Washington that advises railroads and municipalities.
But the CSX proposal for Manhattan differs from any other, she said, because it would involve a stretch of elevated track, posing added expenses and safety requirements for any group that wanted to take up the railroad's offer. "It would be stretching the limits," she said.
One architect, however, praised the CSX proposal.
"It would be fantastic," said Peter Eisenman, whose proposal for a huge development on the West Side rail yards, a tract bounded by 34th Street and 30th Street, was selected as the top entry in an international competition this month.
"We have to begin thinking about a city with mixed uses at different levels," he said. "Having walkways or roads running into buildings above the street would be a stunning architectural achievement."
Perhaps the biggest hurdles facing CSX's proposal have more to do with money than architecture. The railroad company, which could be relieved of $200,000 to $300,000 a year in city real estate taxes if it turned over the High Line to another company or a nonprofit group, declined to say how much it would expect to receive in rental payments or as a purchase price.
"It would depend on what type of organization approaches us and what use they have in mind," said Debra Frank, an urban planner who has been retained by CSX to study its options for the High Line. Although some investment would be required to landscape or pave over the elevated platform, and additions like stairways and elevators to the street would probably be required, "we don't see this as a very major amount or a deterrent," she said.
But Mr. Rose, who said he and his planning staff have inspected the High Line and considered its fate repeatedly for more than a decade, said the costs of repair and maintenance would discourage outside groups from taking any responsibility for the elevated structure.
It was cited for more than 60 safety violations this year, he said, including an incident in which concrete fell through the windshield of a parked car.
"It would be one thing if CSX was saying they would provide the investment necessary to fix this old thing up as a public park," he said. "That we would consider, but that is not what they are saying."
"What this is all about is delay," he said. "The bottom line is that the High Line will have to come down."
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photo: Looking north along the rail platform above 14th Street near 10th Avenue, in an area that is undergoing major development. The platform, known as the High Line, was completed in 1934 by the New York Central line. (Jeffery A. Salter/The New York Times)
 
Map of Manhattan showing the highline elevated rail platform: A new owner, the CSX Corporation, insists a rail line be saved.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: CSX (NYSE) (86%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS488310 PORT & HARBOR OPERATIONS (86%); NAICS482111 LINE-HAUL RAILROADS (86%); SIC4011 RAILROADS, LINE-HAUL OPERATING (86%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (97%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (97%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (97%); 

COMPANY: CSX CORP (86%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (97%); NEW YORK, USA (97%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (97%); 

SUBJECT: Terms not available from NYTimes. RUNNING (90%); CITIES (90%); RAIL TRANSPORTATION (90%); RESTAURANTS (90%); CITY GOVERNMENT (90%); MAYORS (89%); LAND USE PLANNING (89%); REAL ESTATE DEVELOPMENT (89%); TRAINS (89%); PUBLIC TRANSPORTATION (78%); CONSTRUCTION (76%); INTERVIEWS (72%); ENTREPRENEURSHIP (67%); PETITIONS (66%); SUITS & CLAIMS (50%); 

PERSON: RUDY GIULIANI (58%); 

LOAD-DATE: July 27, 1999



609 of 738 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 25, 1999

SECTION: Section 1; Page 2; Column 5; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 684 words

HEADLINE: NEWS SUMMARY

 BODY:

INTERNATIONAL 3-13
 
Kosovo Killings Likely To Undermine Peace
The discovery of the mutilated bodies of 14 Serbian farmers, the worst single assault against Serbian civilians since NATO troops arrived in Kosovo last month, seemed likely to undermine still further the effort to keep Serbs from fleeing. 1
 
A leading Serbian opposition leader made an emotional attack on NATO, saying it had allowed the purging of Serbs from Kosovo and the creation of an Albanian state there. 9 

Schroder Offers Economic Plan
Chancellor Gerhard Schroder of Germany has set out a radical agenda to make the economy more nimble, less regulated, more entrepreneurial and less dependent on the state. 3
 
Death Affects Mideast Talks
The death of King Hassan of Morocco has sent the itinerary of Prime Minister Ehud Barak of Israel into unexpected directions. But the King's funeral may bring together the key players in the peace effort. 3
 
Venezuela Vote for Reform
Venezuelans vote today to select delegates to write a new constitution -- the first since 1961. 13
 
Search for U.S. Plane
A huge aerial search for a missing American Army plane focused on a Colombian jungle area where rebels are strong. The plane had been on a "routine counter-drug mission," the United States Army said, carrying five American soldiers and two Colombian air force officers. (AP)
 
NATIONAL 14-19
 
Democrats Aim for Record In Unregulated Donations
The Democratic Party is seeking to raise an unprecedented amount of the unregulated party donations known as soft money, perhaps as much as $200 million by November 2000. Democratic Party officials and fund-raisers conceded in interviews that they were trying to amass a record amount of soft money as possibly the party's only chance to close the enormous money gap with Gov. George W. Bush, who is sitting atop a $37 million political war chest. 1
 
Gaps in Aid for Doctor Training
New Government data show huge disparities in what Medicare pays to train doctors in different parts of the country, with some hospitals in New York getting three or four times as much for each trainee as those in Los Angeles or Cleveland. 1
 
National Parks Face a Crisis
Hordes of tourists are overwhelming Yellowstone National Park's ability to accommodate them properly. Yellowstone is not the only national park suffering. Given record attendance, many parks are deferring urgently needed capital improvements. 1
 
A Resurgence for Ex-President
George Bush, who was belittled for breaking his no-new-taxes pledge and ridiculed as a passive President, is now basking in the glow of a surprisingly early, and positive, reassessment of his stewardship. With his son, Gov. George W. Bush of Texas, running for President, the shift carries political implications. 14
 
NEW YORK/REGION 21-29
 
Attack on Airline Worker Raises Fears at Airport
A violent incident at Newark International Airport that left a Continental Airlines gate agent near death and a passenger under arrest has led to a wave of protest among airline workers who say they have been increasingly victimized by aggravated, aggressive passengers in the phenomenon known as "air rage." 21
 
Plan for Elevated Rail Platform
The new owner of an elevated freight train platform running 1.6 miles down Manhattan's West Side has proposed that the city or a private organization transform the platform, unused since 1982, into an elevated park, bike path or promenade with shops and outdoor cafes. 23
 
Lazio Presses Senate Bid
Representative Rick A. Lazio of Long Island has sent a letter to Republican Party leaders across New York, confirming that he will officially declare his candidacy with a statewide tour in mid-August. 23
 
FRESH AIR FUND 24
 
OBITUARIES 31
 
William Targ
A widely admired book editor who agreed to publish Mario Puzo's novel "The Godfather" sight unseen, he was 92. 31
 
Chess 29
 
Weather 29
 
Cong.Vote 27
 
http://www.nytimes.com

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Summary

TICKER: UAL (NYSE) (50%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS481112 SCHEDULED FREIGHT AIR TRANSPORTATION (50%); NAICS481111 SCHEDULED PASSENGER AIR TRANSPORTATION (50%); SIC4512 AIR TRANSPORTATION, SCHEDULED (50%); 

COUNTRY: SERBIA & MONTENEGRO (95%); KOSOVO (94%); SERBIA (94%); UNITED STATES (93%); COLOMBIA (92%); ALBANIA (92%); ISRAEL (79%); MIDDLE EAST (79%); MOROCCO (79%); GERMANY (79%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (92%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); NEW JERSEY, USA (64%); 

CITY: NEWARK, NJ, USA (64%); 

COMPANY: UNITED CONTINENTAL HOLDINGS INC (50%); NORTH ATLANTIC TREATY ORGANIZATION (92%); US DEPARTMENT OF ARMY (55%); US DEPARTMENT OF ARMY (55%); 

ORGANIZATION: NORTH ATLANTIC TREATY ORGANIZATION (92%); US DEPARTMENT OF ARMY (55%); US DEPARTMENT OF ARMY (55%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: SERBIA & MONTENEGRO (95%); KOSOVO (94%); SERBIA (94%); UNITED STATES (93%); COLOMBIA (92%); ALBANIA (92%); ISRAEL (79%); MIDDLE EAST (79%); MOROCCO (79%); GERMANY (79%); NEW YORK, USA (92%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); NEW JERSEY, USA (64%); NEWARK, NJ, USA (64%); 

SUBJECT: NO INDEX TERMS FROM NYTIMES ARMED FORCES (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); NEWS BRIEFS (90%); ARMIES (90%); CAMPAIGN FINANCE (88%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (87%); NATIONAL PARKS (87%); REBELLIONS & INSURGENCIES (77%); AIR FORCES (77%); PRIME MINISTERS (76%); INTERVIEWS (76%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (76%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (73%); AIRLINES (72%); US PRESIDENTS (72%); AIRPORTS (72%); MILITARY AIRCRAFT (72%); FUNDRAISING (71%); ENTREPRENEURSHIP (70%); PEACE PROCESS (70%); POLITICAL PARTY DONATIONS (69%); MEDICAL EDUCATION (65%); MEDICARE (62%); 

PERSON: GERHARD SCHRODER (70%); GEORGE W BUSH (57%); EHUD BARAK (53%); 

LOAD-DATE: July 27, 1999



610 of 738 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 25, 1999

SECTION: Section 1; Page 25; Column 3; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 621 words

HEADLINE: Mourners Pay Respects to Third Victim of Kennedy Crash

BYLINE: By JULIAN E. BARNES

DATELINE: GREENWICH, Conn., July 24

 BODY:
More than 600 mourners gathered here this evening to pay respects to Lauren Bessette, the third victim of the plane crash that also killed John F. Kennedy Jr. and Carolyn Bessette Kennedy just over a week ago.
Lauren Bessette, 34, was remembered as "rich, vibrant and multifaceted" in a eulogy delivered by her uncle, Jack Messina. Mourners also recalled her as a successful investment banker and a lover of opera during a ceremony that lasted just over an hour at Christ Church, an Episcopal church. 
 Ms. Bessette's ashes were dropped into the ocean on Thursday along with those of her sister and Mr. Kennedy, who were mourned Friday during a memorial service on Manhattan's Upper East Side.
In the days since the crash, Ms. Bessette's life was curiously both thrust into the open and draped in shadow. Among the three crash victims, hers was a private life that has been mostly overlooked as Americans lingered over images of Mr. Kennedy and his wife.
But today, Greenwich turned its attention to Lauren Bessette, in the place where she was raised and educated. Ms. Bessette and her twin sister, Lisa Ann, attended Central Junior High School and Greenwich High School. After graduating from high school in 1982, Lauren Bessette attended Hobart and William Smith Colleges in Geneva, N.Y., where she majored in economics. In 1991, after graduating from the Wharton School of Business, Ms. Bessette joined Morgan Stanley Dean Witter, the investment bank, where she worked as a financial adviser.
In 1994, Ms. Bessette began a job in the company's Hong Kong office. She rose to vice president and then to principal when she returned to Manhattan in 1998.
As guests began arriving around 5:45 P.M. until the service began at 7 P.M., photographers called the names of members of the Kennedy family and snapped pictures. In attendance were Ms. Bessette's sister, Lisa Ann, her father, William Bessette, her mother, Ann Freeman, and her stepfather, Richard Freeman. Many members of the Kennedy family also attended, including Edward M. Kennedy and Caroline Kennedy.
In a eulogy for Ms. Bessette, Mr. Messina offered the congregants richly detailed memories about her, including the day she played miniature golf in her backyard, dressed in pajamas and high heels.
"If the events of these past eight days have taught us anything it is to honor the moment," he said. "Cherish those around you. Try to find a balance between work and family. Contribute something to your community, and above all share the love you feel for each other each and every day."
The Rev. Hugh Tudor-Foley, an assistant to the rector at Christ Church, said that Robert F. Kennedy Jr. read a quote from Shakespeare during the service and two of Ms. Bessette's friends offered remembrances. He said that Carole Radziwill, the daughter of Lee Radziwill, the sister of Jacqueline Kennedy Onassis, delivered a reading in honor of Carolyn Bessette Kennedy. "It was tearful and it was joyful and it accomplished what the family wanted, which was to celebrate the lives of their two children," Mr. Tudor-Foley said.
Outside the church, a few Greenwich residents laid flowers on the grass.
"I remember her as an eclectic and fun person," said David Dall, 35, a classmate of Ms. Bessette's at Greenwich High. "She was friends with everyone."
Theo A. Constantine, 38, a member of Greenwich High's class of 1979, said he came to pay his respects to someone the world did not know very well.
"As a community we need to show our support. The Kennedys have more than enough support and Carolyn was recognized through them," said Mr. Constantine. "The focus hasn't been equal and this is a nice way to remember Lauren as an individual."
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photo: Ann Freeman, left, the mother of Lauren and Carolyn Bessette, and their stepfather, Richard Freeman, right, at a memorial service. (Reuters)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: MS (NYSE) (54%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (54%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (54%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); SWITZERLAND (79%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (92%); CONNECTICUT, USA (70%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%); 

COMPANY: MORGAN STANLEY (54%); GREENWICH HIGH SCHOOL (83%); 

ORGANIZATION: GREENWICH HIGH SCHOOL (83%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%); SWITZERLAND (79%); NEW YORK, USA (92%); CONNECTICUT, USA (70%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%); 

SUBJECT: Terms not available from NYTimes. HIGH SCHOOLS (90%); DEATHS & OBITUARIES (90%); RELIGION (89%); AIRCRAFT ACCIDENTS (78%); TWINS & MULTIPLE BIRTHS (75%); WORK-LIFE BALANCE (72%); CHRISTIANS & CHRISTIANITY (72%); BUSINESS EDUCATION (71%); GOLF (68%); MIDDLE & JUNIOR HIGH SCHOOLS (66%); STEPPARENTS (50%); 

PERSON: TED KENNEDY (79%); 

LOAD-DATE: July 27, 1999



611 of 738 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 25, 1999

SECTION: Section 4; Page 2; Column 2; Week In Review Desk

LENGTH: 106 words

HEADLINE: July 18-24;
A Good Deficit

BYLINE: By DAVID E. SANGER

 BODY:
The more American consumers spend, the more the trade deficit rises -- last month to a record $21 billion, according to figures just released. And eventually that's bad news. But for now, it's good.
The deficit is soaring because the economy is running flat out. Countries are shipping Americans as much as they will buy. And because the goods are relatively low cost, they help keep down inflation, while taking few jobs away from Americans. 
 But sooner or later the economy will slow. And then today's inflation-fighting trade deficit will turn into tomorrow's threat to American jobs. Someday.
 DAVID E. SANGER
 
 
http://www.nytimes.com

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (95%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (95%); 

SUBJECT: NO INDEX TERMS FROM NYTIMES GOODS & SERVICES TRADE BALANCE (90%); NEWS BRIEFS (87%); 

PERSON: DAVID E SANGER (65%); 

LOAD-DATE: July 27, 1999



612 of 738 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 25, 1999

SECTION: Section 4; Page 14; Column 4; Editorial Desk 

LENGTH: 149 words

HEADLINE: Tax Cutters Aren't Conservatives

 BODY:

To the Editor:
Martin Feldstein (Op-Ed, July 21) notes that the share in income tax contributed by upper incomes has risen in recent years, and he welcomes the House plan for its across-the-board rate cut of 10 percent (front page, July 23) as a way to halt that shift. However, he does not mention that over the same period upper incomes have enjoyed a sharp increase in their share of pretax income. 
 Given the philosophy of a progressive income tax, in which most of us still believe, does it not follow that their tax share should have risen as well? The Senate bill, which focuses on reducing the first bracket rate, recognizes this, although both versions provide for an excessive revenue loss and should not be adopted.
 
RICHARD A. MUSGRAVE
Hartland Four Corners, Vt.
PUB-DATE: July 23, 1999
 
The writer is professor emeritus of political economy at Harvard University.
 
http://www.nytimes.com

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Letter

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (79%); 

COMPANY: HARVARD UNIVERSITY PRESS (56%); HARVARD UNIVERSITY (56%); HARVARD UNIVERSITY (56%); 

ORGANIZATION: HARVARD UNIVERSITY (56%); HARVARD UNIVERSITY (56%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES; UNITED STATES (79%); 

SUBJECT: TAXATION; LAW AND LEGISLATION UPPER INCOME PERSONS (90%); LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (90%); LEGISLATION (90%); INCOME TAX (88%); TAXES & TAXATION (88%); POLITICS (86%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (85%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (84%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (74%); WRITERS (73%); TAX LAW (72%); 

PERSON: FELDSTEIN, MARTIN; MUSGRAVE, RICHARD A (PROF) MARTIN STUART FELDSTEIN (74%); 

LOAD-DATE: July 27, 1999



613 of 738 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 25, 1999

SECTION: Section 4; Page 14; Column 5; Editorial Desk 

LENGTH: 129 words

HEADLINE: Tax Cutters Aren't Conservatives

 BODY:

To the Editor:
Martin Feldstein (Op-Ed, July 21) asserts that "high taxes reduce the incentive to establish new businesses, to expand existing ones and to take the risks of introducing new products and new ways of producing. This reduces economic growth and the creation of better jobs." 
 What aspect of our economy could possibly cause anyone to conclude that nobody is willing to establish a new business or introduce a new product? To the contrary, business today is dynamic, not to mention chaotic, with major shifts in the manner of doing business, products becoming obsolete almost immediately, and so on. Can Mr. Feldstein present at least a modicum of evidence to support his assertions?
 
FRANK ROBINSON
Mountain View, Calif., July 21, 1999
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Drawing. (William van Roden)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Letter

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (74%); 

STATE: CALIFORNIA, USA (74%); 

CITY: SAN FRANCISCO BAY AREA, CA, USA (50%); 

COMPANY: MOUNTAIN VIEW HEALTHCARE (56%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (74%); CALIFORNIA, USA (74%); SAN FRANCISCO BAY AREA, CA, USA (50%); 

SUBJECT: TAXATION LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (90%); NEW PRODUCTS (88%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (87%); TAXES & TAXATION (85%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (74%); JOB CREATION (70%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (70%); 

PERSON: FELDSTEIN, MARTIN; ROBINSON, FRANK MARTIN STUART FELDSTEIN (92%); FRANK ROBINSON (70%); 

LOAD-DATE: July 27, 1999



614 of 738 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 25, 1999
Correction Appended

SECTION: Section 5;Page 6;Column 1;Travel Desk

LENGTH: 2702 words

HEADLINE: FRUGAL TRAVELER;
A Worldly Getaway 2 Hours From Manhattan

BYLINE: By DAISANN McLANE

 BODY:
AHA! Another weekend warrior up from the big city," Paul Cavaccini, the manager of Rent a Wreck in New Paltz, N.Y., said with a chuckle when he saw me walk in the door. I certainly looked the part of a New York City runaway -- my dark linen pants ensemble hinted of brunches in SoHo, while the North Face backpack I hoisted smelled of sweat and insect repellent.
Mixed signals, certainly. But I was experiencing simultaneous cravings for urban sophistication and rural idyll. I wanted to lose myself in sylvan woods and babbling brooks, but only if they were within shouting range of a good wine store, an interesting restaurant and, perhaps, a purveyor of prosciutto di Parma. 
 I've never been much of a weekender. When faced with the choice of spending several thousand dollars on a summer rental on, say, Fire Island versus spending the same or less on a month's sojourn living extremely well in Mexico, the Caribbean, or Asia, I've always opted for the faraway trip.
Still, there are those Fridays in June when the sky is so blue, the air so fresh and warm, the smell of blooming wisteria drifting in the air from Prospect Park so lush, that it seems almost a misdemeanor to spend Saturday and Sunday in Brooklyn. Could I stage a swift, brief getaway that wouldn't upset my notions of travel economy?
On a weekend like this in early June, I decided to try. I took a subway to the Port Authority Bus Terminal in midtown Manhattan and hopped on an Adirondack Trailways bus headed to New Paltz, about 85 miles north, in Ulster County.
Southern Ulster, where New Paltz is, isn't as hip and well-trodden as Woodstock (in northern Ulster), nor as fashionable as celebrity-studded Columbia County. So I figured that accommodations would be a bit cheaper. I'd been there before, to visit my friend Annie, and we had spent a day wandering through almost-empty, gorgeous wooded trails in Minnewaska State Park, where the Shawangunk Mountain range drops, in a dramatic series of bare rock cliffs, down to the Hudson Valley -- an amazing vista that I wanted to see again.
There's a good Web site for the Hudson Valley region (www.hvnet.com), and a local magazine with lots of bed-and-breakfast listings called Ulster Magazine. Between these two sources, I was able to arrange my travel plans in less than an hour.
I decided to stretch my getaway, and stay four nights instead of two, from Friday to Tuesday. I booked a single room without bath for the first two nights at the Kripplebush Bed-and-Breakfast, not too far from Annie's cabin in the town of Stone Ridge, for $50 a night. Then, I'd splurge on a two-night stay ($80 a night) at Ujjala's B & B, near New Paltz.
Abby Johnnes, the owner of Kripplebush, gave me the number of Rent a Wreck in New Paltz, a short walk from the Trailways depot. Paul set me up with an economy car for $29 a day, including all insurance, and gave me the inside dope on local sources of Italian ham.
Abby, a sweet petite grandmother who once ran a bookstore in Greenwich Village, bought her house in the country after her children went off to college. Her house sits on a country road across the street from the Methodist church, a 12-mile drive northwest of New Paltz. My room was one of six that she rents out in the large wood-frame house that dates to the mid-1800's.
The room was tiny, but had a window with a view of her inviting back garden, where pink peonies and stalks of foxglove were blooming. The decor ran to Oriental prints, Abby's own paintings and shelf after shelf of interesting books, artifacts of a downtown literary life, circa 1960.
It was already dinnertime. I'd figured there would be little diversion available, but soon Annie called. "You're right near me," she said. "We're going to the film festival tonight. Pick you up in a half hour."
The Hudson Valley Film Festival was in its last week in Rhinebeck, about a half-hour drive from Stone Ridge across the Hudson River. We hurried over, just in time to catch a screening of a documentary on the photographer Walker Evans ($5). Afterward, I was pleased to find that the enthusiastic festival organizers had arranged a reception for the participants -- free wine and excellent and abundant canapes of smoked salmon, vegetables, and cheese.
I munched away at "dinner," amused that I'd run off from New York City only to bump into it upstate, as strains of movie conversation floated through the room: "You know I told Marty that he needed to talk to Bobby about this." Annie explained that the Stone Ridge-High Falls area of Ulster was a weekend hideaway for the independent film industry. Harvey Keitel and Willem Dafoe, among others, had houses along the same road as Kripplebush -- hadn't I noticed Dafoe's house, made of rubber?
I hadn't. I bit into another canape and savored the weekend warrior experience.
Breakfast was ready when I stumbled down at 8:30 the next morning: crepes with fruit and cream, bagels and superb coffee.
Braced and well-fed, I set out for Minnewaska -- with a detour, first, for provisions. In High Falls, a picturesque village three miles from Kripplebush, I bought a big bag of date bars ($3.99) and a bag of organic almonds ($3.99) at the local food co-op. At a deli closer to the park, Stone Ridge Specialty Foods, I picked up some homemade crab cakes ($3.75 each), for the rest of my trail lunch.
Crab cakes, a crisp blue sky, no bugs in sight and a nearly deserted trail stretching ahead -- hiking doesn't get much better than this, I thought to myself. My feet hit a nice walking rhythm along the carriage road. Until the mid-80's, this area was the grounds and preserve of a grand hotel (owned by the brother of the owner of the nearby Mohonk Mountain House). After the hotel burned down, the property became part of the state park system.
At one end of the park, Lake Minnewaska draws crowds, but the vast network of foot trails isn't much used. With the free map that the guard had handed me as I pulled into the parking lot (the fee is $5), I charted a course that I figured would lead me about four miles to the far end of the park, to a high bluff with a panoramic view of the valley and of Lake Awosting. The map was not very detailed, so I stuck to the carriage road. Then I bumped into a park ranger who had some good news: today, the park was inaugurating a hiking path that wasn't on the map yet but that led in the direction I was headed. The ranger pointed out the trail blazes, and I was off.
I followed a riverbed for a while, then took a turn and headed over high bare rocks. Suddenly, I was on a bluff covered with gnarled, ancient looking pitch pines. I was alone, and in the midst of a natural setting as remote and wild as any I've experienced. That this pristine place is but a short drive from Manhattan seemed almost a miracle. The wind up here howled -- some of the pines were bent almost horizontal. I continued, stopping to take pictures and have lunch.
Scrambling up another little ridge, I came down the other side and gasped. Below the mountain that dropped several hundred feet, Hudson Valley farmland spread out like a tablecloth checkered in shades of green. Lake Awosting shimmered at the other side. It was a lot of view, considering how little climbing I had to do. (I'd say my hike was moderately easy, with a bit of rock scrambling.)
Still, I'd come about four miles, and my return route to the parking lot, which skirted the ridge and passed the park's other lake, Minnewaska, was about another four and a half miles. By the time I got my sweaty self back to Kripplebush, I was ready for a nice dinner.
The Clove Cafe in High Falls is designed to please a city slicker out for a meal in the country -- dim lights, comfy wooden booths, not overly formal. The menu looked ambitious (the new owners , I found out, are graduates of the Culinary Institute of America in Hyde Park, across the Hudson), and was filled with wild things like venison and rabbit.
I had rabbit stew in a hearty Mediterranean-style sauce, polenta and steamed arugula. On the chef's recommendation, I tried a glass of a South African red wine called Pinotage, delicious, richly oaky and fruity, perfect for the end of a full day of tramping. With dessert and tip, dinner came to $48 -- pricey, but worth it, and my repast the night before had been free, after all.
Ujjala's Bed-and-Breakfast is about a 15-mile drive from Kripplebush, on the other side of the Shawangunk ridge, just south of New Paltz. I set out early, stopping for a bit to poke among old books and kitchen appliances at the Sunday morning flea market in High Falls.
At Ujjala Schwartz's lilac-colored Victorian house on a quiet small-town road, my room was larger than the one at Kripplebush, with antique bed and desk, lacy comforter and a puffy featherbed over the mattress. Wind chimes tinkled outside the kitchen, which opened to a little deck, sauna and pocket-sized garden. In the back was a meditation lodge, and two sweat lodges, where Indian purification rituals are sometimes held.
My friend Mark arrived from Westchester, to join me for a day of wine tasting. This part of the Hudson Valley was settled by the French Huguenots in the 1600's, and the Gallic farmers planted some of the first vineyards in the Americas. Viniculture in the region has waxed and waned through the centuries, but has recently hit its stride again: there are now enough vineyards in the area to support two wine trails, organized by local tourist organizations. We set out to visit the six vineyards on the Shawangunk Wine Trail.
The winding county roads ran through picturesque farmlands where cows lazed beside big red barns and young deer occasionally darted across our path. We tasted about four wines each at three vineyards; Mark, the connoisseur, was underwhelmed. Just when we'd decided that the scenery, rather than Hudson Valley wines, was the main attraction of the wine trail, we came upon Baldwin Vineyards in far southern Ulster. There, we sampled some unusual and subtly sweet dessert wines, intense with essences of local strawberries and raspberries. Even Mark was impressed, and we bought five bottles between us ($7 to $10).
I awoke early my last day because I wanted to go sightseeing in New Paltz before hiking again. To my dismay, I found that on Mondays, the town's old stone Huguenot houses are closed. But I enjoyed a walk in the cool of the morning down Huguenot Street, peering into the windows of the old settlers' homes, now museums, some of which date back to the 1700's. Since there was no one about, I could imagine I was walking in Colonial New York.
My time travel continued as I drove, about 20 minutes later, through the parking lot gates of Mohonk Mountain House. This Victorian resort, its main lodge a riot of over-the-top gingerbread, Tudor and the generally eclectic, sits on a huge tract of land with quaintly manicured grounds -- once one of the grand hotels of America.
It remains in the hands of the original owners, the Smiley family, and it retains its idiosyncratic and authentic Victorian atmosphere. Entrance to the main property is restricted to hotel guests, whose meals are included with their lodging. Nonguests who wish to hike the property -- a stretch adjacent to Minnewaska with similar topography -- must pass a checkpoint, wear a badge and pay a fee ($12 on weekends, $9 on weekdays).
Minnewaska State Park is a much better choice for serious hiking. But Mohonk is the place to absorb and understand Victorian esthetics -- not the faux lace-and-curtains Victoriana of home decor, but the 19th-century sensibility. Each of Mohonk's paths winds in a fashion calculated to provide the most pleasing view of the natural setting. Nature is tamed and made softer and more comfortable by wooden benches placed at regular intervals, charming gazebos, clever ponds and other evidences of the hand of man.
I rested on one of those benches and took stock: in four days I'd gone to a screening party, hiked in splendid woods, tasted wine, poked in a flea market, eaten an excellent dinner and even managed to tuck in a sauna. I had had as much variety of experience, and as much fun in Ulster County as in many faraway exotic places, without buying an airline ticket. This novice weekend warrior felt victorious -- and began to plot her next campaign.
 
The bottom line: culture, nature and relaxation
I spent $96.50 a day for food, lodging and activities during my four days in Ulster County.
 
Getting There
Round-trip bus fare from midtown Manhattan to New Paltz, N.Y., cost $31.35 on Adirondack Trailways, which runs about a dozen trips a day, lasting just under two hours. Information: (800) 858-8555.
I rented a 1992 Mercury from Rent a Wreck in New Paltz, 87 North Chestnut Street, (914) 255-5666, for $29 a day. Mileage is free up to 125 miles a day and you must stay within a 100-mile radius of the office.
 
Where to Stay
Kripplebush Bed-and-Breakfast, 160 Kripplebush Road, Stone Ridge, N.Y., (914) 687-0723, is also Abby Johnnes's home. She has six guest rooms in a stagecoach house that dates from the 1840's. My single with bath across the hall was $50; doubles are $65 to $95. No credit cards.
Ujjala's Bed-and-Breakfast, 2 Forest Glen Road, New Paltz, (914) 255-6360, www.ujjalasbnb.com., has four rooms, with lace duvets, antique furniture and lots of pillows. I chose it for its New Age accouterments: there's a sauna and a meditation chamber. Ujjala Schwartz offers advice on rock-climbing and kayaking and canoeing in the area. My room, with bath across the hall, was $80 a night; doubles are $90, $105 with private bath. No credit cards.
 
Where to Eat
The Clove Cafe, 1003 Route 213, High Falls, N.Y., (914) 687-7911, has a sophisticated menu of local game and other delicacies. Dinner with wine, tax and tip came to $48. Lunch served on Friday, brunch on Saturday and Sunday. Closed Monday and Tuesday.
Along Route 209, Stone Ridge Specialty Foods, High Falls, (914) 687-2000, sells takeout foods with an Italian touch, and is putting in tables. I picked up two meaty crab cakes for lunch for $7.50. Closed Monday.
The High Falls Food Co-op, 1398 Route 213, High Falls, (914) 687-7262, has a good selection of organic munchies.
A few miles north of the entrance to Minnewaska State Park, The Log Cabin Restaurant, 5941 Route 44-45, Kerhonkson, N.Y., (914) 626-9838, caters to Ukrainian retirees in the area. The proprietor, Olga Sawchuck, served me scrumptious pirogis stuffed with potatoes and cheese, and topped with brown-fried onions in butter. I washed this down with a draft beer; the tab came to $9. Open for lunch and dinner daily, except Tuesday.
 
What to Do
The annual Hudson Valley Film Festival, (914) 473-0318, presents aprogram of features, documentaries and shorts during the first week of June in Rhinebeck; many screenings are followed by talks and receptions.
Minnewaska State Park Preserve, (914) 255-0752, charges a parking fee of $5, $6 in summer. There are hiking trails, but no overnight camping. Swimming is available at two lakes. The park opens at 9 A.M daily and closes as late as 9 P.M., depending on season.
The wineries on the Shawangunk Wine Trail have varied hours, but most welcome visitors on Saturday and Sunday afternoons in the summer. A list of the participating wineries, and a map of the trail is available at www.hvnet.com. The trail is reasonably well marked by signs with grapes, but taking a map along is a good idea.
The stone houses along Huguenot Street in New Paltz form a National Historic Landmark District. The Huguenot Historical Society, (914) 255-1889, www.hhs-newpaltz.org., runs tours, 9 A.M. to 4 P.M. every day but Monday from May to October. Tours, which cost $3, $6 and $10, depending on length, start at the visitors center, 18 Broadhead Avenue.
The grounds of Mohonk Mountain House, New Paltz, N.Y., (914) 255-1000, www.mohonk.com, but not the house itself, are open to the public. Entry is $12 on weekends, $9 during the week; $8 and $7 under age 12. Day visitors can use the nine-hole golf course ($12 to $20) and six tennis courts ($12 an hour) if space is available. DAISANN McLANE
 
http://www.nytimes.com

CORRECTION-DATE: August 1, 1999, Sunday

 CORRECTION:
The Frugal Traveler column last Sunday, about a weekend in Ulster County, N.Y., described hiking in the Minnewaska State Park Preserve. On July 16, after the article was prepared for publication, the state closed about 80 percent of the park because of fire danger. As of Monday, several miles of carriageways remained open, as did one of the two beaches, Minnewaska. The park said the closings would remain in effect until rain alleviated the danger. For information, call (914) 255-0752.

GRAPHIC: Photos: Bikers and hikers take in Hudson Valley vistas at Minnewaska State Park.; A Sunday flea market in High Falls, N.Y.; A farm in Kripplebush, N.Y. (Photographs by Daisann McLane for The New York Times) (pg. 6); Ujjala's Bed-and-Breakfast, near New Paltz, has a garden and a sauna in the back. (Daisann McLane for The New York Times) (pg. 22)
 
Map of Ulster County, N.Y. highlighting Minnewaska State Park (pg. 22)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: RAWA (NASDAQ) (91%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); CARIBBEAN ISLANDS (79%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (94%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%); 

COMPANY: RENT-A-WRECK OF AMERICA INC (91%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%); CARIBBEAN ISLANDS (79%); NEW YORK, USA (94%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%); 

SUBJECT: Terms not available from NYTimes. from NYTimes. RESTAURANT REVIEWS (89%); CITY LIFE (89%); CITIES (78%); STATE PARKS (76%); URBAN TRANSIT SYSTEMS (75%); RESTAURANTS (71%); MOUNTAINS (70%); BED & BREAKFAST INNS (67%); BUS STATIONS & TERMINALS (64%); PORT AUTHORITIES (64%); MISDEMEANORS (51%); WEB SITES (50%); 

PERSON: ABBY JOHNNES (57%); PAUL CAVACCINI (55%); 

LOAD-DATE: July 25, 1999



615 of 738 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 25, 1999
Correction Appended

SECTION: Section 3;Page 7;Column 5;Money and Business/Financial Desk

LENGTH: 805 words

HEADLINE: MARKET INSIGHT;
Can Profits Keep Surging All Year? A 'Yes' Vote

BYLINE: By KENNETH N. GILPIN

 BODY:
CORPORATE AMERICA is rolling in dough. So too, it must be added, are those who have bought and held shares during the last few years. This is not an incidental relationship.
The reporting season for second-quarter profits is about half over, and the results are much better than most had reason to expect even six months ago. 
 Through the end of last week, better than half of the companies that make up the Standard & Poor's 500-stock index have reported an average profit gain of more than 15 percent from the same period in 1998, according to First Call. And there is a good chance that profits will rise at a double-digit rate for all of this year, compared with a 4 percent increase in 1998.
The trouble is, many people worry that the game will soon be up. They think the market, which has been struggling with stratospheric price-to-earnings ratios, may fall sharply when S.& P. 500 earnings gains revert to historical norms, around 7 percent.
But Thomas M. McManus, equity portfolio strategist at Banc of America Securities, thinks this earnings run could last a long, long time, and he took some time last week to explain why. Here are some excerpts:
 
Q. You are of the view that this period of strong earnings growth can continue for the indefinite future. Why?
 
A. I sense a significant underlying shift in the ability of American companies to grow earnings.
For many, the roots are in consolidation, which has been important in terms of combining two attractive businesses, maintaining the same amount of revenues but with a much smaller cost base. That doesn't happen instantly, but over a couple of years.
Even without consolidation, companies have continued to restructure, coming up with a different mix of businesses that are growing faster, are less cyclical and in areas that are attractively positioned. The best example here is General Electric, which has been restructuring its businesses for 20 years.
 
Q. So what does this lead you to conclude?
 
A. That there is a higher secular growth rate for S.& P. earnings than most are willing to concede. And the cyclical rebound off of the decline in earnings last year has occurred sooner and been more robust than anyone had forecast.
 
Q. What is your current earnings forecast?
 
A. At the start of 1999 we were more optimistic than most, and thought S.& P. profits would rise by about 10 percent from 1998 levels and a further 14 percent in 2000. At the beginning of May, I revised those numbers up, to a gain of 12 percent this year and 16 percent in 2000. And I think we are going to raise estimates for this year and 2000 again.
 
Q. What do you say to those who say the S.& P. is overvalued at these levels?
 
A. I think anyone who is saying the market is overvalued this year, be it the Fed or stock market strategists, is not taking into account that the underlying business mix has improved at least as much as General Electric has improved because of a very rapid turnover of components in the index. It now has less cyclicality and greater sustainability than it did in the past and deserves to trade at a higher P/E multiple relative to any interest rate you might choose or any competing market benchmark around the world.
Also, people should be focusing on free cash flows, not earnings. Net income is only the first approximation of profitability. The real value to investors is the amount of cash a company can take out and still be left with a business that is just as good as it was before. Companies like Microsoft and Intel are like that, and that is one reason they trade at such high multiples to net income.

Q. There are plenty of folks who are worried about the effect that Year 2000 computer problems will have on the economy and earnings. Do you share those concerns?
 
A. It is my view that profits are actually being negatively impacted right now.
Last week, for example, W. W. Granger admitted their costs went up by $7 million and their revenues were cut by $10 million in the last 10 days of June because they adopted a new computer system. It is my hunch that is their Y2K compliance system.
 
Q. Which companies or groups of companies are likely to enjoy the most rapid earnings growth over the next year or so?
 
A. We could see continued improvement in a whole host of companies.
Right now, the market is looking for trends of earnings repair, or a bounce off the dip we saw last year.
Individual companies we like include Ethan Allen, the furniture manufacturer and retailer, which experienced a significant hit last year. We also like W. W. Granger, which is investing heavily in its Internet presence. We are also very attracted to the semiconductor capital equipment sector, and really like Novellus in that area. And we like technology generally.
 
http://www.nytimes.com

CORRECTION-DATE: August 1, 1999, Sunday

 CORRECTION:
Because of an editing error, the Market Insight column last Sunday about Thomas M. McManus, equity portfolio strategist at Banc of America Securities, omitted part of the last sentence of a quotation from Mr. McManus about companies and groups of companies in which he expected continued earnings improvement. The passage should have read: "We are also very attracted to the semiconductor capital equipment sector, and really like Novellus in that area. And we like technology generally."

GRAPHIC: Photo: McManus

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Interview

TICKER: BAC (NYSE) (55%); BAC (LSE) (55%); 8648 (TSE) (55%); GNE (PAR) (53%); GEC (LSE) (53%); GE (SWX) (53%); GE (NYSE) (53%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (55%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (55%); SIC6712 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (55%); NAICS336412 AIRCRAFT ENGINE & ENGINE PARTS MANUFACTURING (53%); NAICS335222 HOUSEHOLD REFRIGERATOR & HOME FREEZER MANUFACTURING (53%); NAICS335210 SMALL ELECTRICAL APPLIANCE MANUFACTURING (53%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

COMPANY: BANC OF AMERICA SECURITIES BANK OF AMERICA CORP (55%); GENERAL ELECTRIC CO (53%); 

ORGANIZATION: BANC OF AMERICA SECURITIES

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%); 

SUBJECT: COMPANY REPORTS AND FORECASTS STOCK INDEXES (91%); COMPANY EARNINGS (90%); FINANCIAL RATINGS (89%); ANNUAL FINANCIAL RESULTS (78%); INTERIM FINANCIAL RESULTS (77%); EARNINGS PREANNOUNCEMENTS (77%); COMPANY PROFITS (77%); FINANCIAL RESULTS (77%); BUSINESS FORECASTS (64%); 

PERSON: MCMANUS, THOMAS M

LOAD-DATE: July 25, 1999



616 of 738 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 25, 1999
Correction Appended

SECTION: Section 4;Page 1;Column 2;Week In Review Desk

LENGTH: 1507 words

HEADLINE: The World: Ominous Signals in Iran;
In Islamic Mideast, Scant Place for Jews

BYLINE: By JOHN F. BURNS

 BODY:
TO those who monitor events in Iran, the arrest of 13 Iranian Jews on spying charges this year is a menacing sign that bigger trouble may lie ahead -- trouble that, unchecked, could cause one of the last two Jewish communities of any size in the Islamic Middle East to follow most of the others into virtual oblivion.
Until the arrests, Jews in Iran had survived the 20-year dominion of Iran's ruling ayatollahs better than many feared in 1979, when the Islamic republic was declared. In fact, the 30,000 Jews in Iran, while down from the 80,000 who lived there before the revolution, constitute the largest Jewish community to have survived in the Muslim Middle East and North Africa. The only other one of similar size is in Turkey, another non-Arab country, where about 20,000 Jews remain. 
 The Iranian Jews' significance becomes clearer when their endurance is measured against what happened elsewhere after the birth of Israel. From Morocco through Algeria, Tunisia, Libya, Egypt, Yemen, Lebanon, Syria, Iraq and Turkey, Jewish communities that totalled perhaps a million people in 1948 dwindled between the 1950's and 80's to the point that barely 60,000 -- including the 50,000 in Iran and Turkey -- remain.
But now, Iran's Jews must worry that tactics used against Jewish minorities elsewhere could erode their security, making migration more attractive. For the time being, the American and European diplomats who have been leading a discreet campaign to persuade Iran to drop the spying charges remain hopeful. They point to the opprobrium that would be sure to fall on Iran if the cases come to trial, or -- improbable, but still possible, in the view of experts on Iran -- if the Jews were convicted and sentenced to long prison terms or death.
The case has unfolded slowly. When the first of the 13 was arrested in January, the State Department kept the matter quiet, hoping diplomacy could resolve the issue. But that had not happened by early June, when Iran announced the arrests over the state radio.
The spying charges bear every earmark of a trumped-up case. Those arrested -- including a rabbi, three Hebrew teachers, a kosher butcher and even, by some reports, a 16-year-old boy -- were originally picked up for alleged infringements of Iranian laws that conflict with Jewish practices. The rabbi was charged with teaching Hebrew, the language of Jewish prayer; others were accused of closing their shops on Saturday, the Jewish Sabbath.
Their actions were condemned as evidence of disloyalty to Iran, and thus as proof that those arrested were in the service of "world arrogance" and "the Zionist entity," meaning the United States and Israel. By escalating infractions of religious laws into treason, the conservatives who control Iran's police and courts evidently hoped to stir antagonism toward the West and place fresh obstacles before Iran's reformist President, Mohammed Khatami.
BY no coincidence, the charges originated in the southern city of Fars, a stronghold of Islamic conservatives loyal to Ayatollah Ali Khamanei, Iran's supreme leader. Although the violent clashes earlier this month between students supporting President Khatami and security forces loyal to the Muslim clerics have now abated, the underlying dispute between those favoring a broadening of freedoms and the clerics' insistence on tight control remains. With it, at least theoretically, remains the risk that other Jews might become political pawns.
It is a situation redolent of the hazards Jews have faced throughout history, made more poignant in Iran by the fact that Jews there seemed, until the spying case, to have a more secure place than elsewhere in the Muslim Middle East. The Islamic constitution recognizes Jews as a religious minority, allows them a representative in Parliament and accepts Jewish laws on burial and divorce. In Teheran, 27 synagogues function, Jewish schools flourish and the Jewish hospital is among the city's most respected.
Now all this could be at risk, and with it a crucial vestige of the Jewish settlement that has left a deep imprint on virtually every country in the Middle East. According to estimates in the "Atlas of the Jewish World," a survey by Dr. Nicholas de Lange of Cambridge University, as many as four million Jews lived in parts of the Roman Empire beyond Judea, the Jewish homeland, at the dawn of the first millennium; most of these lived in the Arab lands that now surround Israel. On the eve of the third millennium, these countries together could not muster a Jewish population as numerous as those that were once to be found in many of the major cities of the region.
Iraq, where there were about 150,000 Jews in 1948, has about 70 now. In Syria, there are about 300, in Lebanon about 80, in Jordan, Egypt and Yemen fewer still. In Saudi Arabia there are no Jews, at least by official count. In Morocco, which had about 300,000 Jews in 1948, about 6,000 remain. In Algeria, which saw 115,000 Jews emigrate hastily to France at independence in 1962, the count is down to a few hundred. In Tunisia, which counted 105,000 Jews in 1950, there are no more than 2,500. In Libya, where a 1931 census counted 24,500 Jews, one recent count put the number of Jews remaining at 5. In Turkey, a community of 90,000 in 1948 has shrunk to less than a quarter of that now.
While flight from the Muslim lands has been precipitous in the last 50 years, a slower decline dates from the Middle Ages, when the rise of Christian Europe attracted large westward migrations among Jewish populations in the Middle East. Other factors, including local pogroms, prompted Jews to leave over the centuries. But in the modern era, the watershed was the creation of Israel. Living in a Jewish state was an attraction in itself; a surge of hostility among Arabs toward Jews, or at least toward Zionism, was another factor.
Still, many of those who left did so reluctantly, and many chose not to leave until much later. This attests to something widely accepted among Jews who have lived as minorities in Muslim nations -- that the Islamic world has been less fertile ground for anti-Semitism than the Christian lands of Europe. Why this has been so has been endlessly debated, but Islamic scholars cite stories from the life of the Muslim prophet, Mohammed, to show that respect for Jews was close to his heart.
Nothing in Jewish experience in the Middle East came remotely close to the Holocaust. But even long before Hitler's killing machine, Jews in Muslim countries were comparing their experiences favorably with those of Jews in Europe. In his survey, Dr. de Lange quotes a Jew writing from Constantinople to Jews in the Rhineland in 1454. "Is it not better for you to live under Muslims than under Christians?" he wrote. "Here, every man may live at peace under his own vine and fig tree."
SINCE 1948, of course, there has been no lack of discrimination toward Jews in Arab countries. Eighteen months after the 1967 Arab-Israeli war, Iraq convicted 14 people, nine of them Jews, on dubious spying charges and hanged them from lampposts in a Baghdad square. In many Arab countries, Jews could not emigrate, or could only on forfeit of all they owned. Jewish religious practices were restricted. In many countries, Jews were excluded from government employment, at least at the top.
Some Jewish historians have argued that Israel, or at least Zionists, must accept a share of the blame. These scholars cite the Zionists' plan to encourage Jews everywhere to migrate to Israel, and link that plan to covert Israeli intelligence operations in the years after 1948. One often-cited case involves a bungled Israeli intelligence schemet in 1954 in which bombs were placed at key centers in Cairo, including the American library, with a view to disrupting relations between Western countries and President Gamal Abdel Nasser. These historians say another aim -- and certainly one effect -- was to encourage Egypt's 50,000 Jews to flee to Israel.
Avi Shlaim, a professor of international relations at Oxford University who has written on relations between Israel and the Arab states, says that actions like these accelerated the flight of Jews from communities where many might otherwise have remained. But Dr. Shlaim, whose own family left Iraq for Israel in 1950, believes that now that the Jewish communities in the region have all but vanished, not even a lasting peace between Israel and the Arab states will lead to their regeneration.
The reason, he says, is not that the Arab states or Iran are innately anti-Semitic, but that they lack democratic institutions and economic opportunities. "I can't imagine anyone in their right mind going back to Iraq, or Syria, for that matter," he says. King Hassan of Morocco, who died last week, "held out this opportunity to Moroccan Jews all along, and even they haven't exercised it," Dr. Shalim added. "The most I can imagine now is that Jews born in these countries may eventually want to return as tourists, but nothing more."
 
http://www.nytimes.com

CORRECTION-DATE: August 1, 1999, Sunday

 CORRECTION:
Because of a production error, a picture last Sunday of a Yemeni Jew, with an article about the history of Jews in the Middle East, was reproduced in mirror image. The man shown should have appeared on the right.

GRAPHIC: Photo: In Yemen, one of the few remaining Jews sits in his house, which his family shares with a Muslim family. (Jacques Langevin/Sygma)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

INDUSTRY: SIC2329 MEN'S & BOYS' CLOTHING, NEC (69%); 

COUNTRY: IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (94%); MIDDLE EAST (94%); TURKEY (93%); YEMEN (92%); ISRAEL (92%); UNITED STATES (92%); EGYPT (79%); NORTHERN AFRICA (79%); EUROPE (79%); AFRICA (79%); LIBYAN ARAB JAMAHIRIYA (79%); TUNISIA (79%); IRAQ (79%); LEBANON (79%); SYRIA (79%); MOROCCO (76%); 

COMPANY: SICOME SA (69%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (94%); MIDDLE EAST (94%); TURKEY (93%); YEMEN (92%); ISRAEL (92%); UNITED STATES (92%); EGYPT (79%); NORTHERN AFRICA (79%); EUROPE (79%); AFRICA (79%); LIBYAN ARAB JAMAHIRIYA (79%); TUNISIA (79%); IRAQ (79%); LEBANON (79%); SYRIA (79%); MOROCCO (76%); 

SUBJECT: Terms not available from NYTimes. from NYTimes. JEWS & JUDAISM (94%); RELIGION (91%); MUSLIMS & ISLAM (90%); ARRESTS (89%); ESPIONAGE (89%); TREASON (78%); CRIMINAL CONVICTIONS (78%); STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (77%); NEWS BRIEFS (74%); CONSERVATISM (73%); PRISONS (69%); DIPLOMATIC SERVICES (69%); SENTENCING (68%); CLERGY & RELIGIOUS (65%); 

LOAD-DATE: July 25, 1999



617 of 738 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 25, 1999

SECTION: Section 7; Page 12; Column 1; Book Review Desk

LENGTH: 2011 words

HEADLINE: An Idea Whose Time Has Gone

BYLINE: By Mark Lilla; Mark Lilla is the editor of "New French Thought: Political Philosophy."

 BODY:

THE PASSING OF AN ILLUSION
The Idea of Communism in the Twentieth Century.
By Francois Furet.
Translated by Deborah Furet.
596 pp. Chicago:
The University of Chicago Press. $35. 
 TWO years ago this month France lost Francois Furet, one of its most important historians, at the age of 70. Although in the last decade of his life Furet was chairman of the prestigious Committee on Social Thought at the University of Chicago, he was virtually unknown in this country outside academic circles. But in France he was recognized as one of the most influential thinkers of the post-1968 period, a man whose writings probably did more to shape the intellectual mood of the Mitterrand era than anyone else's. It was during this period that French intellectuals completed their change of allegiances from the schools of Marxism and structuralism that dominated the postwar years to a resigned democratic liberalism. It was Furet, following in the footsteps of his mentor Raymond Aron, who presided over that remarkable transformation.
That an academic historian whose specialty was obscure details of the French Revolution could have had such wide impact might strike foreign observers as improbable. But the Revolution (always capitalized) has never been a remote, scholastic subject in the political and intellectual life of France. As Furet himself did so much to show, the Revolution had a unique imaginaire, or symbolic significance, through which the French viewed all subsequent political developments at home and abroad. Beginning in the early 19th century, French (and, following them, German) thinkers saw the Revolution as the turning point of world history, the culmination of all earlier struggles for human freedom and the messianic promise of a final emancipation to come.
Whether or to what degree Furet shared this view of the Revolution's significance was never entirely clear. At times he followed his beloved Tocqueville in treating the Revolution as a rip in the fabric of time, through which emerged a unique historical epoch -- the democratic age -- with unique problems and prospects. At other times he commented more skeptically on this fetishizing of the Revolution, which bred countless illusions about the genuine condition of modern man and the nature of liberal democracy. It is this second Furet who wrote his last and most personal book, "The Passing of an Illusion," which is not about the French Revolution at all but about its presumably last offspring: the idea of Communism.
In a sense, as some of his critics correctly pointed out, Furet was always writing about Communism, even in his books on the Revolution. He had been a card-carrying and quite militant member of the party until the failed Hungarian uprising of 1956, which opened his eyes to the illusion that had colored his entire life until then. Figuring out how it had been possible for him and so many others to be so easily duped became his life's work, which is what gives the present book (translated by his widow) its autobiographical force. It has been justifiably compared to Eric Hobsbawm's "Age of Extremes," another extremely personal work of history, which tells the story of the rise and fall of the Communist idea in this century from a far more sympathetic perspective. Taken together, these books give the contemporary reader a feel for the passions that have driven politics and scholarship throughout our bloody century.
Furet sets the stage for the rise of the Communist idea by returning to the French Revolution and describing the tension between the bourgeois world it created in economics and politics and the antibourgeois passions it bred in the human heart. The bourgeois 19th century was stillborn: in Europe it was ruled over by a hopelessly weak class racked by self-doubt and intellectually incapable of understanding its own significance. The disaster of World War I robbed it of whatever confidence it had and encouraged even some of its own members to see in the Russian Revolution of 1917 a kind of salvation.
FURET'S chapters on the early European reactions to the Russian Revolution are maddeningly Gallocentric but revealing nonetheless. He shows how foreign observers were much more attracted to the violent and authoritarian revolution of October than to the milder and potentially more democratic one of February. In the puritanical ruthlessness of Lenin many Europeans saw the spitting image of Robespierre, and they liked what they saw. Foremost among these were intellectuals, who were attracted to the claims of Russian Communism to have united science and morals, and who remained attached to it even when the science failed and the morals were perverted. With Europe's house in political and economic shambles in the wake of the Great War, such hopes in a new path might have been understandable. But as credible reports of purges, famines and massacres began to leak out of the Soviet Union in the 1920's and 30's, only something stronger than rational hope could have sustained the Western partisans of Communism. George Bernard Shaw's remark that "Stalin is a good Fabian, and that's the best that can be said of anyone" was hardly exceptional, and illustrates how the will to believe overcame even the most skeptical minds.
But in what sense can Communism be called an "illusion"? After all, it was real enough to millions of workers who couldn't have distinguished Shaw from St. Nick. Furet has no interest in proving that supporters of Communism in the 20's and 30's were simply ignorant, or that their actions had unintended consequences; that is true of all historical actors. What made Communism different, for workers and thinkers alike, is that it demanded and received a psychological investment rendering it virtually impermeable to rational or empirical refutation. Keeping in mind the bon mot reported by the Spanish writer Jorge Semprun that dialectics is "the science of always landing on your feet," we may say that Communism was a dialectical illusion.
In Furet's view, what tightened this illusion's grip on the minds of so many for so long was the birth of a second illusion, an evil twin with which it waged mortal combat: fascism. Here Furet's argument has been highly contentious but also, in my view, quite fruitful. While he is careful to distinguish the indigenous roots of the German and Italian versions of fascism, he also usefully reminds us that its founder was the former socialist Benito Mussolini, who among other things was an assiduous student of Lenin. The parallels between fascism and Communism as ideologies are significant. "Both Bolshevism and fascism drew their basic education from war," Furet writes. "They transferred to politics the lessons of the trenches: familiarity with violence, the simplicity of extreme passions, the submission of the individual to the collectivity, and finally the bitterness of futile or betrayed sacrifices."
In recent years a similar line of argument, with altogether different moral and political implications, has been put forward by the German historian Ernst Nolte and his revisionist followers. They have tried to exploit the undeniable similarities between Communism and fascism to reinterpret Nazism as little more than a reaction to the genuine threat of Bolshevism, and thereby to reduce its moral culpability, not least for the Holocaust. This is not at all Furet's position, as he made abundantly clear in a long correspondence with Nolte following the publication of "The Passing of an Illusion" in France. (These letters have now appeared in a French edition and deserve rapid translation into English.)
Furet rejected any attempt to reinterpret the exterminating fury of German anti-Semitism as an unfortunate byproduct of anti-Communism, maintaining against Nolte that it had no parallels in modern history, not in Communism or in fascism elsewhere. The aim of Furet's book was to demonstrate how the illusions, not the reality, of Communism and fascism fed off each other in our century, to the point that they eventually came to see themselves distortedly as mirror images of their adversaries.
Furet's treatment of the 30's is the high point of the book. As the economic disaster of the Great Depression was slowly overcome, Communist intellectuals and movements turned from economics to the struggle against fascism. And when the Spanish Civil War broke out, this battle of the ideologies suddenly took on military reality, conveniently providing Communist sympathizers with an excuse for belittling as war propaganda reports of atrocities in Russia and behind partisan lines in Spain. Stalin deftly exploited this moment. He even saw the value in the development of a non-Communist but sympathetic antifascist "third column," a new kind of left "independent of Communism yet inseparable from it," as Furet puts it. These fellow travelers, as they came to be called, flocked to Moscow to kiss Stalin's ring, all the while professing themselves to be good Fabians, good French Republicans or good American democrats committed only to the struggle against fascism.
That threat was real enough. But its psychological effect on the left was to act as a filtering device that automatically read out all nonfascist threats to human decency, Soviet Communism foremost among them. The Moscow trials could be ignored in the name of solidarity with Catalonia; the Hitler-Stalin pact could be atoned for by the noble defense of Stalingrad. And so it went throughout World War II and the dark decade that followed, as Eastern Europe fell under the shadow of Soviet tyranny and the gulag sprawled like a macabre Levittown over the Siberian tundra. By the 1950's, fascism had disappeared but substitutes for it were ready at hand for the fellow travelers: American imperialism, the arms race, McCarthyism.
Again, it must be emphasized that Furet has no interest in minimizing these disturbing developments, which he devoted a good part of his journalistic career to combating. But the alternative they formed in the mind of the Communist sympathizer -- apres Communisme, le deluge -- was a false one. In every Western country there were responsible people on the left and in the liberal center who saw no contradiction between opposing Communism and also opposing imperialism, McCarthy or the arms race. Yet it was precisely these figures who were treated with the most contempt by those for whom life without the Communist illusion could not be imagined.
Unsurprisingly, if a little disappointingly, the drama of Furet's book ends in 1956, and developments over the next four decades are only lightly sketched in. They were not uneventful years, ideologically speaking. Most of the third world was rapidly decolonized, there was a drawn-out war in Southeast Asia, and a new generation of political radicals was born that appealed to many symbols in the Communist repertory but eventually undermined them. This generation had its own illusions, which it was eventually forced to abandon after the revelations of Solzhenitsyn, the butcheries of Cambodia, the rise of Islamic fundamentalism and the routinization of tyranny in countless former colonies. Yet, in its own way, this was the generation to seal Communism's fate.
And what remains? In Furet's view, less than nothing: "All that remains of the regimes born" of the October Revolution "is what they sought to destroy." But he was too much the historian, and too subtle a psychologist of the modern mind, to think that the passions first kindled in 1789 were extinguished without a trace in 1989. The Communist illusion ended because Communism ended, not the reverse. The passions of the democratic age, cooled perhaps by the political traumas of our century, are still lurking in our breasts. It seems to be our destiny as modern men, Furet wistfully concludes, to live in an age that "creates the need for a world beyond the bourgeoisie and beyond Capital, a world in which a genuine human community can flourish." A need that no society can ever satisfy.
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Drawing (BORIS KULIKOV)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Review

COUNTRY: FRANCE (94%); UNITED STATES (91%); 

STATE: ILLINOIS, USA (91%); 

CITY: CHICAGO, IL, USA (91%); 

COMPANY: UNIVERSITY OF CHICAGO (90%); UNIVERSITY OF CHICAGO (90%); 

ORGANIZATION: UNIVERSITY OF CHICAGO (90%); UNIVERSITY OF CHICAGO (90%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: FRANCE (94%); UNITED STATES (91%); ILLINOIS, USA (91%); CHICAGO, IL, USA (91%); 

SUBJECT: Terms not available from NYTimes. BOOK REVIEWS (91%); HISTORY (90%); LIBERALISM (89%); HUMANITIES & SOCIAL SCIENCE (78%); 

PERSON: FRANCOIS FURET (97%); 

LOAD-DATE: July 27, 1999



618 of 738 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 26, 1999

SECTION: Section C; Page 4; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk

LENGTH: 981 words

HEADLINE: TECHNOLOGY: E-Commerce Report;
For local merchants interested in on-line sales, faith may be the biggest element of the business plan.

BYLINE: By Bob Tedeschi

 BODY:
ONLIKE most people drawn to the siren song of Internet commerce, Phil Worley started a Web site last spring with a modest goal: bring in some additional sales for the small-town hardware business. No 50-page business plan. No venture capital. No initial public offering.
After three months of advertising Weber grills on the site, operated by The Hartford Courant (www.courant.com), at prices lower than many competitors, his experience has not met even his humble expectations. In other words, he has not sold a thing on line. 
 "I haven't seen much payback," said Mr. Worley, owner of Worley Ace Hardware in Canton, Conn., a town of about 8,000 that lies 14 miles west of Hartford. "But I feel like I need to be there, since so many in my industry are. I'm keeping the faith."
For many people dipping their toes into E-commerce, the process requires an element of faith -- whether for consumers concerned about security, investors uncertain of their return or retailers with no idea how consumers' on-line behavior will evolve. But for local merchants who want to participate in the world's hottest industry, faith is perhaps the biggest component.
It is not only that owners of small businesses often lack the time, expertise and marketing budgets to compete with bigger companies. It is not yet clear that people will look to local merchants when they surf the Net for bargains. Meanwhile, on-line city guides, which seek to aggregate local businesses for ads and transactions, are a fragmented bunch, with only experimental ideas on how to approach local markets.
"It's not a pretty picture for local merchants right now," said Lisa Allen, an E-commerce analyst with Forrester Research, an Internet consulting firm. "First of all, a lot of what's sold on line are commodities, and you don't need to buy a book or CD from a local yokel store," she said. "But also, the national players have the deep pockets to create sites with the best user experience and market them. And the mom and pops don't have that."
Ms. Allen said local merchants would attract $680 million in Internet sales this year, or 9 percent of the total $7.8 billion projected by Forrester. By 2003, Forrester expects local merchants to increase those sales to $6 billion, but that number will account for just 6 percent of the projected $108 billion in Web sales.
In promoting the potential of local E-commerce, some executives point to the fact that people spend nearly 80 percent of their money within a 20-mile radius of their homes. But "interests, not geography, will be important on line," Ms. Allen said.
"If you're a wine aficionado, you won't necessarily go to the local site," she added.
There are, however, certain categories that show greater local potential on line -- including tickets, which Forrester anticipates will reap 43 percent of local Web sales, or $2.6 billion, by 2003. Such numbers bode well for Ticketmaster Online-Citysearch, which runs a network of city guides catering primarily to entertainment-minded consumers.
Perhaps mindful of the limits of local E-commerce, many merchants use the Web for marketing rather than for completing transactions with customers. Here, businesses like employment agencies, realtors and car dealerships are among the biggest spenders, analysts and executives said.
"More and more things in the real estate industry will be done on line, so I'd expect our ad budget to grow on line in the next couple of years," said Stat Geer, regional manager for the Chicago Title Insurance Company, which advertises on the Chicago Digital City site, operated by America Online in conjunction with The Chicago Tribune.
Indeed, at least one study shows that local advertising on line is gaining momentum. According to a report last month by Kelsey Group and Constat Inc., the Web has surpassed direct mail as an ad medium for local businesses and is nearly equal to local spending on newspaper advertising. The report said that 17.2 percent of businesses involved in local commerce use the Web for advertising and promotion, versus 15.5 percent for direct mail, 18.7 percent for newspapers and 37.2 percent for Yellow Pages.
On-line city guides like Digital City and Citysearch, as well as guides owned by newspapers (including The New York Times, which publishes the New York Today site), have until recently attracted advertisers using the same formula as any local media: provide local news and entertainment information, and sell ads surrounding that content. But with the E-commerce bandwagon picking up speed, more local merchants are demanding not only advertising opportunities, but sophisticated Web sites that enable them to sell goods within the city guide.
"The bar is a lot higher now," said Charles Conn, chief executive of Ticketmaster Online-Citysearch. "When we used to sell sites in our city guides to merchants, they wanted four or five pages with pictures, maybe a menu if they were a restaurant. Now they want streaming audio, the recipe of the day, and merchants want the ability to transact."
Mr. Conn, who said merchants pay between $100 and $700 a month for a site within a Citysearch guide, noted that consumers, too, will increasingly expect local merchants to offer more transaction capabilities. "I think because people have been trained by tools like Amazon and Ebay for buying on line, they'll look not only for fresh information from sites like ours, but transaction tools to help them get things done."
That, of course, is the great hope of merchants like Mr. Worley, of Worley Ace Hardware, who pays $200 a month for his site. "As with so many people who are trying E-commerce, this is a large experiment for me," he said. "But I haven't really given this a lot of attention, since I have so much going on running the business. I suppose to do it right you have to do it big. And I haven't done that yet."
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photos: Worley Ace Hardware has sold nothing through its Web site, left. But Phil Worley, above left, says he will keep the site. (George Ruhe for The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: FORR (NASDAQ) (53%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS541910 MARKETING RESEARCH & PUBLIC OPINION POLLING (53%); SIC8732 COMMERCIAL ECONOMIC, SOCIOLOGICAL, & EDUCATIONAL RESEARCH (53%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (79%); 

STATE: CONNECTICUT, USA (79%); 

CITY: HARTFORD, CT, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: FORRESTER RESEARCH INC (53%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%); CONNECTICUT, USA (79%); HARTFORD, CT, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: COMPUTERS AND THE INTERNET; RETAIL STORES AND TRADE RETAIL SALES (90%); INTERNET RETAILING (90%); INTERNET & WWW (90%); BUSINESS PLANS (90%); HARDWARE STORES (90%); ELECTRONIC COMMERCE (90%); RETAILERS (90%); SMALL BUSINESS (77%); VENTURE CAPITAL (77%); BUDGETS (77%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING EXPENDITURE (76%); INITIAL PUBLIC OFFERINGS (72%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (71%); CUSTOMER EXPERIENCE (67%); CONSULTING SERVICES (65%); 

PERSON: LISA ALLEN (66%); 

LOAD-DATE: July 26, 1999



619 of 738 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 26, 1999

SECTION: Section C; Page 8; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk

LENGTH: 419 words

HEADLINE: Treasury Auctions Scheduled This Week

 BODY:
The Treasury's schedule of financing this week included today's regular weekly auction of new three- and six-month bills and a two-year note being auctioned Wednesday.
According to traders, at the close of the New York cash market on Friday the rate on the outstanding three month bill was at 4.52 percent and the rate on the six-month issue at 4.51 percent. In when-issued trading the two-year note was offered at a price to yield 5.53 percent. 
 The following taxable and tax-exempt fixed-income issues are scheduled for pricing this week:
 
TAXABLE
 
ONE DAY DURING THE WEEK
Allegiant Bancorp., 1.5 million shares of $10 cumulative trust preferred due 2029, ---/---/---. Everen Securities.
Host Marriott Corp., $100 million perpetual cumumlative preferred, B2/B/---. Morgan Stanley Dean Witter and Paine Webber Inc.
Realty Inc., 2 million shares of $25 cumulative preferred, Ba1/BB+/---. Merrill Lynch & Co.
Sun Microsystems, $1 billion of notes in four parts: 3-year, 5-year, 7-year and 10-year, Baa2/BBB+/---. Goldman, Sachs & Co.
Source: MCM Corporatewatch
Ratings: Moody's Investors Service/Standard & Poor's Corp./Duff & Phelps Credit.
 
TAX EXEMPT
 
TUESDAY
New Jersey Education Facilities, $50 million of revenue bonds. Competitive.
Ohio Higher Education, $100 million of debt securities. Competitive.
Washington State, $186.3 million of certificate of participation. Competitive.
 
WEDNESDAY
Contra Costa Water, Calif., $53 million of revenue bonds. Competitive.
University of California series H and J, $172.5 million of debt securities. Competitive.
 
ONE DAY DURING THE WEEK
American Museum of Natural History, $65 million of debt securities for new york trust for cultural resources. Morgan Stanley Dean Witter.
Cowlitz Co., Washington, $50 million of general obligation bonds. Seattle-Northwest Securities.
Indianapolis Local Public Improvement, $105 million of debt securities. Merrill Lynch & Co.
Municipal Gas Authority of Georgia, $212.7 million of gas revenue bonds. J.P. Morgan Securities.
Nebraska Investment Finance Authority, $70 million of single family housing revenue bonds. Lehman Brothers.
New York State Dormitory Authority, $65 million of debt securities. Bear, Stearns & Co.
Pasadena, Calif., $102 million of pension bonds. Morgan Stanley Dean Witter.
Washington, $900 million of general obligation bonds. Salomon Smith Barney.
Wisconsin Health & Higher Education, $80 million of general obligation bonds. Merrill Lynch & Co. 
http://www.nytimes.com

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Schedule

TICKER: GS (NYSE) (91%); PNC (NYSE) (70%); HST (NYSE) (69%); JPM (NYSE) (58%); JPM (LSE) (58%); 8634 (TSE) (58%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (91%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (91%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (91%); SIC6289 SERVICES ALLIED WITH THE EXCHANGE OF SECURITIES OR COMMODITIES, NEC (91%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (91%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (91%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (86%); NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (70%); NAICS522291 CONSUMER LENDING (70%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (70%); SIC6712 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (70%); SIC6021 NATIONAL COMMERCIAL BANKS (70%); NAICS721110 HOTELS (EXCEPT CASINO HOTELS) & MOTELS (69%); SIC7011 HOTELS & MOTELS (69%); NAICS561450 CREDIT BUREAUS (66%); SIC7323 CREDIT REPORTING SERVICES (66%); NAICS523999 MISCELLANEOUS FINANCIAL INVESTMENT ACTIVITIES (58%); SIC6022 STATE COMMERCIAL BANKS (58%); NAICS541512 COMPUTER SYSTEMS DESIGN SERVICES (55%); NAICS511210 SOFTWARE PUBLISHERS (55%); NAICS334111 ELECTRONIC COMPUTER MANUFACTURING (55%); SIC7373 COMPUTER INTEGRATED SYSTEMS DESIGN (55%); SIC5045 COMPUTERS & COMPUTER PERIPHERAL EQUIPMENT & SOFTWARE (55%); NAICS522390 OTHER ACTIVITIES RELATED TO CREDIT INTERMEDIATION (54%); SIC8732 COMMERCIAL ECONOMIC, SOCIOLOGICAL, & EDUCATIONAL RESEARCH (54%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (92%); CALIFORNIA, USA (91%); WASHINGTON, USA (90%); INDIANA, USA (72%); 

CITY: SEATTLE, WA, USA (79%); INDIANAPOLIS, IN, USA (72%); 

COMPANY: GOLDMAN SACHS GROUP INC (91%); MERRILL LYNCH & CO INC (86%); NATIONAL CITY CORP (70%); PNC FINANCIAL SERVICES GROUP INC (70%); HOST HOTELS & RESORTS INC (69%); MOODY'S INVESTORS SERVICE LTD (67%); STANDARD & POOR'S FINANCIAL SERVICES LLC (66%); JPMORGAN CHASE & CO (58%); ORACLE AMERICA INC (55%); FITCH RATINGS LTD (54%); LEHMAN BROTHERS HOLDINGS INC (52%); SEATTLE-NORTHWEST SECURITIES CORP (52%); NEBRASKA INVESTMENT FINANCE AUTHORITY INC (52%); SMITH BARNEY HOLDINGS INC (51%); BEAR STEARNS & CO INC (51%); NEW YORK STATE DORMITORY AUTHORITY (67%); 

ORGANIZATION: NEW YORK STATE DORMITORY AUTHORITY (67%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%); NEW YORK, USA (92%); CALIFORNIA, USA (91%); WASHINGTON, USA (90%); INDIANA, USA (72%); SEATTLE, WA, USA (79%); INDIANAPOLIS, IN, USA (72%); 

SUBJECT: NO INDEX TERMS FROM NYTIMES AUCTIONS (91%); TREASURY SECURITIES (91%); TAX EXEMPTIONS (90%); TAXES & TAXATION (90%); FINANCIAL RATINGS (90%); STOCK INDEXES (90%); MUNICIPAL BONDS (89%); DEBT FINANCING (89%); DEBT NOTES (89%); BONDS (89%); PUBLIC DEBT (86%); SINGLE FAMILY MORTGAGES (78%); REAL ESTATE (78%); TAX LAW (75%); BANKING & FINANCE AGENCIES (73%); COLLEGES & UNIVERSITIES (69%); STUDENT HOUSING (68%); ENERGY & UTILITY LAW (68%); MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (62%); 

LOAD-DATE: July 26, 1999



620 of 738 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 26, 1999

SECTION: Section C; Page 10; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk

LENGTH: 1273 words

HEADLINE: MEDIA;
An Entrepreneurial Exception Rides The Internet in Japan

BYLINE: By SHERYL WuDUNN

DATELINE: TOKYO, July 25

 BODY:
Masayoshi Son seems an unlikely deal maker in the bubbly and free-spirited world of the Internet.
Short, boyish-looking and soft-spoken, Mr. Son -- while in Japan -- wears the Japanese business uniform of a white shirt and an immaculately pressed black suit. In public, he sometimes stands stiffly and smiles only slightly. He bows often to emphasize his humility. 
 Moreover, he lives in Tokyo, the risk-averse capital of the world, where the Internet is still a foreign concept to many.
But if there is such a thing as an Internet financial and media empire, Mr. Son's company, Softbank, may be it. Mr. Son, 41, and Softbank are already among the most powerful financial forces in cyberspace, controlling key stakes in 100 Internet information providers in the United States and 20 such companies in Japan. The stakes in publicly held companies, worth $15 billion to $20 billion, are sprinkled widely. Softbank now owns 28 percent of Yahoo, and it has important stakes in Geocities, E-Loans, E*Trade, USWeb, Message Media, and TheStreet.com.
And Softbank is intensifying its focus on the Internet with new deals all the time. Last Tuesday, for example, it agreed to pay $20 million for a 40 percent stake in Webhire, an on-line recruiting company. And Softbank may sell much of its 70 percent stake in Ziff-Davis, the publisher of such magazines as PC Week.
"If you want a global player in the Internet, they are the player," said Jarett F. Wait, chief operating officer in Asia for Lehman Brothers, which recently released a 195-page report on the company. "There's nobody else that comes close."
But while Mr. Son is Japan's leading entrepreneur, the oddity, and perhaps the reason, is that he is not ethnically Japanese.
A Chinese-Korean, he grew up poor in southern Japan, closed off from normal avenues in Japan's corporate world because of discrimination against the Korean minority. Denied a chance to succeed at a leading company, he started Softbank and has become one of Japan's richest men.
Softbank's aim is to become a global Internet "zaibatsu," a Japanese-style empire with investments in many linked companies. Softbank has begun Internet ventures through Yahoo in Germany, France and Britain; it has investment alliances with Rupert Murdoch's News Corporation in Europe, and a joint venture in South Korea.
"For the next 10 years, we do nothing but Internet," Mr. Son said, speaking in English during an interview in his spacious office. "Because that's where the whole society is going to have a big revolution."
Now, after building the foundations of his Internet kingdom in the United States, Mr. Son is turning back to Japan -- one of the least entrepreneurial societies. Last month, he and Frank G. Zarb, chairman of the National Association of Securities Dealers, announced a plan to form a new trading exchange, a Japanese version of Nasdaq, that could become a center for electronic brokerage activity, electronic research and entrepreneurial ventures in Japan.
Mr. Son will feed that entrepreneurial spirit with venture-capital funds that aim to pour $85 million into building Japanese start-ups and grooming hundreds of Softbank wannabes. On June 29 Mr. Son held a reception for 1,400 budding entrepreneurs. He spent the morning of July 5 with Prime Minister Keizo Obuchi and other Government officials to offer some ideas for reviving Japan's economy. The entry of Mr. Son, an entrepreneur from the Korean minority, into the Prime Minister's residence underscores the changing times in Japan.
Yet he faces some enormous challenges. So far he has been a kind of venture capitalist, backing Internet enterprises early and riding on their success. But he does not manage or plan them. And the soaring value of Internet stocks has perhaps exaggerated his ability to pick individual winners.
Mr. Son's appetite for expansion has often outstripped his financial ability. Even now, he often taps the bond markets, and is carrying about three times as much debt as equity.
If there is a shake-out in the Internet, or if Internet stocks prove to be a bubble that pops, then Softbank may falter. Moreover, as Mr. Son ventures into relatively new territory -- like the stock exchange -- he is taking risks in areas in which he has no proved expertise.
Still, no one seems eager to bet against him. And almost no one is better than he is at adjusting to a new situation; he sometimes comes across as a chameleon.
He can backslap and talk in colloquial English with American investment bankers and then discuss the details of new computer chips with the techies. He can also turn somber and bow and speak in polite Japanese to melt into a Japanese business crowd.
This knack for mixing comes from his personal background, which has haunted and helped him since his days growing up in a small town on the southern Japanese island of Kyushu. Mr. Son's grandparents came to Japan from Korea, where his family had lived for 21 generations after migrating from China.
His father and other Koreans illegally built their houses on land owned by Japan National Railways, which led to a long-running conflict with the authorities. It was on that land that Mr. Son's father raised pigs and chickens and illicitly made sake. The home brew was apparently lucrative, for he became the first person in town to buy a car.
When Mr. Son's family moved out of its Korean neighborhood so he could attend a better school, to try to melt into society the family took a Japanese last name, Yasumoto.
"I was a good student, but in those days I had a darkness in my mind all the time," Mr. Son wrote in an essay in 1992. "It was because of my nationality. When I was with friends, I was very happy. When I came back home alone, I had the feeling that I was hiding something from my friends."
He took on his real Korean-Chinese name, Son, when he went to the United States at 16 to attend high school and then on to the University of California at Berkeley. It was his American experience, he says, that laid the groundwork for his career.
"If I had stayed all the time in Japan," Mr. Son said, "I probably would have become much more conservative, just as other Japanese."
One important element in the effort to change attitudes of young people will be to expand opportunities for them to finance their companies and to reward them with stock options -- and that is where the new stock exchange comes in. In February, Mr. Son met John L. Hilley, an aide to Mr. Zarb for the first time through a mutual friend.
Over dinner at a French restaurant at the Royal Park Hotel, close to Softbank's offices, Mr. Hilley began pouring out his frustrations over trying to break into the Japanese market. He had been in meetings his whole trip and had received very little encouragement.
"I said, 'Maybe we can help, maybe you went to the wrong place,' " Mr. Son recalled. He told Mr. Hilley, "You need someone who has the entrepreneurial spirit to make this happen."
Mr. Son and Mr. Zarb then began talking about setting up a new exchange, an idea made possible by recent changes in the securities regulations under Japan's financial liberalization. The idea also dovetailed with Mr. Son's ambition to help shape electronic brokerage and the Internet in Japan.
Even if this proposal fails and Mr. Son suffers a blow to his reputation, he still has his bet on the Internet. He says that as Internet technology evolves, the potential for returns from the information that travels on the network will be far greater than anything realized so far.
"That's my fortune-telling, " he said. "I'm betting on that."
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photo: Masayoshi Son, without the usual black suit, in his office in Tokyo. (Stuart Isett/Sygma for The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Biography

TICKER: 9984 (TSE) (92%); 4726 (TSE) (92%); YHOO (NASDAQ) (86%); NWS (NASDAQ) (80%); NWS (ASX) (80%); TST (NASDAQ) (55%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS551112 OFFICES OF OTHER HOLDING COMPANIES (92%); SIC6719 OFFICES OF HOLDING COMPANIES, NEC (92%); SIC7373 COMPUTER INTEGRATED SYSTEMS DESIGN (92%); NAICS541512 COMPUTER SYSTEMS DESIGN SERVICES (92%); NAICS519130 INTERNET PUBLISHING & BROADCASTING & WEB SEARCH PORTALS (86%); NAICS517110 WIRED TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (86%); SIC7375 INFORMATION RETRIEVAL SERVICES (86%); NAICS515120 TELEVISION BROADCASTING (80%); NAICS511130 BOOK PUBLISHERS (80%); NAICS511110 NEWSPAPER PUBLISHERS (80%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (57%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (57%); NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (55%); SIC8999 SERVICES, NEC (55%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (55%); 

COUNTRY: JAPAN (96%); UNITED STATES (91%); EUROPE (79%); KOREA, REPUBLIC OF (79%); UNITED KINGDOM (79%); ASIA (78%); FRANCE (66%); CENTRAL EUROPE (51%); GERMANY (51%); 

CITY: TOKYO, JAPAN (90%); 

COMPANY: SOFTBANK SOFTBANK CORP (92%); SOFTBANK TECHNOLOGY CORP (92%); YAHOO! INC (86%); NEWS CORP (80%); LEHMAN BROTHERS HOLDINGS INC (57%); THESTREET INC (55%); 

ORGANIZATION: SOFTBANK

GEOGRAPHIC: JAPAN (96%); UNITED STATES (91%); EUROPE (79%); KOREA, REPUBLIC OF (79%); UNITED KINGDOM (79%); ASIA (78%); FRANCE (66%); CENTRAL EUROPE (51%); GERMANY (51%); TOKYO, JAPAN (90%); 

SUBJECT: COMPUTERS AND THE INTERNET ENTREPRENEURSHIP (90%); INTERNET & WWW (89%); ONLINE CONTENT & INFORMATION SERVICES (78%); PUBLISHING (75%); JOINT VENTURES (70%); INTERVIEWS (69%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (68%); EXECUTIVES (64%); 

PERSON: SON, MASAYOSHI KEITH RUPERT MURDOCH (50%); 

LOAD-DATE: July 26, 1999



621 of 738 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 26, 1999

SECTION: Section C; Page 1; Column 2; Business/Financial Desk

LENGTH: 2594 words

HEADLINE: JOE HILL IN HIGH TECH: A special report.;
Unions Need Not Apply

BYLINE: By STEVEN GREENHOUSE

DATELINE: SEATTLE

 BODY:
As the labor movement sets its sights on the booming high-technology world, employees like Matt Shea, a 24-year-old software developer, seem ripe for the picking. He often clocks 70-hour weeks, his managers sometimes push him to work past midnight, and he never receives overtime pay.
But ask Mr. Shea whether he wants a union at his workplace, a thriving Internet start-up called Go2Net, and his response is a puzzled expression that says "Does Not Compute." 
 "As far as me personally, and for everyone else here, unions have never come up," said Mr. Shea, who said he loved his job, notwithstanding the sweatshop hours. "Everything I want is offered to me here."
The American labor movement has belatedly recognized that if it is to reverse the decades-long slide in the percentage of workers belonging to unions, it must make some headway in high technology, the economy's fastest-growing sector. To increase their numbers and their influence in politics and at the bargaining table, unions cannot afford to be shut out of the glamorous, powerful high-technology industry, which accounts for an ever-larger share of the work force.
Persuading technology workers to join unions will not be easy, though, because of all that is lavished upon people like Mr. Shea. His job gives him valuable stock options, flexible hours, an excellent medical plan, a sense of family and, perhaps most important, the thrill of building something.
Labor leaders acknowledge that they face an uphill battle -- only a small fraction of the nation's two million computer and software developers, programmers and engineers belongs to labor unions.
But organizers are far from packing their bags in Seattle or Silicon Valley, convinced that many high-technology employees will ultimately warm to labor's message that workers need a collective voice to stand up to management.
In a public relations coup this spring, union organizers trumpeted one of their first successes in high technology when 16 temporary workers at Microsoft became the first group of software workers in a single workplace to call for union representation. Their action reflects a little-understood aspect of high-technology America: while most high-technology workers are contented haves, there are also many discontented have-nots.
Most have-nots come from the sea of long-term temps who work at Microsoft and other high-technology companies, and they often complain of being second-class citizens who receive bare-bones benefits and have no job security or stock options. Microsoft employs 20,500 regular workers domestically and 6,000 temps, who often call themselves permatemps because they work anywhere from six months to three years at the company, testing software, writing manuals, designing Web pages and developing CD-ROM's.
Industry experts estimate that at many companies -- including Compaq Computer, Hewlett-Packard and Intel -- more than 10 percent of the workers are temps.
"The conditions are not the same as where unions have had a lot of success," said Jonathan Rosenblum, organizing director for the King County Labor Council in Seattle, "but that doesn't mean there aren't a lot of substantive issues that concern high-tech workers and make them feel they want to have a voice in their job."
Just as high technology has had vast ripple effects on the way Americans live, it is forcing changes in the American labor movement. Labor's traditional focus has been getting a majority of employees at a work site -- usually full-time workers tied for years to a single employer -- to vote for a union then negotiating a contract for them.
But unions are finding that this model may be as obsolete in high-technology America as a 286 Intel chip because workers jump among companies like honeybees from flower to flower.
Some labor organizers acknowledge that they may never get a majority of workers at start-ups or at giants like Intel to vote in a union. So they are trying to devise new ways to represent high-technology workers.
An innovative example came in February when, seeking to improve benefits for high-technology temps, the A.F.L.-C.I.O.'s office in Silicon Valley set up an employment agency offering far better benefits than other agencies.
"The way we go to work has changed," said Amy Dean, director of the A.F.L.-C.I.O.'s Silicon Valley office. "So we, the labor movement, have to create a response that recognizes that the world has changed, while still embracing the values, like equity and giving workers a voice, that labor has always stood for."
 
The Haves
Big Salaries And Benefits
For Mr. Shea, the 24-year-old software engineer, unions are not so much undesirable as irrelevant.
At Go2Net, he has no out-of-pocket costs for his health or dental plan. He is happy with his flexible hours and two weeks of vacation a year. And he loves working at a start-up where he has a strong sense of making a contribution.
"My goal has always been to develop software that lots of people use," he said. "Here you can see 10,000 people using your software every day."
Nor do his 70-hour weeks make him resent management.
"As far as what gets me up in the morning or what makes me stay up so late, that's a pride issue," said Mr. Shea, who received a bachelor's degree in computer science from the University of California at San Diego. "Last night I was up till 4 A.M. testing a new home page."
The salary of a software Wunderkind like Mr. Shea usually ranges from $50,000 to $100,000 a year, often with stock options that double or triple that amount.
High-technology executives say that one overarching factor works against labor's success: the shortage of skilled software workers. Because demand far outstrips supply, companies often feel they must offer lavish generous salaries and stock options to recruit and retain workers.
"This industry is so damn competitive in seeking the best talent that if you don't give your employees what they want, you'll lose them in a second," said Ethan Caldwell, general counsel of Go2Net, which is known for its Metacrawler search engine and a financial discussion Web site.
At many start-ups, the workplace culture is so worker-friendly that it leaves union organizers out in the cold. High-technology start-ups emphasize hiring entrepreneurial self-starters, the type of employee least likely to turn to unions for help.
High-technology companies also strive to create a sense of family and fun. At many companies, there are free sodas, basketball courts and latte bars. One company took all its workers on a free ski trip when it met a crucial sales goal.
And last -- but certainly not least -- are stock options, a compensation strategy that strengthens loyalty to management and inspires workers to want to build the company.
"For a lot of workers, there's a little bit of a hero's journey, that I can be part of building this thing into a $10 billion company," said Evan Kaplan, chief executive of Aventail, a start-up in Seattle with 100 workers that provides security software for computer systems.
"You try to build a work environment that's fun and challenging and you try to deal with benefits in a way that brings them up to a level that you know is good, which is one of the reasons you don't see a tendency toward unionization," he added.
Another reason unions are not catching fire with high-technology workers is that so many are in their 20's and 30's and grew up when labor's visibility and clout were on the wane. Union anthems like "Solidarity Forever" and "Joe Hill" are as unfamiliar to them as 14th-century madrigals.
"I never think about unions because they were never part of my life," Mr. Shea said.
Many high-technology workers say that if they disliked their job, it would make more sense to hop to another employer than to undertake a unionization drive that could cause a six-month war with management.
"The market is so hot now that if you have the training and job experience, you can walk down the street to the next start-up or to Microsoft and get a job," said Debra Joyce, the 29-year-old manager of information systems at Aventail. "So if you're unhappy, you don't necessarily need union protection."
Despite such a cold shoulder, labor leaders say that the industry's workers will warm to unions when the high-technology boom crests -- when high-technology stocks fall, stock options tumble in value and unemployment rises in the industry, making it harder for unhappy workers to simply jump to other companies.
 
The Have-Nots
For the Temps, Quest for Equity
As five Microsoft temps met with two union organizers at Azteca, a restaurant two minutes from the Microsoft campus, the conversation ranged from mild to militant. Over beer and tortilla chips, they talked of staging a sit-in at a temp agency and of organizing a T-shirt day when dozens of supporters would wear pro-union shirts to Microsoft's main cafeteria.
Mark Turner, a 39-year-old accountant turned software temp who has been at Microsoft since August, explained before the meeting that a mountain of grievances had pushed him and the 15 other workers to back unionization. Unlike regular workers, the temps receive no Microsoft stock options, no pay on sick days and an inferior health plan. Many said they were misclassified into jobs that paid less than they deserved.
"We like what we do, we like our Microsoft managers and we like each other," said Mr. Turner, who complained that he has to pay $3,300 of the nearly $60,000 he earns each year toward health insurance premiums. "If we didn't, we wouldn't be fighting to improve a job we really like. But I believe that without a union we have no shot. They'll just blow us off."
The 16 workers, part of an 18-person team creating a new financial software product, want to be represented by the Washington Alliance of Technology Workers, known as Washtech, a fledgling union with four organizers and a $175,000 annual budget paid for by the Communications Workers of America.
Microsoft is renowned for churning out 30-year-old multimillionaires, but it is also churning out lots of disgruntled temps, and that is fueling the unionization push.
"It's frustrating because you're working side by side with other people who are getting so much more for doing substantially the same thing," said David Larsen, a $15-an-hour temp who has worked as a Microsoft software tester for 18 months. "The company softball field says you can't use it. They give regular employees stock options and discounts on Microsoft products and all we get is an E-mail from our temp agency saying there's a drawing for a free snow board."
Microsoft executives say it makes sense to use thousands of temporary workers because the company has so many projects -- like new software development -- that last six months. While Microsoft's critics insist that the company uses temps to skimp on benefits and severance payments, company executives say using temps is fairer to the workers -- they do not come in thinking they have permanent jobs, only to be laid off once their project ends.
Microsoft is also quick to note that many workers prefer temping to permanent employment because it gives them greater freedom to travel or work on the side and because they can earn lots of overtime pay -- unlike regular Microsoft workers, who are considered salaried professionals.
"I'm happy with being a contractor," said Emmet Skaar, a 32-year-old software tester. "I'm happy being in charge of my own destiny, and I'm very pleased with the compensation package. If these people aren't happy as contractors, they should go get themselves hired as permanent employees."
Discontent among temps has resulted in one lawsuit in which a Federal appeals court has found for the plaintiffs. The court ruled that thousands of workers hired by Microsoft through employment agencies were regular employees rather than temps and should qualify for certain Microsoft benefits, including its discount stock purchase plan.
The two sides are now thrashing out how many tens of millions of dollars Microsoft owes these so-called temps. And Microsoft has adopted a new rule requiring all temps to a 31-day break in their work at least once a year to insure that they can no longer be viewed as regular workers.
"Microsoft is engaged in a pretense about people working for Microsoft not being its employees," said Stephen K. Strong, one of the plaintiffs' lawyers. "If Microsoft provided a reasonable level of benefits to all employees, if Microsoft grew up and acted like the major employer it is and not a small business, no one would be thinking about a union."
 
The Unions
Looking for Ways To Gain Members
Despite the impassioned words from Microsoft's pro-union temps, they face a decided challenge. For one thing, Microsoft insists that their real employer is not Microsoft but their employment agencies.
"Organizing is an issue between an employee and the employer, and in this case the employers are the contingent staffing companies," said Dan Leach, a Microsoft spokesman.
Union organizers fear that if the 16 temps petition for a unionization election, there will be years of litigation to determine who is the employer and whether the appropriate bargaining unit is their 18-worker software group, the 6,000 temps at Microsoft or a 3,000-worker employment agency.
"It's virtually impossible to organize workers in this co-employer setting," said Michael Blain, Washtech's co-founder. "Existing labor law is totally inadequate to address issues of the new economy."
Seeing the difficulties in getting most workers at a high-technology company to vote to unionize, labor leaders are looking to nontraditional ways to build a union. Kirk Adams, the A.F.L.-C.I.O.'s organizing director, said unions could attract high-technology workers by providing two important benefits: affordable training and mobility of benefits.
In an industry where it is vital to know the latest software-writing languages to advance to higher-paying positions, many temp workers complain about paying for-profit schools $600 for a 10-hour course. (Temps often cannot take the free in-house courses that companies offer.) So Washtech provides such courses for $75 to people who join the new union by agreeing to pay one hour's wages each month; 175 have joined so far and more than 1,000 others have asked to be on the union's electronic mailing list.
Some union leaders talk of creating a high-technology hiring hall, similar to ones in construction, in which companies would contribute to a joint pension and health plan so workers who hop between companies would not lose their pension credits or health insurance.
Larry Cohen, the organizing director for Washtech's parent, the Communications Workers of America, said labor might settle early on for the rudimentary role of creating a collective voice for high-technology workers. Mr. Cohen said such a union, instead of negotiating contracts, would exchange information among members and sometimes speak for them.
"Rather than feel they're just a little boat bobbing in the water," he said, "people could feel they're part of a larger organization that shares their values."
But all these strategies could prove futile because so many high-technology workers view unions as unnecessary.
"I love my job," said Paul Primrose, a customer service worker at Amazon.com. "Some occupations do need unions, but not here. It's because things change so rapidly that you need to change quickly, and unions could get in the way."
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photos: (Dan Lamont for The New York Times)(pg. C1); Mark Turner, shown with his family, in Bellevue, Wash., is one of 16 temporary workers at Microsoft who have sought union representation in hopes of bridging the compensation gap with full-time employees. (Dan Lamont for The New York Times)(pg. C14)
 
Graph: "Looking for Results"
Having lost members for years, unions are seeking new opportunities among growing ranks of computer professionals and employees in the high technology industry. But it could be a tough sell because of people like Matthew Shea, a software designer for Go2Net in Seattle. Mr Shea says he likes his job, is well compensated and sees no need for a union. Graph gracks union membership (from 1983 through 1998) and employment in computers and in technology (from 1990 through 1998. (Sources: Bureau of Labor Statistics; American Electronics Association)(pg. C1) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Special Report

TICKER: MSFT (NASDAQ) (52%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS511210 SOFTWARE PUBLISHERS (52%); SIC7372 PREPACKAGED SOFTWARE (52%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: WASHINGTON, USA (94%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); 

CITY: SEATTLE, WA, USA (93%); SILICON VALLEY, CA, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: MICROSOFT CORP (52%); BUREAU OF LABOR STATISTICS (59%); AMERICAN ELECTRONICS ASSOCIATION (59%); AMERICAN ELECTRONICS ASSOCIATION (59%); BUREAU OF LABOR STATISTICS (59%); 

ORGANIZATION: BUREAU OF LABOR STATISTICS (59%); AMERICAN ELECTRONICS ASSOCIATION (59%); AMERICAN ELECTRONICS ASSOCIATION (59%); BUREAU OF LABOR STATISTICS (59%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%); WASHINGTON, USA (94%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); SEATTLE, WA, USA (93%); SILICON VALLEY, CA, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: LABOR AND UNEMPLOYMENT; COMPUTERS AND THE INTERNET WORK WEEK (90%); INTERNET & WWW (90%); COMPUTER SOFTWARE (90%); LABOR UNIONS (90%); SOFTWARE DEVELOPMENT & ENGINEERING (89%); STOCK OPTIONS (89%); SOFTWARE MAKERS (89%); TEMPORARY EMPLOYMENT (89%); OVERTIME (78%); WEB DEVELOPMENT (78%); SWEATSHOPS (78%); LABOR FORCE (78%); GARMENT WORKERS (78%); FLEXTIME (78%); COLLECTIVE BARGAINING (77%); WAGES & SALARIES (73%); STARTUPS (71%); 

LOAD-DATE: July 26, 1999



622 of 738 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 26, 1999

SECTION: Section A; Page 15; Column 6; Editorial Desk

LENGTH: 731 words

HEADLINE: Essay;
Point That Finger

BYLINE: By WILLIAM SAFIRE

DATELINE: WASHINGTON

 BODY:
We have stumbled into the era of no-fault government. Blamelessness is next to godliness; nobody in authority is held responsible for blunders, no matter how costly.
Take last week's case of the cell biologist at a Berkeley, Calif., lab who was found to have faked his research findings -- supposedly linking electric power to cancer -- to win his lab $3.3 million from three Federal agencies.
A whistle-blower alerted the Office of Research Integrity, which found him "falsifying and fabricating data." The swinging scientist, Robert Liburdy, avoids prosecution by not contesting these findings, though he admits nothing.
Is the lab being forced to return the money to taxpayers? No. Its lawyer tells William Broad of The Times that the unused portion is "being used for other science."
What of those at the Departments of Defense and Energy and the N.I.H. who ladled out the money and now make no effort to recover it? No letter of reprimand for nonfeasance is being placed in anybody's personnel file.
That's typical of no-fault government. I'm not talking about prosecution for criminal wrongdoing -- only the absence of penalty for failure to do one's job.
Another case: The Times's Tim Weiner reported that House Appropriations discovered the Air Force illegally diverting untold millions to a secret "black program." Congress has secure procedures for financing secret operations, but here a Pentagon clique apparently resisted. With unwitting irony, the Pentagon spokesman brushed it off as "an oversight."
Did successive A.F. Chiefs of Staff know of this misuse of funds? Did Senate Armed Services ask the Acting Secretary, Whitten Peters, about this during confirmation? If those in command were in the dark, shouldn't they be publicly reprimanded, if only as an example to other easily duped administrators?
But that would be "finger-pointing," now a bureaucratic no-no. Only institutions may be chastised in this blame-free society -- not those individuals wrapped in anonymity who make the costly mistakes.
Remember that cruise missile President Clinton launched to take out a suspected terrorist target in Khartoum in Sudan? The pharmaceutical plant, Al Shifa, was destroyed with great precision.
But it turns out somebody goofed. The plant really was making medicines and we are now quietly paying the Sudanese compensation. We can presume no evil intent -- not even a Presidential attempt to change the subject -- only a disastrous misjudgment.
How should you assign blame when identification of those responsible might endanger their lives? In that case, Richard Clarke, who is Samuel Berger's counterterrorism chief at the National Security Council, should come forward to say:
"An outside task force has examined mistakes made both in collection and evaluation of evidence. Its top-secret report has been made to the intelligence committees of the House and Senate, which can make their own judgments. We have also spelled out the procedures newly designed to avoid any repeat of this failure."
That would make certain that those responsible know exactly what they did wrong, and know that a repeat of the mistake will result in transfer to a less dangerous line of work. Such corrective is necessary training; its avoidance promotes incompetence.
The same approach should apply to the sequence of breakdowns in collection of intelligence and command decision-making that led to the mistaken bombing of the Chinese embassy in Belgrade.
As of now, some sort of explanation has been provided to Beijing as part of our groveling process. But Chinese intelligence, which lost three of its best operatives (under journalistic cover) in the bombing, guiltily suspects we wanted to close down its secret operation that may have been aiding the Serbs. That fitted neatly into Beijing's need to whip up nationalist fervor against the West to divert its people's minds from deflation and the spiritual pull of Falun Gong.
For the sake of improvement of our own military intelligence -- and not to prolong the kowtowing -- the N.S.C. should lay the facts before Congressional overseers. Bumbling is forgivable only if it leads to specific acknowledgment of error, even if in secret.
Enough of this evasion of accountability as "the blame game" and airy dismissal of responsibility as "who-shot-John." Finding fault now averts greater fault later. 
http://www.nytimes.com

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Op-Ed

COUNTRY: SUDAN (91%); UNITED STATES (90%); 

STATE: CALIFORNIA, USA (90%); 

CITY: SAN FRANCISCO BAY AREA, CA, USA (90%); KHARTOUM, SUDAN (77%); 

COMPANY: US AIR FORCE (54%); 

ORGANIZATION: US AIR FORCE (54%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: SUDAN (91%); UNITED STATES (90%); CALIFORNIA, USA (90%); SAN FRANCISCO BAY AREA, CA, USA (90%); KHARTOUM, SUDAN (77%); 

SUBJECT: Terms not available from NYTimes. EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); SCIENCE & TECHNOLOGY (77%); EXPERIMENTATION & RESEARCH (77%); APPROPRIATIONS (76%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (76%); WHISTLEBLOWERS (76%); DEFENSE DEPARTMENTS (76%); LAWYERS (71%); FRAUD & FINANCIAL CRIME (70%); PHARMACEUTICAL PREPARATION MFG (69%); NATIONAL SECURITY (68%); AIR FORCES (68%); ARMED FORCES (65%); DEFENSE & MILITARY POLICY (65%); TERRORISM (60%); COUNTERTERRORISM (60%); 

PERSON: BILL CLINTON (52%); 

LOAD-DATE: July 26, 1999



623 of 738 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 26, 1999

SECTION: Section A; Page 14; Column 1; Editorial Desk

LENGTH: 309 words

HEADLINE: Progress on Presidential Pay

 BODY:
The next American President, whoever that turns out to be, will be getting a raise. Thanks to a bipartisan vote by the House earlier this month, Bill Clinton's successor will be making twice what Mr. Clinton does -- $400,000 a year, which is also twice what the country has paid its Presidents for the past three decades.
Although a substantial increase, it is fully justified. Even the new Presidential salary does not begin to approach the huge amounts earned these days by many corporate executives. Nor does it approach the nearly $900,000 the President would be earning if the current $200,000 salary fixed in 1969 had been adjusted for inflation. The House showed respect for the singular role of the Presidency by increasing the spread between the chief executive's pay and the salaries of other top Federal officials. Cabinet officers now make $151,800. These salaries could well be increased in the future. 
 The House also overcame its normal political jitters about raising its own pay. In a 276-to-147 vote, it blocked an effort by some junior Republicans to reject the cost-of-living increase that current law automatically provides unless Congress explicitly votes to deny it. With the increase, the pay of most lawmakers will rise to $141,300. Congressional leaders will earn somewhat more.
But the House pay package, which is part of a Treasury Department spending bill that now goes to conference with the Senate, has one glaring omission. It does not include a cost-of-living increase for Federal judges, whose salaries historically have been linked to those of lawmakers. House and Senate conferees should take steps to remedy this, mindful of a recent Federal District Court decision that found that Congress exceeded its authority and shortchanged Federal judges by denying them several past cost-of-living increases. 
http://www.nytimes.com

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Editorial

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%); 

SUBJECT: Terms not available from NYTimes. WAGES & SALARIES (90%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); EXECUTIVES (90%); EXECUTIVE COMPENSATION (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); COST OF LIVING (89%); LEGISLATION (78%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (78%); APPROPRIATIONS (78%); JUDGES (69%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (68%); DECISIONS & RULINGS (65%); SETTLEMENTS & DECISIONS (65%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (64%); 

PERSON: BILL CLINTON (90%); 

LOAD-DATE: July 26, 1999



624 of 738 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 26, 1999

SECTION: Section A; Page 8; Column 4; Foreign Desk

LENGTH: 482 words

HEADLINE: U.S. and Vietnam Agree in Principle on Trade Pact

BYLINE: AP

DATELINE: HANOI, Vietnam, July 25

 BODY:
After three years of wrangling, the United States and Vietnam announced today that they had reached agreement in principle on a trade accord.
The tentative deal, which still requires approval by the United States Congress and Vietnam's National Assembly, is considered the last major step in normalizing relations after the Vietnam War, which ended more than 24 years ago. 
 It also could pave the way for Vietnam, one of the world's poorest nations, to join the World Trade Organization.
"We in the U.S. believe this agreement will assist in the transformation and modernization of Vietnam," said the Deputy United States Trade Representative, Richard Fischer.
Work began in 1996 on the trade pact, which would give normal trading status -- formally known as most favored nation status -- to Vietnam. Only a few countries, including Cuba and North Korea, do not have such status with the United States.
That would give Vietnamese exporters entry to the huge American domestic market and grant improved access to the Vietnamese market for American companies.
Vietnam began opening its markets in the mid-1980's under a restructuring process but has been hit hard by the fallout from the Asian financial crisis.
The pace of reform has slowed to a crawl in the last two years, and the Government has been under growing pressure to move more quickly, particularly in restructuring the debt-ridden banking system and improving competitiveness of losing state-owned enterprises.
With declines in foreign investment and exports and a rise in unemployment, the Government is eager for the hundreds of millions of dollars the agreement is expected to infuse into the economy.
Talks had stalled over Vietnam's tariffs and unwillingness to open its markets to American investment and services, along with fears that its fledgling businesses would be at a disadvantage in competing with American companies.
Vietnamese legislative changes are likely to be necessary, along with major reforms in Customs and the financial sector.
Most experts agree that Vietnamese industries are not yet ready to compete with major international companies but say competition would be one of the best ways to help them get up to world standards.
The ninth round of talks between American and Vietnamese trade officials began on Tuesday. After the last round of talks ended in March, officials said they largely had the framework of a deal but still were far apart on a handful of contentious issues.
Experts have said that if an agreement is not signed this year, the American Presidential elections next year will draw attention away from the talks.
The agreement, which is about 100 pages long, will need to undergo official translation before being signed, probably in September, and presented to both countries' legislatures. Without snags, it could go into effect early next year. 
http://www.nytimes.com

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (99%); VIET NAM (97%); KOREA, DEMOCRATIC PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF (79%); VIETNAM (79%); 

CITY: HANOI, VIETNAM (79%); 

COMPANY: AMERICAN COS (57%); WORLD TRADE ORGANIZATION (57%); WORLD TRADE ORGANIZATION (57%); 

ORGANIZATION: WORLD TRADE ORGANIZATION (57%); WORLD TRADE ORGANIZATION (57%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (99%); VIET NAM (97%); KOREA, DEMOCRATIC PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF (79%); VIETNAM (79%); HANOI, VIETNAM (79%); 

SUBJECT: Terms not available from NYTimes. TRADE TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (91%); TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (91%); MOST FAVORED NATION STATUS (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); TRADE DEVELOPMENT (89%); TALKS & MEETINGS (89%); EXPORT TRADE (89%); BANKING & FINANCE (89%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (89%); APPROVALS (77%); MULTINATIONAL CORPORATIONS (75%); TARIFFS & DUTIES (75%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (74%); ELECTIONS (73%); VIETNAM WAR (73%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (73%); ECONOMIC NEWS (72%); ENTREPRENEURSHIP (72%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (72%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (71%); FOREIGN INVESTMENT (69%); STATE OWNED BUSINESSES (67%); TAXES & TAXATION (66%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (64%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (60%); 

LOAD-DATE: July 26, 1999



625 of 738 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 26, 1999

SECTION: Section A; Page 6; Column 1; Foreign Desk

LENGTH: 1355 words

HEADLINE: In Scenes Of Tumult, Moroccans Bury King

BYLINE: By JOHN M. BRODER and DOUGLAS JEHL

DATELINE: RABAT, Morocco, July 25

 BODY:
Marching under a merciless sun through streets thronged by hundreds of thousands of mourners, President Clinton and President Jacques Chirac of France led an assemblage of dozens of kings and princes, presidents and prime ministers for the burial of King Hassan II of Morocco today.
A gun carriage bore the King's coffin, which was draped with a thick black blanket embroidered with verses from the Koran, and members of the royal court chanted Muslim liturgy and the Moroccan national anthem. 
 As the funeral procession moved slowly through Rabat, Morocco's capital, the multitudes chanted "God is great," wailed and waved flags and scarves.
At times the surging crowds appeared to press in on Mr. Clinton, Mr. Chirac and other dignitaries following the King's coffin, giving rise to Secret Service concerns about the President's safety.
Joe Lockhart, the White House press secretary, said Mr. Clinton was well protected by the Secret Service and was determined to take part in the procession "as a mark of respect" to the late King and his successor and as a statement of support to the Moroccan people.
Former President George Bush, who also made the three-mile walk, said that he was "not at all concerned" about his own safety and that he believed that Mr. Clinton "did exactly the right thing."
The King's coffin was preceded by a gilt carriage carrying the new Moroccan ruler, King Hassan's 36-year-old son, King Mohammed VI. The carriage was drawn by four white horses and was accompanied by military honor guards in colorful uniforms.
It was the second time in less than six months that world leaders had gathered to mourn the passing of an epoch-making Arab monarch. The death of King Hussein of Jordan in February after a 47-year reign produced similar scenes of public mourning and impromptu meetings of heads of state.
Virtually all Moroccan businesses were closed today in observance of the King's death, which came Friday after four years of deteriorating health. But the work of diplomacy continued as leaders conducted unscheduled conversations between their funeral duties.
The scenes outside the capital were almost as extraordinary as those in Rabat. To pay their last respects, thousands of people made their way by foot along a highway that had been closed to all but official traffic. Some had begun their journey as far away as Casablanca, 60 miles to the south.
"He was like a father," said Youssef Mohammed, 25, who said he would walk all the way to Rabat if necessary to say farewell to the late King.
As they awaited the beginning of the funeral procession from the royal palace to the burial ground, Prime Minister Ehud Barak of Israel and Yasir Arafat, the Palestinian leader, were seen in an animated discussion with Mr. Clinton in a room in the palace.
An anticipated meeting between Mr. Clinton and President Hafez al-Assad of Syria did not happen, however. Mr. Assad remained in Damascus. Mr. Clinton did not meet with the Syrian officials who attended the funeral. "He certainly would have if he had seen them, but we didn't see them," said Samuel R. Berger, the national security adviser.
Mr. Clinton had brief discussions with a series of other leaders, but Administration officials said that they were not particularly substantive, given the nature of the event and the large number of people involved. Aides said that Mr. Clinton encouraged Mr. Barak and Mr. Arafat to continue their efforts at resolving Israeli-Palestinian disputes, but did not offer specific formulas for achieving progress.
Russia was represented by Yegor Stryoyev, the President of the Russian Senate. President Boris N. Yeltsin attended the funeral of King Hussein in Amman in February, but he was obviously frail at the time.
Dennis Ross, the Administration's special coordinator for Middle East negotiations, said the most noteworthy aspect of today's gathering was that it brought the Israeli Prime Minister in contact with Arab leaders in an atmosphere lacking in the tension that has long marked Israel's relations with its neighbors.
"Barak mingled easily with all leaders there; you didn't see barriers," Mr. Ross said. "That is in no small part a tribute to King Hassan and what he represented."
Before leaving Rabat, Mr. Clinton held short private meetings with Mr. Arafat; Abderrahmane Youssoufi, the Prime Minister of Morocco; and Abdelaziz Bouteflika, the new President of Algeria.
The rapidly assembled American delegation included the First Lady, Hillary Rodham Clinton, and the Clintons' daughter, Chelsea. Mr. Bush and two former Secretaries of State, Warren Christopher and James A. Baker 3d, also flew here aboard Air Force I to attend the rites.
They were met at Rabat's military airport by Prince Moulay Rachid, the 29-year-old brother of the new King.
Mrs. Clinton was accorded a rare honor for a woman of an audience with the new King. She also paid a condolence call on the King's widow and other women of the family.
The President and Mrs. Clinton met with the new King for about five minutes after paying respects to the body of the late King, which lay in state in the ornate throne room of the Royal Palace.
In Muslim societies, women are strictly segregated from men at religious observances, particularly funerals.
Mrs. Clinton had been a guest of the King during a visit here in April. She said today that she was happy to return to Morocco, "but sorry that it is for such a sad occasion."
Mr. Clinton cut short a weekend of recreation and fund-raising in Aspen, Colo., to attend the funeral. The President's weekend began with a memorial service for John F. Kennedy Jr. in New York on Friday.
In remarks to staff members of the American Embassy here after the funeral, the President said that the late King had been known as the "great survivor," having outlasted most of the enemies who had fatal designs on him.
But Mr. Clinton said that description did not do the King justice because he did not merely survive, but used his reign to improve the lives of his subjects and build ties with other Arab nations and with Israel.
"He was never embittered by the dangers he faced and over time he grew in wisdom, stature and standing in the world, and as he grew, so did Morocco," the President said.
Mr. Clinton said he had confidence in the new King and had told him this afternoon that he expected that the partnership between Morocco and the United States "will only grow stronger."
King Hassan served as a bridge between Israel and Egypt in the secret diplomacy leading up to President Anwar el-Sadat's path-breaking visit to Jerusalem in 1977 and the Camp David accord of 1978.
King Hassan was the Arab world's longest-serving monarch, having ruled for 38 years that were marked by half a dozen coup attempts, social upheaval and economic progress for many of Morocco's 29 million citizens.
Mr. Clinton said that the deaths this year of King Hassan and King Hussein represented the passing of an old order and expressed optimism that their successors would continue their legacy of moderation and recognition of Israel.
"I think the important thing is that Morocco has been a model of reconciliation within the country and a model of partnership and friendship for peace in the Middle East," he said. "And I think that direction will continue."
King Hassan was buried alongside the onyx tomb of his father, King Mohammed V, who died in 1961, in a massive mausoleum designed by Vo To An, a Vietnamese architect, and built beginning in 1962.
The burial chamber is surrounded by a white marble pavilion covered with a roof of typical Moroccan green tiles. The ceiling of the chamber is formed of intricately carved mahogany covered with gold leaf fashioned by hundreds of craftsmen from throughout Morocco.
The entombment of King Hassan was attended by a small group of male family members, courtiers and Muslim foreigners, including Mr. Arafat. The sound was piped outside to tens of thousands gathered in the pavilion, and Moroccan television cameras recorded scene inside for the millions of Moroccans watching in their homes.
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photo: President Clinton walking behind the coffin at the funeral of King Hassan of Morocco in Rabat yesterday. The crush of the crowd was so great that the Secret Service grew concerned about the President's safety. (Pool photo by Agence France-Presse) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

INDUSTRY: SIC2329 MEN'S & BOYS' CLOTHING, NEC (91%); 

COUNTRY: MOROCCO (94%); FRANCE (90%); ISRAEL (79%); UNITED STATES (79%); PALESTINIAN TERRITORY, OCCUPIED (79%); JORDAN (79%); 

CITY: RABAT, MOROCCO (57%); 

COMPANY: SICOME SA (91%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: MOROCCO (94%); FRANCE (90%); ISRAEL (79%); UNITED STATES (79%); PALESTINIAN TERRITORY, OCCUPIED (79%); JORDAN (79%); RABAT, MOROCCO (57%); 

SUBJECT: Terms not available from NYTimes. DEATHS & OBITUARIES (92%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (89%); PRIME MINISTERS (89%); WALKING & JOGGING (87%); MUSLIMS & ISLAM (76%); QURAN & ISLAMIC TEXTS (76%); 

PERSON: BILL CLINTON (93%); JACQUES CHIRAC (88%); GEORGE W BUSH (58%); EHUD BARAK (50%); 

LOAD-DATE: July 26, 1999



626 of 738 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 26, 1999

SECTION: Section A; Page 1; Column 6; Foreign Desk

LENGTH: 1249 words

HEADLINE: U.S. AND CHINA SAY THEY ARE MENDING POST-BOMBING RIFT

BYLINE: By JANE PERLEZ

DATELINE: SINGAPORE, July 25

 BODY:
At their first high-level encounter since the bombing of the Chinese Embassy in Belgrade, the United States and China today depicted their tattered relationship as improved, despite important differences, and announced that President Clinton would meet the Chinese leader Jiang Zemin in September.
Secretary of State Madeleine K. Albright met here over what she described as a "very friendly lunch" with the Chinese Foreign Minister, Tang Jiaxuan, for two hours and afterward told a news conference that there was "an easing of tensions." 
 "We were able to restore a level of communication we had before" the bombing, she said.
For his part, Mr. Tang announced Mr. Clinton's meeting with President Jiang in New Zealand at September's Asia-Pacific Economic Cooperation forum. Some doubt had been cast on whether these long-planned talks would actually proceed given Chinese fury over NATO's mistaken bombing of the embassy in Belgrade in May during the war against Yugoslavia over Kosovo.
The hottest issue on today's agenda was Taiwan. Ms. Albright pointedly took issue with Taiwan's President, Lee Teng-hui, who two weeks ago renounced the "one China" policy, which says the Chinese mainland and Taiwan are two parts of the same country.
The United States has since urged Mr. Lee to soften his language, but Ms. Albright did not seem to think he has done so sufficiently. "I think the explanations offered thus far don't quite do it," she told the news conference, referring to Mr. Lee's most recent comments.
Mr. Lee said at the end of last week that he agreed to the idea of eventual reunification of China and Taiwan, but he defended his new position that contact between the two should be on a "state-to-state" basis.
Ms. Albright and Mr. Tang were attending the annual meeting of foreign ministers of the Association of Southeast Asian Nations, a group of 10 countries that invites other nations -- for instance, the United States, China, Japan and Russia -- to its major gatherings.
The fragile condition of the Washington-Beijing relationship is one topic dominating this year's meeting, along with prospects of North Korea testing a long-range ballistic missile this summer.
For the Clinton Administration, Ms. Albright's meeting with Mr. Tang was a barometer of whether Washington's efforts to rebuild the relationship with Beijing were working. There was already a sign last week that things were looking up when Mr. Jiang, who had refused a phone call from Mr. Clinton immediately after the embassy bombing, spoke to the President by telephone.

 Mr. Tang is not a powerful member of the Beijing Government, but Washington officials said the tone of his presentation to Ms. Albright and to the press afterward appeared thoroughly calibrated. A Clinton Administration official who was present at today's meeting said that Mr. Tang appeared to adhere closely to his "talking points," a reference to the carefully prepared script that officials take to important meetings.
Mr. Tang said at his news conference that Taiwan was "key" to the improvement of the Beijing-Washington relationship.
Indeed, the declaration by the Taiwanese leader, Mr. Lee, that he was no longer abiding by the "one China" policy gave the Clinton Administration a wedge to use with Beijing. In his news conference last week, Mr. Clinton articulated the "one China" policy that China favors. The President also delayed the scheduled visit of Pentagon officials to Taiwan, a move designed to impress the Chinese.
Ms. Albright apparently tried a similar technique in person with Mr. Tang. She said she repeated Washington's position on Taiwan -- that Washington stands by the "one China" policy, encourages direct dialogue between the mainland and Taiwan and desires a peaceful resolution.
Mr. Lee's reversal has caused consternation because Beijing has always insisted that it would use force if Taiwan declared independence. Ms. Albright said that Mr. Tang reiterated that stance today.
The policy allowing Beijing and Taipei to maintain that each is a legitimate ruler of the other has been the cornerstone of American policy for more than two decades.
At his news conference, conducted almost exclusively in Chinese, Mr. Tang broke into English for a moment when he said that Ms. Albright should understand that Mr. Lee was a "troublemaker" for relations between China and the United States. He added that he warned Ms. Albright that the United States should be "very careful not to say anything to fan the flames" of independence.
On another subject, Ms. Albright said she expressed concern to Mr. Tang about the rights to free assembly and expression in light of the Chinese Government's crackdown against followers of the Buddhist Law movement, Falun Gong.
Ms. Albright apparently did not make a lot of headway on China's demand for compensation for the bombing of the embassy in Belgrade. Three Chinese were killed in the attack, which was caused, according to the Director of Central Intelligence, George Tenet, by faulty map reading and other mistakes at his agency.
Mr. Tenet's admission last week appeared designed in part to mollify Chinese demands that the Clinton Administration assign blame and punish those responsible for the bombing.
Mr. Tang said he "noted and attached importance" to Ms. Albright's explanations of the bombing, but added that China was not yet satisfied.
The Secretary said that the State Department's legal counsel, David Andrews, would return to Beijing within the next week to explore a solution. Mr. Andrews was part of a team that went to Beijing earlier this month to try to explain how the bombing happened and to settle the Chinese demands for compensation. The explanations were rebuffed, and the Chinese have signaled that the bombing is one subject to be settled before Beijing will consider reopening talks on accession to the World Trade Organization.
China's admission to the 134-member group that governs the way global commerce is conducted is a major concern of both Beijing and the Clinton Administration. The Administration would like China to join as a way of opening China's huge markets but decided last spring, during a visit by Prime Minister Zhu Rongji, that concessions to open up China's economy to foreign investors were not sufficient. Talks on China's membership have been stalled ever since.
Mr. Tang said he was "surprised" that Ms. Albright did not raise the World Trade Organization today, and said it was up to Washington "to create the necessary atmosphere for resumption of negotiations."
On fears that North Korea may be about to test another ballistic missile, Ms. Albright said she had discussed the problem with Mr. Tang. A senior Clinton Administration official who was present said the minister suggested that China and the United States shared a common interest in keeping the North Koreans from going ahead with the test.
Washington regards Beijing as central to its efforts to persuade North Korea not to conduct the test, but today China's Foreign Minister was not forthcoming on how Beijing may be exercising its influence, officials said.
Ms. Albright also met today with India's Foreign Minister, Jaswant Singh, who expressed appreciation for the role the Administration played in trying to resolve the fighting in Kashmir, an Administration official said. They also discussed, he said, the likelihood of a visit to South Asia by President Clinton -- probably early next year.
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photo: Secretary of State Madeleine Albright and the Chinese Foreign Minister, Tang Jiaxuan, in Singapore yesterday. Both said tensions were easing. (Associated Press)(pg. A4) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: CHINA (97%); UNITED STATES (96%); TAIWAN (94%); SERBIA (93%); SINGAPORE (92%); ASIA (92%); SOUTH-EASTERN ASIA (79%); KOREA, DEMOCRATIC PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF (79%); KOSOVO (79%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (79%); NEW ZEALAND (79%); JAPAN (79%); 

STATE: NORTH CENTRAL CHINA (93%); 

CITY: BELGRADE, SERBIA (93%); BEIJING, CHINA (92%); 

COMPANY: NORTH ATLANTIC TREATY ORGANIZATION (56%); ASIA-PACIFIC ECONOMIC COOPERATION (56%); ASIA-PACIFIC ECONOMIC COOPERATION (56%); 

ORGANIZATION: NORTH ATLANTIC TREATY ORGANIZATION (56%); ASIA-PACIFIC ECONOMIC COOPERATION (56%); ASIA-PACIFIC ECONOMIC COOPERATION (56%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: CHINA (97%); UNITED STATES (96%); TAIWAN (94%); SERBIA (93%); SINGAPORE (92%); ASIA (92%); SOUTH-EASTERN ASIA (79%); KOREA, DEMOCRATIC PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF (79%); KOSOVO (79%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (79%); NEW ZEALAND (79%); JAPAN (79%); NORTH CENTRAL CHINA (93%); BELGRADE, SERBIA (93%); BEIJING, CHINA (92%); 

SUBJECT: Terms not available from NYTimes. BOMBINGS (90%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); TALKS & MEETINGS (90%); EMBASSIES & CONSULATES (90%); FOREIGN RELATIONS (89%); STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (89%); PRESS CONFERENCES (89%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (78%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (72%); ECONOMIC POLICY (69%); ECONOMIC NEWS (69%); MISSILE SYSTEMS (60%); 

PERSON: BILL CLINTON (91%); 

LOAD-DATE: July 26, 1999



627 of 738 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 26, 1999

SECTION: Section A; Page 1; Column 1; National Desk

LENGTH: 867 words

HEADLINE: Clinton Says No To Any Tax Cut Of $500 Billion

BYLINE: By JOEL BRINKLEY

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, July 25

 BODY:
The Clinton Administration said for the first time today that it would not accept a compromise $500 billion tax-cut plan proposed by a group of Senate Democrats, virtually assuring that the debate over how to spend the projected budget surplus will not be settled quickly or easily.
"The President will veto a $500 billion tax cut because it doesn't leave room for what's necessary," said Lawrence H. Summers, the Treasury Secretary. 
 Echoing that statement, Gene Sperling, the White House economic adviser, said, "The President will veto a tax cut of $800 billion or $500 billion because it threatens our ability to secure Medicare and Social Security and pay down our national debt."
Before today the White House had said it favored limiting any tax cut to about $300 billion but had never said it would reject the Senate Democrats' compromise. The Senate Democratic leadership has also said it favors a tax cut plan of about $300 billion.
About a half-dozen Senate Democrats who have often been at odds with the Administration proposed the plan earlier this month to cut taxes by $500 billion over 10 years, as a way to bridge the gap between the $792 billion cut approved by the House of Representatives and the $250 billion to $300 billion proposal offered by the White House.
But for the compromise to have had any chance of being accepted, either the White House or the Republican leadership in Congress had to endorse it. The Senate Republicans have already rejected the plan, and today's statements from the White House mean the proposal is most likely dead.
Senator John B. Breaux of Louisiana continued to promote the $500 billion plan today, arguing that it would "give us enough money to address Medicare, prescription drugs, and also give us enough money for discretionary spending."
But Senator Breaux, a member of the Finance Committee, added that without a compromise "we are headed for a major train wreck, which I think would be terrible for the American people. Here we have a trillion-dollar surplus, and the two political parties in Washington can't figure out what to do with it."
Mr. Breaux and Mr. Summers spoke on the CBS program "Face the Nation." Mr. Sperling appeared on the Fox Sunday news program.
The Government's current estimates project a surplus of $2.9 trillion over the next 10 years, and that has set off the loud and contentious debate over how the money should be spent. Both party proposals are mirrors of their basic philosophies, and both are addressing the issue with the 2000 elections clearly in mind.
Speaking of the House tax cut bill on CNN today, Representative Dick Armey of Texas, the House majority leader, said, "There's so much compassion in this package that I have to tell you, my heart warms."
Senator Pete V. Domenici, Republican of New Mexico, who is chairman of the Budget Committee, said, "Frankly, if we don't do something like this, I think the American people can justifiably ask: Who is going to spend the surplus?"
Republicans are trying to make the argument that, without a tax cut, the budget surplus will be squandered by Democratic spending programs. "And the important thing is," said Senator Phil Gramm, Republican of Texas, "if you create all these new programs, you'll never get the money back."
Democrats contend that the budget projections are just that -- uncertain looks at the future of the economy. Therefore, large tax cuts are risky. But Senator Gramm proposed a solution. "If you give it back to the American people," he said, referring to the surplus, "if you ever really needed it you could get it back by raising taxes."
With the White House promise to veto the $500 billion tax cut proposal proffered by some in Mr. Clinton's own party, and no other compromise on the table, both sides turned to harsh rhetoric.
In his radio address on Saturday, the President called the Republican tax-cut plan "reckless," adding that "it would require dramatic cuts in vital areas, such as education, the environment, biomedical research, defense and crime fighting."
Senator Gramm appeared with Mr. Sperling on the Fox show this morning and said the Administration's arguments were "like everything else you all do. It's totally dishonest. You guys are shameless, shameless."
Senator Breaux suggested that both sides postpone the debate until the fall and then take it up in the context of related issues.
Under that plan, he said: "You don't have a veto, you don't have an agreement. You just take the time off in August to take a breath of fresh air and listen to the people back home, come back in September and let us do a real Medicare reform bill with prescription drugs."
After that, Senator Breaux added, Congress could tackle the tax-cut question. That would force the Republicans to defend their tax-cut plans at the same time they try to reach agreement on the next Federal budget, a process that requires painful choices about which Federal programs to support and which to cut.
Responding to the Senator's proposal, Senator Domenici said, "What I would say right here is I would have no trouble working with this Senator," adding that his suggestion "is probably very constructive."
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Chart: "AT ISSUE: Arguments Behind the Tax Cuts"
Positions of Democrats and Republicans on the tax bill passed last week by the House.
 
The cuts go mostly to the wealthy, say Democrats . . .
 
The Clinton Administration uses the following information, prepared by the Treasury Department, to show how the $792 billion tax cut approved by the House would be apportioned after its main provisions have been fully phased in, a process that would take a decade.*
 
Each group is one-fifth of U.S. households, about 23 million.
 
HIGHEST ONE-FIFTH
HOUSEHOLD INCOME: $81,967 and up
AVERAGE ANNUAL TAX CUT PER HOUSEHOLD: $4,592
TAX CUT FOR EACH GROUP: $105.8 billion
PERCENTAGE OF TOTAL: 79.6%
TAX CUT AS PERCENTAGE OF INCOME: 2.7%
 
HOUSEHOLD INCOME: $49,862 to $81,967
AVERAGE ANNUAL TAX CUT PER HOUSEHOLD: 761
TAX CUT FOR EACH GROUP: 17.5 billion
PERCENTAGE OF TOTAL: 13.2%
TAX CUT AS PERCENTAGE OF INCOME: 1.2%
 
HOUSEHOLD INCOME: $30,984 to $49,862
AVERAGE ANNUAL TAX CUT PER HOUSEHOLD: 301
TAX CUT FOR EACH GROUP: 6.9 billion
PERCENTAGE OF TOTAL: 5.2%
TAX CUT AS PERCENTAGE OF INCOME: 0.8%
 
HOUSEHOLD INCOME: $16,426 to $30,984
AVERAGE ANNUAL TAX CUT PER HOUSEHOLD: 96
TAX CUT FOR EACH GROUP: 2.2 billion
PERCENTAGE OF TOTAL: 1.7%
TAX CUT AS PERCENTAGE OF INCOME: 0.4%
 
HOUSEHOLD INCOME: LOWEST ONE-FIFTH -- Under $16,426
AVERAGE ANNUAL TAX CUT PER HOUSEHOLD: 15
TAX CUT FOR EACH GROUP: 0.3 billion
PERCENTAGE OF TOTAL: 0.3%
TAX CUT AS PERCENTAGE OF INCOME: 0.2%
 
*Includes the effects of a 10 percent reduction in individual income tax rates; repeal of the alternative minimum tax on individuals; repeal of the inheritance tax on large estates; a reduction in the top rate on capital gains to 15 percent from 20 percent; addressing the marriage penalty on two-income couples by making the joint standard deduction twice the single standard deduction, and excluding from taxation $200 per taxpayer in interest and dividend income.
 
. . . but they pay the most in taxes, say Republicans
 
Republicans use the following information, prepared by the Joint Committee on Taxation for the House Ways and Means Committee, to make the point that tax cuts should go to the wealthy because it is overwhelmingly the wealthy who shoulder the nation's tax burden and are therefore contributing disproportionately to the projected Federal budget surplus.
 
INDIVIDUAL INCOME: $200,000 and up
SHARE OF POPULATION+: 2%
SHARE OF TAXES+: 40%
AVERAGE TAX PAID: $126,379
 
INDIVIDUAL INCOME: $100,000-200,000
SHARE OF POPULATION+: 6%
SHARE OF TAXES+: 22%
AVERAGE TAX PAID: 20,555
 
INDIVIDUAL INCOME: $75,000-100,000
SHARE OF POPULATION+: 7%
SHARE OF TAXES+: 13%
AVERAGE TAX PAID: 10,235
 
INDIVIDUAL INCOME: $50,000 - 75,000
SHARE OF POPULATION+: 14%
SHARE OF TAXES+: 15%
AVERAGE TAX PAID: 5,868
 
INDIVIDUAL INCOME: $40,000 - 50,000
SHARE OF POPULATION+: 9%
SHARE OF TAXES+: 6%
AVERAGE TAX PAID: 3,566
 
INDIVIDUAL INCOME: $30,000 - 40,000
SHARE OF POPULATION+: 12%
SHARE OF TAXES+: 4%
AVERAGE TAX PAID: 2,156
 
INDIVIDUAL INCOME: $20,000 - 30,000
SHARE OF POPULATION+: 14%
SHARE OF TAXES+: 2%
AVERAGE TAX PAID: 935
 
INDIVIDUAL INCOME: Less than $20,000
SHARE OF POPULATION+: 34%
SHARE OF TAXES+: 0%
AVERAGE TAX PAID: 0
 
+Percentages do not add to 100 because of rounding.
 
(Sources: Treasury Department; House Ways and Means Committee)(pg. A11) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%); 

COMPANY: LAWRENCE H STEIN (57%); MEDICARE (57%); 

ORGANIZATION: MEDICARE (57%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%); 

SUBJECT: Terms not available from NYTimes. US PRESIDENTS (90%); TAX RELIEF (90%); TAX LAW (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (90%); TAXES & TAXATION (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); VETO (90%); LEGISLATION (89%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (89%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (78%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (78%); POLITICAL ORGANIZATIONS (78%); BUDGETS (78%); PUBLIC FINANCE (78%); US SOCIAL SECURITY (77%); US POLITICAL PARTIES (77%); POLITICS (77%); MEDICARE (74%); PUBLIC DEBT (74%); APPROVALS (73%); BUDGET FORECASTS (72%); NATIONAL DEBT (72%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (72%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (71%); ECONOMIC NEWS (71%); PRESCRIPTION DRUGS (50%); 

PERSON: PETE DOMENICI (58%); LAWRENCE SUMMERS (58%); 

LOAD-DATE: July 26, 1999



628 of 738 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 26, 1999

SECTION: Section A; Page 8; Column 4; Foreign Desk

LENGTH: 913 words

HEADLINE: Voters Push Power Toward Venezuela Leader

BYLINE: By LARRY ROHTER

DATELINE: CARACAS, Venezuela, July 25

 BODY:
In a vote that President Hugo Chavez called "the most important of the past 100 years" for Venezuela, his followers have won an overwhelming majority of seats in a national assembly that will write the new constitution he says he needs to carry out a sweeping "social revolution."
With more than four-fifths of the vote counted tonight, candidates from Mr. Chavez's populist Patriotic Pole coalition had won three-quarters of the seats for which official results were available. In a victory speech from the balcony of the presidential palace tonight, a jubilant Mr. Chavez predicted that the final count would end up giving his alliance more than 120 of the 131 seats that were at stake. 
 "The victory of the patriots has been pulverizing," he said, his wife, Marisabel, who was one of the most successful of the candidates, at his side.
"It's a home run with the bases loaded," he added.
The results promise immediately to usher in a period of conflict and uncertainty for Venezuela, which has become the largest source of imported oil for the United States in recent years.
Since being sworn into office in February, Mr. Chavez, a former army colonel who led a failed coup attempt in 1992, has repeatedly maintained that the constituent assembly will have the power to dissolve Congress and courts and should do so, a position he mentioned again tonight in his speech.
The Supreme Court has already ruled that Mr. Chavez's argument is legally faulty. But in a speech delivered Saturday night to commemorate the 216th anniversary of the birth of Simon Bolivar, the founding father of this South American nation of 23 million, Mr. Chavez reiterated his position, saying that the assembly will have absolute authority during the six months of its existence.
"This has to be very clear, because this is a process with no turning back," he said emphatically. "Neither the President nor Congress nor the Supreme Court, which are the maximum representatives of the constituted powers, can contrive to place themselves above, or put into a subordinate position, a sovereign elected assembly."
Today, though, the Chief Justice of the Supreme Court, Cecilia Sosa Gomez, once again rejected the President's interpretation. While stressing to the reporters who crowded around her as she waited to cast her vote that "we do not want to get into a debate of a political nature," she said, "The court has already given answers to all pending questions."
The assembly's responsibility, she said, is to draw up a new constitution, not to supplant existing institutions or to govern the country. Until the new charter has been written and approved by voters, she added, "the Supreme Court will carry out its duties in accordance with the Constitution of 1961."
Mr. Chavez said he intends to place his own job as President "at the disposition of this most sovereign assembly" and will resign if that is what the 131-member assembly wants. The offer is purely symbolic, since the assembly will be dominated by his own followers, but it will increase the pressure on the other two branches of Government not to challenge the deliberations of the assembly, scheduled to begin work early next month.
As a presidential candidate last year, Mr. Chavez made a new constitution the focal point of his campaign, saying he needed it to end corruption and assure social justice for the poor. Other changes he has said he wants would give him the right to succeed himself in office and would vastly expand his power at the expense of the legislature and judiciary.
The constituent assembly vote, the fourth election in less than a year here, has dominated news coverage for weeks, with many of the more than 1,000 candidates distributing posters, T-shirts and baseball caps with their images and organizing forums to discuss the issues.
Despite the intense coverage and generally favorable weather, though, it is estimated that fewer than half of the 11 million eligible voters cast ballots today.
Although the political climate here is increasingly polarized, today's vote took place without incident.
"I cast all of my votes for the Chavez slate, which is the only one that I trust to fight for the change we need so badly in this country," Darwin Gomez Uribe, an unemployed mechanic, said as he emerged from a polling place here. "I want the President to have a free hand to throw out the old system and replace it with one that will create jobs and end this dictatorship of corrupt political parties."
In his final speech before voting began, Mr. Chavez sought to frame the choice facing Venezuelans in the starkest terms possible. "You are either with God or the devil," he said. "There are only two positions here in Venezuela: those of us who want profound transformation and those who refuse to lose their privileges."
Some voters, however, said they found the President's pugnacious tone troublesome. Mr. Chavez's opponents say that he wants to replace an imperfect democracy with a one-man dictatorship, and they contend that the assembly is the country's last chance to avoid authoritarian rule.
"I agree that the country needs to be transformed, but I do not like the way the President is trying to do it," said Gloria Mercado Chacon, a bookkeeper, as she waited in line to cast her ballot for a mixture of pro- and anti-Chavez candidates this morning. "Our new system must be built on the basis of concord and cooperation, not confrontation and conflict."
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photo: Venezuelans elected 131 delegates yesterday to a national assembly that will be charged with rewriting the country's Constitution. In Caracas, Humberto Pinto, 84, looked over a sample ballot in a public schoolyard. (Associated Press) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: VENEZUELA, BOLIVARIAN REPUBLIC OF (96%); UNITED STATES (79%); SOUTH AMERICA (79%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: VENEZUELA, BOLIVARIAN REPUBLIC OF (96%); UNITED STATES (79%); SOUTH AMERICA (79%); 

SUBJECT: Terms not available from NYTimes. SUPREME COURTS (89%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (86%); BASEBALL (75%); COUPS (72%); ANNIVERSARIES (69%); APPROVALS (65%); 

PERSON: HUGO CHAVEZ (90%); 

LOAD-DATE: July 26, 1999



629 of 738 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 26, 1999

SECTION: Section A; Page 13; Column 1; National Desk 

LENGTH: 1313 words

HEADLINE: Reform Party Takes Decisive Turn From Perot to Ventura

BYLINE: By MIKE ALLEN 

DATELINE: DEARBORN, Mich., July 25

 BODY:
In a raucous rejection of Ross Perot, delegates to the Reform Party's national convention voted overwhelmingly today to install a chairman backed by the party's new star, Gov. Jesse Ventura of Minnesota.
The vote is a significant setback for Mr. Perot, who won 19 percent of the vote in the 1992 Presidential election, more than any other independent Presidential candidate since 1912. His two campaigns, the second one in 1996, were memorable for his use of charts and graphs, and for some of the lines he delivered in debates -- saying he was "all ears," promising to "get under the hood" of the national economy and declaring that the national debt was like a "crazy aunt in the basement." 
 The fresh leadership can be expected to try to make the Reform Party much more attractive to potential third-party candidates next year. The outcome of today's race was closely watched because the Reform Party can claim one of the great pinatas in politics: its nominee is eligible for $12.6 million in Federal money, based on Mr. Perot's showing in his 1996 bid for President.
Several of the more conservative Republican candidates for President have weighed the possibility of switching to an independent bid, and Senator Robert C. Smith of New Hampshire left the Republican Party this month and is now running as an independent.
Lowell P. Weiker Lowell P. Weicker Jr., the former independent Governor of Connecticut, who has said he is considering seeking the Reform Party nomination for President.
Draft movements are under way for Donald J. Trump, the flamboyant developer, and Ralph Nader, the consumer advocate.
The three-day convention featured a showdown between Mr. Perot's loyalists and backers of Mr. Ventura, the party's only major electoral success story. The 400 delegates elected John J. Gargan, 68, known as Jack, who had promised to move the party's headquarters from Dallas, Mr. Perot's base, to his own home state, Florida.
In a pointed reference to Mr. Perot's staff, Mr. Gargan, whose supporters wore "Gargan's Geezers" T-shirts, criticized "control freaks" in the party. In a speech before the vote, he called Mr. Ventura's victory "not only the greatest thing that's happened to this party but the greatest thing that's happened to the third-party movement."
"He has blown away forever that old Republican and Democratic lie that says your vote doesn't count for a third-party candidate," Mr. Gargan said. To capitalize on Mr. Ventura's momentum, especially among young voters, he said he planned a national advertising campaign for the party.
Mr. Gargan took 61 percent of the vote in a runoff against Patricia R. Benjamin of Cherry Hill, N.J., who had been endorsed by the party's founding chairman, Russell G. Verney, who is also Mr. Perot's spokesman. Thomas J. McLaughlin of Bartonsville, Pa., lost in the first round.
Mr. Verney said today that Mr. Perot would have no comment on the results of the party election.
Mr. Gargan, a retired financial consultant from Cedar Key, Fla., is best known for having bought full-page newspaper advertisements throughout the country in 1991 calling for term limits for members of Congress. In a reference to his signature on the advertisements, he was nominated today as "Jack 'Mad as Hell' Gargan." In his speech, he came across as down-to-earth and noted playfully, "I do have an eye for the ladies."
The Reform Party grew out of petition drives for the Presidential bids of Mr. Perot, 69, who drew 19 percent of the vote in 1992 and 8 percent in 1996. Today, members said they were grateful to Mr. Perot but it was time for new blood.
"A man must know his time," said Greg Brown, the Oklahoma state chairman. "He exits the stage to applause."
Supporters of Mr. Perot wore "Ross Was Right" buttons, and some put "Remember Ross?" posters in the windows of their campers, parked in the front lot of the Hyatt Regency hotel here, where the convention was held. Mr. Ventura's fans sported T-shirts from his campaign for governor, with his promise to "Retaliate in '98."
Partly because of the bounding economy and the centrist stands of the leading candidates in both major parties, Vice President Al Gore for the Democrats and Gov. George W. Bush of Texas for the Republicans, pollsters have found mixed signals about the potential for a third-party candidate this year. But Michael Harrison, the publisher of Talkers magazine, the trade journal of talk radio, said that people were hungry for some excitement, and that as a result the Reform Party candidate would at least be guaranteed tremendous attention.
"The opportunity for a third party is better than ever," Mr. Harrison said. "This race is the old versus the old, the inside versus the inside. There's a terrible feeling of letdown, because there's nothing to talk about."
Governor Ventura, 48, has said he will not seek the Presidency this year, but many party members hope he will run in 2004. Mr. Ventura's two top political aides buzzed around the convention, one gumming an unlighted cigar and the other wearing a black "Jesse Ventura, Man of Action" polo shirt. Their mission was to help the party attract a Presidential candidate who would draw at least 5 percent of the vote, preserving its Federal financing and its ballot slots.
As a sign of the tension that fueled Mr. Gargan's candidacy, the convention was hamstrung by infighting and administrative matters. Bickering E-mail with headings like "Re: Mavis' Reply to Kevin" was run off by the hundreds and circulated as campaign fliers.
All Saturday was spent wrangling over what factions from which states would be seated as delegates, and what the parliamentary rules would be. The convention did not take up its platform -- the issues to motivate its members and perhaps lure new ones -- until 10:43 on Saturday night.
The distractions did not discourage one of the Reform Party's more serious strategists, Michael Zumbluskas, 39, of Manhattan's Upper East Side, who ran unsuccessfully for vice chairman as "Big Z." He said he hoped to take advantage of term limits to help win two City Council seats for the party.
"There are a lot of crackpots in the party -- I should say zealots," Mr. Zumbluskas said. "But I'm not playing on the Internet, or worrying about the rules. I'm out recruiting people for the party."
Off the convention floor, the chief activity was a series of draft movements encouraging famous names to seek the party's Presidential nomination. Perhaps the largest movement was for Mr. Trump, a Republican who has supported Democrats, and who said in an interview that he had no interest in running. A "Trump Tribune" was circulated, and supporters put out position papers for him, based on quotations they found on the Internet. Ira J. Cohen, 65, passed along a rumor that Mr. Trump was willing to commit $40 million "to save the Reform Party."
Reached on an airplane, Mr. Trump sounded taken aback but was coy. "I don't know anything about what's happening," he said. "But I'm nevertheless greatly honored by all the hoopla for Trump."
Patricia Cummings of Gaithersburg, Md., has never talked to Gen. Colin L. Powell, a Republican who has said he will never run for national office. But she held a news conference to announce a movement to draft him, and named herself national chairman. She vowed to collect the signatures of 500 people who would each give $50.
Another draft was under way for Mr. Nader.
One of the more serious efforts was launched on behalf of Pat Buchanan, the conservative Republican Presidential candidate, with a champagne reception thrown by William von Raab of Virginia, who was United States Customs Commissioner from 1980 to 1989.
Mr. von Raab's group blanketed the convention with circulars denigrating Mr. Weiker. Mr. von Raab's group attacked Mr. Weicker as a liberal tax-raiser who is "wrong for reform."
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photos: John J. Gargan, above, known as Jack, was overwhelmingly elected chairman of the Reform Party yesterday at the party's convention in Dearborn, Mich., as delegates loudly declared their support. (Photographs by Reuters) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); 

STATE: MICHIGAN, USA (92%); NEW JERSEY, USA (79%); CONNECTICUT, USA (79%); 

CITY: CHERRY HILL, NJ, USA (50%); 

COMPANY: REFORM PARTY CHERRY HILL TOYOTA (50%); REFORM PARTY (90%); 

ORGANIZATION: REFORM PARTY REFORM PARTY (90%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%); MICHIGAN, USA (92%); NEW JERSEY, USA (79%); CONNECTICUT, USA (79%); CHERRY HILL, NJ, USA (50%); 

SUBJECT: BIOGRAPHICAL INFORMATION POLITICAL PARTIES (91%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (91%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); POLITICAL PARTY CONVENTIONS (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2012 (89%); VOTERS & VOTING (89%); CONFERENCES & CONVENTIONS (89%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (89%); ELECTIONS (78%); RUNOFF ELECTIONS (78%); POLITICS (78%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); GOVERNORS (78%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (77%); CONSERVATISM (76%); PUBLIC DEBT (73%); MARKETING CAMPAIGNS (71%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING (60%); NATIONAL DEBT (54%); 

PERSON: PEROT, ROSS; ALLEN, MIKE; VENTURA, JESSE (GOV); GARGAN JOHN J RALPH NADER (79%); DONALD TRUMP (50%); 

LOAD-DATE: July 26, 1999



630 of 738 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 26, 1999
Correction Appended

SECTION: Section A;Page 1;Column 1;National Desk

LENGTH: 867 words

HEADLINE: Clinton Says No To Any Tax Cut Of $500 Billion

BYLINE: By JOEL BRINKLEY

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, July 25

 BODY:
The Clinton Administration said for the first time today that it would not accept a compromise $500 billion tax-cut plan proposed by a group of Senate Democrats, virtually assuring that the debate over how to spend the projected budget surplus will not be settled quickly or easily.
"The President will veto a $500 billion tax cut because it doesn't leave room for what's necessary," said Lawrence H. Summers, the Treasury Secretary. 
 Echoing that statement, Gene Sperling, the White House economic adviser, said, "The President will veto a tax cut of $800 billion or $500 billion because it threatens our ability to secure Medicare and Social Security and pay down our national debt."
Before today the White House had said it favored limiting any tax cut to about $300 billion but had never said it would reject the Senate Democrats' compromise. The Senate Democratic leadership has also said it favors a tax cut plan of about $300 billion.
About a half-dozen Senate Democrats who have often been at odds with the Administration proposed the plan earlier this month to cut taxes by $500 billion over 10 years, as a way to bridge the gap between the $792 billion cut approved by the House of Representatives and the $250 billion to $300 billion proposal offered by the White House.
But for the compromise to have had any chance of being accepted, either the White House or the Republican leadership in Congress had to endorse it. The Senate Republicans have already rejected the plan, and today's statements from the White House mean the proposal is most likely dead.
Senator John B. Breaux of Louisiana continued to promote the $500 billion plan today, arguing that it would "give us enough money to address Medicare, prescription drugs, and also give us enough money for discretionary spending."
But Senator Breaux, a member of the Finance Committee, added that without a compromise "we are headed for a major train wreck, which I think would be terrible for the American people. Here we have a trillion-dollar surplus, and the two political parties in Washington can't figure out what to do with it."
Mr. Breaux and Mr. Summers spoke on the CBS program "Face the Nation." Mr. Sperling appeared on the Fox Sunday news program.
The Government's current estimates project a surplus of $2.9 trillion over the next 10 years, and that has set off the loud and contentious debate over how the money should be spent. Both party proposals are mirrors of their basic philosophies, and both are addressing the issue with the 2000 elections clearly in mind.
Speaking of the House tax cut bill on CNN today, Representative Dick Armey of Texas, the House majority leader, said, "There's so much compassion in this package that I have to tell you, my heart warms."
Senator Pete V. Domenici, Republican of New Mexico, who is chairman of the Budget Committee, said, "Frankly, if we don't do something like this, I think the American people can justifiably ask: Who is going to spend the surplus?"
Republicans are trying to make the argument that, without a tax cut, the budget surplus will be squandered by Democratic spending programs. "And the important thing is," said Senator Phil Gramm, Republican of Texas, "if you create all these new programs, you'll never get the money back."
Democrats contend that the budget projections are just that -- uncertain looks at the future of the economy. Therefore, large tax cuts are risky. But Senator Gramm proposed a solution. "If you give it back to the American people," he said, referring to the surplus, "if you ever really needed it you could get it back by raising taxes."
With the White House promise to veto the $500 billion tax cut proposal proffered by some in Mr. Clinton's own party, and no other compromise on the table, both sides turned to harsh rhetoric.
In his radio address on Saturday, the President called the Republican tax-cut plan "reckless," adding that "it would require dramatic cuts in vital areas, such as education, the environment, biomedical research, defense and crime fighting."
Senator Gramm appeared with Mr. Sperling on the Fox show this morning and said the Administration's arguments were "like everything else you all do. It's totally dishonest. You guys are shameless, shameless."
Senator Breaux suggested that both sides postpone the debate until the fall and then take it up in the context of related issues.
Under that plan, he said: "You don't have a veto, you don't have an agreement. You just take the time off in August to take a breath of fresh air and listen to the people back home, come back in September and let us do a real Medicare reform bill with prescription drugs."
After that, Senator Breaux added, Congress could tackle the tax-cut question. That would force the Republicans to defend their tax-cut plans at the same time they try to reach agreement on the next Federal budget, a process that requires painful choices about which Federal programs to support and which to cut.
Responding to the Senator's proposal, Senator Domenici said, "What I would say right here is I would have no trouble working with this Senator," adding that his suggestion "is probably very constructive."
 
http://www.nytimes.com

CORRECTION-DATE: July 28, 1999, Wednesday

 CORRECTION:
Because of an editing error, a chart on Monday with a story about tax policy incompletely labeled a section showing the share of taxes paid by different income groups. The section should have been labeled share of income taxes, not share of taxes.

GRAPHIC: Chart: "AT ISSUE: Arguments Behind the Tax Cuts"
Positions of Democrats and Republicans on the tax bill passed last week by the House.
 
The cuts go mostly to the wealthy, say Democrats . . .
 
The Clinton Administration uses the following information, prepared by the Treasury Department, to show how the $792 billion tax cut approved by the House would be apportioned after its main provisions have been fully phased in, a process that would take a decade.*
 
Each group is one-fifth of U.S. households, about 23 million.
 
HIGHEST ONE-FIFTH
HOUSEHOLD INCOME: $81,967 and up
AVERAGE ANNUAL TAX CUT PER HOUSEHOLD: $4,592
TAX CUT FOR EACH GROUP: $105.8 billion
PERCENTAGE OF TOTAL: 79.6%
TAX CUT AS PERCENTAGE OF INCOME: 2.7%
 
HOUSEHOLD INCOME: $49,862 to $81,967
AVERAGE ANNUAL TAX CUT PER HOUSEHOLD: 761
TAX CUT FOR EACH GROUP: 17.5 billion
PERCENTAGE OF TOTAL: 13.2%
TAX CUT AS PERCENTAGE OF INCOME: 1.2%
 
HOUSEHOLD INCOME: $30,984 to $49,862
AVERAGE ANNUAL TAX CUT PER HOUSEHOLD: 301
TAX CUT FOR EACH GROUP: 6.9 billion
PERCENTAGE OF TOTAL: 5.2%
TAX CUT AS PERCENTAGE OF INCOME: 0.8%
 
HOUSEHOLD INCOME: $16,426 to $30,984
AVERAGE ANNUAL TAX CUT PER HOUSEHOLD: 96
TAX CUT FOR EACH GROUP: 2.2 billion
PERCENTAGE OF TOTAL: 1.7%
TAX CUT AS PERCENTAGE OF INCOME: 0.4%
 
HOUSEHOLD INCOME: LOWEST ONE-FIFTH -- Under $16,426
AVERAGE ANNUAL TAX CUT PER HOUSEHOLD: 15
TAX CUT FOR EACH GROUP: 0.3 billion
PERCENTAGE OF TOTAL: 0.3%
TAX CUT AS PERCENTAGE OF INCOME: 0.2%
 
*Includes the effects of a 10 percent reduction in individual income tax rates; repeal of the alternative minimum tax on individuals; repeal of the inheritance tax on large estates; a reduction in the top rate on capital gains to 15 percent from 20 percent; addressing the marriage penalty on two-income couples by making the joint standard deduction twice the single standard deduction, and excluding from taxation $200 per taxpayer in interest and dividend income.
 
. . . but they pay the most in taxes, say Republicans
 
Republicans use the following information, prepared by the Joint Committee on Taxation for the House Ways and Means Committee, to make the point that tax cuts should go to the wealthy because it is overwhelmingly the wealthy who shoulder the nation's tax burden and are therefore contributing disproportionately to the projected Federal budget surplus.
 
INDIVIDUAL INCOME: $200,000 and up
SHARE OF POPULATION+: 2%
SHARE OF TAXES+: 40%
AVERAGE TAX PAID: $126,379
 
INDIVIDUAL INCOME: $100,000-200,000
SHARE OF POPULATION+: 6%
SHARE OF TAXES+: 22%
AVERAGE TAX PAID: 20,555
 
INDIVIDUAL INCOME: $75,000-100,000
SHARE OF POPULATION+: 7%
SHARE OF TAXES+: 13%
AVERAGE TAX PAID: 10,235
 
INDIVIDUAL INCOME: $50,000 - 75,000
SHARE OF POPULATION+: 14%
SHARE OF TAXES+: 15%
AVERAGE TAX PAID: 5,868
 
INDIVIDUAL INCOME: $40,000 - 50,000
SHARE OF POPULATION+: 9%
SHARE OF TAXES+: 6%
AVERAGE TAX PAID: 3,566
 
INDIVIDUAL INCOME: $30,000 - 40,000
SHARE OF POPULATION+: 12%
SHARE OF TAXES+: 4%
AVERAGE TAX PAID: 2,156
 
INDIVIDUAL INCOME: $20,000 - 30,000
SHARE OF POPULATION+: 14%
SHARE OF TAXES+: 2%
AVERAGE TAX PAID: 935
 
INDIVIDUAL INCOME: Less than $20,000
SHARE OF POPULATION+: 34%
SHARE OF TAXES+: 0%
AVERAGE TAX PAID: 0
 
+Percentages do not add to 100 because of rounding.
 
(Sources: Treasury Department; House Ways and Means Committee)(pg. A11) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%); 

COMPANY: LAWRENCE H STEIN (57%); MEDICARE (57%); 

ORGANIZATION: MEDICARE (57%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%); 

SUBJECT: Terms not available from NYTimes. from NYTimes. US PRESIDENTS (90%); TAX RELIEF (90%); TAX LAW (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (90%); TAXES & TAXATION (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); VETO (90%); LEGISLATION (89%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (89%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (78%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (78%); POLITICAL ORGANIZATIONS (78%); BUDGETS (78%); PUBLIC FINANCE (78%); US SOCIAL SECURITY (77%); US POLITICAL PARTIES (77%); POLITICS (77%); MEDICARE (74%); PUBLIC DEBT (74%); APPROVALS (73%); BUDGET FORECASTS (72%); NATIONAL DEBT (72%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (72%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (71%); ECONOMIC NEWS (71%); PRESCRIPTION DRUGS (50%); 

PERSON: PETE DOMENICI (58%); LAWRENCE SUMMERS (58%); 

LOAD-DATE: July 26, 1999



631 of 738 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 26, 1999

SECTION: Section C; Page 10; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk

LENGTH: 1273 words

HEADLINE: MEDIA;
An Entrepreneurial Exception Rides The Internet in Japan

BYLINE: By SHERYL WuDUNN

DATELINE: TOKYO, July 25

 BODY:
Masayoshi Son seems an unlikely deal maker in the bubbly and free-spirited world of the Internet.
Short, boyish-looking and soft-spoken, Mr. Son -- while in Japan -- wears the Japanese business uniform of a white shirt and an immaculately pressed black suit. In public, he sometimes stands stiffly and smiles only slightly. He bows often to emphasize his humility. 
 Moreover, he lives in Tokyo, the risk-averse capital of the world, where the Internet is still a foreign concept to many.
But if there is such a thing as an Internet financial and media empire, Mr. Son's company, Softbank, may be it. Mr. Son, 41, and Softbank are already among the most powerful financial forces in cyberspace, controlling key stakes in 100 Internet information providers in the United States and 20 such companies in Japan. The stakes in publicly held companies, worth $15 billion to $20 billion, are sprinkled widely. Softbank now owns 28 percent of Yahoo, and it has important stakes in Geocities, E-Loans, E*Trade, USWeb, Message Media, and TheStreet.com.
And Softbank is intensifying its focus on the Internet with new deals all the time. Last Tuesday, for example, it agreed to pay $20 million for a 40 percent stake in Webhire, an on-line recruiting company. And Softbank may sell much of its 70 percent stake in Ziff-Davis, the publisher of such magazines as PC Week.
"If you want a global player in the Internet, they are the player," said Jarett F. Wait, chief operating officer in Asia for Lehman Brothers, which recently released a 195-page report on the company. "There's nobody else that comes close."
But while Mr. Son is Japan's leading entrepreneur, the oddity, and perhaps the reason, is that he is not ethnically Japanese.
A Chinese-Korean, he grew up poor in southern Japan, closed off from normal avenues in Japan's corporate world because of discrimination against the Korean minority. Denied a chance to succeed at a leading company, he started Softbank and has become one of Japan's richest men.
Softbank's aim is to become a global Internet "zaibatsu," a Japanese-style empire with investments in many linked companies. Softbank has begun Internet ventures through Yahoo in Germany, France and Britain; it has investment alliances with Rupert Murdoch's News Corporation in Europe, and a joint venture in South Korea.
"For the next 10 years, we do nothing but Internet," Mr. Son said, speaking in English during an interview in his spacious office. "Because that's where the whole society is going to have a big revolution."
Now, after building the foundations of his Internet kingdom in the United States, Mr. Son is turning back to Japan -- one of the least entrepreneurial societies. Last month, he and Frank G. Zarb, chairman of the National Association of Securities Dealers, announced a plan to form a new trading exchange, a Japanese version of Nasdaq, that could become a center for electronic brokerage activity, electronic research and entrepreneurial ventures in Japan.
Mr. Son will feed that entrepreneurial spirit with venture-capital funds that aim to pour $85 million into building Japanese start-ups and grooming hundreds of Softbank wannabes. On June 29 Mr. Son held a reception for 1,400 budding entrepreneurs. He spent the morning of July 5 with Prime Minister Keizo Obuchi and other Government officials to offer some ideas for reviving Japan's economy. The entry of Mr. Son, an entrepreneur from the Korean minority, into the Prime Minister's residence underscores the changing times in Japan.
Yet he faces some enormous challenges. So far he has been a kind of venture capitalist, backing Internet enterprises early and riding on their success. But he does not manage or plan them. And the soaring value of Internet stocks has perhaps exaggerated his ability to pick individual winners.
Mr. Son's appetite for expansion has often outstripped his financial ability. Even now, he often taps the bond markets, and is carrying about three times as much debt as equity.
If there is a shake-out in the Internet, or if Internet stocks prove to be a bubble that pops, then Softbank may falter. Moreover, as Mr. Son ventures into relatively new territory -- like the stock exchange -- he is taking risks in areas in which he has no proved expertise.
Still, no one seems eager to bet against him. And almost no one is better than he is at adjusting to a new situation; he sometimes comes across as a chameleon.
He can backslap and talk in colloquial English with American investment bankers and then discuss the details of new computer chips with the techies. He can also turn somber and bow and speak in polite Japanese to melt into a Japanese business crowd.
This knack for mixing comes from his personal background, which has haunted and helped him since his days growing up in a small town on the southern Japanese island of Kyushu. Mr. Son's grandparents came to Japan from Korea, where his family had lived for 21 generations after migrating from China.
His father and other Koreans illegally built their houses on land owned by Japan National Railways, which led to a long-running conflict with the authorities. It was on that land that Mr. Son's father raised pigs and chickens and illicitly made sake. The home brew was apparently lucrative, for he became the first person in town to buy a car.
When Mr. Son's family moved out of its Korean neighborhood so he could attend a better school, to try to melt into society the family took a Japanese last name, Yasumoto.
"I was a good student, but in those days I had a darkness in my mind all the time," Mr. Son wrote in an essay in 1992. "It was because of my nationality. When I was with friends, I was very happy. When I came back home alone, I had the feeling that I was hiding something from my friends."
He took on his real Korean-Chinese name, Son, when he went to the United States at 16 to attend high school and then on to the University of California at Berkeley. It was his American experience, he says, that laid the groundwork for his career.
"If I had stayed all the time in Japan," Mr. Son said, "I probably would have become much more conservative, just as other Japanese."
One important element in the effort to change attitudes of young people will be to expand opportunities for them to finance their companies and to reward them with stock options -- and that is where the new stock exchange comes in. In February, Mr. Son met John L. Hilley, an aide to Mr. Zarb for the first time through a mutual friend.
Over dinner at a French restaurant at the Royal Park Hotel, close to Softbank's offices, Mr. Hilley began pouring out his frustrations over trying to break into the Japanese market. He had been in meetings his whole trip and had received very little encouragement.
"I said, 'Maybe we can help, maybe you went to the wrong place,' " Mr. Son recalled. He told Mr. Hilley, "You need someone who has the entrepreneurial spirit to make this happen."
Mr. Son and Mr. Zarb then began talking about setting up a new exchange, an idea made possible by recent changes in the securities regulations under Japan's financial liberalization. The idea also dovetailed with Mr. Son's ambition to help shape electronic brokerage and the Internet in Japan.
Even if this proposal fails and Mr. Son suffers a blow to his reputation, he still has his bet on the Internet. He says that as Internet technology evolves, the potential for returns from the information that travels on the network will be far greater than anything realized so far.
"That's my fortune-telling, " he said. "I'm betting on that."
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photo: Masayoshi Son, without the usual black suit, in his office in Tokyo. (Stuart Isett/Sygma for The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Biography

TICKER: 9984 (TSE) (92%); 4726 (TSE) (92%); YHOO (NASDAQ) (86%); NWS (NASDAQ) (80%); NWS (ASX) (80%); TST (NASDAQ) (55%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS551112 OFFICES OF OTHER HOLDING COMPANIES (92%); SIC6719 OFFICES OF HOLDING COMPANIES, NEC (92%); SIC7373 COMPUTER INTEGRATED SYSTEMS DESIGN (92%); NAICS541512 COMPUTER SYSTEMS DESIGN SERVICES (92%); NAICS519130 INTERNET PUBLISHING & BROADCASTING & WEB SEARCH PORTALS (86%); NAICS517110 WIRED TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (86%); SIC7375 INFORMATION RETRIEVAL SERVICES (86%); NAICS515120 TELEVISION BROADCASTING (80%); NAICS511130 BOOK PUBLISHERS (80%); NAICS511110 NEWSPAPER PUBLISHERS (80%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (57%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (57%); NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (55%); SIC8999 SERVICES, NEC (55%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (55%); 

COUNTRY: JAPAN (96%); UNITED STATES (91%); EUROPE (79%); KOREA, REPUBLIC OF (79%); UNITED KINGDOM (79%); ASIA (78%); FRANCE (66%); CENTRAL EUROPE (51%); GERMANY (51%); 

CITY: TOKYO, JAPAN (90%); 

COMPANY: SOFTBANK CORP (92%); SOFTBANK TECHNOLOGY CORP (92%); YAHOO! INC (86%); NEWS CORP (80%); LEHMAN BROTHERS HOLDINGS INC (57%); THESTREET INC (55%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: JAPAN (96%); UNITED STATES (91%); EUROPE (79%); KOREA, REPUBLIC OF (79%); UNITED KINGDOM (79%); ASIA (78%); FRANCE (66%); CENTRAL EUROPE (51%); GERMANY (51%); TOKYO, JAPAN (90%); 

SUBJECT: Terms not available from NYTimes. ENTREPRENEURSHIP (90%); INTERNET & WWW (89%); ONLINE CONTENT & INFORMATION SERVICES (78%); PUBLISHING (75%); JOINT VENTURES (70%); INTERVIEWS (69%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (68%); EXECUTIVES (64%); 

PERSON: KEITH RUPERT MURDOCH (50%); 

LOAD-DATE: July 29, 1999



632 of 738 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 26, 1999

SECTION: Section B; Page 9; Column 4; National Desk

LENGTH: 664 words

HEADLINE: Donna Allen, 78, a Feminist and an Organizer

BYLINE: By WOLFGANG SAXON

 BODY:
Donna Allen, an early standard-bearer of feminism who kept an eye on the news and communications industry from her Washington home, died on July 19 of a heart attack. She was 78.
Her family said she died at a hospital but declined to identify it. 
 Dr. Allen came to social and political activism as a young woman, organizing farm workers on the West Coast and writing pamphlets for the American Federation of Labor in Washington. In the early 1950's, she became involved with the League of Women Voters, which was scrutinizing the Truman Administration's loyalty program for Government employees.
At the time, there was widespread fear of Communist infiltration and subversion. Dr. Allen strongly objected to loyalty oaths and their general acceptance by the press.
From this, Dr. Allen developed a lifelong interest in communications and the role of women in the field.
On the political side, she was a founder of Women Strike for Peace, which opposed nuclear weapons and the Vietnam War, and she served as Washington representative for the National Committee to Abolish the House Un-American Activities Committee.
Dr. Allen herself ran afoul of the Un-American Activities Committee in 1965, when it questioned a visa granted to a Japanese law school dean and leading pacifist for an American lecture tour in 1963. She and two others refused to testify at a closed hearing, claiming a constitutional right to an open hearing.
The committee cited the three for contempt of Congress. A United States district judge found them guilty and gave them suspended sentences of four months in prison and $100 fines. Those were overturned on appeal.
In 1972, Dr. Allen founded the Women's Institute for Freedom of the Press and started a newsletter, Media Report to Women: What Women Are Doing and Thinking About the Communications Media. She edited Media Report, now a quarterly, until selling it in 1987 to another publisher, but continued as president of the institute at her home to the end, organizing conferences and writing in an effort to get a woman's point of view across in communications here and abroad.
Donna Allen was born in Petoskey, Mich., and graduated in history, with a minor in economics, from Duke University in 1943. She received a master's degree in economics at the University of Chicago in 1953 and a Ph.D. in history at Howard University in 1971, with a dissertation on national health insurance.
Dr. Allen taught grievance procedures and labor economics and history at the School of Industrial and Labor Relations at Cornell University in the early 1950's. She assisted Senator Paul H. Douglas, an economist, with an update of his standard text, "Theory of Wages," and wrote briefs for Presidential emergency boards named to resolve railroad labor disputes.
She was the author of "Fringe Benefits" (1964) and co-author of "Communications at the Crossroads: The Gender Gap Connection" (1988). She was active in the National Women's Political Caucus, the National Organization for Women and the National Women's Party.
Dr. Allen is survived by three daughters, Dana Densmore of Santa Fe, N.M., Indra Allen of San Francisco and Dr. Martha Allen of Washington; a son, Mark, of Memphis; a brother, Donald Rehkopf of Chicago; and three grandchildren. Her marriage to Russel Allen, a resident of Nashville, ended in divorce.
Dr. Allen sat in the audience when the Committee on Un-American Activities delved into the Ku Klux Klan in 1965, representing the group that wanted the House committee abolished. As the investigators sorted out such mysterious denizens as klaliffs, klokards and kludds, Dr. Allen sported a button proclaiming: "I am not now nor have I ever been a member of H.U.A.C."
The committee stopped asking questions about Community Party membership in 1969, when it went out of business. Dr. Allen's group henceforth turned itself into the Committee Against Repressive Legislation, of which she became vice chairman in 1975. 
http://www.nytimes.com

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Obituary (Obit); Biography

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); JAPAN (79%); 

STATE: MICHIGAN, USA (79%); ILLINOIS, USA (77%); 

CITY: CHICAGO, IL, USA (77%); 

COMPANY: CORNELL UNIVERSITY PRESS (51%); AFL-CIO (57%); 

ORGANIZATION: AFL-CIO (57%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%); JAPAN (79%); MICHIGAN, USA (79%); ILLINOIS, USA (77%); CHICAGO, IL, USA (77%); 

SUBJECT: Terms not available from NYTimes. DEATHS & OBITUARIES (92%); DEATHS (90%); FEMINISM & WOMEN'S RIGHTS (90%); WOMEN (90%); WRITERS (89%); GRADUATE & PROFESSIONAL SCHOOLS (87%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS (78%); FREEDOM OF PRESS (78%); LABOR DISPUTES & NEGOTIATIONS (76%); POLITICAL ORGANIZATIONS (76%); CIVIC & SOCIAL ORGANIZATIONS (76%); UNIVERSITY ADMINISTRATION (75%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (75%); SENTENCING (72%); FARM LABOR (72%); HEALTH INSURANCE (72%); HISTORY (72%); VOTERS & VOTING (70%); BUSINESS EDUCATION (70%); NATIONAL HEALTH INSURANCE (70%); GOVERNMENT HEALTH INSURANCE (70%); VIETNAM WAR (69%); CRIMINAL CONVICTIONS (69%); CONFERENCES & CONVENTIONS (69%); LAWYERS (67%); LAW SCHOOLS (65%); JUDGES (65%); APPEALS (64%); CRIMINAL FINES (64%); JAIL SENTENCING (64%); HISTORICALLY BLACK COLLEGES (60%); NUCLEAR WEAPONS (54%); MILITARY WEAPONS (53%); 

PERSON: MARTHA ALLEN (95%); DONNA ALLEN (67%); 

LOAD-DATE: July 29, 1999



633 of 738 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 26, 1999

SECTION: Section A; Page 10; Column 1; National Desk

LENGTH: 863 words

HEADLINE: PUBLIC LIVES;
A Passion for the Budget Drives a Michigan Republican

BYLINE: By FRANK BRUNI

DATELINE: WASHINGTON

 BODY:
WHEN Representative Fred Upton talks about the cause that beckoned him here -- that nudges him out of bed in the morning, pings around his cerebral cortex all day and whispers to him at night -- something happens.
His eyes blaze. His speech accelerates. His voice climbs several notes. 
 This, apparently, is what a passion for Federal balance sheets will do to a man.
"My heartbeat has always been the budget -- and the deficit," Mr. Upton, a Michigan Republican, said last week in his Capitol Hill office, where a plaque atop the bookcase reads, "It's the national debt, stupid."
"That's what drives me," he said, his manner and appearance unusually boyish at 46. (As recently as two years ago, he was asked for identification when buying beer.) "That's why I came. That's why I chose to run. It's really everything."
That conviction explains why Mr. Upton, among a group of moderate Republicans, rained on the tax-cutting parade in Congress, forcing Republican leaders to make cuts contingent on controlling interest payments on the national debt.
But what explains Mr. Upton's conviction? The answer lies partly in history, which holds an interesting paradox.
The last tax cut as sweeping as the bill that House Republicans passed on Thursday was put into effect by President Ronald Reagan in 1981, and Mr. Upton was right there, in the middle of it, as a senior aide to David Stockman, the director of the Office of Management and Budget at the time.
But while President Reagan took a machete to taxes, he did not raise even gardening shears to spending. And Mr. Stockman dutifully provided candy-coated predictions about that economic program, which predictably fattened deficits. Mr. Stockman later conceded that he had seen it coming and warned others in the Administration, but their hunger to be popular overwhelmed the willpower to be smart.
Mr. Upton shared Mr. Stockman's experience and lessons, much as he shared every step of Mr. Stockman's political career. Attending a speech by Mr. Stockman in 1976, when Mr. Stockman was a candidate for the Congressional seat from southwestern Michigan that Mr. Upton now holds, was what set Mr. Upton on a political path.
Mr. Upton had just graduated from the University of Michigan with a degree in journalism and was in limbo. Mr. Stockman needed help, so Mr. Upton signed up with the campaign.
After Mr. Stockman's election, Mr. Upton followed him to Washington to be his staff project director. After Mr. Stockman was plucked for the O.M.B. job in 1980, Mr. Upton followed him there too. And after Mr. Stockman resigned in 1985 and went to work on Wall Street, Mr. Upton set his sights on his boss's old Congressional seat, winning election to it the following year.
The two men are still close. Mr. Stockman's mother, Carol, is Mr. Upton's campaign chairwoman, and Mr. Stockman and Mr. Upton caught up with each other at her house in St. Joseph, Mich., just three weeks ago.
"We talked about this tax bill," Mr. Upton said. "Literally, the first thing out of his mouth was, 'You guys have to pay down that debt.' "
Mr. Upton said that he agreed, believing that the country's sustained prosperity hinged on such fiscal restraint.
Mr. Upton grew up in St. Joseph with a quasi-famous surname, because his grandfather helped found Whirlpool, the appliance manufacturer, in the neighboring city of Benton Harbor. His father was a vice president there, and Fred and his four siblings never wanted for much.
But Mr. Upton said they were taught to be socially and financially responsible. He used earnings from part-time jobs to pay his college tuition.
He has a strong work ethic, evident in his mastery of policy details. Explaining his recent votes on gun control -- he sided with Democrats for tighter restrictions that he deemed reasonable -- he can instantly recite the minutiae of various provisions under consideration.
If a lawmaker is going to buck his party, Mr. Upton said, "You have to be able to explain why."
But that is no guarantee against heartburn. After joining Democrats in support of a 1994 crime bill that included not only gun control but also such putatively liberal programs as midnight basketball leagues, Mr. Upton was booed at a Republican convention back home.
Representative John Lewis, a Georgia Democrat, praised him as a politician with an open mind and heart.
"He's eager and ready to do what he can to build bridges and bring people together across racial and party lines," said Mr. Lewis, who is black.
MR. UPTON also has a playful side. He proposed to his wife, Amey, by hiring a plane to fly over a Baltimore Orioles game with the banner, "Amey, this is the inning to say yes." The couple have two children, ages 11 and 7.
Mr. Upton once seemed destined for a role in House leadership but proved too independent -- more liberal than his party on some social issues, more conservative on some fiscal ones. The latter are his abiding focus and, he said, the most important aspect of governing, even if previous Administrations and Congresses lost sight of that.
"Thank goodness, we're beginning to put Humpty Dumpty back together again," Mr. Upton said.
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photo: Representative Fred Upton's fiscal focus sharpened in the Reagan years. (Shana Raab for The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Biography

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: MICHIGAN, USA (94%); 

COMPANY: MICHIGAN REPUBLICAN (70%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%); MICHIGAN, USA (94%); 

SUBJECT: Terms not available from NYTimes. US REPUBLICAN PARTY (92%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); PUBLIC DEBT (90%); NATIONAL DEBT (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); BUDGETS (89%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (78%); PUBLIC FINANCE (77%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (76%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (76%); TAXES & TAXATION (74%); TAX LAW (72%); ECONOMIC POLICY (63%); ECONOMIC NEWS (63%); 

PERSON: FRED UPTON (91%); RONALD REAGAN (89%); 

LOAD-DATE: July 29, 1999



634 of 738 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 27, 1999

SECTION: Section F; Page 8; Column 5; Health & Fitness 

LENGTH: 236 words

HEADLINE: VITAL SIGNS: STANDARDS;
A New 'to-Do' List for Fertility Clinics

BYLINE: Reuters 

 BODY:
Federal health officials last week issued model standards for the 300 fertility clinics in the nation, giving states a tool if they choose to start accrediting such clinics.
State action is voluntary, but some state legislators have been considering establishing some regulatory framework, especially after incidents like the embryo mix-up at a New York laboratory in which one woman gave birth to twins, one of whom was another couple's genetic child. 
 Even in the best of laboratories and with the best medical practices, success is not guaranteed with reproductive techniques like in vitro fertilization.
But the guidelines, issued by Dr. Donna E. Shalala, the Secretary of Health and Human Services, are intended to make sure that embryology laboratories and clinics meet standards on laboratory procedures and equipment, record keeping and personnel qualifications.
"The fertility industry is a $2 billion part of our economy, and it has been almost completely unregulated," said Senator Ron Wyden, an Oregon Democrat, who wrote a 1992 law that required the Government to set up these standards.
Insurance does not always cover infertility treatment, so couples may spend tens of thousands of dollars on difficult and stressful procedures, with low rates of success.
The Society for Assisted Reproductive Technology, which represents 90 percent of American clinics, backs the model standards. 
http://www.nytimes.com

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (79%); 

COMPANY: HEALTH AND HUMAN SERVICES DEPARTMENT (US) HEALTH&HUMAN SERVICES (61%); SOCIETY FOR ASSISTED REPRODUCTIVE TECHNOLOGY (61%); 

ORGANIZATION: HEALTH AND HUMAN SERVICES DEPARTMENT (US) SOCIETY FOR ASSISTED REPRODUCTIVE TECHNOLOGY (61%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%); 

SUBJECT: REPRODUCTION (BIOLOGICAL); FERTILITY DRUGS; IN VITRO FERTILIZATION; EMBRYOLOGY (FETOLOGY) REPRODUCTIVE TECHNOLOGY (96%); REPRODUCTIVE HEALTH CLINICS (91%); HEALTH DEPARTMENTS (91%); FERTILITY & INFERTILITY (91%); IN VITRO FERTILIZATION (90%); ACCREDITATION (90%); PREGNANCY & CHILDBIRTH (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (90%); PUBLIC HEALTH ADMINISTRATION (88%); TWINS & MULTIPLE BIRTHS (73%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (71%); 

PERSON: SHALALA, DONNA E (SEC) RON WYDEN (52%); 

LOAD-DATE: July 27, 1999



635 of 738 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 27, 1999

SECTION: Section F; Page 2; Column 2; Science Desk 

LENGTH: 1372 words

HEADLINE: Team of Scientists to Prepare a Rolodex of Life on Earth

BYLINE: By MARLISE SIMONS 

DATELINE: PARIS, July 24

 BODY:
A group of countries has decided to prepare "the equivalent of a world telephone book of life on earth," a project that promises to revolutionize the study of biology and influence international environmental policy.
"It may seem surprising," said Dr. James Edwards, an assistant director at the National Science Foundation in Washington and one of the scientists involved in the project, but there is no single place that has recorded the scientific names of all species that have been named. 
 The project, he added, will include the creation of a catalogue of all named organisms, in effect a catalogue of life. "It will be a fantastic resource for everybody," Dr. Edwards said.
But the main thrust is the creation of a worldwide electronic information network called the Global Biodiversity Information Facility. Scientists hope it will become the single database that pools all the recorded but widely scattered data about the earth's animals, plants and microorganisms. The database is to be made accessible via the Internet.
Work on the facility is to start this year. It is being launched under the aegis of the Organization for Economic Cooperation and Development, a Paris-based research group that encompasses the 29 most industrialized nations. Science ministers from the organization approved the plan in June and specialists, with an initial budget of $3 million, this month began setting up a secretariat and work program.
"This will mean that biodiversity information will finally move from the cuneiform tablet to the computer screen," said Dr. Tom Lovejoy, chief biodiversity adviser to the World Bank and one of the planners of the project.
"People doing molecular biology or gene sequencing started in an era where they automatically used electronic systems," he said. "Natural history began hundreds of years ago and has stayed behind."
The designers of the network say it should be a boon not only to biology students and researchers but also to poor nations that are rich in species but have small or no species collections of their own.
While most of the world's plant and animal species occur in developing countries, almost all significant natural history collections are in rich northern Europe and North America. "The information is scattered in dozens of centers, in museums, universities, in journals, drawers and card files," Dr. Lovejoy said. "The idea is to put all this together and make it available to everybody."
The global network is to include both the domestic biodiversity of each participating country and the data about its stored materials that have been collected around the world. Designers say the database will have to be flexible enough to adapt as science gains a greater understanding of organisms and redefines categories.
A number of countries, including Australia, Britain, Canada and the United States, already have on-line programs offering biological information on their main domestic species, but even in these countries the biodiversity inventories are not complete. Moreover, many of the world's historical collections, like those in Britain, France, Germany and Russia, often dating back to the 18th century, have not been entered into computer records.
For example, at the British Natural History Museum, which owns one of the world's largest collections, only a few of its millions of specimens have so far been put into computer catalogues. Museum officials say the task is daunting and that it costs about $5 per specimen to enter it into the new, digitized databank.
The network will not compile or organize its own species inventories but will pull together the databases being created at national and local levels in many countries. "A lot of countries are very interested in getting all their collections up in digitized form and accessible to everyone," Dr. Edwards said. "Quite a few want to use this initiative to get the ball rolling."
But weaving together existing records will be complex. "The databases that exist are very diverse and not based on common methods," said Michael Oborne, an O.E.C.D. economist who is involved in designing the project.
"We have to work out an agreed road map so that all the systems become compatible," Mr. Oborne said. "It will be like creating a world telephone book with the same codes. You want collections that match seamlessly."
There are other complications. In the past, different countries and cultures have developed different methods of classifying or naming species and definitions vary widely. In addition, many species have duplicate names.
"Part of what we'll have to do is to come up not only with the named species but also all their synonyms," Dr. Edwards said. "Now that we try to computerize things, we'll have to weed out the ambiguity that exists. This will be of value not only to scientists but also to policy makers. If people prepare a new law, say to protect a species, there can be no ambiguity."
The databases that will jointly make up the global center will remain the property of the institutions that own and provide the data and link them to the Internet. "This seemed more appropriate and more practical than starting a single central database for biological information from scratch," Mr. Oborne said.
The center will have its own secretariat and a small staff. Several countries are bidding for the seat and have offered accommodations, but the final decision is still pending. The $3 million budget is expected to grow in the next few years and will be provided by the member countries.
During the preparatory meetings in June, several countries said they did not want the new center to compete with other international programs compiling biological information, including the Clearing-House Mechanism for recording species, created as part of the United Nations Convention on Biological Diversity in 1992.
Some critics say the mechanism, tailored to the least advanced countries, was intended to be little more than an archive and has been slow in starting. "An understanding has been reached that this new facility will get moving and concentrate on digitizing all the information," Mr. Oborne said. "The idea is not to duplicate or compete but to help the Clearing-House Mechanism."
The fundamental point, he continued, is to help provide a measuring stick for basic questions on the world's species. Among the questions: Are new species evolving? Are many being lost? What exists today?
The center will have an open-ended membership. After the richer countries provide the data and pay for the infrastructure, poorer countries will be able to join, but will be allowed to pay lower fees. This will provide people who have access to computers with a large on-line reference that will include images and details of their domestic specimens, now housed in museums, libraries and zoos of the rich nations.
Economic planners and industry, including pharmaceutical companies that do biological prospecting, also may find the data useful, the project backers believe.
But the most challenging part will be the next stage, the "vertical links," said Dr. Stefan Michalowski, one of the planners, "when the project will try to link the species databases with others dealing with soil, climate, human populations and the like."
"Say you want to know the effect of a pesticide on some species," he continued. "Then you should be able to see what climates the species live in, what else is part of that ecosystem and how all that will be affected by the chemicals."
The vertical links "will be the most worthwhile, but horrendously difficult," he said.
Estimates are that it will take several years for the first phase of the project to go on line. The broader project is expected to grow and evolve indefinitely.
But even in its embryonic phase, the project will make an enormous difference, said Dr. Edwards. "Right now, if I wanted to know all the specimens of a particular bird," he said, "I would have to write to all the museums that may have a specimen, then go to the museums myself and look at labels and cards. Our initial focus is to get the data from the tags and the drawers into the computer and, where possible, include images." 
http://www.nytimes.com

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%); NORTH AMERICA (92%); CANADA (79%); NORTHERN EUROPE (79%); EUROPE (79%); 

STATE: EARTH (92%); 

CITY: PARIS, FRANCE (50%); 

COMPANY: NATIONAL SCIENCE FOUNDATION NATIONAL SCIENCE FOUNDATION (84%); NATIONAL SCIENCE FOUNDATION (84%); ORGANISATION FOR ECONOMIC CO-OPERATION & DEVELOPMENT (55%); 

ORGANIZATION: NATIONAL SCIENCE FOUNDATION NATIONAL SCIENCE FOUNDATION (84%); NATIONAL SCIENCE FOUNDATION (84%); ORGANISATION FOR ECONOMIC CO-OPERATION & DEVELOPMENT (55%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%); NORTH AMERICA (92%); CANADA (79%); NORTHERN EUROPE (79%); EUROPE (79%); EARTH (92%); PARIS, FRANCE (50%); 

SUBJECT: BIOLOGY AND BIOCHEMISTRY; DIRECTORIES; ANIMALS; FLOWERS AND PLANTS; ENVIRONMENT; COMPUTERS AND THE INTERNET; EARTH SCIENCE NEWS (90%); SCIENCE & TECHNOLOGY (90%); BIOLOGY (90%); ENVIRONMENT & NATURAL RESOURCES (90%); SCIENCE FUNDING (90%); BIODIVERSITY (90%); BIOCHEMISTRY (89%); INTERNET & WWW (89%); DEVELOPING COUNTRIES (78%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (78%); ZOOLOGY (77%); GENETIC BIOCHEMISTRY (77%); ANIMALS (77%); ECONOMIC POLICY (72%); ECONOMIC NEWS (72%); GENOMICS (72%); GENES & CHROMOSOMES (72%); MATH & SCIENCE EDUCATION (72%); BIOTECHNOLOGY & GENETIC SCIENCE (72%); BUDGETS (71%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (71%); MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (68%); APPROVALS (65%); 

PERSON: SIMONS, MARLISE; EDWARDS, JAMES (DR) JAMES EDWARDS (79%); 

LOAD-DATE: July 27, 1999



636 of 738 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 27, 1999

SECTION: Section F; Page 5; Column 1; Science Desk 

LENGTH: 1348 words

HEADLINE: Inches Underground, Secrets of Northern Slave Life

BYLINE: By JOHN NOBLE WILFORD 

DATELINE: SHELTER ISLAND, N.Y., July 22

 BODY:
Alice Fiske, grande dame of Sylvester Manor on this coastal island, emerged from the stately Georgian house, steadying herself with a walking stick, to inspect the defacement of her handsome front lawn. She couldn't have been more pleased about the big hole there, the mark of archeologists at work.
"You know, we have so much history here," Mrs. Fiske said, nodding toward the dig, then the house and the water beyond, where ships of commerce once tied up and a society of cultural diversity took some of its first steps in the New World. 
 Archeologists are not only digging into the past of her late husband's family, going back to the middle of the 17th century, but are also discovering material remains of an aspect of American colonial history little known and rarely investigated: the existence of Northern plantations worked by African slaves.
"People generally assume all the plantations with slaves were in the South," said Dr. Stephen Mrozowski, an archeologist at the University of Massachusetts at Boston and co-leader of the excavation. "No one has really looked at the archeology of a Northern plantation in a systematic way."
As the second summer of excavations drew to a close, Dr. Mrozowski said the new findings, combined with a study of old wills, deeds and other documents, were beginning to reveal patterns of life and work on the Sylvester plantation, which at one time encompassed virtually all of Shelter Island.
Starting around 1650, this was a major enterprise with a long economic reach. Unlike Southern plantations, which concentrated on large cash crops like tobacco and cotton, this was one of several "provisioning plantations" founded at the time in the North. Its main function was to supply food and timber for the Sylvester family's sugar plantation on Barbados in the West Indies. Ships regularly sailed to Barbados bearing cured meat, grain, barrel staves and lumber and returned with molasses for making rum.
"We're seeing the beginning of the modern world," Dr. Mrozowski observed. "These people were already thinking of commerce on a global scale, labor from Africa, a plantation in one place supporting another far away and the products being traded on two continents. And you see all these cultures coming together, English, Dutch, Native American and African."
At both plantations, much of the labor fell to African slaves. According to inventories in the 1680's, more than 20 slaves worked at Sylvester Manor, more than 200 on Barbados. The slaves are listed on lines just above the inventory for livestock.
Only a generation or so after the settlement of Jamestown in Virginia, in 1607, and the arrival of the Pilgrims at Plymouth, Mass., in 1620, plantation culture had spread to a few places on the Northeast coast, where Africans were brought in as slave workers. By the early 1800's, every state above Maryland had abolished slavery. Excavations on Shelter Island, the archeologist said, could reveal whether there were differences in the lives of Africans on Northern plantations compared with those in the South, perhaps reflecting differences between a provisioning plantation and those based on large crops requiring intensive field work.
Dr. Mark P. Leone, an anthropologist at the University of Maryland at College Park, said the excavations should turn up "interesting and important results" about the role of Africans in early American culture, particularly in the North.
Until about two decades ago, African-Americans were a neglected element in archeology. Excavations at plantations usually focused on the architecture of the big houses of the white masters and were confined to the South. As an example of the changing emphasis, Dr. Leone has been investigating the slave quarters of historic houses in Annapolis, Md., to learn how the slaves maintained their African identity.
The excavations at Sylvester Manor are directed by Dr. Mrozowski and Dr. Marley Brown, director of archeology at Colonial Williamsburg in Virginia. The two had worked together on a dig at Jamestown, the first permanent English settlement in what is now the United States. A third partner is the Shelter Island Historical Society.
Stepping down into the excavation on the front lawn, Dr. Mrozowski said, "The beauty of archeology here is, we only have to go down inches to get to the 17th century."
Here the archeologists were looking for traces of the original plantation house, built in 1651; the present manor house dates to 1735. They found some Dutch-made yellow bricks and red roof tiles that belonged to the old house.
"We know the present house was always painted yellow, probably because the original one was built of yellow brick," Mrs. Fiske said.
So far, the foundations of the original house have eluded archeologists, perhaps because it stood on the site of the present house. But they think they may be able to learn even more about plantation life from the artifacts coming out of the lawn and other dig sites. Where he stood, Dr. Mrozowski said, he and his graduate students uncovered a deposit of 17th-century trash. This must have been outside the kitchen, most likely a free-standing structure in those days and a place occupied by the slaves.
Indeed, excavation also exposed the wood stains from decayed posts, coral-based mortar and other traces of a building. Dr. Mrozowski said he was not sure, but the arrangement of the post holes and trenches reminded him of construction patterns of some slave houses made of clay or mud mixed with branches or straw -- wattle and daub -- on South Carolina plantations. These the slaves had built themselves along the lines of dwellings where they or their ancestors had come from in West Africa.
Among animal bones, remains of plantation meals, archeologists here found broken pottery they considered even more distinctive evidence of an African presence. The pieces, gray to brown and unglazed, were from earthenware cooking pots in a style known to archeologists as colono ware. For a long time, such artifacts were thought to be Indian pottery. Now, archeologists have noted similarities to pottery in Nigeria and Ghana and agree that Africans, not Indians, were its primary if not exclusive makers in the New World.
Some Indian artifacts, primarily wampum shells, have been uncovered on a peninsula near the manor house, but it is not yet clear what role Indians had in plantation life. The shells could be from a pre-plantation encampment. But Indians lived on the island after the Europeans' arrival. The island's first census, in 1771, counted "140 persons white, 27 slaves, 5 free negros, 23 Indians."
Nathaniel Sylvester, founder of the plantation, emigrated from England , probably by way of Holland, and, with some partners, acquired the land from the Montauk Indians. (Mrs. Fiske' husband, Andrew Fiske, was a descendant of the Sylvesters.)
From the evidence in the trash deposit -- or midden, in archeological parlance -- the Sylvesters were a cosmopolitan family and their plantation prospered from the start. "It's the most upscale midden I've ever excavated," Dr. Mrozowski said.
Two student archeologists, Ann Hancock and Lee Priddy, arranged a sampling of their artifact haul on a table inside the manor house. There were English, French and Irish coins; fine German ceramics along with humbler colono ware; silver buckles and a stick pin, and pieces of Dutch clay pipes and a copper pipe tamper.
Behind the manor house, on a lawn sloping to Gardiner's Creek, the archeologists have uncovered traces of 17th-century outbuildings that appear to run down to the water. They suspect that these were places where workers made the barrel staves and stored the goods to be transported on the next ship to Barbados. Further excavations are planned here.
Of all the artifacts, the one most prized by Mrs. Fiske is a rusted latch key, four inches long. Because it was found in the 17th-century midden, archeologists told her it was most likely the key to the original manor house, and one more key to the past of a Northern slave plantation.
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photos: Dr. Stephen Mrozowski, an archeologist, at the dig site at Sylvester Manor on Shelter Island, N.Y., in a search for clues to Northern plantation life. This 17th-century coin of Charles I is among the artifacts found at the estate, which was a "provisioning plantation." A key, left, believed to be from the original manor house, and a rock on the estate, with the inscription, "Burial ground for the colored people for the manor since 1651." (Photographs by Chester Higgins Jr./The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: BARBADOS (93%); UNITED STATES (92%); CARIBBEAN ISLANDS (79%); NETHERLANDS (67%); 

STATE: MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%); VIRGINIA, USA (79%); NORTHEAST USA (79%); 

CITY: BOSTON, MA, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: NEW WORLD LIBRARY (57%); NEW WORLD WINES (57%); NEW WORLD SOFTWARE (57%); UNIVERSITY OF MASSACHUSETTS (55%); UNIVERSITY OF MASSACHUSETTS (55%); 

ORGANIZATION: UNIVERSITY OF MASSACHUSETTS (55%); UNIVERSITY OF MASSACHUSETTS (55%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: SHELTER ISLAND (NY); NORTHERN STATES (US); BARBADOS (93%); UNITED STATES (92%); CARIBBEAN ISLANDS (79%); NETHERLANDS (67%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%); VIRGINIA, USA (79%); NORTHEAST USA (79%); BOSTON, MA, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: ARCHEOLOGY AND ANTHROPOLOGY; SLAVERY; BLACKS ARCHAEOLOGY (94%); ANTHROPOLOGY & ARCHAEOLOGY (93%); HUMANITIES & SOCIAL SCIENCE (90%); SLAVERY (90%); ISLANDS & REEFS (90%); HISTORY (76%); EXPERIMENTATION & RESEARCH (70%); NATIVE AMERICANS (70%); SUGAR FARMING (64%); MEATS (62%); 

PERSON: WILFORD, JOHN NOBLE SYLVESTER MANOR (90%); STEPHEN MROZOWSKI (81%); ALICE FISKE (64%); 

LOAD-DATE: July 27, 1999



637 of 738 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 27, 1999

SECTION: Section A; Page 18; Column 6; Editorial Desk 

LENGTH: 157 words

HEADLINE: Helping Churches Help

 BODY:

To the Editor:
In advocating Government use of faith-based institutions to help people, Gov. George W. Bush of Texas (front page, July 23), Vice President Al Gore and others ignore James Madison's heeding that Government "employment of religion as an engine of civil policy" would be "an unhallowed perversion of the means of salvation." 
 Religious institutions can help now through private donations, and Mr. Bush's proposal to allow taxpayers who do not itemize their tax returns to claim deductions for their charitable donations would be equitable. However, expanded use of faith-based groups would make it hard to police proselytizing, discrimination and preferences for some faiths or secular charities. "It is proper," Madison warned, "to take alarm at the first experiment on our liberties."
 
EDD DOERR
Silver Spring, Md. July 23, 1999
 
The writer is the executive director of Americans for Religious Liberty. 
http://www.nytimes.com

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Letter

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: MARYLAND, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: AMERICANS FOR RELIGIOUS LIBERTY AMERICANS FOR RELIGIOUS LIBERTY (83%); AMERICANS FOR RELIGIOUS LIBERTY (83%); 

ORGANIZATION: AMERICANS FOR RELIGIOUS LIBERTY AMERICANS FOR RELIGIOUS LIBERTY (83%); AMERICANS FOR RELIGIOUS LIBERTY (83%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES; UNITED STATES (94%); MARYLAND, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: SOCIAL CONDITIONS AND TRENDS; CHURCH-STATE RELATIONS; ELECTION ISSUES; UNITED STATES ECONOMY; RELIGION AND CHURCHES RELIGION (95%); LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); FREEDOM OF RELIGION (90%); DISCRIMINATION (87%); TAXES & TAXATION (86%); CHARITIES (86%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (74%); WRITERS (73%); EXECUTIVES (72%); CHURCH & STATE (71%); CHARITABLE GIVING (69%); 

PERSON: DOERR, EDD; BUSH, GEORGE W (GOV); GORE, AL (VICE PRES) GEORGE W BUSH (91%); AL GORE (88%); 

LOAD-DATE: July 27, 1999



638 of 738 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 27, 1999

SECTION: Section A; Page 19; Column 6; Editorial Desk 

LENGTH: 755 words

HEADLINE: Foreign Affairs;
Buy Time, Not Guns

BYLINE: By THOMAS L. FRIEDMAN 

 BODY:
I've said it before and I will say it again: Taiwan is a remarkable country. And so much about Taiwan has changed for the better in the past decade. Its politics has changed to a vibrant democracy; its economy is the high-tech envy of Asia. Its media have evolved into the freest in Asia. Yes, so much has changed for Taiwan. There's just one thing that hasn't changed: its geography.
Taiwan is still a tiny island of 23 million people living 90 miles off the coast of a China with 1.3 billion people. A senior Taiwanese official recently described the Taiwan-China relationship, saying: "It's like I have an 800-pound gorilla in my living room, and the worst thing is, he thinks he's my brother." It may be awkward, but that's the reality, and both we and Taiwan must never lose sight of that. 
 Let me be clear: If China attacks Taiwan without provocation, the U.S. must defend Taiwan. We cannot turn our backs on a country that has built its whole political system and economy in our own image. But this is not a fight that Taiwan or the U.S. should court. Yet that is what Taiwan's President, Lee Teng-hui, was doing when he said in an interview with German radio that henceforth relations between Taiwan and China should be seen as a "special state-to-state relationship" rather than an "internal" one -- seemingly nullifying the fiction that there is one China that will one day be reunified.
Eliminating that fiction and ambiguity about whether Taiwan will ever be reunited with China was reckless, because it is precisely that fiction and ambiguity that have enabled Taiwan to triumph over its geography. By pretending that one day it might reunite with China, Taiwan has kept China at bay, insured continued U.S. military support and bought itself time to build up an economy so dynamic -- the 12th-largest in the world -- that it now has critical leverage over China. Taiwanese own 40,000 businesses around the Mainland, making Taiwan the most important foreign investor in China today.
It was also reckless because President Lee's effort to eliminate the ambiguity in Taiwan-China relations was not part of any apparent, considered strategic reassessment, let alone coordination with the U.S. It was simply tossed off in an interview by Mr. Lee, primarily to pick up some pro-independence votes in the upcoming Taiwanese presidential elections.
Lastly, it was reckless because the only long-term solution for Taiwan -- the only thing that will insure that its flourishing democracy and free market are never threatened by China -- is not if it describes China differently, but only if China actually becomes different, only if China evolves into a more democratic, pluralistic country that will not seek unity with Taiwan by force and that Taiwan itself would find a more attractive partner.
Seeking more time, through more ambiguity, for this evolution should be the centerpiece of Taiwan's strategy. This is no time for provoking clarity. It was little noticed that last week Standard & Poor's Ratings Service downgraded China's Government debt and the bonds of nine shaky state-backed Chinese banks. It was the first time that China's official debt has been downgraded since the Tiananmen massacre. S.&P. cited a slowing Chinese economy and rising unemployment as the main reasons for the downgrade. If China's economy continues to decline, and there is more urban unrest, Beijing could be tempted to deflect internal tensions by attacking Taiwan.
It's interesting that if you go to Silicon Valley today and ask high-tech execs there which country they fear most, many will tell you Taiwan -- because it combines entrepreneurial talent with innovative prowess. Taiwan has been recognized by Silicon Valley; it doesn't need to spend billions to be recognized by Suriname. Being recognized by Silicon Valley may not come with embassies and flags, but it conveys real power -- a power that makes Taiwan unignorable even if it remains diplomatically unrecognizable.
What will make Taiwan diplomatically recognizable is a change in China. Not only is that change in process, but Taiwan has a huge role to play in nurturing it. The only thing Taiwan needs is time, and the key to buying time is not clarity about its relations with China, but ambiguity. Ambiguity is what bought time for Taiwan to make itself unignorable, and more ambiguity is what will buy it the time to make itself fully recognizable. Forcing clarity now is reckless and stupid for Taiwan. It will buy Taiwan nothing but trouble. 
http://www.nytimes.com

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Op-Ed

COUNTRY: TAIWAN (99%); CHINA (99%); UNITED STATES (95%); ASIA (91%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: TAIWAN; TAIWAN (99%); CHINA (99%); UNITED STATES (95%); ASIA (91%); 

SUBJECT: UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; UNITED STATES ARMAMENT AND DEFENSE; CHINA-INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS-US MILITARY WEAPONS (90%); POLITICS (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); INTERVIEWS (89%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (77%); SEPARATISM & SECESSION (73%); ELECTIONS (71%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (70%); FOREIGN INVESTMENT (60%); 

PERSON: LEE TENG-HUI (PRES); FRIEDMAN, THOMAS L THOMAS L FRIEDMAN (59%); 

LOAD-DATE: July 27, 1999



639 of 738 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 27, 1999

SECTION: Section A; Page 4; Column 3; Foreign Desk

LENGTH: 1122 words

HEADLINE: Ship Cove Journal;
A Son of the Land Stands Up for Birds of the Sea

BYLINE: By ANTHONY DePALMA

DATELINE: SHIP COVE, Newfoundland

 BODY:
The thought of escaping this sweet and miserable land has long tempted Stan Tobin. Once or twice over the years he has even slipped off to Ireland -- where his brogue makes him sound home-grown -- with no intention of coming back.
But the hardy ground in Ship Cove -- population six when his whole family is here -- simply will not let him go. Tobins have lived here since the start of the last century and now the land's gotten to him too, he says, and made him sort of crazy. 
 So he keeps his restless soul here, and he has his hands in many things. He raises calves and sells them, and he and his wife, Dolores, run a creamery where they make good, hard butter.
But his real passion these days is the squat building on the edge of one of his fields where he and other volunteers wash and clean other wayward souls -- sea birds that have been contaminated by oil. It is one of the only animal rehabilitation centers in Atlantic Canada, and when birds start to come ashore, Mr. Tobin and other volunteers clean them and nurse them back to health.
These volunteers know their limitations, especially when it comes to what the Canadian Coast Guard calls mystery spills that occur more than 100 miles offshore when a commercial ship deliberately empties out its oily bilge water, in violation of regulations requiring that it be treated and disposed of onshore.
Most often, no one knows when the mystery spills happen, or who is responsible. Most of the carcasses of the oiled birds wash out to sea or sink. A small number -- government researchers estimate it at one-tenth or fewer of the total number of sea birds contaminated by oil -- wash to shore and they are usually the first clues that there has been a spill.
As many as 100,000 puffins, murres and other sea birds will die in the icy waters off Newfoundland this year after landing in oil from "mystery spills." That will equal about 40 percent of the 250,000 birds that died in the Exxon Valdez spill off Alaska a decade ago, but the kill will attract little attention here because as many birds have died just about every year for the last few decades.
Mr. Tobin says that as little as half a teaspoon of oil can kill a bird. Feathers greedily absorb the oil and then cannot keep out the cold ocean water. Even a tiny spot can be fatal, like a small tear in a diver's wet suit. The birds get cold, develop hypothermia and eventually become too weak to find food or fly away.
Federal and provincial authorities have known for years that some maritime crews try to skirt regulations and cut costs by emptying their bilges offshore, where no one sees them.
Occasionally, a polluter is caught in the act, as happened last year when a ship bound for England was fined $25,000 (U.S.) after being spotted dragging a sheen of oil five miles long.
The Canadian Coast Guard now runs aerial surveillance flights looking for spills. But they must cover an enormous area, and many spills can never be traced. Even when the polluters are found and prosecuted, officials say, the fines imposed are too low to provide any real deterrence.
"The problem is the courts," said Brian Tobin, Premier of the province of Newfoundland and Labrador and a former federal fisheries minister but no direct relation to Stan Tobin. "The fines that are imposed are laughable."
The Canada Shipping Act, which regulates commercial shipping, is now under review and amendments have been offered to increase fines and make them mandatory in some cases.
As one of the founders of the Newfoundland and Labrador Environmental Association, Stan Tobin has done all he could to help wildlife -- everything from keeping oiled sea birds in his bathtub while they recover to serving on several commissions that have carefully documented the effect of "mystery spills."
Now 50, Mr. Tobin, a former fisherman and, he confesses, former bird poacher as well, said authorities that are supposed to be protecting the province's environment have shown they are willing to gloss over environmental issues to keep from antagonizing businesses that provide badly needed jobs. Unemployment in Newfoundland hovers around 17 percent, more than twice the national average.
Terry Harvey, director of the Canadian Coast Guard's Prevention of Oiled Wildlife Project, also believes that the province caters to commercial interests without fully assessing the effect of such decisions on natural resources.
"The province has been crying out for industrial development for some time, and that probably has driven us to make radical and uninformed decisions," Mr. Harvey said.
Mr. Tobin, Newfoundland's Premier, said the province has proved it will reject projects that harm the environment, like a proposal to build more than a dozen small dams to produce electricity, even though they mean jobs.
"We are concerned about the environment," he said, "perhaps like no one else on the planet."
For centuries, the province's economy was linked to the bounty of the North Atlantic, in particular the Grand Banks fishing grounds that were once so rich that a fisherman need only lower a basket over the side of his boat to get his daily catch.
But earlier this decade the cod seemed to disappear and the Canadian Government closed the commercial cod fishery, throwing thousands of Newfoundland fishermen out of work.
Projects, like the Hibernia offshore oil platform, bring thousands of new jobs. A joint venture of several oil companies, including Mobil and Petro-Canada, Hibernia received financial support from the Canadian Government.
Hibernia officials reported 21 small spills last year that dumped a total of about 600 gallons of oil into the ocean, not much against more than 130,000 barrels of oil the platform pumps up every day.
Hibernia received no fines for any incident. Mr. Harvey of the Coast Guard says he believes that there were many other unreported spills.
"In its environmental impact statement, Hibernia said the possibility of spills occurring was nearly nil," he said. "Yet we have oil in the water almost every week. "
Thomas F. Zapatka, environmental and safety manager for Hibernia, said the company strictly follows all environmental guidelines. "We've never seen any wildlife damaged or impacted," near the platform, he said.
Experts say sea birds are loath to come to land, and only something as awful as being coated with oil will bring them to shore. The point isn't wasted on Stan Tobin, who, truth be told, is loath to leave this land.
"I can't put my finger on it, exactly," he said, watching waves break on the gravelly beach of Ship Cove that he knows so well. "You develop this great attachment for the land. A guy could almost die for it."
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photos: Stan Tobin, 50, a local fisherman, farmer, entrepreneur and romantic, rescues and cleans sea birds that are soiled by oil from bilge-dumping off the Newfoundland coast. (Anthony DePalma/The New York Times); Below, a thick-billed murre was covered in heavy, sticky oil last February. Ten-year-old Everett Stone looked on. (Jon Stone)
 
Map of Newfoundland highlighting Ship Cove: Ship Cove is one of the only bird-rescue centers in Atlantic Canada.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: CANADA (93%); UNITED STATES (79%); 

STATE: NEWFOUNDLAND & LABRADOR, CANADA (93%); ALASKA, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: CANADIAN COAST GUARD (55%); CANADIAN COAST GUARD (55%); 

ORGANIZATION: CANADIAN COAST GUARD (55%); CANADIAN COAST GUARD (55%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: CANADA (93%); UNITED STATES (79%); NEWFOUNDLAND & LABRADOR, CANADA (93%); ALASKA, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: Terms not available from NYTimes. BIRDS (87%); MARINE TRANSPORTATION ACCIDENTS (77%); VOLUNTEERS (73%); OILS & FATS (73%); WATER POLLUTION (72%); OIL SPILLS (72%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (63%); COLD INJURIES (61%); OCEANS (50%); 

PERSON: BRIAN TOBIN (84%); STAN TOBIN (59%); 

LOAD-DATE: July 27, 1999



640 of 738 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 27, 1999

SECTION: Section C; Page 10; Column 6; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 363 words

HEADLINE: THE MARKETS: BONDS;
Housing Data, New Offerings Cool Demand For Treasuries

BYLINE: By Bloomberg News 

 BODY:
Bond prices fell for a fourth session as record home resales and more than $22.5 billion of expected debt offerings by borrowers including Allied Waste Industries reduced demand for Treasuries.
Bonds also fell amid concern that testimony by Alan Greenspan, the Federal Reserve chairman, and reports on growth and employment costs later this week would increase the chance of another interest rate increase later this year. 
 "Money managers are going to assume the worst -- that the strength of the economy will cause the Fed to raise rates again" and that is hurting the market, said Bryce Doty, who manages $750 million of bonds at Sit Investment Associates in Minneapolis.
The price of the 30-year bond slipped 3/32, to 89 10/32. Its yield, which moves in the opposite direction from the price, rose to 6.03 percent from 6.02 percent on Friday.
In a further sign of economic might that hurt Treasuries, the National Association of Realtors reported a 10.6 percent rise in home resales in June to a record annual rate. Traders and investors said they were not looking to buy bonds before Mr. Greenspan concludes his testimony before Congress tomorrow and reports are released on second-quarter growth and employment costs on Thursday. Last week, Treasuries fell after Mr. Greenspan, in the first half of his semiannual report to Congress, said the Fed was prepared to act "promptly and forcefully" if it saw signs of faster inflation.
The central bank, whose policy committee next meets on Aug. 24, raised its target for overnight lending between banks by a quarter-point, to 5 percent, on June 30.
Following are the results of yesterday's auction of three- and six-month bills:
 
(000 omitted in dollar figures)

	3-Mo. Bills	6-Mo. Bills	Price	98.854	97.715	High Rate	4.53%	4.52%	Coupon Yield	4.66%	4.70%	Low Rate	4.45%	4.42%	Median Rate	4.52%	4.51%	Total applied for	$26,736,770	$28,777,502	Accepted	$11,213,770	$11,540,202	Noncompetitive	$1,308,992	$1,209,004	

Both issues are dated July 29, 1999. The three-month bills mature on Oct. 28 1999, and the six-month bills mature on Jan. 20, 2000. 
http://www.nytimes.com

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: RSG (NYSE) (58%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS562212 SOLID WASTE LANDFILL (58%); NAICS562111 SOLID WASTE COLLECTION (58%); SIC4953 REFUSE SYSTEMS (58%); SIC4212 LOCAL TRUCKING WITHOUT STORAGE (58%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (57%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (79%); 

STATE: MINNESOTA, USA (79%); 

CITY: MINNEAPOLIS, MN, USA (54%); 

COMPANY: REPUBLIC SERVICES INC (58%); SIT INVESTMENT ASSOCIATES INC (57%); NATIONAL ASSOCIATION OF REALTORS (56%); NATIONAL ASSOCIATION OF REALTORS (56%); 

ORGANIZATION: NATIONAL ASSOCIATION OF REALTORS (56%); NATIONAL ASSOCIATION OF REALTORS (56%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES; UNITED STATES (79%); MINNESOTA, USA (79%); MINNEAPOLIS, MN, USA (54%); 

SUBJECT: FINANCES; GOVERNMENT BONDS; INTEREST RATES BONDS (93%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (90%); EXISTING HOME SALES (90%); BOND MARKETS (90%); TREASURY SECURITIES (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (89%); SECURITIES TRADING (79%); GOVERNMENT BONDS (79%); PRICE INCREASES (78%); REAL ESTATE (78%); WASTE MANAGEMENT & REMEDIATION SERVICES (78%); AUCTIONS (78%); PUBLIC DEBT (78%); EMPLOYMENT COSTS (77%); ECONOMIC NEWS (77%); PUBLIC POLICY (77%); CENTRAL BANKS (77%); PUBLIC FINANCE (77%); INTEREST RATES (76%); INVESTMENT MANAGEMENT (76%); STATISTICS (76%); BUSINESS & PROFESSIONAL ASSOCIATIONS (73%); 

PERSON: ALAN GREENSPAN (77%); 

LOAD-DATE: July 27, 1999



641 of 738 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 27, 1999

SECTION: Section C; Page 7; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 331 words

HEADLINE: Net Up 12% At American Express

BYLINE: ByBloomberg News 

 BODY:
The American Express Company said yesterday that its second-quarter profit rose 12 percent as consumers spent more with its signature green charge cards and invested more with its financial planners.
American Express, the world's biggest charge-card issuer and travel agency, said net income rose to $646 million, or $1.41 a diluted share, from $578 million, or $1.24 a share, in the period a year earlier. That beat analysts' expectations of $1.40 a share. 
 An economy in its ninth year of expansion and a stock market in its fifth year of gains increased fees from charge and credit cards, financial planning, mutual funds and the travel agency, which together make up the bulk of revenue and profit at American Express.
Revenue rose 12 percent, to $4.82 billion from $4.29 billion. That beat the company's goal of 8 percent growth. Return on equity rose to 25.3 percent from 23.5 percent, exceeding the company's target of 18 percent to 20 percent.
Earnings at Travel Related Services International -- the company's biggest unit, which offers charge cards, credit cards and vacation plans -- rose 14 percent, to a record $411 million. Customer accounts and spending per account rose.
The company has focused on issuing more cards through international banks and obtaining a bigger share of spending in United States groceries, pharmacies and gasoline stations. The effort has been bolstered by television advertisements featuring the comedian and actor Jerry Seinfeld buying food, pharmacy products and gas with the American Express card.
Earnings at the money-management subsidiary, American Express Financial Advisors Inc., increased 14 percent, to $242 million, a record. The unit offers financial planning, mutual funds and other investments.
Profit at American Express Bank, which includes the company's traveler's check business, fell 19 percent, to $38 million from $47 million.
Shares of American Express rose 93.75 cents yesterday, to $136.50. 
http://www.nytimes.com

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: AXP (NYSE) (98%); AMP (NYSE) (58%); STAN (LSE) (53%); 2888 (HKSE) (53%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS522210 CREDIT CARD ISSUING (98%); SIC6141 PERSONAL CREDIT INSTITUTIONS (98%); NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (58%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (58%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (58%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (53%); SIC6029 COMMERCIAL BANKS, NEC (53%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (96%); 

COMPANY: AMERICAN EXPRESS CO AMERICAN EXPRESS CO (98%); AMERIPRISE FINANCIAL INC (58%); STANDARD CHARTERED PLC (53%); 

ORGANIZATION: AMERICAN EXPRESS CO

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (96%); 

SUBJECT: COMPANY REPORTS INTERIM FINANCIAL RESULTS (90%); PAYMENT CARDS & SERVICES (90%); COMPANY PROFITS (90%); FINANCIAL PLANNING (90%); COMPANY EARNINGS (90%); CREDIT CARDS (89%); PERSONAL FINANCE (89%); FINANCIAL RESULTS (78%); MUTUAL FUNDS (78%); TRAVEL AGENTS (77%); GAS STATIONS (72%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (71%); PHARMACIES (64%); ACTORS & ACTRESSES (64%); TELEVISION INDUSTRY (64%); BROADCAST ADVERTISING (64%); TELEVISION ADVERTISING (50%); 

PERSON: JERRY SEINFELD (50%); 

LOAD-DATE: July 27, 1999



642 of 738 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 27, 1999

SECTION: Section C; Page 7; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 391 words

HEADLINE: Sales of Existing Homes Set All-Time Record Rate in June

BYLINE: Reuters 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, July 26

 BODY:
Sales of existing homes soared to a record rate in June as buyers rushed to take advantage of low mortgage rates, the National Association of Realtors said today.
Existing home sales rose 10.6 percent in June, to an annualized rate of 5.53 million units, up from a rate of 5 million units in May. It was the highest rate on record. 
 "When buyers saw interest rates moving up this spring, they jumped off the fence and into the market to take advantage of excellent affordability conditions before mortgage rates moved higher," said Sharon Millett, the president of the association.
The group said the June rate put the housing market on track for another record year, with expected sales of about 5 million units, up from 4.97 million units in 1998.
"This huge number is a manifestation of a very healthy U.S. economy and bodes well for all of the industries that are tied to the housing industries," said James Smith, the chief economist for the association.
Bill Cheney, chief economist at John Hancock Financial Services, said the housing market should slow to a rate of less than five million homes by the end of the year on expectations that interest rates will move higher.
"This is not a sign that the economy is overheating and should not make us back off from predictions that the housing market will slow down as the year continues," Mr. Cheney said.
Although he was surprised by the strong gain in June, Mr. Cheney said that the figures are volatile given the long process of buying a home and that the June data suggested that any potential slowdown of the economy would be gradual.
The current economic expansion has been driven largely by consumer spending, which has been spurred by new homeowners buying such big-ticket items as sofas and appliances.
The association's report showed signs that the housing market was increasingly becoming a sellers' market. At the end of June, there was an inventory of 1.97 million homes available for sale, representing 4.7 months of supply at the current sales pace, the lowest inventory level since December 1994, when the inventory stood at 4.1 months.
The group also reported that the median sale price rose to a record $137,000 in June.
The average 30-year fixed mortgage rate rose to 7.55 percent in June from 7.15 percent in May, according to Freddie Mac. 
http://www.nytimes.com

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: FRE (NYSE) (84%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS522292 REAL ESTATE CREDIT (84%); SIC6162 MORTGAGE BANKERS & LOAN CORRESPONDENTS (84%); SIC6111 FEDERAL & FEDERALLY-SPONSORED CREDIT AGENCIES (84%); NAICS524113 DIRECT LIFE INSURANCE CARRIERS (69%); SIC6311 LIFE INSURANCE (69%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); 

COMPANY: NATIONAL ASSN OF REALTORS FEDERAL HOME LOAN MORTGAGE CORP (FREDDIE MAC) (84%); JOHN HANCOCK FINANCIAL SERVICES INC (69%); NATIONAL ASSOCIATION OF REALTORS (91%); NATIONAL ASSOCIATION OF REALTORS (91%); 

ORGANIZATION: NATIONAL ASSN OF REALTORS NATIONAL ASSOCIATION OF REALTORS (91%); NATIONAL ASSOCIATION OF REALTORS (91%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%); 

SUBJECT: HOUSING; RECORDS AND ACHIEVEMENTS; SALES EXISTING HOME SALES (94%); REAL ESTATE (92%); HOUSING MARKET (92%); ECONOMIC NEWS (91%); INTEREST RATES (91%); MORTGAGE RATES (90%); REAL ESTATE AGENTS (90%); RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (90%); SALES FIGURES (90%); BUSINESS & PROFESSIONAL ASSOCIATIONS (90%); MORTGAGE LOANS (89%); MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (89%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (89%); MEDIAN HOME PRICE (79%); BANKING & FINANCE (78%); SALES PROJECTIONS (78%); STATISTICS (78%); HOMEOWNERS (78%); INVENTORIES (77%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (77%); PRICE INCREASES (73%); INVENTORY MANAGEMENT (61%); 

PERSON: BILL CHENEY (84%); 

LOAD-DATE: July 27, 1999



643 of 738 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 27, 1999

SECTION: Section A; Page 8; Column 1; Foreign Desk 

LENGTH: 584 words

HEADLINE: Albright and Ivanov Confer; Try to Mend Ties After Kosovo

BYLINE: By JANE PERLEZ 

DATELINE: SINGAPORE, July 26

 BODY:
In what a Russian Foreign Ministry official here welcomed as the week of getting Russian relations with the United States back on track, Secretary of State Madeleine K. Albright and the Russian Foreign Minister, Igor S. Ivanov, met here tonight in their first conversation since the Kosovo war. They touched on the Balkans, where differences remain, but dwelt more on arms reduction, Iraq and economics.
The discussion, after a daylong session of the annual meeting of the Association of Southeast Asian Nations, will be followed by meetings in Washington on Tuesday between the new Russian Prime Minister, Sergei V. Stepashin, President Clinton and Vice President Al Gore. 
 At a joint news conference, Ms. Albright and Mr. Ivanov both suggested that the damage done to the Washington-Moscow relationship by the Kosovo war should be quickly repaired. "We should redouble our effort to further the relationship," Mr. Ivanov said, after signing an agreement to open a telephone hot line between Ms. Albright and himself.
He said his Government would press for passage of the Start 2 arms reduction treaty when the Russian Parliament convenes in late September. The treaty has been stalled in the Communist-dominated Parliament, though, and similar pledges by President Boris N. Yeltsin have failed to move it.
For her part, Ms. Albright said discussions would soon begin on amending the Anti-Ballistic Missile Treaty of 1972 and on the Start 3 treaty, which calls on both sides to reduce their nuclear arsenals. The United States wants changes in the 1972 treaty that would allow it to start work on an anti-missile system announced by Mr. Clinton in January.
On economic issues, a senior Administration official traveling with Ms. Albright said it was likely that the board of the International Monetary Fund would give final approval this week to a $4.5 billion loan intended to prevent Russia from defaulting on a loan from the monetary fund. Since Mr. Stepashin became Prime Minister in the spring, the Russian Parliament has approved a series of measures demanded by the fund as prerequisites to receiving the loan, the Administration official said.
Despite some progress on those issues, the aftermath of bad feelings from the war in Kosovo still lingers. At the start of the war, Russia left the Permanent Joint Council, the NATO body where the alliance consults with Russia. Russia came back last week. But at its insistence, the agenda was limited to sorting out problems associated with the Russian military presence in Kosovo, said Vladimir Rakhmanin, the Foreign Ministry spokesman.
"Russian-NATO relations are still frozen," he said.
At the Association of South East Asian Nations session today, Ms. Albright raised her concerns about Myanmar, which she has criticized in the past for its authoritarian rule and poor human rights record. She called the country, formerly Burma, a "threat to regional stability."
The Myanmar Government's failure to prevent wide-scale narcotics production and trafficking pose dangers for neighboring nations, she said in a paper devoted to a number of Asian themes and circulated among the conference participants.
She urged the country's military authorities, who have been in power since 1962, to begin a dialogue with opposition parties, including the National League for Democracy, headed by Daw Aung San Suu Kyi. The opposition party won a landslide victory in 1990 elections but has been prevented from taking power. 
http://www.nytimes.com

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: RUSSIAN FEDERATION (98%); SERBIA (96%); UNITED STATES (96%); KOSOVO (94%); MYANMAR (93%); SOUTH-EASTERN ASIA (92%); SERBIA & MONTENEGRO (92%); ASIA (92%); IRAQ (92%); SINGAPORE (79%); 

CITY: MOSCOW, RUSSIAN FEDERATION (79%); 

COMPANY: NORTH ATLANTIC TREATY ORGANIZATION SOUTH EAST ASIAN BANK LTD (51%); NORTH ATLANTIC TREATY ORGANIZATION (59%); NORTH ATLANTIC TREATY ORGANIZATION (59%); ASSOCIATION OF SOUTHEAST ASIAN NATIONS (57%); 

ORGANIZATION: NORTH ATLANTIC TREATY ORGANIZATION NORTH ATLANTIC TREATY ORGANIZATION (59%); NORTH ATLANTIC TREATY ORGANIZATION (59%); ASSOCIATION OF SOUTHEAST ASIAN NATIONS (57%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: RUSSIA; SERBIA; KOSOVO (SERBIA); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (98%); SERBIA (96%); UNITED STATES (96%); KOSOVO (94%); MYANMAR (93%); SOUTH-EASTERN ASIA (92%); SERBIA & MONTENEGRO (92%); ASIA (92%); IRAQ (92%); SINGAPORE (79%); MOSCOW, RUSSIAN FEDERATION (79%); 

SUBJECT: UNITED STATES ARMAMENT AND DEFENSE; UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; ATOMIC WEAPONS; ARMS CONTROL AND LIMITATION AND DISARMAMENT; RUSSIA-INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS-US; MISSILES; TREATIES MILITARY WEAPONS (91%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (90%); MISSILE SYSTEMS (90%); FOREIGN RELATIONS (90%); STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (90%); TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (90%); ARMS CONTROL & DISARMAMENT (90%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (89%); MISSILE DEFENSE SYSTEMS (86%); US PRESIDENTS (78%); TALKS & MEETINGS (78%); APPROVALS (78%); NUCLEAR WEAPONS (77%); WEAPONS DECOMMISSIONING (76%); PRIME MINISTERS (75%); PRESS CONFERENCES (74%); ARMED FORCES (50%); HUMAN RIGHTS (50%); 

PERSON: ALBRIGHT, MADELEINE K (SEC); CLINTON, BILL (PRES); PERLEZ, JANE; IVANOV, IGOR S (MIN) BILL CLINTON (79%); AL GORE (58%); 

LOAD-DATE: July 27, 1999



644 of 738 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 27, 1999

SECTION: Section A; Page 8; Column 1; Foreign Desk 

LENGTH: 832 words

HEADLINE: U.S. Earmarks $500 Million for Kosovo

BYLINE: By ELIZABETH BECKER 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, July 26

 BODY:
President Clinton's national security adviser said today that the United States would pledge up to $500 million in relief aid for Kosovo at a conference in Brussels this week.
In a speech at the Council on Foreign Relations here, the adviser, Samuel R. Berger, said the contribution was part of the Administration's effort to speed up the rehabilitation of Kosovo. 
 "We won the war, but it will be a hollow victory if we lose the peace," Mr. Berger said.
By announcing what is expected to be the largest donation at the conference, to be held on Wednesday, the United States hopes to demonstrate that it will take the lead on aid. The money will be devoted to food, housing, health care and sanitation, as well as to clearing land mines, setting up human rights programs, establishing a police force and assisting refugees who remain in camps in Albania and Macedonia.
Mr. Berger said the Administration would decide whether to spend the entire $500 million after receiving a final assessment of needs and getting "confirmation that other donors will do their part."
For its part, the European Union has promised to assume the main responsibility for the costs of rebuilding the province.
The Clinton Administration calculated that by pledging a large sum before the conference began, the 49 other countries attending the session might reach deeper in their pockets.
"We hope to raise the ante," said Mike Hammer, a White House spokesman.
Although Congressional leaders were consulted about the donation, there is no need to receive approval from Congress for the outlay, officials said, because money was already earmarked in the supplemental budget for building refugee camps in case the war had dragged on.
The $500 million will be given to international organizations and private relief groups based on assessments by the United Nations and other organizations, said James Dobbins, the special adviser to the President who will lead the American delegation in Brussels.
In his speech today, Mr. Berger softened some of the criticism voiced last week by Defense Secretary William S. Cohen of the speed of the United Nations in setting up its civilian offices in Kosovo. The United Nations "is moving" towards establishing an "effective international administration" in Kosovo, Mr. Berger said.
Mr. Dobbins also defended the United Nations at a news conference today, saying that unlike the military, it did not have "a ready pool of reserves that it is able to dispatch when these peacekeeping operations arise."
"It's worth noting," he said, "in evaluating the pace at which civilian implementation is establishing itself, that all 700 of these people six weeks ago had other jobs, doing other things and had to be taken away from other things to be moved to Kosovo."
In response, a Pentagon official said today that Mr. Cohen was not criticizing the United Nations but "gently prodding" it to move faster to assume its responsibilities to establish a civil administration and police force.
"It's not because we feel we're doing things so well that we can take pot shots at other organizations," the official said. "It's that the military is not the answer, even though now it's acting like the de facto constabulary. It makes us look like an occupation force and not the evenhanded force we're meant to be."
In his speech, Mr. Berger cited the weekend massacre of 14 Serbian farmers by Kosovo Albanian forces, saying that while "this act of violence is not the same as the massive, systematic campaign that was unleashed" by President Slobodan Milosevic of Yugoslavia, "it is profoundly wrong and unacceptable."
"America did not fight in Kosovo for one ethnic group and against another," Mr. Berger said. "We fought for a stable, peaceful Europe and for the principle that no people should be singled out for destruction because of the ethnicity and faith."
On Friday, President Clinton will join other heads of state at a far larger conference in Sarajevo to plan the political and economic rehabilitation of the Balkan region. But Serbia will not benefit from any international reconstruction effort, Mr. Berger said, "so long as an indicted war criminal rules in Belgrade."
The United Nations has spent $500 million on Balkan relief work so far this year, and officials there asked for more money today to finance their work in Kosovo. The United Nations Emergency Relief Coordinator said his agency needed $434 million if it was to continue its work in the Balkans for the rest of this year.
"Billions of dollars have been spent to pay for military interventions, which finally brought peace to the Balkans, the coordinator, Sergio Vieira de Mello," said in Kosovo. "We are now asking for a fraction of that to do the necessary humanitarian work."
Mr. de Mello said the additional money was needed for Kosovo and also for Serbian refugees now in Serbia and Montenegro, who have fled from Kosovo and from earlier wars in Croatia and Bosnia.
 
http://www.nytimes.com

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: SERBIA (96%); UNITED STATES (95%); KOSOVO (94%); SERBIA & MONTENEGRO (92%); BELGIUM (92%); MACEDONIA, THE FORMER YUGOSLAV REPUBLIC OF (79%); EUROPE (79%); ALBANIA (79%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (58%); 

CITY: BRUSSELS, BELGIUM (92%); 

COMPANY: COUNCIL ON FOREIGN RELATIONS (58%); COUNCIL ON FOREIGN RELATIONS (58%); EUROPEAN UNION (55%); EUROPEAN UNION (55%); 

ORGANIZATION: COUNCIL ON FOREIGN RELATIONS (58%); COUNCIL ON FOREIGN RELATIONS (58%); EUROPEAN UNION (55%); EUROPEAN UNION (55%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: SERBIA; KOSOVO (SERBIA); SERBIA (96%); UNITED STATES (95%); KOSOVO (94%); SERBIA & MONTENEGRO (92%); BELGIUM (92%); MACEDONIA, THE FORMER YUGOSLAV REPUBLIC OF (79%); EUROPE (79%); ALBANIA (79%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (58%); BRUSSELS, BELGIUM (92%); 

SUBJECT: UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; FOREIGN AID INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (91%); CONFERENCES & CONVENTIONS (91%); POSTWAR RECONSTRUCTION (89%); US PRESIDENTS (89%); UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (89%); PEACEKEEPING (78%); INTERNATIONAL ASSISTANCE (78%); REFUGEES (78%); NATIONAL SECURITY (78%); MAJOR GIFTS (78%); BUDGETS (78%); REFUGEE & RELIEF CAMPS (78%); FOREIGN RELATIONS (73%); DEFENSE DEPARTMENTS (73%); PRESS CONFERENCES (73%); FOREIGN POLICY (72%); LANDMINES (71%); MILITARY WEAPONS (68%); POLICE FORCES (68%); EUROPEAN UNION (52%); 

PERSON: BECKER, ELIZABETH; BERGER, SAMUEL R; CLINTON, BILL (PRES) BILL CLINTON (89%); 

LOAD-DATE: July 27, 1999



645 of 738 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 27, 1999

SECTION: Section C; Page 10; Column 3; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 603 words

HEADLINE: THE MARKETS: STOCKS;
Weakness in Technology Hurts Shares

BYLINE: By KENNETH N. GILPIN 

 BODY:
Stocks moved broadly lower yesterday, led by big technology and Internet issues, as concerns about the sudden drop in the dollar and a possible future increase in interest rates provided an excuse to take profits.
Selling was most pronounced on the Nasdaq stock market, where the composite index, which fell 6 percent last week after hitting a high on July 16, declined an additional 2.7 percent yesterday. Microsoft, Yahoo, Amazon.com and Cisco Systems were among the biggest decliners. The index was down 73.21 points, to 2,619.19. 
 Despite the extended decline, the Nasdaq composite is still up more than 19 percent this year.
"The Nasdaq is correcting for the excesses it recorded over the past month," said Bryan Piskorowski, market analyst at Prudential Securities. "All in all, the market is in pretty good shape, but it needs to take a pause."
Peter J. Canelo, an investment strategist at Morgan Stanley Dean Witter, suggested that technology stocks might fall out of favor for a while.
"It has been my thesis that good second-quarter earnings would help technology stocks, but that after those numbers were reported worries about Y2K and the like would cause the market to rotate back to areas like energy, cyclical and financial services stocks," he said.
He added, "The market needs a shift in leadership to keep advancing, and I think that will happen."
Compared with the Nasdaq, the drop in other averages was more modest.
The Dow Jones industrial average fell 47.80 points, or 0.4 percent, to 10,863.16. The Standard & Poor's 500-stock index slipped 9.18 points, or 0.7 percent, to 1,347.76. The Russell 2000 index of small company stocks dropped 5.51 points, or 1.2 percent, to 442.87.
Trading activity was unusually light, even for a summer Monday.
On the New York Stock Exchange, 616.2 million shares changed hands, the third-lowest total so far this year.
America Online was the most active issue on the Big Board yesterday, slumping 7 13/16, to 100 1/8, on news that top executives at the on-line service company sold four million shares yesterday morning.
Meanwhile, volume on the Nasdaq market was 837.4 million shares.
"We are going to see this sort of trading pattern," said William Meehan, chief market analyst at Cantor Fitzgerald.
"I think a lot of portfolio managers are taking profits and putting on longer-term hedges, particularly in technology stocks, which despite their terrific long-term prospects are very pricey right now."
Christine A. Callies, chief investment strategist at Credit Suisse First Boston, said in a research report released yesterday that stock prices could remain in an extended trading range for some time.
"The risk-reward status of the S.& P. 500 at levels above 1,300 will remain poor for most of the second half," Ms. Callies wrote. "Investors should not chase rallies but should use trading bounces to rebalance portfolios and raise modest amounts of cash."
High valuations and worries that the Federal Reserve Board might raise interest rates again took a toll on technology stocks.
Microsoft fell 2 5/8, to 87 5/8. Hewlett-Packard lost 2 1/16, to 105 11/16; Cisco Systems fell 1 7/8, to 61 1/16, and Lucent Technologies shed 1/2, to 64 5/8.
It was also a bad day for energy stocks. Chevrondropped 1 7/16, to 92 3/8. Royal Dutch Petroleum, which is in the S.& P. 500 index, fell 1 11/16, to 59 1/16. And BP Amoco lost 2 5/16, to 111 3/4.
Some consumer-oriented stocks that have been battered in recent months did better yesterday.
Walt Disney, down 29 percent in the last 12 months, rose 11/16, to 27 1/2.
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Graph tracks the Dow Jones industrial average over the past year. (Sources: Associated Press; Bloomberg Financial Markets)
 
Tables: "Hot & Cold" provides a look at stocks with large percentage gains and losses; "The Favorite Stocks" lists stocks held by largest number of accounts at Merrill Lynch. (Compiled from staff reports, The Associated Press, Bloomberg News, Bridge News, Dow Jones, Reuters) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: CSCO (NASDAQ) (90%); NDAQ (NASDAQ) (58%); AMZN (NASDAQ) (57%); MSFT (NASDAQ) (57%); MS (NYSE) (56%); CSGN (SWX) (56%); CS (NYSE) (56%); AOL (NYSE) (52%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS334210 TELEPHONE APPARATUS MANUFACTURING (90%); SIC3661 TELEPHONE & TELEGRAPH APPARATUS (90%); NAICS523210 SECURITIES & COMMODITY EXCHANGES (58%); SIC6231 SECURITIES & COMMODITY EXCHANGES (58%); NAICS454111 ELECTRONIC SHOPPING (57%); SIC5961 CATALOG & MAIL-ORDER HOUSES (57%); NAICS511210 SOFTWARE PUBLISHERS (57%); SIC7372 PREPACKAGED SOFTWARE (57%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (56%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (56%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (56%); NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (56%); NAICS524126 DIRECT PROPERTY & CASUALTY INSURANCE CARRIERS (56%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (56%); SIC7379 COMPUTER RELATED SERVICES, NEC (52%); SIC7375 INFORMATION RETRIEVAL SERVICES (52%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (51%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (79%); 

COMPANY: CISCO SYSTEMS INC (90%); NASDAQ OMX GROUP INC (58%); AMAZON.COM INC (57%); MICROSOFT CORP (57%); MORGAN STANLEY (56%); CREDIT SUISSE GROUP AG (56%); NEW YORK STOCK EXCHANGE LLC (53%); AOL INC (52%); CANTOR FITZGERALD LP (51%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%); 

SUBJECT: STOCKS AND BONDS; DOW JONES STOCK AVERAGE; STANDARD & POOR'S 500-STOCK INDEX; NASDAQ COMPOSITE INDEX STOCK INDEXES (95%); STOCK EXCHANGES (89%); INVESTMENT ADVISERS (89%); INTERNET & WWW (89%); SECURITIES TRADING (79%); BANKING & FINANCE (79%); BONDS (78%); INTERIM FINANCIAL RESULTS (77%); COMPANY EARNINGS (77%); INVESTMENT MANAGEMENT (74%); INTEREST RATES (72%); ECONOMIC NEWS (72%); EXECUTIVES (70%); 

PERSON: GILPIN, KENNETH N

LOAD-DATE: July 27, 1999



646 of 738 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 27, 1999

SECTION: Section C; Page 2; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 1005 words

HEADLINE: THE MEDIA BUSINESS: ADVERTISING;
Madison Avenue sees another spate of deals, including some acquisitions overseas.

BYLINE: By Stuart Elliott 

 BODY:
ANOTHER week, another spate of deals on Madison Avenue.
Leading the most recent batch is the acquisition of an on-line agency, Beyond Interactive, by Grey Advertising Inc. in New York. Other transactions include purchases and joint ventures in fields like event marketing and direct marketing as well as traditional advertising. 
 Terms of the deal for Beyond Interactive, based in Ann Arbor, Mich., are not being disclosed. The agency also has an office in San Francisco and is opening one in New York.
Beyond Interactive has 80 employees working for clients like Advanta, Borders Group, Petstore.com and Primedia; billings for 1999 are projected at $25 million. The agency will operate as an autonomous unit of Grey, separate from existing new-media operations like Grey Interactive Worldwide, Mediacom Digital and Media.com.
The present management team of Beyond Interactive -- several of its members met while attending the University of Michigan -- will continue to run the agency. They are: Jonn Berhman, 25, chief executive; Matt Day, 25, vice president for client services; Darian Heyman, 25, who holds the fanciful title of chief Internet evangelist, and Nick Pahade, 24, chief strategic officer.
"We are excited by the opportunity to become a prime mover in the global development of Grey's full-service on-line offerings," Mr. Berhman said.
In another acquisition involving high technology, JDA Advertising in San Francisco, which lists among its clients Avid Technology, I.B.M. and Novell, bought Hurst Group in Salt Lake City, an agency with capitalized billings estimated at $15 million from clients like 3Com and Novell. Terms were not disclosed.
Hurst, founded in 1984, has become the Salt Lake City office of JDA, which had capitalized billings last year of more than $45 million at offices that also include Cambridge, Mass.; Seattle, and Washington -- in addition to San Francisco. Mark Hurst, 47, who had been president at Hurst, becomes director for the Utah office of JDA. The 12 employees of Hurst will be added to the JDA staff of more than 50 employees.
In a third high-technology agency deal, the Earle Palmer Brown Companies in New York acquired KSK Communications Ltd. in Vienna, Va., for undisclosed terms. KSK has capitalized billings estimated at $25 million from clients like Group 1 Software, Lucent Technologies and Zebra Technologies.
KSK will operate as an autonomous unit of the EPB Partners unit of Earle Palmer Brown. Karen Kennedy, 56, will continue as president at KSK and add the title of partner at Earle Palmer Brown.
In other deals, the Jack Morton Company in New York, an event-planning and marketing agency, acquired Instructional Design Group in Morristown, N.J., which provides services aimed at improving business efficiency. Terms were not disclosed. Instructional Design Group, which will be renamed IDG, a Jack Morton Company, has 30 employees working with clients like Exxon and I.B.M. Morton is part of Allied Communications Group, a unit of the Interpublic Group of Companies.
Porter Novelli in New York, a public relations agency owned by Omnicom Group, and Millsport, a sports marketing agency in Stamford, Conn., teamed up to form a joint venture called Porter Novelli Millsport Sports. The unit will formally establish existing collaborative efforts for clients like GTE and the World No Tobacco Day organization.
Three executives will add the duties of jointly leading Porter Novelli Millsport, all as senior counsels: Bob Druckenmiller, 54, chief executive at Porter Novelli; Jim Millman, 48, chief executive at Millsport, and Julie Winskie, 35, executive vice president and consumer marketing practice director at Porter Novelli.
Looking abroad, there have been three acquisitions.
Draft Worldwide in Chicago, part of Interpublic, acquired Strategic Solutions for undisclosed terms. Strategic Solutions will be merged with the Draft Hong Kong office, which will now have about 50 employees working on accounts with billings of $42 million from clients that include Economist Group and Charles Schwab. The executives of Strategic Solutions will run the office with the Draft Hong Kong executives.
Publicis S.A. in Paris made two acquisitions -- AMA in Manila and a majority stake in Publi-Graphics in Beirut, Lebanon -- both for undisclosed terms.
AMA will be merged with the Publicis Manila office and be renamed Publicis-AMA. The merged agency will have 300 employees working on accounts with estimated billings of $20 million for clients that include British Airways and Magnolia Nestle. At Publicis-AMA, Antonio R. Mercado, 65, president at Publicis Manila, will become chairman and Joselito P. de Joya, 53, president at AMA, will become president and chief executive.
Publi-Graphics will continue under that name with Mustapha Assad remaining as president. Publi-Graphics has 300 employees working in offices in 13 countries on accounts with billings of $150 million for clients like Nestle and Unilever.
And WPP Group P.L.C. in London, on behalf of its J. Walter Thompson agency, acquired the 49 percent stake it did not already own in Grill & Gull Thompson G.m.b.H. in Vienna for undisclosed terms. Grill & Gull Thompson, which will remain under its current name and management, has 40 employees working on accounts with estimated gross revenue of $5 million for clients like Austrian Airlines, Kellogg and Unilever.
Finally, two marketing information companies acquired from a third partner for undisclosed terms shares in Intelect ASW, a market tracking service for the consumer electronics, information technology and appliance industries.
The shares in Intelect ASW were acquired by NPD Group in Port Washington, N.Y., and GfK A. G. in Nuremberg, Germany, from Audits and Surveys Worldwide Inc. in New York. The deal makes NPD and GfK the sole partners in the service, which has been renamed NPD Intelect. The sale comes after United Information Group in London, a media research company, purchased Audits and Surveys. 
http://www.nytimes.com

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TITLE: ADVERTISING (TIMES COLUMN)

TICKER: ALU (PAR) (63%); ALU (NYSE) (63%); ALU (BIT) (63%); HPQ (NYSE) (54%); AVID (NASDAQ) (54%); ZBRA (NASDAQ) (51%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS541810 ADVERTISING AGENCIES (93%); SIC7311 ADVERTISING AGENCIES (93%); NAICS451211 BOOK STORES (83%); SIC5942 BOOK STORES (83%); NAICS334220 RADIO & TELEVISION BROADCASTING & WIRELESS COMMUNICATIONS EQUIPMENT MANUFACTURING (63%); NAICS334210 TELEPHONE APPARATUS MANUFACTURING (63%); SIC3663 RADIO & TELEVISION BROADCASTING & COMMUNICATIONS EQUIPMENT (63%); SIC3661 TELEPHONE & TELEGRAPH APPARATUS (63%); NAICS541512 COMPUTER SYSTEMS DESIGN SERVICES (54%); NAICS511210 SOFTWARE PUBLISHERS (54%); SIC7379 COMPUTER RELATED SERVICES, NEC (54%); SIC7373 COMPUTER INTEGRATED SYSTEMS DESIGN (54%); SIC7372 PREPACKAGED SOFTWARE (54%); NAICS334118 COMPUTER TERMINAL & OTHER COMPUTER PERIPHERAL EQUIPMENT MANUFACTURING (54%); NAICS512199 OTHER MOTION PICTURE & VIDEO INDUSTRIES (54%); SIC7819 SERVICES ALLIED TO MOTION PICTURE PRODUCTION (54%); NAICS561499 ALL OTHER BUSINESS SUPPORT SERVICES (51%); SIC7389 BUSINESS SERVICES (51%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); 

STATE: UTAH, USA (92%); NEW YORK, USA (92%); MICHIGAN, USA (91%); CALIFORNIA, USA (90%); NEW JERSEY, USA (79%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%); WASHINGTON, USA (77%); 

CITY: SALT LAKE CITY, UT, USA (92%); SEATTLE, WA, USA (77%); 

COMPANY: BEYOND INTERACTIVE; GREY ADVERTISING INC; JDA ADVERTISING; HURST GROUP; EARLE PALMER BROWN; KSK COMMUNICATIONS LTD; MORTON, JACK, CO; INSTRUCTIONAL DESIGN GROUP; PORTER NOVELLI INTERNATIONAL; MILLSPORT; PORTER NOVELI MILLSPORT SPORTS; DRAFT WORLDWIDE; STRATEGIC SOLUTIONS (CO); PUBLICIS SA; AMA (PHILIPPINE CO); PUBLI-GRAPHICS (CO); WPP GROUP PLC; THOMPSON, J WALTER, CO; GRILL & GULL THOMPSON GMBH; INTELECT ASW; NPD GROUP; GFK AG; AUDITS AND SURVEYS WORLDWIDE INC; NPD INTELECT GREY GLOBAL GROUP INC (93%); JACK MORTON WORLDWIDE (85%); BORDERS GROUP INC (83%); EARLE PALMER BROWN COS (81%); ALCATEL-LUCENT SA (63%); KSK COMMUNICATIONS LTD (63%); NOVELL INC (54%); HEWLETT-PACKARD CO (54%); AVID TECHNOLOGY INC (54%); GROUP 1 SOFTWARE INC (51%); ZEBRA TECHNOLOGIES CORP (51%); UNIVERSITY OF MICHIGAN (56%); UNIVERSITY OF MICHIGAN (56%); 

ORGANIZATION: BEYOND INTERACTIVE; GREY ADVERTISING INC; JDA ADVERTISING; HURST GROUP; EARLE PALMER BROWN; KSK COMMUNICATIONS LTD; MORTON, JACK, CO; INSTRUCTIONAL DESIGN GROUP; PORTER NOVELLI INTERNATIONAL; MILLSPORT; PORTER NOVELI MILLSPORT SPORTS; DRAFT WORLDWIDE; STRATEGIC SOLUTIONS (CO); PUBLICIS SA; AMA (PHILIPPINE CO); PUBLI-GRAPHICS (CO); WPP GROUP PLC; THOMPSON, J WALTER, CO; GRILL & GULL THOMPSON GMBH; INTELECT ASW; NPD GROUP; GFK AG; AUDITS AND SURVEYS WORLDWIDE INC; NPD INTELECT UNIVERSITY OF MICHIGAN (56%); UNIVERSITY OF MICHIGAN (56%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%); UTAH, USA (92%); NEW YORK, USA (92%); MICHIGAN, USA (91%); CALIFORNIA, USA (90%); NEW JERSEY, USA (79%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%); WASHINGTON, USA (77%); SALT LAKE CITY, UT, USA (92%); SEATTLE, WA, USA (77%); 

SUBJECT: MERGERS, ACQUISITIONS AND DIVESTITURES; APPOINTMENTS AND EXECUTIVE CHANGES; NAMES, ORGANIZATIONAL MARKETING & ADVERTISING AGENCIES (90%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING (90%); EXECUTIVES (90%); ACQUISITIONS (78%); MEDIA CONVERGENCE (78%); DIRECT MARKETING (78%); INTERACTIVE MARKETING & ADVERTISING (78%); MARKET RESEARCH FIRMS (77%); EVENT MARKETING (77%); SPECIAL EVENT PLANNING (77%); ALLIANCES & PARTNERSHIPS (77%); JOINT VENTURES (72%); CUSTOMER SERVICE (70%); COMPUTER SOFTWARE (66%); PET STORES & SUPPLIES (55%); 

PERSON: ;DRUCKENMILLER, BOB; MILLMAN, JIM; WINSKIE, JULIE

LOAD-DATE: July 27, 1999



647 of 738 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 27, 1999

SECTION: Section C; Page 1; Column 3; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 1604 words

HEADLINE: Next Stage of the Cellular Tour;
Forced to Compete, Japan Becomes a Global Power

BYLINE: By SHERYL WuDUNN 

DATELINE: TOKYO, July 26

 BODY:
One of the nicest things the United States ever did for Japan, it seems, was to force it, kicking and screaming, to open its market for cellular phones.
That was five years ago. At the time, Japan was aghast at the idea of freeing up a market that was a groggy backwater. Japanese citizens were not even allowed to own cellular phones -- just rent them -- and Japanese companies were afraid that they were going to lose business to American rivals like Motorola. 
 Yet Japan buckled, and now, under the pressure of competition, it has leap-frogged to the front of the global pack. The country now has a higher concentration of cellular telephones -- including ones colored pink, pale blue or tea-green -- than does the United States.
More astonishing, Japan has caught up with Europe, the early pace setter, and plans to move ahead in 2001 by introducing the "third generation" of cellular phone technology, which promises much greater clarity and ability to transmit data and video.
Already, Japanese cell phones, which used to be second-rate and expensive, have been transformed into devices to buy and sell stocks, reserve tickets for trains and airplanes, transfer funds between bank accounts and send and receive text messages and simple drawings.
Moreover, as in Europe, they have leaped into the digital era under the umbrella of compatibility -- unlike in the United States, where competing technologies have actually stifled the advance of seamless and ubiquitous communication.
The latest mobile phone to draw oohs and aahs here has a tiny camera that sends a shaky TV-style color image to a small screen on the other party's telephone -- assuming that it too is a video phone.
That cellular video phone, made by the Kyocera Corporation, will be introduced this month, for about $335, and it is as tiny as any other mobile phone, easily fitting into a shirt pocket. Meanwhile, Epson has merged phones with functions of a personal digital assistant like the Palm Pilot, creating a unit that is both phone and diary, and that can also send color images.
So, as Japan's economy still staggers along, one of the brightest opportunities in this country of 126 million people is a shimmering milky way of 50 million twinkling and tinkling portable phones.
Trials have already begun on an advanced wideband wireless transmission technology, and some say that Japan may drive the global standard and become a leader in the next generation of mobile phones.
"In Japan, we are at a turning point," said Jun Murai, a professor at Keio University and the leading cheerleader here for the Internet. Japan lags behind the United States significantly in information technology, he said, but with regard to potential technical power, "Japanese companies are not behind."
In many ways, at stake is Japan's pride at being a leader in a pivotal technology -- enormously important in a nation that has been economically wounded for the entire decade.
Japan is betting that mobile phones will enjoy explosive growth as they become a key accessory, as common as wrist watches, that people take when they leave home. Japanese companies are betting that mobile phones, rather than computers, will connect people here to E-commerce on the Internet.
Indeed, Japanese researchers are collaborating with American companies, like Sun Microsystems, so that they may also become a major link in controlling home appliances. Their goal, ultimately, is to transform mobile phones into the crucial digital device of the future.
They see a big market not just in the industrialized world but also in nations like China, where many consumers' first phone is cellular.
Japan's gamble, though, is by no means a sure bet.
"The next question is whether they take it from a cell phone to a full PC or whether it makes sense to browse the Net on the phone, for simple point-and-clicking," said Vinton G. Cerf, senior vice president for Internet architecture and technology at MCI Worldcom. "Japan is good at size, power and bringing the cost down. There's no better country to do it than Japan."
One big problem, though, is that few Japanese are plugged into the computing world. As recently as a few years ago, Japan was in the personal-computing dark ages, a nation where corporate offices were big rooms filled with paper-laden desks and where desktop computers were rare.
Even now, on average, only one person in four here uses a personal computer. And so far, only about 14 percent of Japan's population is plugged into the Internet, compared with 40 percent in the United States.
Personal computers have not been a bigger hit in Japan for several reasons. For one thing, keyboards intimidate many middle-aged Japanese, and tapping in the Japanese language -- with two alphabets and several thousand Chinese characters -- requires combinations of strokes that are far more complex than in English.
Another is that many homes are cramped, and PC's take up a fair amount of space. But that aversion to bulky computers and keyboards may actually serve to spur the development of mobile phones as a more compatible alternative.
At the same time, the high cost of traditional phone services may help advance cell phone technology even more. Hefty telephone costs, including a mandatory $580 start-up fee for a telephone and charges that add up by the minute, currently make Internet surfing very expensive.
Initial costs for cell phones are so much cheaper than for a regular phone line that young Japanese, especially students, often have only a cell phone in their apartments. And the prospect of a transformation in mobile-phone technology, along with the hope of a new kind of gateway to the Web, is beginning to create a sense of optimism that Japan may be able to catch up in the Internet revolution.
"There's a huge penetration of mobile telephones in Japan," said Junichi Saeki, director of systems solutions at the International Data Corporation in Tokyo. "This will lead to the next generation of information technology."
The push has been driven by NTT's Mobile Communications Network, known as NTT DoCoMo, a cellular operator that commands more than 50 percent of the market in Japan. NTT DoCoMo is now working with American and Japanese companies to develop a new wireless transmission technology, called wideband C.D.M.A. -- short for code division multiple access -- that is supposed to ultimately enable people around the world to transmit data and video rapidly through a cell phone.
Many mobile phone operators here now use a fairly narrow band, which can send data at speeds as fast as 32 kilobits a second, faster than Europe's first-generation digital phones but slower than the interim standard expected next year. True wide band offers much more space and speed -- a potential of as fast as 2 megabits a second, 65 times the capability of existing phones.
Negotiators from around the world have settled on a format to move toward a wideband C.D.M.A. for the next generation of telephones, so that the same cellular phone could be used in almost any country. But carriers in the United States are still fighting over standards.
For now, the latest craze in Japan is a cell phone called the I-mode, which NTT DoCoMo started selling in February. As many as 10,000 of the phones are sold every day; already 779,000 owners use them to send E-mail, check news headlines, buy stocks, make bank transfers or plane reservations. They can gain access to specially formatted World Wide Web sites and even see simple graphics.
NTT DoCoMo is betting that Japanese consumers will get hooked on electronic commerce through I-mode phones, which rely on current technology. Once they get used to E-commerce, then the new wide band C.D.M.A. should begin, scheduled to commence in Japan in March 2001, probably several years before it will arrive in the United States and at least a few months ahead of Europe.
"I-mode is like black-and-white TV," said Keiichi Enoki, a director at DoCoMo who spearheaded the I-mode project. "C.D.M.A. is like color TV."
Kyocera is working on a competing product that would let users gain access to the Internet through a different Web protocol. In the meantime, Kyocera is promoting the notion that telephone partners will want to see each other.
Video phones have flopped in the past, and Kyocera officials admit they have not yet figured out how to market the new model. Still, when they introduced the product in May, they got some unexpected responses.
A professional matchmaker inquired about using the phones for clients on first-time dates, and a security company asked how the phones could be used to keep tabs on where its guards were patrolling.
The idea of a mobile "spy phone," though, is precisely what may scare off customers, even those directly involved in the business. The video phone is one of the pet projects of Kazuo Inamori, Kyocera's iconoclastic chairman.
But at a marketing strategy session this winter, not one in a crowd of 60 employees raised his hand when asked who would buy one. The reason? No one wanted to talk to the boss on a video phone. Kyocera went ahead anyway with the product, mainly to keep up with the competition.
Masahiro Inoue, Kyocera's director of product development for the phone, is crossing his fingers that the public will respond.
"If it is inside the home, a lady might not want to use it is because she might not have her make-up on yet and she wouldn't want to reveal her naked face," Mr. Inoue said. "But if she's outside, she's well prepared to be seen. So such an application is right for the market."
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photo: A new cellular telephone by NTT can make financial transactions and airline reservations. In Japan, cellular phones are envisioned as better devices to use for electronic commerce than personal computers are. (Reuters)(pg. C8)
 
Drawings (Illustrations by Nancy Doniger)(pg. C1)
 
Graphs: "A Wider Reach . . . With Better Technology"
Cellular telephones are much more popular in Europe and Japan than in the United States. Graph tracks percentage of population using cell phones in the U.S., in Europe, and in Japan, since 1996.
 While American companies are still battling over different cell phone standards, digital phones, which allow messaging and connections to the Internet, have proliferated in Europe and Japan. Graph tracks number of digital and of analog wireless phone subscribers in the U.S., in Europe, and in Japan, over the same period. (Sourcs: International Data Corp; Japan's Ministry of Post and Telecommunications)(pg. C1) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: KYO (NYSE) (84%); 6971 (TSE) (84%); MSI (NYSE) (57%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS334416 CAPACITOR, RESISTOR, COIL, TRANSFORMER & OTHER INDUCTOR MANUFACTURING (84%); NAICS334413 SEMICONDUCTOR & RELATED DEVICE MANUFACTURING (84%); NAICS334220 RADIO & TELEVISION BROADCASTING & WIRELESS COMMUNICATIONS EQUIPMENT MANUFACTURING (84%); NAICS333316 PHOTOGRAPHIC & PHOTOCOPYING EQUIPMENT MANUFACTURING (84%); SIC3663 RADIO & TELEVISION BROADCASTING & COMMUNICATIONS EQUIPMENT (57%); NAICS334111 ELECTRONIC COMPUTER MANUFACTURING (54%); SIC3571 ELECTRONIC COMPUTERS (54%); 

COUNTRY: JAPAN (99%); EUROPE (95%); UNITED STATES (95%); 

CITY: TOKYO, JAPAN (78%); 

COMPANY: KYOCERA CORP (84%); MOTOROLA SOLUTIONS INC (57%); PALM INC (54%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: JAPAN; EUROPE; JAPAN (99%); EUROPE (95%); UNITED STATES (95%); TOKYO, JAPAN (78%); 

SUBJECT: TELEPHONES AND TELECOMMUNICATIONS; INTERNATIONAL TRADE AND WORLD MARKET; CELLULAR TELEPHONES MOBILE & CELLULAR TELEPHONES (95%); MOBILE & CELLULAR COMMUNICATIONS (91%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS EQUIPMENT (90%); WIRELESS & BROADCAST EQUIPMENT MFG (78%); TEXT MESSAGING (78%); WIRELESS INDUSTRY (78%); SECURITIES TRADING (73%); DATA TRANSMISSION (72%); BROADBAND (72%); INFORMATION MANAGEMENT (72%); HANDHELD COMPUTERS (69%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (69%); BROADCAST EQUIPMENT (67%); TRAVEL TICKETS (66%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (50%); 

PERSON: WUDUNN, SHERYL

LOAD-DATE: July 27, 1999



648 of 738 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 27, 1999

SECTION: Section B; Page 1; Column 5; Metropolitan Desk 

LENGTH: 1053 words

HEADLINE: Business Units Fail to Gain More Money

BYLINE: By TERRY PRISTIN 

 BODY:
The Giuliani administration has denied budget increases to 10 business groups that oversee security, sanitation and other services throughout the city, in an effort to get such organizations to not only tighten their belts but also to rethink their role, a deputy mayor said yesterday.
Rudy Washington, the Deputy Mayor for Community Development and Business Services, said in a telephone interview that most of those groups, which are known as business improvement districts or BID's, have been duplicating the work of government agencies rather than devising ways to "complement government." 
 "The BID's came about in the 80's because of the failure of government," Mr. Washington said. "There was inadequate sanitation and not enough manpower within the Police Department." The private sector stepped in to fill in those gaps, but today, that need no longer exists, he said.
"Why should we increase assessments to do more services that government is already doing?" Mr. Washington said. "They should be doing something different."
Ten of the city's 40 business improvement districts had applied for budget increases for the fiscal year that began on July 1, and all were denied. The money sought by the BID's, from Times Square to Myrtle Avenue in Brooklyn, would not have come out of city funds but would have been collected from property owners and businesses in those districts. Those assessments are not voluntary but are part of each business's tax bill, which means that the City Council and the Mayor must authorize any increases.
District officials, while disappointed that their budget requests were turned down, were careful not to attack the Giuliani administration. But they denied that their groups simply duplicated city services.
"We're trying to pick up the slack where the overall city goals are not compatible with the neighborhood's needs," said Tom Cusick, president of the Fifth Avenue Association. "We don't take credit. We see ourselves working with the city."
Mr. Washington made it clear that nerves were still raw over last year's battle with Daniel A. Biederman, who resigned as president of the Grand Central Partnership, the city's largest business improvement district, in September after Mayor Rudolph W. Giuliani accused him of amassing too much power by running three business districts at once. Mr. Biederman has stayed on as president of the two others, the 34th Street Partnership, and Bryant Park Business Improvement District, which were among those denied budget increases this year.
"There are lessons to be learned from last year's struggle with Grand Central Partnership," Mr. Washington said. He said many business owners complained about "a handful of people running things."
But many other people give Mr. Biederman substantial credit for cleaning up the midtown area and running an organization that spawned imitators across the nation. He declined to comment yesterday.
The largest sum -- $1.4 million -- was requested by the Times Square Business Improvement District, which has an annual budget of $6 million. The money is needed to keep up with "the stunningly exploding workload" associated with ushering in the millennium as well as transforming 42d Street into a center for business and tourism, said Brendan Sexton, the organization's president.
Some business districts, like 125th Street in Harlem and the Fashion Center, asked for increases for the first time. Barbara Askins, president of the 125th Street district, said her group wanted to expand its budget, to $375,000, from $275,000, to meet the rising demand for support services posed by new businesses moving to Harlem's main thoroughfare.
The seven-year-old Fashion Center business district, which serves the garment district, asked for a $750,000 increase to its $3 million budget, said Barbara Blair Randall, the executive director. She said the money would have been used to begin security and cleanup services on Saturdays, when there is a lot of foot traffic in the area because fabric stores are open and many tourists pass through on their way from Times Square to Macy's. She said that without the increase, the organization would lose 11 out of its 66 jobs, mostly through attrition.
Some groups asked for much less. The Fifth Avenue Association, which covers 46th to 61st Street and has a $1.8 million budget, wanted an additional $130,000 for employee raises and storage space for cleaning supplies and equipment. "We were somewhat surprised that a relatively modest increase was denied after we've spent six years taking a very frugal approach to getting things done," said Mr. Cusick, its president. Its sanitation crews remove about 500 tons of trash a year from receptacles in front of stores like Bergdorf Goodman and Tiffany's, he said.
The Myrtle Avenue Business Improvement District, whose budget is $223,000, wanted $26,000 more to bolster its marketing and graffiti removal efforts. The increase would have cost each member $40 to $60 a year, said Ted Renz, the district's director. The tiny Pitkin Avenue district in Brownsville in Brooklyn sought to add $25,000 to its $124,000 budget so that it could renovate some building facades. "The city should have some kind of process where BID's could have a chance to speak," said Alan Schuman, the Pitkin Avenue district's executive director.
The district officials contacted yesterday said they were notified earlier this month by the city's Business Services Department, which oversees the districts, that their requests for budget increases had been denied. "I'm disappointed," said Ms. Askins of the 125th Street district, "but I don't see it as confrontational. It would have been different if it was just me. But it was across the board, so it's obvious it was a policy decision."
Mr. Washington said the districts were free to go to the Business Services Department and try to justify their applications for more money. But if the request is simply for money to hire more people, "it's going to go nowhere," he said.
"The Mayor wants to make sure that everyone gets their budget under control," he said. "He wants to disabuse them of the notion that they could spend in perpetuity. If government is struggling to reduce taxes to stimulate the economy, why should another entity raise taxes?" 
http://www.nytimes.com

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (92%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%); 

COMPANY: BRYANT PARK GRILL (51%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK CITY; UNITED STATES (92%); NEW YORK, USA (92%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%); 

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS; BUSINESS IMPROVEMENT DISTRICTS; FINANCES; BUDGETS AND BUDGETING; SECURITY AND WARNING SYSTEMS; WASTE MATERIALS AND DISPOSAL BUDGETS (91%); CITY GOVERNMENT (90%); MAYORS (89%); CITIES (78%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (78%); INTERVIEWS (76%); TRENDS (73%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (73%); POLICE FORCES (73%); ECONOMIC NEWS (59%); 

PERSON: PRISTIN, TERRY; GIULIANI, RUDOLPH W (MAYOR); WASHINGTON, RUDY (DEPUTY MAYOR) RUDY GIULIANI (79%); 

LOAD-DATE: July 27, 1999



649 of 738 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 27, 1999

SECTION: Section B; Page 5; Column 2; Metropolitan Desk 

LENGTH: 422 words

HEADLINE: Jersey City Mayor Warns of Layoffs Without $27.5 Million More in State Aid

 BODY:
Mayor Bret Schundler of Jersey City warned yesterday that he would have to lay off most of the city's civilian employees unless the city gets an additional $27.5 million in state aid for the current fiscal year.
"I'm going to volunteer to work without pay, but I don't think most of my employees would work without pay," Mr. Schundler said. "You'd have police and fire service and that's about it." 
 Just over half the city's $300 million budget is spent on salaries and benefits for the city's 2,700 uniformed and civilian employees, including $120 million for police and firefighters, and the remainder covers fixed costs like bond debt, the Mayor said. The layoffs, he said, would be mainly among 1,200 civilian employees, whose salaries total about $40 million.
The budget Mr. Schundler unveiled yesterday for the fiscal year that began July 1 includes the $27.5 million in additional aid he says he needs, and layoffs are not built into the budget. But so far, the Mayor said, the state has indicated that it will cut aid to the city by $20 million from last year. The additional $7.5 million is what the Mayor said the city would need to offset inflation. The budget also includes a 4 percent property tax increase.
Mr. Schundler said he would not consider bankruptcy, a move sought by Camden earlier this month before its Mayor, Milton Milan, reached an aid agreement with the state that included tight fiscal monitoring.
The response from Gov. Christine Todd Whitman, once one of Mayor Schundler's closest political allies, was unsympathetic.
"Extraordinary state aid will not solve the city's problems," said Gene Herman, a spokesman for the Governor. "It's imperative that elected officials make the important and sometimes difficult financial decisions."
He said the city's total school and municipal state aid had risen to $362 million in the current fiscal year, from $245 million in 1994. "That's approximately 50 percent; that's well beyond the rate of inflation," he said.
But Mr. Schundler said that increase was directed entirely to the state-controlled school system, and that the city was slated for a $20 million cut in municipal aid this year.
Tom DeGise, the City Council president, said he would not support the layoffs mentioned by Mr. Schundler. But he said the Council might be forced to consider imposing a payroll tax, similar to one in Newark, that Mrs. Whitman and others opposed three years ago as a threat to job growth. "There's no really good choices here," Mr. DeGise said. 
http://www.nytimes.com

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (79%); 

STATE: NEW JERSEY, USA (79%); 

CITY: NEWARK, NJ, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: CITY COUNCIL (64%); 

ORGANIZATION: CITY COUNCIL (64%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: JERSEY CITY (NJ); NEW JERSEY; UNITED STATES (79%); NEW JERSEY, USA (79%); NEWARK, NJ, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: LAYOFFS AND JOB REDUCTIONS; LABOR; FINANCES; BUDGETS AND BUDGETING LAYOFFS (91%); WAGES & SALARIES (90%); MAYORS (90%); BUDGETS (90%); CITIES (89%); CITY GOVERNMENT (89%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (79%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (79%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (79%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (78%); FIREFIGHTERS & FIREFIGHTING (77%); GOVERNORS (77%); EDUCATION SYSTEMS & INSTITUTIONS (77%); INFLATION (75%); ECONOMIC NEWS (75%); SCHOOL BUDGETS (75%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (74%); PROPERTY TAX (65%); TAX LAW (65%); 

PERSON: SCHUNDLER, BRET D (MAYOR) BRET SCHUNDLER (95%); TOM DEGISE (59%); CHRISTINE TODD WHITMAN (59%); 

LOAD-DATE: July 27, 1999



650 of 738 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 27, 1999

SECTION: Section B; Page 1; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk 

LENGTH: 716 words

HEADLINE: NYC;
Quick Draw Wins Again In Albany

BYLINE: By CLYDE HABERMAN 

 BODY:
FOR all the wrong reasons, Albany managed to get it right. That's what State Senator Frank Padavan of Queens figured four months ago when Quick Draw, the keno-style game that the Senator once termed "video crack," faded unexpectedly into oblivion.
All right, its demise had nothing to do with a sudden twinge of social conscience on the part of legislative leaders and the Governor. It was a result of the interminable deadlock over the New York State budget. 
 The 1995 law creating Quick Draw required that the game be renewed by March 31 of this year. But it got caught up in the budget battle, becoming another weapon that Albany's masters could use to club one another. While they fiddled, the deadline came and went, and the game died.
Senator Padavan, a conservative Republican, was not one to look a gift horse in the mouth. As far as he is concerned -- and he is not alone, even if a legislative majority does not agree -- government has no more business running numbers games than it has operating brothels. If Quick Draw expired for less than noble reasons, that was just fine with him.
The game, which gave the state $120 million or more in annual profits, was problematic from the start because of its rapid action, with a new round played every few minutes on video monitors in 3,200 bars and delis. Critics condemned it as addictive, especially for problem gamblers.
So when it suddenly disappeared, Mr. Padavan said good riddance. Similar sentiments were expressed by groups like the nonprofit New York State Council on Problem Gambling.
Well, guess what has happened to Quick Draw? It's baaaack.
The numbers are about to flash again on barroom screens, perhaps as soon as Sunday. The only question now is who has become the bigger Quick Draw addict: the fellow struggling with a gambling monkey on his back, or New York's top politicians?
Gov. George E. Pataki and leaders of the Legislature decided that they could not get by without this cash cow, even though they are rolling in a budget surplus of $2 billion. In fairness, they are not alone in yielding to temptation. Politicians across the country have had trouble resisting gambling's lure. A good example is the solution to the entrenched poverty and social dislocation suffered by American Indians. The preferred political response has been to turn them into croupiers and blackjack dealers.
When it came to Quick Draw, the Governor led the way for restoration, and Senate and Assembly leaders went along.
"They say that without these revenues, they won't be able to do what they want to do," Mr. Padavan said. "It's all nonsense."
What galls him is that an important development took place after the game died in early spring.
LAST month, the National Gambling Impact Study Commission released a long-awaited report on the consequences of the gambling boom in the United States. Among its conclusions was that forms of "convenience gambling," like Quick Draw, create "potentially greater social costs" than they do economic benefits. The commission's recommendation:
"States should not authorize any further convenience gambling and should cease and roll back existing operations."
Where is New York headed? The other way.
"We have the benefit of all this input, and we're just ignoring it, which to me is unconscionable," Mr. Padavan said. "With a $2 billion surplus, there is no justification to further victimize people in this way, many of whom can least afford to lose their money to a numbers game."
Another point he and others raise is that, by law, the New York State Lottery was supposed to have finished a thorough evaluation of Quick Draw's effects on compulsive gambling.
"The public still waits for the study," the State Comptroller, H. Carl McCall, complained in a letter sent this month to legislative leaders. "Why would we reauthorize and expand Quick Draw," Mr. McCall asked, without first finding out what its impact has been thus far?
One bright spot for Mr. Padavan is that the Governor did not get his way on increasing the number of Quick Draw outlets. His expansion plan, a response to pressure from bars and restaurants, is on hold -- for now. But the Senator predicted that the pro-gambling forces would be heard from again.
"These people never give up," he said. 
http://www.nytimes.com

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (94%); 

CITY: ALBANY, NY, USA (92%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (90%); 

COMPANY: NEW YORK STATE COUNCIL (64%); 

ORGANIZATION: NEW YORK STATE COUNCIL (64%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK STATE; UNITED STATES (94%); NEW YORK, USA (94%); ALBANY, NY, USA (92%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (90%); 

SUBJECT: LOTTERIES; GAMBLING; FINANCES; BUDGETS AND BUDGETING LEGISLATIVE BODIES (91%); BUDGETS (90%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (90%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (89%); GAMING (89%); GOVERNORS (89%); POLITICS (88%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (78%); CARD GAMES (77%); CONSERVATISM (76%); NONPROFIT ORGANIZATIONS (76%); ANNUAL FINANCIAL RESULTS (76%); COMPANY PROFITS (65%); 

PERSON: HABERMAN, CLYDE; PATAKI, GEORGE E (GOV) FRANK PADAVAN (91%); 

LOAD-DATE: July 27, 1999



651 of 738 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 27, 1999

SECTION: Section A; Page 2; Column 3; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 1547 words

HEADLINE: NEWS SUMMARY

 BODY:

INTERNATIONAL A3-10
 
China Pursues Crackdown On a Spiritual Movement
Chinese authorities have detained about 1,200 government officials who are members of Falun Gong, the spiritual movement that was officially outlawed last week. They were taken over the weekend to schools where they are being required to study Communist Party documents and to renounce any allegiance to the movement. A1
 
Citibank Under Investigation
Two Congressional investigations, launched from different starting points, are examining Citibank and the confidential world of private banking, a growing and highly lucrative service. The investigations are examining how Citibank and a handful of other institutions handle the private accounts of foreign officials and their relatives. A6 

A Door Opens in Israel
The speaker of the Palestinian legislative council was a guest of the Israeli Parliament, receiving a warm greeting from the more dovish lawmakers. He is the first Palestinian to enter Parliament as a formal guest of Israel. A3
 
New Generation for Morocco
King Mohammed VI of Morocco, the latest Arab prince to be thrust into kingship, was welcomed across the Arab world. He has long been regarded as something of an enigma, little known even to his future subjects, and only recently allowed to share the public spotlight. But many are welcoming the signs of generational change. A3
 
U.S. Earmarks Kosovo Aid
President Clinton's national security adviser said that the United States will pledge up to $500 million in human aid for Kosovo at a conference in Brussels this week. The money will be used to meet humanitarian needs and for human rights programs, clearing mines and setting up a police force. A8
 
Albright Meets Russian Official
Secretary of State Madeleine K. Albright and the Russian Foreign Minister, Igor S. Ivanov, met in Singapore in their first conversation since the Kosovo war. They touched on the Balkans, where differences remain, but dwelt more on arms reduction, Iraq and economics. A8
 
U.S. Visit to Tense Colombia
The Clinton Administration's top anti-narcotics official arrived in Colombia to assess what he described as a deepening regional crisis, one that Latin American governments fear will lead to American intervention. He arrived as a search continued for a plane with five American soldiers and two Colombian military officers. A4
 
Mexican Party Leader Elected
After a first election that was annulled because both sides had charged fraud, a Mexican opposition party that made its reputation by denouncing skulduggery succeeded on the second try in holding an election for its party leader. A4
 
World Briefing A10
 
NATIONAL A12-16
 
Government Seeks to Cut Use of a Gasoline Additive
The Environmental Protection Agency will propose that Congress no longer require oil companies to add an ingredient to gasoline that is meant to make the air cleaner, because it makes water dirtier. A panel appointed by the agency is set to report that use of the additive should be reduced substantially because it dissolves easily in water and turns up in tap water when gasoline has leaked or spilled. A1
 
Florida Eyes Anti-Drug Fungus
The new head of Florida's Office of Drug Control hopes to kill the state's lucrative marijuana crop by dusting suspected growing areas with a marijuana-eating fungus. The plan has some politicians and drug enforcement officials excited and some environmentalists very worried. A1
 
Yosemite Confession Reported
A motel handyman who was quietly dismissed as a suspect in the deaths last February of three sightseers at Yosemite National Park has confessed to the decapitation slaying last week of a park naturalist, the F.B.I. said in an affidavit. The handyman, Cary Stayner, 38, has also confessed to the the February killings, one law-enforcement official said. A12
 
Editor to Leave Medical Journal
The top editor of The New England Journal of Medicine is resigning under pressure in a dispute with its owners, the Massachusetts Medical Society, over the marketing of the journal's prestigious name as part of an expanding publishing empire. A12
 
Boston Settles Housing Suit
Resolving a landmark suit over racial harassment in public housing projects, the Boston Housing Authority reached a settlement with tenants that Federal officials said could serve as a model for other such suits around the country. A14
 
Reporting Cruise-Ship Crimes
Cruise-ship industry officials said that for the first time the industry has developed a standard requiring that all crimes aboard ships be reported to Federal law enforcement authorities. A14
 
Internet Battle in San Francisco
In the latest skirmish of what has become a national fight, the San Francisco Board of Supervisors declined to compel AT&T to open its cable television system to competing providers of high-speed Internet access like America Online. A16
 
Of Senate's Rules and Role
Senators from both parties used a debate over restoring Rule 16, a byzantine parliamentary edict that bars writing policy into spending bills on the Senate floor, as a stage to cast themselves as the true defenders of the Senate's rights, responsibilities and traditions. A16
 
Congress is opening a bag of accounting tricks to try to pass major bills for veterans, housing, labor, education and other agencies, without appearing to break caps on expenditures, before the scheduled August recess. A16
 
NEW YORK/REGION B1-10
 
Attempt to Rescue Schools Has Stumbled From Start
A decade after the State Legislature created the School Construction Authority and joined it in a shotgun marriage with the New York City Board of Education, the breakdown in their relationship has been a major obstacle to reaching the goal that was set for them: mending and expanding the nation's largest school system by century's end. The relationship may have been doomed from its hasty start. A1
 
Hail and Farewell
The last day of the last Checker Cab in New York should have been full of nostalgia and romance. It didn't work out that way. A1
 
Tobacco Lobbyists Give Freely
In its largely successful campaign to defeat anti-smoking measures in Albany, the world's largest cigarette maker has engaged in a lavish behind-the-scenes effort to win favor in the New York Legislature, spending tens of thousands of dollars on gifts in recent years for lawmakers, according to internal company documents and interviews. Roughly 115 current and former members in the 211-person Legislature have accepted gifts from the company, Philip Morris. A1
 
Asthma Study Offers Surprises
In the first study of its kind, researchers have found that the rate of hospitalization from asthma among children is far greater in poor minority neighborhoods of New York City than experts in the field suspected. Hospitalization rates were as much as 21 times higher in poorer, minority areas than in the hardest-hit areas of the more affluent communities. B1
 
From Rock to Rampage
For almost three days, Woodstock 99 was in many ways what the promoters had hoped its first two incarnations would be: hundreds of thousands of young people listening to music under sunny skies, virtually untouched by incident or scandal. Then came a rampage by thousands of young people who looted and burned trailers filled with T-shirts and other souvenirs, topped giant towers that held the concerts' sound system and hammered their way into ATM machines. B1
 
SCIENCE TIMES F1-14
 
Health & Fitness F6
 
FASHION B9
 
BUSINESS DAY C1-20
 
Internet Upstart Goes Public
Freeserve P.L.C., the British upstart that radically changed Internet competition by offering customers free access to the World Wide Web, is transforming itself into a $3.3 billion company by selling shares to the public. C1
 
Year 2000 Fears in the Market
Anomalies are popping up in financial markets as fears take hold about potential problems when computers turn over their internal dates to the year 2000. Taking note of these signals, money managers, underwriters, strategists and analysts are re-evaluating their positions and trying to anticipate how investors and others will react to the possibility of computer glitches at the end of the year. C1
 
Bank Is Fined $60 Million
The Bankers Trust Corporation, which pleaded guilty earlier this year to criminal charges that it had illegally diverted unclaimed funds from its customers into the bank's accounts, was sentenced in a Federal court in Manhattan to pay a $60 million fine to the Government. C2
 
Business Digest C1
 
SPORTS D1-8
 
OBITUARIES A17
 
Martin Agronsky
A veteran broadcast news correspondent who worked for all three major television networks and PBS, he was 84. A17
 
EDITORIAL A18-19
 
Editorials: Kosovo's incomplete peace; when stock markets go public; a special American takes Paris; Verlyn Klinkenborg on the grass crop.
 
Columns: Thomas L. Friedman.
 
Crossword E8
 
TV Listings E7
 
Public Lives B2
 
Weather D5
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photos

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Summary

TICKER: CGP (LSE) (57%); C (NYSE) (57%); 

INDUSTRY: SIC2329 MEN'S & BOYS' CLOTHING, NEC (91%); 

COUNTRY: CHINA (94%); KOSOVO (93%); COLOMBIA (93%); ISRAEL (93%); UNITED STATES (93%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (92%); MOROCCO (92%); MEXICO (92%); PALESTINIAN TERRITORY, OCCUPIED (92%); IRAQ (79%); SINGAPORE (79%); LATIN AMERICA (72%); 

CITY: BRUSSELS, BELGIUM (53%); 

COMPANY: SICOME SA (91%); ISRAELI PARLIAMENT (62%); SAN FRANCISCO BOARD (58%); BOSTON HOUSING AUTHORITY (58%); 

ORGANIZATION: ISRAELI PARLIAMENT (62%); SAN FRANCISCO BOARD (58%); BOSTON HOUSING AUTHORITY (58%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: CHINA (94%); KOSOVO (93%); COLOMBIA (93%); ISRAEL (93%); UNITED STATES (93%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (92%); MOROCCO (92%); MEXICO (92%); PALESTINIAN TERRITORY, OCCUPIED (92%); IRAQ (79%); SINGAPORE (79%); LATIN AMERICA (72%); BRUSSELS, BELGIUM (53%); 

SUBJECT: NO INDEX TERMS FROM NYTIMES NEWS BRIEFS (90%); CULTS & SECTS (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (89%); INVESTIGATIONS (89%); POLITICS (89%); FOREIGN RELATIONS (79%); POLICE FORCES (78%); BANKING & FINANCE (76%); CRIMINAL INVESTIGATIONS (76%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (74%); STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (74%); CONFERENCES & CONVENTIONS (74%); ENVIRONMENTAL DEPARTMENTS (73%); NATIONAL SECURITY (72%); NARCOTICS ENFORCEMENT (71%); PRIVATE BANKING (71%); LANDMINES (69%); OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (66%); FUEL ADDITIVES (62%); ARMED FORCES (60%); 

PERSON: BILL CLINTON (67%); HILLARY RODHAM CLINTON (54%); HILLARY RODHAM CLINTON (54%); 

LOAD-DATE: July 27, 1999



652 of 738 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 27, 1999

SECTION: Section C; Page 1; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk

LENGTH: 632 words

HEADLINE: BUSINESS DIGEST

 BODY:

S.E.C. Chief Says Markets Must Maintain Regulation
The nation's top stock-market regulator warned the New York Stock Exchange and the Nasdaq market that any proposal to convert themselves to for-profit public companies must adequately provide for self-regulation that is "zealous, adequately funded, and imbued with the public interest."
 In a letter to the heads of the two markets, Arthur Levitt, chairman of the Securities and Exchange Commission, also said the two bodies must make sure that the views of the members and the public are reflected on the corporate boards they form. Page C2. 

NTL Expands British Cable Holdings
NTL, a telecommunications company, moved to become the biggest cable television concern in Britain with a $13 billion deal to buy the consumer divisions of Cable and Wireless Communications. The proposed acquisition received financial backing from France Telecom, led by Michel Bon, and immediately increased speculation about further consolidation in Britain, where telephone, Internet and television are quickly converging. C4.
 
$60 Million Fine for Bankers Trust
Bankers Trust, which pleaded guilty earlier this year to criminal charges that it had illegally diverted unclaimed money from its customers into the bank's accounts, was sentenced in Federal court to pay a $60 million fine to the Federal Government. C2.
 
Technology Leads Market Lower
Stocks moved broadly lower as concerns about the sudden drop in the dollar and a possible future increase in interest rates provided an excuse to take profits. Big technology stocks and Internet issues led the main market gauges lower. The Nasdaq composite index fell 73.21 points, or 2.7 percent, to 2,619.19. The Dow Jones industrial average fell 47.80 points, to 10,863.16. The Standard & Poor's 500-stock index slipped 9.18 points, to 1,347.76. C10.
 
Bond prices fell for a fourth session as record home resales and more than $22.5 billion of expected debt offerings reduced demand for Treasuries. The yield on the 30-year issue rose to 6.03 percent from 6.02 percent. C10.
 
Texaco and ARCO Beat Forecasts
Texaco said that its second-quarter earnings fell 15 percent as profits on gasoline sales plunged. At the same time, though, rising pump prices in California made ARCO the only major United States oil company to have higher earnings in the period, up 37 percent. The results of both companies beat analysts' expectations. Shares of Texaco fell $1.50, to $60.875, while ARCO fell $1.8125, to $87.625. C9.
 
Home Resales Hit Record in June
Sales of existing homes soared to a record rate in June as buyers rushed to take advantage of low mortgage rates, the National Association of Realtors said. Existing home sales rose 10.6 percent, to an annualized rate of 5.53 million units, up from 5 million units in May. C7.
 
Gambling Company Loses a Ruling
A judge has ruled that the New York Attorney General's office was justified in freezing the assets of an Internet gambling company, even though the company's computers are based outside the United States. B3.
 
American Express Profit Rises 12%
American Express said that its second-quarter profit rose 12 percent, above expectations, as consumers spent more with its signature green charge cards and invested more with its financial planners. C7.
 
San Francisco Blocks Cable Access
The Board of Supervisors of San Francisco by a vote of 9 to 2 declined to compel AT&T to open its cable television system to competing providers of high-speed Internet access like America Online. A16.
 
Texas Instruments to Buy Unitrode
Texas Instruments agreed to acquire Unitrode, a maker of semiconductors for managing battery life in portable electronics, for $1.2 billion in stock. C4.
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photo
 
Chart: "YESTERDAY"
Dow industrials -- 10,863.16, down 47.80
30-yr. Treasury yield -- 6.03%, up 0.01
The euro -- $1.065, up 0.02
The dollar -- 116.61 yen, up 0.06
 
Graph tracks share price of Texaco, since last Monday.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Summary

TICKER: FTE (PAR) (93%); FTE (NYSE) (93%); FTE (BIT) (93%); CWC (LSE) (56%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS517110 WIRED TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (93%); NAICS517210 WIRELESS TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (EXCEPT SATELLITE) (93%); SIC4813 TELEPHONE COMMUNICATIONS, EXCEPT RADIOTELEPHONE (56%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED KINGDOM (90%); UNITED STATES (79%); 

STATE: CALIFORNIA, USA (66%); 

COMPANY: FRANCE TELECOM SA (93%); NEW YORK STOCK EXCHANGE LLC (58%); CABLE & WIRELESS COMMUNICATIONS PLC (56%); SECURITIES & EXCHANGE COMMISSION (90%); SECURITIES & EXCHANGE COMMISSION (90%); 

ORGANIZATION: SECURITIES & EXCHANGE COMMISSION (90%); SECURITIES & EXCHANGE COMMISSION (90%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED KINGDOM (90%); UNITED STATES (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (66%); 

SUBJECT: NO INDEX TERMS FROM NYTIMES STOCK EXCHANGES (91%); SECURITIES LAW (91%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); NEWS BRIEFS (90%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS (90%); STOCK INDEXES (90%); INTEREST RATES (89%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); REAL ESTATE (89%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (89%); EXISTING HOME SALES (89%); COMPANY EARNINGS (89%); HOUSING MARKET (78%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS SERVICES (78%); WIRELESS INDUSTRY (78%); SELF REGULATING ORGANIZATIONS (78%); OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (78%); MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (78%); CABLE INDUSTRY (78%); BANKING & FINANCE AGENCIES (78%); INTERNET & WWW (78%); BOARDS OF DIRECTORS (78%); BOND MARKETS (78%); INTERIM FINANCIAL RESULTS (77%); HOLDING COMPANIES (77%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS SECTOR PERFORMANCE (77%); SALES FIGURES (77%); BONDS (76%); CABLE TELEVISION (74%); PRICE INCREASES (73%); PRICE CHANGES (73%); BUSINESS & PROFESSIONAL ASSOCIATIONS (72%); GUILTY PLEAS (72%); MORTGAGE RATES (71%); REAL ESTATE AGENTS (71%); CRIMINAL OFFENSES (71%); COMPANY LOSSES (70%); OIL & GAS PRICES (67%); GASOLINE PRICES (67%); SENTENCING (66%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (64%); MORTGAGE LOANS (56%); GAMING (50%); 

LOAD-DATE: July 27, 1999



653 of 738 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 27, 1999

SECTION: Section B; Page 1; Column 2; Metropolitan Desk 

LENGTH: 841 words

HEADLINE: Far More Poor Children Are Hospitalized for Asthma, Study Shows

BYLINE: By HOLCOMB B. NOBLE 

 BODY:
In the first study of its kind of the nation's urban asthma epidemic, researchers have found the rate of hospitalization from the disease far greater among children in poor, predominantly minority neighborhoods of New York City than experts suspected.
A team at the Center for Children's Health and the Environment at Mount Sinai School of Medicine has determined that hospitalization rates were as much as 21 times higher in poorer, minority areas than in the hardest-hit areas of the more affluent communities. High rates of hospitalization are one of the most accurate indications of the widespread severity of the disease, the researchers said. 
 "We knew there were discrepancies, but we had no idea they were that large," said Dr. Philip J. Landrigan, the director of the center and a member of the research team. "And I have to suspect that other large urban areas where conditions are similar are going to find similar kinds of patterns emerge as well."
The authors said the new study, based on a wide range of demographic data supplied by the Census Bureau, provides strong evidence of the degree to which economic and social factors influence the way people are afflicted with the disease and at what age.
The Mount Sinai study revealed stark differences in the hospitalization rates between the poor and the richer neighborhoods for all age groups.
In the neighborhoods of lower East Harlem (in the 10029 ZIP code, bordered by East 116th Street, East 96th, Fifth Avenue and the East River), the rate of hospitalization was 222.28 per 10,000, per year. In five high-income ZIP codes -- in the Wall Street and Trinity sections of Manhattan, two in the Glen Oaks section of eastern Queens and one in the Rockaways -- the rate was zero. That is, no one was hospitalized over a period of one year.
The average household income in south East Harlem was $18,732. In the 11695 ZIP code in the Rockaways, where the hospitalization rate was zero, the average household income was $103,125.
"The outcomes in the poor Latino and African-American areas, especially among children, are tragic," said Dr. Luz Claudio, an assistant professor in the division of environmental and occupational medicine and the division of neuropathology at Mount Sinai, and the principal author of the report. "But the outcomes in the richer neighborhoods presents strong illustration that, with resources, the disease can be very well controlled."
Dr. Claudio said that much more study is needed to establish a definite causal link between asthma and many environmental factors. But she said that work in various projects at the Center for Children's Health seems to make it clear that poor housing in New York often exposes residents to highly toxic pollutants that are making the condition worse. Both indoor and outdoor pollutants, like pesticides and auto emissions, are among the chief suspects, she said.
Commenting on the study, which appears in the current issue of the Journal of Asthma, Dr. Jonathan Samet of the Johns Hopkins School of Public Health, a leading respiratory epidemiologist, said the findings showed "a striking range of rates." He said the study should provide medical researchers with a "tremendous opportunity to further explore the causes of this disease and the factors that exacerbate it to help us out of what has become a public health-crisis emergency."
The incidence of acute asthma attacks among children has increased 100 percent in the past decade, despite the development of medications that are highly effective if taken properly, according to the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention in Atlanta. Asthma is now the most common cause of hospitalization among American children, affecting a total of five million. Deaths among children with the condition rose by 78 percent from 1980 to 1993, according to the Centers' latest analysis.
The Centers recently reported that the disease is most concentrated in the heavily populated areas of the Northeast, Chicago, Denver, Los Angeles and Oakland, but it did not break the affected areas down by income, minority groups or age, as the Mount Sinai group did.
Asthma is a chronic disease that requires careful, long-term treatment and close monitoring in the home. The authors of the Mount Sinai report cited previous studies suggesting why poor, black and Latino children are suffering at such high rates. Poor people often rely on care in emergency rooms, where doctors have little time to educate families on how to control the disease, and where there is little follow-up care, researchers have found.
Studies have also shown that substandard care is often given to members of minority groups. Finally, several environmental factors found in poor areas, like dirt and dust, roaches and some pesticides, have been found to worsen the disease.
Without receiving adequate care and medication, the asthma victims eventually begin suffering attacks that so restrict their ability to breathe that they wind up needing immediate hospitalization.
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photo: Dr. Luz Claudio of the Mount Sinai School of Medicine, talking with a woman and her two children, who have asthma. Dr. Claudio said research indicated that asthma can be controlled if patients have the resources. (Don Hogan Charles/The New York Times)(pg. B8)
 
Chart/Map: "Asthma Rates in the City" shows number of hospital admissions for asthma treatment per 10,000 residents, by ZIP code, in 1994, the most recent year for which data are available. (Source: Department of Community Medicine, Mount Sinai School of Medicine)(pg. B1) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (94%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%); 

COMPANY: CENTER FOR CHILDREN'S HEALTH AND ENVIRONMENT; MOUNT SINAI MEDICAL CENTER (NYC) MOUNT SINAI SCHOOL (75%); US CENSUS BUREAU (55%); US CENSUS BUREAU (55%); 

ORGANIZATION: CENTER FOR CHILDREN'S HEALTH AND ENVIRONMENT; MOUNT SINAI MEDICAL CENTER (NYC) US CENSUS BUREAU (55%); US CENSUS BUREAU (55%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK CITY; UNITED STATES (94%); NEW YORK, USA (94%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%); 

SUBJECT: ASTHMA; CHILDREN AND YOUTH; MINORITIES (US); HISPANIC-AMERICANS; BLACKS ASTHMA (92%); RESEARCH REPORTS (90%); EPIDEMICS (90%); CHILDREN'S HEALTH (90%); DEMOGRAPHIC GROUPS (90%); CHILDREN (89%); AFRICAN AMERICANS (89%); MIDDLE INCOME PERSONS (87%); WATER POLLUTION (86%); EPIDEMIOLOGY (78%); HISPANIC AMERICANS (77%); ENVIRONMENT & NATURAL RESOURCES (76%); UPPER INCOME PERSONS (75%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (75%); NEUROPATHOLOGY (73%); POPULATION ESTIMATES & PROJECTIONS (72%); VEHICLE EMISSIONS (71%); EMISSIONS (71%); CENSUS (69%); PERSONAL & FAMILY INCOME (68%); TOXIC & HAZARDOUS SUBSTANCES (61%); HAZARDOUS WASTE (60%); 

PERSON: NOBLE, HOLCOMB B; CLAUDIO, LUZ (DR)

LOAD-DATE: July 27, 1999



654 of 738 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 27, 1999

SECTION: Section A; Page 18; Column 4; Editorial Desk 

LENGTH: 193 words

HEADLINE: Foreign Physicists Are No Security Threat

 BODY:

To the Editor:
Alan Chodos points to a real issue when discussing the declining enrollment of American students in physics degree programs (Op-Ed, July 23). But he paints too broad a stroke when he blames the decline on Congress's budget cuts. 
 According to studies by the American Association for the Advancement of Science and the National Science Foundation, Federal financing for basic research has increased steadily for almost 20 years, except for slight decreases in the fiscal years 1994 and 1995. Adjusted for inflation, the Government has almost doubled such financing between 1982 and today. In the same period, the Government has slashed financing for many other "discretionary" programs.
The real change is in how the Government distributes the research money.
A recent N.S.F. study shows that in the last three decades medical sciences and a few engineering fields have increased their share of the academic research and development pie, while disciplines like physics have seen declines.
 
FRANK N. LAIRD
Denver, July 29, 1999
 
The writer is a professor of technology and public policy at the University of Denver.
 
http://www.nytimes.com

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Letter

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

CITY: DENVER, CO, USA (58%); 

COMPANY: NATIONAL SCIENCE FOUNDATION (83%); AMERICAN ASSOCIATION FOR THE ADVANCEMENT OF SCIENCE (58%); NATIONAL SCIENCE FOUNDATION (57%); 

ORGANIZATION: NATIONAL SCIENCE FOUNDATION (83%); AMERICAN ASSOCIATION FOR THE ADVANCEMENT OF SCIENCE (58%); NATIONAL SCIENCE FOUNDATION (57%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES; UNITED STATES (94%); DENVER, CO, USA (58%); 

SUBJECT: PHYSICS; FINANCES; BUDGETS AND BUDGETING PHYSICS (91%); SCIENCE FUNDING (90%); LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); BUDGETS (90%); GOVERNMENT RESEARCH FUNDING (87%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (78%); SCIENCE POLICY (78%); PUBLIC POLICY (76%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (76%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (74%); WRITERS (73%); BUDGET CUTS (71%); RESEARCH & DEVELOPMENT (70%); 

PERSON: LAIRD, FRANK N; CHODOS, ALAN ALAN CHODOS (55%); 

LOAD-DATE: July 27, 1999



655 of 738 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 27, 1999

SECTION: Section A; Page 1; Column 5; Metropolitan Desk 

LENGTH: 1586 words

HEADLINE: Last New York Checker Turns Off Its Meter for Good

BYLINE: By JODI WILGOREN 

 BODY:
The last day of the last Checker cab in New York should have been full of nostalgia and romance, the storied retirement of a much-loved machine integral to the city's lore and lure.
Instead, it was filled with hassles. 
 First there was the gnawing pain in Earl Johnson's left knee, a twinge of gout that made it wrenching for him to fold his 6-foot-1-inch frame into the driver's seat of the 1978 classic, and even more agonizing to get out. Then there was the awkward moment when Mr. Johnson stopped abruptly at a Jamaican restaurant and his fare, a woman late for work,followed him inside to find out what he was doing (every cabdriver has his favorite pit stops).
Perhaps inevitably, there were the special problems that come with owning a rolling institution at the end of its era. Having decided that the cab had become too expensive to fix to meet the city's standards, Mr. Johnson spent the day juggling interviews so that each journalist had a solo ride-along, artfully avoiding questions about how much money he had made in the Checker or might make selling it. He even had to wait while a photographer in the caravan following him through Central Park was stopped by the police for a broken brake light.
"I'm losing so much money today," Mr. Johnson, 61, complained as he declined a fare for fear of missing yet another appointment with the press. "I'm willing to go along with everybody, but I am just one person."
These were the low points. There were lovely moments, too.
The fares who shared poignant childhood memories. The drivers who leaned out of their windows to shout good luck and God bless. The comrade cabby who stopped at three successive stoplights for her own snapshots of history.
And two hours with Roberta Horton and James Donnelly, social workers who rode in Mr. Johnson's Checker to their wedding and celebrated their second anniversary yesterday reliving the moment in the back of the cab.
"The Checker is the ultimate urban luxury," Ms. Horton, 47, said as she held her beloved's hand during the drive up the East Side of Manhattan to the Conservatory Garden in the park. "It's such a grand car. It's a vehicle that belongs to New York."
Not anymore.
The Taxi and Limousine Commission says his Checker, which is on its third engine and nearing one million miles on the odometer, needs a new chassis. Mr. Johnson's mechanic says that would cost $6,000 or more. Mr. Johnson says the car is fine and the commission's requirement too strict, but that it seems to be time to fold up his jump seats.
"I'm not looking for handouts, I'm finished," he said yesterday as he limped around, shaking hands and posing for pictures. "I'm ready. Ready, ready, ready."
Other cities still have Checker cabs, the bulbous vehicles with the ponderous 1950's design. There are Checkers around the city that are no longer cabs, painted pink or purple or even checkered all over. There are companies called Checker Cab, even if their cars are Dodges and Fords. But since production at the plant in Kalamazoo, Mich., ceased in 1982, 60 years after it began, the Checkers have been a dying breed.
As of this morning, pedestrians can no longer hail a symbol of New York on New York streets.
"He's retiring," a concierge told a doorman at the Mark Hotel, gesturing at Mr. Johnson and his cab as they dropped off Ms. Horton and Dr. Donnelly for their anniversary lunch. "I think that's him. This is the last one. He's been in the news for like three days now."
Mr. Johnson, who has a tuft of white hair above his forehead and a few gray whiskers in his beard, started driving a Checker in 1973, when 5,000 of the classic cars made up almost half of New York's yellow taxi fleet. He was born in Jamaica and had been in this country for a dozen years. He started driving a cab after dreams of opening a restaurant fell apart for lack of money.
"The riding public likes the Checker and it lasts longer," he said, though the first car lasted only five years before it was felled by a problem with the flywheel. "There's more room for myself and the passengers. You're sitting up above all the other cabs."
Also, he has learned in the 26 years behind the historic wheel, the police rarely stop Checkers. Doormen at fancy hotels pull them up to the front of cab lines. And while the fare on the meter is exactly the same as in any other cab, the tips tend to be better.
Yesterday, as usual, Mr. Johnson left home in Rosedale, Queens, about 7 A.M. and went to Kennedy International Airport. He picked up a Delta passenger and took him to midtown, which was convenient, because he was meeting a television crew in the East 60's for an interview.
Then he took a woman across town to Times Square, found three men heading to a show for men's clothiers at Pier 94, and then picked up Tina Landau, a writer and director going to the Joseph Papp Public Theater near Astor Place.
It started out well enough.
"When I was a girl growing up in New York, we used to look for them purposely," Ms. Landau said as she stepped into the cab, which sits high above the traffic. "They were the cab." The back has enough leg room for a couple of pro basketball players, and there are also a pair of adorable little jump seats. "I saw you coming, and I almost didn't get in. I haven't seen one of these in so long, I thought, is this real?"
Then Mr. Johnson pulled over on Ninth Avenue at Jam's Jamaica Restaurant and said he would be back in a minute. After a minute, Ms. Landau went inside to check. She came back quickly, the cabby on her heels.
"I tell you it's a second, you just wait a second," the driver snapped.
"I don't get in a cab to stop midway," Ms. Landau retorted. "I could call the commission."
Empty threats for a man headed for retirement, scheduled to be feted by the taxi commission next week. By summer's end, Mr. Johnson plans to be back in his native Montego Bay, where he and his wife run a bed-and-breakfast called Grace Villa.
The Checker, which originally cost about $9,000, will probably stay behind. A German museum has made inquiries, but Mr. Johnson wants the car he nicknamed Janie after a long-ago sweetheart to remain in the United States, preferably New York. He is talking to Sotheby's, and dreaming of numbers with lots of zeroes. As for Taxi Medallion 1N11, Mr. Johnson plans to lease it and is counting on the retirement income of about $1,400 a month.
What he will keep are the memories.
Picking up Jacqueline Kennedy Onassis at her Fifth Avenue apartment (he didn't recognize her at first) and taking her to Elizabeth Arden. Walter Cronkite riding down Broadway for a dozen blocks ("I was kind of excited to look up and see the same guy I see on the TV."). Getting yanked out of line a couple of years ago at the Pierre to drive Muhammad Ali to the Citicorp Building ("I just said, 'Hi, champ.' ").
There was the $500 fare to Boston and the $700 trip to Ithaca, a 225 miles trip, when a businessman with a pending deal could not get a flight out of Kennedy Airport because of the weather.
"I was young and strong and didn't think about anything," Mr. Johnson said, laughing the laugh of a man older and wiser. "If there was 10 feet of snow it didn't mean anything. Now I'm scared to go from here to Queens."
There were dozens of weddings and sightseeing tours, actors whose names he cannot remember, and appearances -- by the Checker, not the driver -- in movies he never saw. And, once, a $20 tip on a $7 fare.
"He got out of one cab and got into my cab because that guy didn't know where he was going," Mr. Johnson said of the long-ago banker in a rush to go from a midtown hotel to Wall Street.
Yesterday there were no celebrities except Mr. Johnson himself, who first came to public attention in 1993, when there were only 10 Checkers left in New York.
He has been featured in many articles since then, and it is no accident that he outlasted Johann Struna, the second-to-last Checker cabby, who retired in December because he, too, could not afford the repairs.
So Mr. Johnson smiled for the snapshooting tourists from Cleveland, shook hands with the teacher out for a walk on the Upper West Side and waved happily to fellow cabdrivers beeping their best wishes.
It was all he could do to get to Queens by midafternoon to refill a prescription for his aching knee. "I can't even move from the seat, it's all swollen," he said. "The only reason why I'm out here now is because it's my last day."
 
History of a Comfortable if Ponderous Classic
 
1922 -- Checker Motors Company of Kalamazoo, Mich., makes the first Checker taxicabs.
 
1970's -- About 5,000 Checkers make up almost half of New York City's taxi fleet.
 
1973 -- After a year of driving a cab in New York, Earl Johnson buys his first Checker.
 
1978 -- When that cab is felled by a problem with the flywheel, Mr. Johnson buys his current Checker for $9,000. He calls it Janie, after a long-lost sweetheart.
 
1982 -- Production ceases for economic reasons. Too few companies are using the cabs, because they are more expensive than other sedans, and Checker Motors fears a proposed tax on gas guzzlers.
 
1993 -- There are 10 Checker cabs left in New York.
 
Dec. 15, 1998 -- The driver of the second-to-last Checker, Johann Struna, takes his car off the road because he cannot afford the repairs demanded by the Taxi and Limousine Commission.
 
PUB-DATE: July 26, 1999
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photos: At their peak in the 1970's, 5,000 Checkers plied New York streets. (Don Hogan Charles/The New York Times)(pg. A1); Earl Johnson at work yesterday. He has decided it would be too expensive to bring his cab up to the standards of the city's Taxi and Limousine Commission, so he will retire to Jamaica and rent out his medallion. (Don Hogan Charles/The New York Times)(pg. B4) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Chronology

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (94%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (91%); 

COMPANY: CHECKER CAB (92%); 

ORGANIZATION: CHECKER CAB (92%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK CITY; UNITED STATES (94%); NEW YORK, USA (94%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (91%); 

SUBJECT: TAXICABS AND TAXICAB DRIVERS; RECORDS AND ACHIEVEMENTS CHRONOLOGIES (90%); TAXICABS & LIMOUSINES (89%); INTERVIEWS (72%); GOUT (72%); PARKS & PLAYGROUNDS (70%); RESTAURANTS (69%); ANNIVERSARIES (66%); 

PERSON: WILGOREN, JODI; JOHNSON, EARL EARL L JOHNSON (92%); 

LOAD-DATE: July 27, 1999



656 of 738 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 27, 1999

SECTION: Section A; Page 1; Column 2; Metropolitan Desk 

LENGTH: 4324 words

HEADLINE: Discord Undermines Efforts to Repair and Build Public Schools

SERIES: PHYSICALLY UNFIT: Second of two articles.

BYLINE: This article was reported by John Sullivan, Jacques Steinberg and Christopher Drew and was written by Mr. Steinberg. 

 BODY:
A fire that was touched off by a welder working in a Brooklyn vocational school briefly trapped 150 students last year. The construction work was not supposed to begin until school was done for the day, but school administrators and construction officials could not agree on when classes were actually over.
A new elementary school opened in Washington Heights in 1995 with problems ranging from loose floor tiles to a broken elevator. It took nearly three years to fix all of them while officials at the New York City Board of Education and the School Construction Authority argued about whose job it was to make the repairs. 
 A computer system that the board and the authority have been designing since 1990 is yet another sign of their dysfunction. The agencies still cannot perform basic tasks like tracking and sharing information on a construction program that has spent $9 billion over the last 10 years.
A decade after the State Legislature created the construction authority and joined it in a shotgun marriage with the city's school board, the breakdown in their relationship has been a major obstacle to reaching the goal that was set for them: mending and expanding the nation's largest school system by century's end.
Legislators were hoping to rescue a school system whose building division was taking 10 years, and often a few bribes, to build a single school, but in their haste to solve the problem they effectively hard-wired the new arrangement for failure.
They made the board the client and the new authority its builder, but they never specified where one agency's job ends and the other's begins. They wanted to insulate the process from corruption, but left it completely vulnerable to politicians competing for much-needed construction money. And they divided power over the new system between the governor, the city's schools chancellor and the mayor, but never held any of them accountable.
Now, as city and state officials are beginning to pour $7 billion more into school construction and repairs over the next five years, they have done little to fix the broken partnership they created. The board is slow to plan, the authority is lax in policing contractors, and the disagreements between the two agencies are fundamental.
"The city and state have a primary responsibility to provide children and teachers with safe and comfortable surroundings, and that's sort of a minimum expectation," said Raymond Domanico, education adviser to the Metro New York Industrial Areas Foundation, a parent organizing group. "I don't think the kids are getting that right now. I think the board and the authority bear a great deal of the blame."
The decade's work has hardly been a waste. Space for about 115,000 classroom seats was created, enough for every public school student in San Francisco and Seattle combined. Yet more than half of the seats are in trailers or leased spaces like churches, or are carved out of existing classrooms, adding to the makeshift nature of many schools.
School construction officials went on a buying spree of those temporary trailers, which now fill the playgrounds and parking lots of many schools, out of frustration with the inefficiencies and chronic underfinancing of their own system.
Permanent seats in new buildings were expensive. They cost about $300 a square foot in recent years, according to authority figures, far higher than school construction in other cities, even when adjusted for the steep price of labor and materials in New York.
An almost unfathomable amount of work remains. An analysis of the city's most recent school-by-school engineering survey by The New York Times shows that at least 40 percent of the 1,100 schools are plagued by porous roofs, disintegrating facades or windows that do not open or shut. The survey also identifies problems with millions of dollars' worth of work that the construction authority completed only within the last five years.
Little wonder that the system is a regular target of politicians' scorn. Gov. George E. Pataki accused the board and the authority of "robbing students" of a "proper learning environment" when he started an investigation of school construction in January.
But if there is plenty of blame, none of the officials dishing it out are immune. The construction apparatus is overseen by one appointee each of the governor, the mayor and the schools chancellor.
It was a leadership model that perhaps only Albany could conceive: any top official can take credit for the system's successes, but no one is directly responsible for its failures. That includes the State Legislature and the city government, which, combined, have left the authority with about $2 billion a year less than the amount some experts say is needed.
In the last two years, the authority's chairman, Howard Wilson, and the president, Milo E. Riverso, have made significant strides in speeding projects and tightening supervision of them. But critics see more fundamental problems.
"Not putting in place an overall system of accountability, and leaving it as a divided house, doomed the system to failure from the very beginning," said Anne Rouse, the senior vice president for education at the New York City Partnership, an association of corporate executives. "No one single leader, no matter how charismatic, persuasive or managerially successful, can compensate for the structure of this system, which is flawed."
 
Troubled History
Flaws Were Built Into the System
When Public School 8 in Washington Heights opened in the fall of 1995, at a cost of $24 million, the elevator was leaking hydraulic fluid and could not be used, leaving handicapped students to be sent elsewhere. Floor tiles were popping out all over the cafeteria. And a fitful heating and air-conditioning system was roasting some rooms while chilling others.
The problems persisted for almost three years as the board and the authority argued about who should fix them. The board, in letters to the authority, said the flaws were the result of poor construction and therefore the responsibility of the authority. The authority said the deficiencies could be cured through maintenance, a responsibility that rested with the board. The authority did not fully correct the problems until last year, according to board officials.
"It was like a custody battle between two people in a bad divorce," said Susan Montez, a former community school board member in Washington Heights. "But no one wanted the kid."
The School Construction Authority was born in the closing hours of a chaotic 1988 state legislative session. Twenty Board of Education employees had been arrested on construction-related charges in the previous two years, and legislators wanted to make a bold statement. On Dec. 15, they hastily passed a bill creating the authority.
The legislators gave the authority one big advantage, exempting it from several costly public construction laws, but they failed to draw a line between the powers of the board and those of the new authority. For example, the Legislature, in two different laws, gave both agencies a role in designing schools, but never decided which one had the final say.
Bowing to union pressure, the Legislature also granted employees of the board's Division of School Buildings, the office being disbanded, the right to transfer to the new authority.
Two hundred thirty-six did.
Many of those left at the board chafed at the new status of their former colleagues, with whom they still had to work within the new partnership. They are still bristling.
In an internal memorandum last year, a new authority employee wrote of being told by a senior manager, "The Board of Education doesn't want us to succeed because it will prove that they are failures because they couldn't succeed when they ran this department."
From the outset, the board and the authority were overwhelmed by the job of rebuilding a deteriorating system with more than 1,100 school buildings, half built before 1940.
The revolving-door leadership that plagued the public schools quickly engulfed the construction authority, too: in the last 10 years, the school system has had five chancellors; the authority has had five chairmen and six presidents.
With new and better school buildings needed in every quarter, the construction process became infected by the very politics that had eaten at the schools for generations.
"There was a hope that somehow the S.C.A. would change the nature of the whole allocation and construction process, to make it more efficient and more equitable," said Norm Fruchter, a former district school board member in Brooklyn and an education researcher at New York University. "Instead of changing the terms of the game, they fell victim to another variant of the same game."
Perhaps nothing captures the dissonance between the two agencies better than their failure over 10 years to share information on construction projects.
Authority officials complain that when the board changes its construction plans, as it frequently does, the updated information is not available on computer. The board, in turn, says that the authority cannot keep track of projects because it has no fewer than four computer systems that often contain conflicting information.
"This has been the Bermuda triangle," said Lewis H. Spence, Chancellor Rudy Crew's designee at the authority.
To solve the problem, the two agencies have spent enough money to build an elementary school -- more than $22 million, at least half on consultants -- to no avail.
During a recent interview, Mr. Riverso tried to dispel the image of the computer system as troubled by calling up information on the renovation of an elementary school on Staten Island. The computer indicated that the project had been completed in August 1997. In fact, the work is not finished yet.
"That's an error," Mr. Riverso said, clearing the screen.
 
Fire in Brooklyn
Poor Communication Puts Lives at Risk
The screams of "Fire!" began echoing through William H. Maxwell High School in East New York, Brooklyn, about 4 P.M., just after a worker welding a first-floor pipe accidentally ignited a storage closet full of fluorescent bulbs.
As smoke filled the building on May 12, 1998, about 150 students and teachers in an after-school program began feeling their way down a stairwell from the fifth floor. When the lead teacher reached the first-floor exit, she found the door jammed with a construction rod.
Frightened, the group climbed back up three stories to avoid the fire, and crossed the width of the school to get out. "We had to walk toward the smoke," recalled Tina Johnson, a special education teacher.
One teacher and one student were taken to a hospital for treatment of smoke inhalation. An investigator for the authority's inspector general wrote in a report after the fire that, given the circumstances, the outcome could have been "far more disastrous."
The confluence of problems that led up to the fire typify the way schools are often renovated in New York. Long delays in work were followed by a mad dash to finish. Lax safety precautions were aggravated by poor communication between those running the school and those overseeing the construction.
"If I was a parent of a child in that school," said Mr. Riverso, the authority president, "I'd be outraged."
When Mr. Riverso became an authority vice president in February 1997, the $29 million renovation of the high school, which included a new library and cafeteria, was more than a year late. He replaced the general contractor on the job with HRH Construction, which had been supervising the dismissed contractor, according to the inspector general's report. He also shaved six months off the latest timetable and ordered that the project be completed for the 1998 school year.
At the time, Maxwell, an 85-year-old school, was just one of dozens of projects that the authority was pressing to complete. Mr. Wilson, the authority chairman, was intent on avoiding what had become an annual ritual of the first day of school: students arriving to the clamor of last-minute construction work.
"You want it done fast," Mr. Wilson said at his first meeting as an authority trustee on Dec. 5, 1996. "You want it done right. You want it done on time."
"Next September is going to be perfect," he added, according to the authority minutes. "If it is not perfect, people will be held accountable."
In the weeks leading up to the fire, HRH itself fell behind schedule and was in danger of being removed by Mr. Wilson and Mr. Riverso. To catch up, it tripled its work force to 150, according to the minutes of authority meetings.
But safety did not command the same attention as speed.
After the fire, authority investigators determined that the welder whose torch set off the blaze was not certified and that the general contractor had not provided a fire watch by someone specifically trained to spot fires, in violation of the fire code, according to the report. No fire alarm was transmitted to the Fire Department because the custodian engineer had temporarily disconnected it to avoid false alarms caused by the construction, the report said. (A custodial worker put the fire out.)
No dangerous work was supposed to have been performed until the "night," or "after school," shift, according to the inspector general's report. But there was confusion about when exactly that was.
"No one seemed to have the specific responsibility for determining who was in the building and whether or not they were adequately protected during construction," the authority investigator wrote.
The final bell at Maxwell rings at 2:57 P.M., but after that, hundreds of students stay for remedial classes and extracurricular activities. Six months before the fire, the Maxwell custodian engineer wrote to the authority's project manager at Maxwell, "Maxwell High School is occupied from 6 A.M. to 4:15 P.M. on Mondays, Tuesdays, Thursdays and Fridays."
The fire was on a Tuesday, and investigators determined that the welder fired up his torch about 4 P.M.
The investigators, according to the report, could find no evidence that the authority had informed the contractor of the school schedule. A statement by an HRH spokesman did not comment directly on the authority's findings, but the company told investigators that there was no way workers could have known whether there were students in the building, according to the report.
To Barbara Elk, the school principal, the dispute over the school hours is intended to obscure the real issue.
"They were welding while kids were in the building, but they were working without safety precautions," she said. "This is just an attempt to get out of responsibility."
Neither HRH nor the authority project manager was disciplined at the time. A year later, HRH received an unsatisfactory rating on the job and, according to authority documents, was suspended from authority work, a ruling it has asked officials to review. But Mr. Riverso said he and the board took one corrective step: appointing a committee to fashion a definition of after-school hours for contractors systemwide.
The committee met for more than a year without coming up with a definition, Mr. Riverso said.
 
The Politics
Competing Interests Create Turmoil
The relationship between the board and the authority is often at its worst when it comes to deciding how construction money is to be spent.
By law, the board issues a construction plan every five years that is supposed to be the authority's blueprint for what to build and repair.
But for all practical purposes, the plans are obsolete the day they are printed.
"The S.C.A. is into the fourth year of the current five-year plan," authority officials wrote in an internal report last year, "yet for almost the entire duration of the plan since its adoption in November 1994, this document has been in such a state of constant flux that it was impossible to build any kind of execution strategy."
The board's intentions sometimes shift as suddenly as a breeze.
One night in August 1997, authority officials had arranged for traffic to be halted on the George Washington Bridge so two prefabricated school additions, carried on trailers, could be transported to the Bronx in time for the opening of school. As the trailers were preparing to make their way across the bridge, Mr. Riverso said, a board official called him to order that the buildings be rerouted to two schools in Queens.
Patricia Zedalis, the board's top construction official since 1996, said the board switched gears after the authority determined that the century-old school, P.S. 31 in the Bronx, was so unstable that its students had to be evacuated. "It just so happened the transportables were on their way on the truck," said Ms. Zedalis, the chief executive for school facilities..
(Two years later, the fate of the Bronx school, a landmark, remains a sore point, as the board and the authority feud over whether to renovate it or tear it down.) The board's plans are ever-changing largely because, in addition to the authority, everyone from the Mayor to City Council members, and from neighborhood groups to principals, has a voice in the process.
"We've got to make sure a school is in the right place and with the right program, so all of the stakeholders of that educational community buy into the ultimate solution," Ms. Zedalis said. "Sometimes reaching consensus takes time."
With limited financing, competition to get a project listed in the five-year plan is fierce. Independent estimates have put the cost of providing adequate space for all students as high as $28 billion, yet there was just $4.9 billion in the plan that concluded on June 30.
Since the construction budget ultimately has to be approved by the Mayor and the City Council, horse-trading is rampant.
Last spring, the seven members of the Board of Education, who are politically appointed, squabbled two months past their deadline before approving the $7 billion construction plan for the next five years. Ultimately, a majority directed by Mayor Rudolph W. Giuliani added thousands of seats to Queens and Staten Island at the expense of seats planned for the Bronx, Brooklyn and Manhattan.
If history is any guide, that plan, too, will change.
A recent report on the five-year plan that just expired included hundreds of projects on 43 single-spaced pages -- many for critical wall, window and roof work -- that had been promised, only to be deferred. They were replaced by 35 pages of other projects, most picked by the Mayor and the Council. The board granted them that privilege in exchange for the addition of more than $1 billion to the construction budget.
The changes make for dashed hopes at schools like John Bowne High School in Flushing, Queens. In the fall of 1997, the board informed Bowne administrators that its laboratories would be renovated, welcome news since three of its labs are 35 years old and the fourth is a home economics classroom. All 3,500 students at Bowne are required to take two lab classes to graduate.
But in March 1998, after the new labs were already designed, the board suspended the project indefinitely, deciding instead to repair the exteriors of other schools.
The reason the project died matters little at a school where the advanced placement environmental sciences class is held in an old kitchen. There, 22 students share two sinks and cannot light Bunsen burners on the counter tops for fear of setting the wooden cabinets on fire. Instead, they hold the burners in their hands.
The halting process of making and then changing plans wastes time and money, authority officials said, and creates pressure to hurry up and finish long-delayed projects.
It happened again this year when the board scrambled until May, less than two months before the end of the fiscal year, to approve designs for projects representing nearly half of the authority's annual budget. That meant that bids for $500 million in designs were dumped all at once onto an already competitive construction market.
"The process seems to encourage delay and non-decisions," said Mr. Wilson, the authority chairman. "Maybe the system is paralyzed."
 
Makeshift Fixes
Going to School In a Trailer Park
The people who run the authority and board are quick to point out that whatever the shortcomings of the last decade, they have produced classroom space for 115,000 students, 76,000 within the last five years.
Schools are now erected in as little as 3 years, much quicker than the average of 10 years it took in the 1970's and 80's. And Mr. Wilson estimates that the authority will complete 70 percent of its major repair projects on schedule this year, compared with 5 percent in 1996.
"I think that this agency is in a very good place now," Mr. Wilson said. "Not perfect, but very good."
Yet dissecting the numbers sheds a different light on what the city got for the $9 billion it spent. Fewer than half of the new classroom seats, about 53,500, are in new, permanent buildings. More than a third, about 42,000, sit in leased commercial spaces, in makeshift classrooms partitioned from existing classes and locker rooms, or in factories and other buildings that the board now owns. The remainder, about 20,000, are in trailers and other portable buildings.
Trailers were hastily delivered to school playgrounds and parking lots during 1996 and 1997, when an acute shortage of classroom space became an election issue. But given the trailers' flimsy construction, the board anticipates replacing them all with permanent classrooms by 2007.
Ruth W. Messinger, who railed against the use of temporary classrooms as the Democratic candidate for mayor in 1997, said they represented the unrealized promise of the authority. "Trailers have one advantage," she said. "They are better than closets or hallways."
Nowhere are trailers more prominent than at George Washington High School in Washington Heights, its walls crammed with 2,500 students. Two years ago, the authority blanketed the tennis and basketball courts with 15 aluminum-sided trailers, each with two classrooms, as a substitute for an addition delayed by lack of money since 1994.
This past year, all 500 ninth graders took their classes in the complex of trailers, known as "the north campus," which looks like a mobile home park, with wooden staircases leading up to rooms with windows no larger than those of microwave ovens. Though the classrooms have bathrooms, the nearest water fountains and the school cafeteria are several hundred yards away.
Trailers are not only a faster way of creating classrooms, but they cost just $6,900 a seat, about one-tenth of the $68,000, on average, that New York spends for each permanent high school seat.
Examined another way, the price of a new classroom in New York City, according to Mr. Riverso, is about $300 a square foot. But using an index compiled by R.S. Means, a consulting firm, which adjusts for the high costs of building in New York, other systems still come out far lower: $240, or at least 20 percent cheaper, in Yonkers; $202 in Chicago, and $171 in Philadelphia.
Mr. Riverso attributed the higher costs to more stringent building requirements in New York, as well as to special conditions of building in the city, as in the recent construction of a school over a subway tunnel.
Whatever that money has bought, the needs of the system are seemingly endless. A recent survey by the board found that almost one-third of the city's schools had their windows or roofs replaced, their exterior masonry shored up or some combination over the last five years. But that survey also found that one out of four city schools had seriously deteriorated roofs or exterior walls, and two out of five had deteriorated windows.
In a more disturbing finding, the survey highlighted significant problems in a number of schools that were either built or repaired by the authority within the last five years. Those deficiencies, often in the very roofs or set of windows that were to have been fixed, point to any number of shortcomings in the system, from sluggish contractors to a maintenance budget so paltry that it allows for little maintenance.
This leaves teachers and students waiting -- people like Karina Constantino, the principal of P.S. 22 on Staten Island.
The authority spent $2 million putting a new roof on the school and sealing its brickwork from 1995 through 1997. But almost two years later, the roof leaks in seven places, she said, pointing out the wide, wet blotches on the ceilings of a number of classrooms.
Ms. Constantino is hardly surprised, since she said it was often up to her to bound up to the roof to scrape her fingernails against freshly set mortar to determine its consistency or to check whether the chimney was in danger of falling -- tasks, she says, the authority should have been doing.
The board and the authority disagree over who is to blame for the lingering leaks.
Ms. Constantino, her eyes on the ceilings above her students' heads, closes her ears to their squabbling, while awaiting the next round of repairs she has been promised.
 
Physically Unfit
 
MONDAY -- By depending on inept contractors, and paying scant attention to their work, New York City school construction officials have fallen short in their quest for a physically fit school system by century's end. Attempts at reform have been hard-won, and sometimes short-lived.
 
TODAY -- To mend and expand the city school system, the School Construction Authority and the Board of Education must work closely together. But their discord has made a daunting task even harder, and a succession of top political officials have too often declined to intervene.
 
ON THE WEB -- For more information log on to The New York Times on the Web at www.nytimes.com/education.
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photos: Washington High School in Washington Heights has portable classrooms instead of an addition. (James Estrin/The New York Times)(pg. A1); A CLOSE CALL -- A fire caused by welding last year briefly trapped 150 people in a stairwell at Maxwell High School, including Tina Johnson, a teacher, who stood in the stairwell recently. (James Estrin/The New York Times)(pg. B6)
 
Graph: "BY THE NUMBERS -- Shoring Up Schools"
School repairs have come to dominate the School Construction Authority's building expenditures in recent years. Graph plots repairs and new construction and major rehabilitation (in billions of dollars), from 1991 through a projected 1999. (Source: New York City School Construction Authority)(pg. B6)
 
Chart/Graph: "BY THE NUMBERS -- Making More Room"
Total number and type of classroom seats added to New York City schools by the School Construction Authority and the Board of Education.
 
Seats created, 1990-99: 115,575
 
TEMPORARY SEATING -- Created mostly in trailers. -- 17.0%
 
LEASED OR CONVERTED SEATING -- Seats in leased buildings, sub-divided classrooms, or buildings converted for classroom use. -- 36.3%
 
NEW PERMANENT SEATING -- Created through construction of new schools or additions to existing schools. -- 46.4%
 
Note: Percentages do not add up to 100 because of rounding.
 
(Source: New York City Board of Education)(pg. B7) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Series

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (98%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (98%); WASHINGTON, USA (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (98%); SEATTLE, WA, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: BOARD OF EDUCATION (NYC); SCHOOL CONSTRUCTION AUTHORITY (NYC) NEW YORK INDUSTRIAL AREAS FOUNDATION (59%); STATE LEGISLATURE (59%); 

ORGANIZATION: BOARD OF EDUCATION (NYC); SCHOOL CONSTRUCTION AUTHORITY (NYC) NEW YORK INDUSTRIAL AREAS FOUNDATION (59%); STATE LEGISLATURE (59%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK CITY; NEW YORK STATE; UNITED STATES (98%); NEW YORK, USA (98%); WASHINGTON, USA (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (98%); SEATTLE, WA, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: EDUCATION AND SCHOOLS; SURVEYS AND SERIES; BUILDING (CONSTRUCTION) SCHOOL BUILDINGS (91%); SCHOOL BOARDS (91%); PUBLIC SCHOOLS (90%); INSTITUTIONAL CONSTRUCTION (90%); EDUCATION SYSTEMS & INSTITUTIONS (90%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (89%); CONSTRUCTION (89%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (89%); EDUCATIONAL INSTITUTION EMPLOYEES (89%); TEACHING & TEACHERS (78%); CHILDREN (78%); PRIMARY SCHOOLS (78%); PRIMARY & SECONDARY SCHOOL TEACHERS (78%); VOCATIONAL & TECHNICAL TRAINING (78%); CITY GOVERNMENT (77%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (75%); EDUCATION ADMINISTRATION (73%); BRIBERY (70%); CORRUPTION (65%); 

PERSON: SULLIVAN, JOHN; STEINBERG, JACQUES; DREW, CHRISTOPHER

LOAD-DATE: July 27, 1999



657 of 738 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 27, 1999
Correction Appended

SECTION: Section A;Page 4;Column 3;Foreign Desk

LENGTH: 1121 words

HEADLINE: Ship Cove Journal;
A Son of the Land Stands Up for Birds of the Sea

BYLINE: By ANTHONY DePALMA

DATELINE: SHIP COVE, Newfoundland

 BODY:
The thought of escaping this sweet and miserable land has long tempted Stan Tobin. Once or twice over the years he has even slipped off to Ireland -- where his brogue makes him sound home-grown -- with no intention of coming back.
But the hardy ground in Ship Cove -- population six when his whole family is here -- simply will not let him go. Tobins have lived here since the start of the last century and now the land's gotten to him too, he says, and made him sort of crazy. 
 So he keeps his restless soul here, and he has his hands in many things. He raises calves and sells them, and he and his wife, Dolores, run a creamery where they make good, hard butter.
But his real passion these days is the squat building on the edge of one of his fields where he and other volunteers wash and clean other wayward souls -- sea birds that have been contaminated by oil. It is one of the only animal rehabilitation centers in Atlantic Canada, and when birds start to come ashore, Mr. Tobin and other volunteers clean them and nurse them back to health.
These volunteers know their limitations, especially when it comes to what the Canadian Coast Guard calls mystery spills that occur more than 100 miles offshore when a commercial ship deliberately empties out its oily bilge water, in violation of regulations requiring that it be treated and disposed of onshore.
Most often, no one knows when the mystery spills happen, or who is responsible. Most of the carcasses of the oiled birds wash out to sea or sink. A small number -- government researchers estimate it at one-tenth or fewer of the total number of sea birds contaminated by oil -- wash to shore and they are usually the first clues that there has been a spill.
As many as 100,000 puffins, murres and other sea birds will die in the icy waters off Newfoundland this year after landing in oil from "mystery spills." That will equal about 40 percent of the 250,000 birds that died in the Exxon Valdez spill off Alaska a decade ago, but the kill will attract little attention here because as many birds have died just about every year for the last few decades.
Mr. Tobin says that as little as half a teaspoon of oil can kill a bird. Feathers greedily absorb the oil and then cannot keep out the cold ocean water. Even a tiny spot can be fatal, like a small tear in a diver's wet suit. The birds get cold, develop hypothermia and eventually become too weak to find food or fly away.
Federal and provincial authorities have known for years that some maritime crews try to skirt regulations and cut costs by emptying their bilges offshore, where no one sees them.
Occasionally, a polluter is caught in the act, as happened last year when a ship bound for England was fined $25,000 (U.S.) after being spotted dragging a sheen of oil five miles long.
The Canadian Coast Guard now runs aerial surveillance flights looking for spills. But they must cover an enormous area, and many spills can never be traced. Even when the polluters are found and prosecuted, officials say, the fines imposed are too low to provide any real deterrence.
"The problem is the courts," said Brian Tobin, Premier of the province of Newfoundland and Labrador and a former federal fisheries minister but no direct relation to Stan Tobin. "The fines that are imposed are laughable."
The Canada Shipping Act, which regulates commercial shipping, is now under review and amendments have been offered to increase fines and make them mandatory in some cases.
As one of the founders of the Newfoundland and Labrador Environmental Association, Stan Tobin has done all he could to help wildlife -- everything from keeping oiled sea birds in his bathtub while they recover to serving on several commissions that have carefully documented the effect of "mystery spills."
Now 50, Mr. Tobin, a former fisherman and, he confesses, former bird poacher as well, said authorities that are supposed to be protecting the province's environment have shown they are willing to gloss over environmental issues to keep from antagonizing businesses that provide badly needed jobs. Unemployment in Newfoundland hovers around 17 percent, more than twice the national average.
Terry Harvey, director of the Canadian Coast Guard's Prevention of Oiled Wildlife Project, also believes that the province caters to commercial interests without fully assessing the effect of such decisions on natural resources.
"The province has been crying out for industrial development for some time, and that probably has driven us to make radical and uninformed decisions," Mr. Harvey said.
Mr. Tobin, Newfoundland's Premier, said the province has proved it will reject projects that harm the environment, like a proposal to build more than a dozen small dams to produce electricity, even though they mean jobs.
"We are concerned about the environment," he said, "perhaps like no one else on the planet."
For centuries, the province's economy was linked to the bounty of the North Atlantic, in particular the Grand Banks fishing grounds that were once so rich that a fisherman need only lower a basket over the side of his boat to get his daily catch.
But earlier this decade the cod seemed to disappear and the Canadian Government closed the commercial cod fishery, throwing thousands of Newfoundland fishermen out of work.
Projects, like the Hibernia offshore oil platform, bring thousands of new jobs. A joint venture of several oil companies, including Mobil and Petro-Canada, Hibernia received financial support from the Canadian Government.
Hibernia officials reported 21 small spills last year that dumped a total of about 600 gallons of oil into the ocean, not much against more than 130,000 barrels of oil the platform pumps up every day.
Hibernia received no fines for any incident. Mr. Harvey of the Coast Guard says he believes that there were many other unreported spills.
"In its environmental impact statement, Hibernia said the possibility of spills occurring was nearly nil," he said. "Yet we have oil in the water almost every week. "
Thomas F. Zapatka, environmental and safety manager for Hibernia, said the company strictly follows all environmental guidelines. "We've never seen any wildlife damaged or impacted," near the platform, he said.
Experts say sea birds are loath to come to land, and only something as awful as being coated with oil will bring them to shore. The point isn't wasted on Stan Tobin, who, truth be told, is loath to leave this land.
"I can't put my finger on it, exactly," he said, watching waves break on the gravelly beach of Ship Cove that he knows so well. "You develop this great attachment for the land. A guy could almost die for it."
 
http://www.nytimes.com

CORRECTION-DATE: July 28, 1999, Wednesday

 CORRECTION:
A map yesterday with an article about Ship Cove, Newfoundland, where volunteers clean sea birds contaminated by oil, showed the location incorrectly. The scene of the article is in southeast Newfoundland; another Ship Cove, shown on the map, is at the northern tip of the island of Newfoundland.

GRAPHIC: Photos: Stan Tobin, 50, a local fisherman, farmer, entrepreneur and romantic, rescues and cleans sea birds that are soiled by oil from bilge-dumping off the Newfoundland coast. (Anthony DePalma/The New York Times); Below, a thick-billed murre was covered in heavy, sticky oil last February. Ten-year-old Everett Stone looked on. (Jon Stone)
 
Map of Newfoundland highlighting Ship Cove: Ship Cove is one of the only bird-rescue centers in Atlantic Canada.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: CANADA (93%); UNITED STATES (79%); 

STATE: NEWFOUNDLAND & LABRADOR, CANADA (93%); ALASKA, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: CANADIAN COAST GUARD (55%); CANADIAN COAST GUARD (55%); 

ORGANIZATION: CANADIAN COAST GUARD (55%); CANADIAN COAST GUARD (55%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: CANADA (93%); UNITED STATES (79%); NEWFOUNDLAND & LABRADOR, CANADA (93%); ALASKA, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: Terms not available from NYTimes. from NYTimes. BIRDS (87%); MARINE TRANSPORTATION ACCIDENTS (77%); VOLUNTEERS (73%); OILS & FATS (73%); WATER POLLUTION (72%); OIL SPILLS (72%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (63%); COLD INJURIES (61%); OCEANS (50%); 

PERSON: BRIAN TOBIN (84%); STAN TOBIN (59%); 

LOAD-DATE: July 27, 1999



658 of 738 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 28, 1999

SECTION: Section F; Page 7; Column 1; Dining In, Dining Out/Style Desk 

LENGTH: 1155 words

HEADLINE: WINE TALK;
Lessons From an Up-and-Down Past

BYLINE: By Frank J. Prial 

 BODY:
"FROM the moment when you start to think of wine as an investment and not as something to be drunk, that's the end," Elie de Rothschild said almost 30 years ago, when he was managing partner of Chateau Lafite-Rothschild in Bordeaux. His words, applied to today's frenzied market, are still wise, if anyone will heed them.
Back then, the Bordeaux wine market had gone mad. After a string of mediocre vintages, the world was ready for a good Bordeaux, and 1970 supplied that demand. Americans, for the first time, had become important players in the Bordeaux market. Thanks to the publicity engendered by the excellent 1959 and the legendary 1961 vintages, Bordeaux sales to the United States had been increasing 10 percent a year through the 1960's. In 1969, they increased 50 percent from the prior year. The value of good older vintages shot up as well. 
 As Mr. de Rothschild said, Bordeaux wine had changed from a drink to an investment. But his timing was a bit off; it wasn't until 1973 that the Bordeaux market collapsed, and it took almost a decade before the market fully recovered.
Since those days, a new generation of wine drinkers -- and wine investors -- has appeared on the scene, just as eager to pay any price for high-end Bordeaux wines and to hold them as investments rather than to consume. The Bordeaux trade has gone through fundamental changes since the early 1970's but there are few signs that it is any less susceptible to the boom-and-bust cycles of the past.
New investors in Bordeaux with little sense of the past and big spenders who think the party will go on indefinitely would do well to read "The Winemasters of Bordeaux," Nicholas Faith's absorbing book about the Bordeaux wine trade. First published in 1978, it has been thoroughly updated and just released by Prion ($29.95). Given the current state of the Bordeaux market, with wines like Chateau Petrus selling for $500 a bottle and more, Mr. Faith could not have chosen a more opportune time to reissue his book.
Mr. Faith, a former business editor of The Sunday Times of London and a contributor to The Financial Times, first explains Bordeaux's beginnings as a medieval trading center. But he concentrates on the wine trade's long, painful transformation from a fusty, inward-looking community based on family ties, to a business that has opened itself to the modern world, though somewhat grudgingly.
Mostly, he writes about the rise and fall of the Chartronnais, the small group of powerful merchants, mostly of foreign origin, who controlled the Bordeaux market for two centuries. Originally banned from the center of Bordeaux by the local wine merchants, the foreigners, who came from Germany, Scandinavia, Britain and Ireland, settled just outside the city along the Quai des Chartrons. Beginning with the export markets to their countries of origin, the Chartronnais came to dominate the entire Bordeaux wine trade.
The influence of the Chartronnais families -- the Cruses, the Eschenauers, the Bartons and the Johnstons -- began to wane after World War II. To Mr. Faith, it was Baron Philippe de Rothschild, who took over his family's property, Mouton-Rothschild, just after World War I, who began to change things. Traditionally, the Chartronnais bought wine from the chateaus, bottled it, aged it, sold it and shipped it. Philippe de Rothschild chose to do it all himself.
Eventually many other chateau owners did the same, taking control of their own wine. In 1973, the most powerful of all the Chartronnais families, the Cruses, were convicted of buying cheap wine and selling it as higher-quality Bordeaux. The trial, which became known as Winegate, made it clear that many of the merchant families had routinely done the same.
Though the 1971 and 1972 vintages were of indifferent quality, investors snapped them up. With prices still high and a glut of wine from the enormous 1973 crop, demand began to drop rapidly. The world oil crisis and, to some extent, suspicions raised by the Winegate affair turned off would-be buyers. Investors who bought the 1971 and 1972 wines before they had been bottled watched helplessly as the prices of those wines plummeted.
The golden days quickly ended, as they almost inevitably will again. How long will the current boom last? In this country, at least, as long as the economy, which fuels it, continues to grow.
Will Bordeaux survive the next crisis? Almost certainly, as it has each crisis in the past. The Chartronnais are gone, and so for the most part are the international liquor companies that invested in the chateaus for a time. A new breed, including insurance companies and wealthy private individuals, has moved in.
And some of the old families who had been under the thumb of the Chartronnais have come to the fore. They are typified by Jean-Michel Cazes, who owns Chateau Lynch-Bages in Pauillac and Les Ormes-de-Pez in St.-Estephe. He also manages half a dozen properties, including Chateau Pichon-Baron in Pauillac for AXA, an insurance company with wine investments in France, Portugal and Hungary. Like many of the new Bordeaux wine merchants, he was educated in the United States and is at home selling wine anywhere in world.
The prestige of owning a Bordeaux chateau has always been high and, if anything, has grown over the last 15 years, when so many vintages have been good to superb. But as Mr. Faith shows and as any serious wine buyer should know, the Bordeaux wine trade is like no other business anywhere.
To sum it up, Mr. Faith, paraphrasing Winston Churchill's description of democracy, calls it "the worst system ever invented, except all the others that anyone has ever thought of."
 
Tastings
A Red Seeking a New Image
Lang & Reed Cabernet Franc 1997, Napa Valley, Calif. About $18.
CABERNET FRANC is the vinous equivalent of the decent guy in the movies who never gets the girl. It's always there, but never seems to rise to star status. One exception comes to mind: Chateau Cheval Blanc, one of the most famous properties in St.-Emilion. The magnificent wine of Cheval Blanc is invariably a blend of two-thirds bouchet, which is what cabernet franc is called in that part of the world, and merlot.
Cabernet franc is also the grape in Bourgueil, Chinon and Saumur-Champigny in the Loire Valley. Washington State has produced some fine cabernet francs, and so has Long Island.
California has produced its share of good ones, but the wine has yet to emerge as an important varietal. Lang & Reed, a new winery in the Napa Valley, is among those hoping to create a new image for the grape. Its version is worth trying. It has the intensity of a good cabernet sauvignon, plenty of fruit and an intriguing bouquet, but the structure is leaner and less complex. And it isn't marred by too much oak.
Unlike so many merlots, which can be mistaken for cabernet sauvignon, this wine has its own attractive personality.
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photo: THROUGH GOOD TIMES AND BAD -- Nicholas Faith's book explores the boom-and-bust cycles of the Bordeaux wine trade over the centuries.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

TITLE: WINEMASTERS OF BORDEAUX, THE (BOOK)

INDUSTRY: NAICS511110 NEWSPAPER PUBLISHERS (63%); SIC2711 NEWSPAPERS: PUBLISHING, OR PUBLISHING & PRINTING (63%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); UNITED KINGDOM (79%); GERMANY (74%); NORDIC COUNTRIES (50%); IRELAND (50%); 

COMPANY: FINANCIAL TIMES GROUP (63%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: FRANCE; BORDEAUX (FRANCE); UNITED STATES (92%); UNITED KINGDOM (79%); GERMANY (74%); NORDIC COUNTRIES (50%); IRELAND (50%); 

SUBJECT: ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGES; WINES; BOOKS AND LITERATURE ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGES (90%); WINE (90%); ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGE INDUSTRY (89%); BEER WINE & LIQUOR STORES (73%); LITERATURE (67%); 

PERSON: PRIAL, FRANK J; FAITH, NICHOLAS NICHOLAS FAITH (69%); 

LOAD-DATE: July 28, 1999



659 of 738 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 28, 1999

SECTION: Section E; Page 1; Column 2; The Arts/Cultural Desk 

LENGTH: 1151 words

HEADLINE: CRITIC'S NOTEBOOK;
A Hum, Then a Shout: The Shock of the New at Tanglewood

BYLINE: By ANTHONY TOMMASINI 

DATELINE: LENOX, Mass., July 27

 BODY:
Since Seiji Ozawa instigated a shake-up two years ago at the Tanglewood Music Center, the summer training institute for young musicians in the bucolic Berkshire Mountains, there have been notable changes. This is to be expected. After all, Mr. Ozawa, the conductor of the Boston Symphony Orchestra, which sponsors and runs the institute, intended to put his stamp on the program.
No move this summer has been more provocative than the appointment of the Chinese-born composer Tan Dun as the director of the weeklong Festival of Contemporary Music, which has just concluded. For at least 20 years this festival has attracted international attention. Composers and musicians have felt passionately about it and been quick to extol, ponder and criticize the choices of repertory. Some highly distinguished and diverse composers have presided over new music activities at Tanglewood in the past, including Gunther Schuller, Oliver Knussen, John Harbison and Reinbert de Leeuw. 
 Mr. Tan, who was trained at the Central Conservatory in Beijing and at Columbia University and now lives in New York, certainly represents a departure. Going on 42, affable and full of irrepressible energy, he was present everywhere during the festival week and conducted the students in some solid performances of difficult new works. He also purposely tried to internationalize the offerings, presenting works by composers from 18 countries. If a large number of them were Asian-born and fairly young, that arguably represents an overdue correction of a focus that has favored composers from the West.
That said, as a composer role model Mr. Tan fell short. Earlier in his career his music was intricate and stimulating. But as he has gained popularity and won major commissions (including from the Metropolitan Opera), his music has become increasingly muddled and gimmicky, like his 1993 "Orchestral Theater II: Re," which was performed by the Boston Symphony on Sunday afternoon at the Music Shed as a contribution to the festival on a program that also offered Mr. Ozawa conducting works by Gabrieli, Mahler and Tchaikovsky. This 25-minute work for divided orchestra with two conductors (Mr. Tan and Federico Cortese) and bass (Stephen Richardson) is a trademark Tan grand statement. "It's about life, nature, growing," the composer enthused beforehand, "where nature, the audience and the orchestra are one." In two passages the audience is asked to participate: first by humming a prolonged mid-range D (the "Re" of the title) to reinforce the pedal tine drone that runs through much of the piece; later by chanting "Hong-Mi-La-Ga-Yi-Go," first slowly, then frantically.
Mr. Tan and Mr. Cortese took time to rehearse the audience beforehand, and the normally sedate listeners entered into the spirit with surprising eagerness. There wasn't much else to do, for Mr. Tan's score is pretty thin: orchestra drones, sustained clashing intervals of a minor second that take their time to resolve, some occasional orchestral busyness that evokes Chinese music. The soloist, Mr. Richardson, was required only to mutter low-pitched chants like a gravelly voiced Tibetan monk, though here and there he started shouting exhortations: "Light unending! Mountains! Silence!" The fellowship musicians in the audience could be observed in perplexed conversation afterward, trying to make sense of work that, even taken as theater, was cliched and silly.
That night the students presented a concert at Seiji Ozawa Hall called "Vocal Calligraphy," which featured works in which the mimicking by the voice of florid, elegant calligraphic handwriting is more important than purely melodic writing or the lucid setting of words. And the skill and craft of several works, most by composers born in the 1950's and 60's, were gratefully received after Mr. Tan's theatrics.
"As in a Dream" by the Chinese composer Chen Yi was impressive for its mix of leisurely yet elaborate vocal lines for soprano (Caprice Corona) and skittish fluttering writing for piano trio. Three Chinese Love Songs by Bright Sheng were also alluring, in which a soprano (Martha Angeline Guth) and violist (Christine Grossman) engage in intense interplay while a pianist (Christopher Luthi) measures the music with clipped rhythms and pungent chords. There were also interesting works by Unsuk Chin, Robert Zuidam and Karin Rehnqvist. But the master at calligraphic vocal writing was Earl Kim, who died last year and whose "Now and Then" for soprano (Marie Anne Kowan) and viola/flute/harp trio was performed; this is music of inner-directed beauty and stunning economy of gesture.
The level of playing was generally high, and sometimes extraordinary, especially Scott Andrews, a recent Tanglewood Music Center Fellow and, since 1995, the second clarinet of the Boston Symphony. Mr. Andrews played a solo piece, "Wings" (1981), on a prelude concert of works by Joan Tower. The music shifts from long spans of sustained tones that evoke the motionlessness of a falcon in flight to incandescent passages that dip and dive as the falcon picks its prey.
The final concert on Monday night by the Tanglewood Music Center Orchestra began shakily. Michael Gordon's kinetic but rather formulaic "Romeo," which like many of this American composer's works tries to merge Stravinsky, Minimalism and brash bold rock, received an uncertain performance under Mr. Tan.
The British composer George Benjamin's "Sometime Voices," in its United States premiere, was much anticipated and did not disappoint. Though just 12 minutes long, this work for large orchestra, chorus and baritone soloist seems a mystical masterpiece. The vocalist (Drew Poling) intones a passage from Shakespeare's "Tempest" in almost eerily halting vocal lines as the chorus comments in sputtering, soft abstract syllables or quiet choralelike benedictions. A keen ear as well as an indebtedness to the ecstatic harmony of Messiaen and the textural precision of Toru Takemitsu characterize Mr. Benjamin's work. The composer drew a compelling performance from the fellowship players.
Mr. Benjamin's work set up our expectations for the wondrous Takemitsu piece that concluded the evening, "Twill by Twilight," conducted by Stefan Asbury. But the program's most unusual item was "A Thousand Sweeps" by Wing Fai Law, a concerto for pipa (a lutelike traditional Chinese instrument) and orchestra, with Wu Man as soloist and Mr. Tan conducting. Like an Indian sitar, the pipa can bend pitches, wail softly and slide. But its sound is not large, so long stretches of the vivid work were call-and-response exchanges between the soloist and orchestra. The music is not what most Western concertgoers are used to and not what the festival has been known for in the past. Mr. Tan has changed that. And whatever you think of this piece or his leadership, this is what he was brought in for, and he did it.
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photo: Tan Dun conducting the Tanglewood Music Center orchestra at the Festival of Contemporary Music, which ended on Monday. (Alan E. Solomon for The New York Times)(pg. E5)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%); CHINA (77%); 

STATE: MASSACHUSETTS, USA (93%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); NORTH CENTRAL CHINA (72%); 

CITY: BOSTON, MA, USA (93%); BEIJING, CHINA (72%); 

COMPANY: COLUMBIA UNIVERSITY PRESS (55%); COLUMBIA UNIVERSITY (55%); COLUMBIA UNIVERSITY (55%); 

ORGANIZATION: COLUMBIA UNIVERSITY (55%); COLUMBIA UNIVERSITY (55%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%); CHINA (77%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (93%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); NORTH CENTRAL CHINA (72%); BOSTON, MA, USA (93%); BEIJING, CHINA (72%); 

SUBJECT: MUSIC; REVIEWS; TANGLEWOOD MUSIC FESTIVAL (LENOX, MASS); FESTIVAL OF CONTEMPORARY MUSIC MUSIC (95%); SINGERS & MUSICIANS (90%); FESTIVALS (90%); MUSIC COMPOSITION (90%); POP & ROCK (90%); ARTS FESTIVALS & EXHIBITIONS (90%); ARTISTS & PERFORMERS (90%); MUSIC INDUSTRY (90%); CLASSICAL MUSIC (89%); MUSIC GROUPS & ARTISTS (89%); MUSIC REVIEWS (78%); SPONSORSHIP (78%); MOUNTAINS (77%); THEATER (75%); OPERA (71%); 

PERSON: TOMMASINI, ANTHONY; TAN DUN GUNTHER SCHULLER (56%); JOHN HARRIS HARBISON (56%); 

LOAD-DATE: July 28, 1999



660 of 738 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 28, 1999

SECTION: Section C; Page 4; Column 3; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 488 words

HEADLINE: INTERNATIONAL BUSINESS;
China and U.S. Meet on Trade and Chilled Relations Thaw a Bit

BYLINE: By SETH FAISON 

DATELINE: BEIJING, July 27

 BODY:
China and the United States held trade talks here today and agreed to higher-level discussions later this year, a new sign of slowly thawing relations. But they remained frozen on the most prominent issue -- China's proposed entry into the World Trade Organization.
Deputy Commerce Secretary David L. Aaron met with Foreign Trade Minister Shi Guangsheng and two other senior Chinese officials to discuss a number of commercial issues. Yet the Chinese only talked about trade organization membership indirectly, Mr. Aaron said, and they showed no willingness to establish a timetable for new negotiations. 
 "I think we're still waiting," he added. "The decision remains to be theirs."
Chinese officials have said they were still determined to enter the trade organization, the 134-nation group that makes the rules of global commerce, by the end of the year. Entry would require approval of the United States and other influential members of the trade body.
Yet China and the United States have been unable to recover the ground lost in April when President Clinton rejected a proposed deal, with significant concessions, offered by Prime Minister Zhu Rongji during a visit to Washington.
Criticized for missing an opportunity, Mr. Clinton then expressed a willingness to close a deal quickly. But before it could be secured, United States aircraft operating under NATO auspices accidentally bombed the Chinese Embassy in Yugoslavia on May 7, seriously angering Beijing. Talks on trade organization membership, human rights and security issues were suspended.
Beijing and Washington still cannot agree on how China should be compensated for the deaths of three Chinese journalists killed in the attack. Chinese officials have been unwilling to reopen trade organization negotiations until the matter of compensation is resolved.
Mr. Aaron said he found it encouraging that Chinese officials invited him to visit at all. In addition, he said, the Chinese told him repeatedly that their country wanted to strengthen its relationship with Washington. They also refrained from lecturing him about American faults, as Chinese officials often do when relations are at their worst.
Mr. Aaron said that he and Mr. Shi had agreed to lead a meeting of a joint commercial forum here later this year with Secretary of Commerce William M. Daley. A date was not set. The forum, called the Joint Committee on Commerce and Trade, will include working groups on information technology, aviation, environmental technology and in other areas, Mr. Aaron said.
He also said he thought it was still possible that an agreement could be reached on trade organization membership this year. Other officials have said that reaching a deal in 1999 will only be possible if it is endorsed by President Clinton and President Jiang Zemin when they meet in New Zealand in September at an Asia-Pacific economic conference.
 
http://www.nytimes.com

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

COUNTRY: CHINA (98%); UNITED STATES (98%); NEW ZEALAND (79%); ASIA (79%); 

STATE: NORTH CENTRAL CHINA (93%); 

CITY: BEIJING, CHINA (89%); 

COMPANY: WORLD TRADE ORGANIZATION WORLD TRADE ORGANIZATION (84%); WORLD TRADE ORGANIZATION (84%); NORTH ATLANTIC TREATY ORGANIZATION (54%); 

ORGANIZATION: WORLD TRADE ORGANIZATION WORLD TRADE ORGANIZATION (84%); WORLD TRADE ORGANIZATION (84%); NORTH ATLANTIC TREATY ORGANIZATION (54%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: CHINA; CHINA (98%); UNITED STATES (98%); NEW ZEALAND (79%); ASIA (79%); NORTH CENTRAL CHINA (93%); BEIJING, CHINA (89%); 

SUBJECT: INTERNATIONAL TRADE AND WORLD MARKET; UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; CHINA-INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS-US TALKS & MEETINGS (91%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (91%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (90%); TRADE DEVELOPMENT (90%); COMMERCE DEPARTMENTS (90%); US PRESIDENTS (89%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (89%); CONFERENCES & CONVENTIONS (78%); GLOBALIZATION (76%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (73%); APPROVALS (72%); EMBASSIES & CONSULATES (71%); WAR & CONFLICT (66%); PRIME MINISTERS (52%); 

PERSON: FAISON, SETH; AARON, DAVID L (DEPUTY SEC); SHI GUANGSHENG (MIN) BILL CLINTON (87%); 

LOAD-DATE: July 28, 1999



661 of 738 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 28, 1999

SECTION: Section C; Page 25; Column 1; National Desk 

LENGTH: 445 words

HEADLINE: Benedict Wolf, 94, Negotiator On the Federal Labor Board

BYLINE: By WOLFGANG SAXON 

 BODY:
Benedict Wolf, a New York lawyer and veteran mediator who served on the original Federal labor board, died on Friday at his home on the Upper West Side of Manhattan. He was 94.
Mr. Wolf was summoned to Washington from his private New York practice in 1933 to become executive officer of a newly formed National Labor Board. Under the chairmanship of Senator Robert F. Wagner, it brought together representatives of business and labor unions to settle disputes, and Mr. Wolf acted as Mr. Wagner's legal assistant. 
 Mr. Wolf, a Democrat, was a principal architect of President Franklin D. Roosevelt's New Deal legislation. His interest in protecting working people from unfair labor practices during the Depression led to the formation in 1935 of a more structured National Labor Relations Board with branches around the country.
One of Mr. Wolf's final tasks with the earlier board took him back to New York, where 200,000 elevator operators and building-service employees were preparing to strike in February 1935. Foreseeing health hazards and a crippled economy, Mayor Fiorello H. La Guardia marshaled the Police and Fire Departments to keep the city moving, but negotiators, including Mr. Wolf, narrowly averted the walkout in a long night of contract bargaining.
Mr. Wolf became the executive secretary and chief trial examiner of the new labor board. He oversaw the board's administrative and field staffs and kept close contact with its 22 regional boards.
The system was functioning in the uncharted territory of a new law, the Labor Relations Act, and Mr. Wolf traveled coast to coast to see that the board was working as intended. He organized and oversaw a staff of trial examiners who fanned out across the country to conduct hearings when violations of the act were alleged. He regularly reported to the members of the board about its operations and the affairs of the regional branches.
He returned to private practice in 1937 but kept up his role as an independent labor mediator and arbitrator for several more years and later served on the New York State Mediation Board.
Benedict Wolf, a native of Wood ridge, N. Y., was a 1925 graduate of City College, where he played football and contributed to its literary magazine. While at Columbia Law School, he also pursued a master of arts program and received degrees in law and English literature in 1928.
In 1945 he was a founder of what is now the Manhattan firm of Wolf Popper, to which he remained of counsel.
Mr. Wolf's wife, Miriam Jacobi Wolf, died in 1995 after 67 years of marriage. He is survived by his daughter, Dr. Deborah W. Tanzer, and three grandsons.
 
http://www.nytimes.com

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Obituary (Obit); Biography

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (95%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (95%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (93%); 

COMPANY: COAST-TO-COAST COMMUNICATIONS INC (66%); COAST-TO-COAST FINANCIAL CORP (66%); COAST-TO-COAST ANALYTICAL SERVICES INC (66%); COAST-TO-COAST BUILDING PRODUCTS INC (66%); COAST-TO-COAST CONSULTING INC (66%); COAST-TO-COAST SEAFOOD INC (66%); NATIONAL LABOR RELATIONS BOARD (56%); NATIONAL LABOR RELATIONS BOARD (56%); 

ORGANIZATION: NATIONAL LABOR RELATIONS BOARD (56%); NATIONAL LABOR RELATIONS BOARD (56%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (95%); NEW YORK, USA (95%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (93%); 

SUBJECT: DEATHS (OBITUARIES); BIOGRAPHICAL INFORMATION DEATHS & OBITUARIES (98%); LABOR MEDIATION & ARBITRATION (90%); LAWYERS (89%); LEGISLATION (89%); LABOR & EMPLOYMENT LAW (89%); LITERATURE (84%); LAW SCHOOLS (78%); COLLECTIVE BARGAINING (78%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); ALTERNATIVE DISPUTE RESOLUTION (78%); FIRE DEPARTMENTS (78%); LABOR UNIONS (78%); EXECUTIVES (77%); GREAT DEPRESSION (77%); ECONOMIC DEPRESSION (75%); LABOR DEPARTMENTS (73%); CITY GOVERNMENT (72%); GRADUATE & PROFESSIONAL SCHOOLS (65%); GRANDCHILDREN (60%); 

PERSON: WOLF, BENEDICT; SAXON, WOLFGANG MIRIAM JACOBI WOLF (95%); BENEDICT WOLF (76%); ROBERT F WAGNER (63%); 

LOAD-DATE: July 28, 1999



662 of 738 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 28, 1999

SECTION: Section C; Page 4; Column 3; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 599 words

HEADLINE: INTERNATIONAL BUSINESS;
Brazil, in a Rift With Argentina, Suspends Commercial Talks

BYLINE: By SIMON ROMERO 

DATELINE: SAO PAULO, Brazil, July 27

 BODY:
Brazil has halted all commercial negotiations with Argentina after the two countries, South America's largest economies, clashed in a series of trade disputes.
A decision by the Argentines on Monday to review imports for evidence of unfair trading practices and possibly to impose restrictions in some areas led to Brazil's decision. 
 The Brazilians also called for a meeting next week with Argentina, Paraguay and Uruguay, the members of the Mercosur regional trade zone, to discuss the bloc's future. Mercosur has economically benefited all its members by stimulating cross-border trade through lower tariffs.
"This type of protection by Argentina is not legally foreseen within Mercosur, which was created under the principles of free trade," Jose Alfredo Graca Lima, an under secretary in Brazil's Foreign Ministry, said to reporters in the capital, Brasilia.
The tension between the bloc's two largest members represents the most serious crisis to confront Mercosur since it was formed in 1991. Mercosur ranks as the world's third-largest trading bloc, though well behind the North American Free Trade Agreement and the European Union.
Although Mercosur expanded trade among its four members to $18.2 billion last year from $3.6 billion in 1991, a severe regional economic slowdown has strained relations between Brazil and Argentina. The flash point of recent tension can be traced to Brazil's currency devaluation in January, which destabilized the flow of regional trade.
After the devaluation, Argentina's exports to Brazil, its largest trading partner, tumbled more than 30 percent in the first quarter of the year. And although Brazilian goods were made cheaper with the decline of the real against the Argentine peso, which is locked into the exchange rate of the United States dollar, exports to Argentina also declined, falling 22 percent in the same period.
The slump in economic activity in both countries explains the fairly severe decline in trade. And Argentina, which is more dependent on the larger, more varied Brazilian economy than vice versa, appears to be under greater strain.
For instance, there have been an estimated 10 bond defaults by Argentine borrowers in international markets so far this year, compared with half that number by Brazilian borrowers. Argentina's gross domestic product is forecast to shrink 3 percent this year, compared with a 1 percent expected decline in Brazil..
Argentina's first serious dispute with Brazil came in the form of an anti-dumping charge against the Brazilian steel industry late last year, and was followed by restrictions on Brazilian textiles. Similar actions involving Brazilian shoes and sugar are under consideration.
"Since Europe and the U.S. are also our significant trading partners, the problems with Argentina don't always merit great attention," said Michel Alaby, vice president of the Mercosur Integration Association of Brazilian Companies. "But in Argentina, where trade with Brazil is so important, this is a very big deal."
While economic concerns are overriding, Brazil's pressure on Argentina is also political.
The Brazilians, who are seeking to exert greater influence in Latin America, were irked by Argentine overtures to forge closer ties to the North Atlantic Treaty Organization. Speculation that Argentina might adopt the dollar as its currency has also worried Brazil's Government.
Nonetheless, relations between the two countries are better than they were 20 years ago, when Argentina and Brazil were stockpiling weapons and considered each other potential enemies. 
http://www.nytimes.com

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

TICKER: APAGF (NASDAQ) (90%); 

COUNTRY: BRAZIL (99%); ARGENTINA (98%); PARAGUAY (93%); UNITED STATES (92%); URUGUAY (92%); SOUTH AMERICA (92%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (79%); NORTH AMERICA (79%); 

CITY: SAO PAULO, BRAZIL (79%); 

COMPANY: MERCOSUR (COMMON MARKET) APCO ARGENTINA INC (90%); SOUTHERN COMMON MARKET (MERCOSUR) (94%); SOUTHERN COMMON MARKET (MERCOSUR) (94%); NORTH AMERICAN FREE TRADE AGREEMENT (55%); EUROPEAN UNION (55%); EUROPEAN UNION (55%); NORTH AMERICAN FREE TRADE AGREEMENT (55%); 

ORGANIZATION: MERCOSUR (COMMON MARKET) SOUTHERN COMMON MARKET (MERCOSUR) (94%); SOUTHERN COMMON MARKET (MERCOSUR) (94%); NORTH AMERICAN FREE TRADE AGREEMENT (55%); EUROPEAN UNION (55%); EUROPEAN UNION (55%); NORTH AMERICAN FREE TRADE AGREEMENT (55%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: BRAZIL; ARGENTINA; PARAGUAY; BRAZIL (99%); ARGENTINA (98%); PARAGUAY (93%); UNITED STATES (92%); URUGUAY (92%); SOUTH AMERICA (92%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (79%); NORTH AMERICA (79%); SAO PAULO, BRAZIL (79%); 

SUBJECT: INTERNATIONAL TRADE AND WORLD MARKET; PROTECTIONISM (TRADE); ARGENTINA-INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS-BRAZIL INTERNATIONAL TRADE (92%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (92%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); EXPORT TRADE (89%); AGRICULTURAL TRADE (89%); IMPORT TRADE (89%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (89%); TRADE DISPUTES (89%); GROSS DOMESTIC PRODUCT (78%); TRADE TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (78%); PROTECTIONISM (78%); CURRENCIES (78%); STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (78%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (78%); FREE TRADE TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (78%); ANTIDUMPING LAWS (78%); BONDS (78%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE LAW (77%); TARIFFS & DUTIES (77%); EUROPEAN UNION (76%); TERRITORIAL & NATIONAL BORDERS (73%); US DOLLAR (72%); EURO (71%); DEVALUATION (70%); EXCHANGE RATES (65%); TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (52%); 

PERSON: ROMERO, SIMON

LOAD-DATE: July 28, 1999



663 of 738 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 28, 1999

SECTION: Section A; Page 10; Column 3; Foreign Desk 

LENGTH: 1204 words

HEADLINE: In Congo War's Wake, a Massacre of the Wildlife

BYLINE: By IAN FISHER 

DATELINE: BUKAVU, Congo, July 27

 BODY:
Kahuzi-Biega National Park is where Dian Fossey first saw wild gorillas. It is the first park to allow tourists to get near them, for a price that enriched local people. Bill Gates visited there in 1993, and he tipped his guide $400.
Now the park, in the jungles of eastern Congo, is providing a glimpse of how the war in central Africa, fought for five years now, is destroying the region's distinctly beautiful wildlife. 
 In neat rows near the park entrance, workers have created an above-ground graveyard for the victims' remains: the skulls of more than 40 elephants, 3 grown gorillas and a baby. Nearby lay the tiny severed hands of two small gorillas.
"In Rwanda they are talking about a human genocide," Basengezi Katintima, Governor of South Kivu Province in eastern Congo, said, looking over his shoulder at the skulls. "Here we are talking about an animal genocide."
Park officials estimate that perhaps 100 of the 250 eastern lowland gorillas in the park's highlands have been killed since 1996, along with three-quarters of the 400 forest elephants alive before the war. Poaching has picked up markedly since April: arrested poachers have admitted to killing 20 gorillas and 17 elephants since then. Trade in ivory thrives.
Even as the many combatants in Congo discuss peace, the war is also clearly disrupting a complex dynamic -- among animals, local people and rich foreign tourists -- that some conservationists believe is the best hope for saving the dwindling wildlife of Africa.
Before the war, more than 3,000 tourists, most of them Americans like Mr. Gates, visited the park each year. They helped keep poachers away, in part because so many people were in the forest. As important, their money helped build schools, roads and water projects that made people in the poor and densely populated area around the park feel they had a stake in its survival.
Now, with no tourists during five years of war, the local economy has hit bottom. Mankoto Ma Oyisenzoo, a primatologist and the park's director, said that elephant meat is popular because it is half the price of beef ($1 for two pounds). Hostility to the park -- once the home of pygmies who hunted and collected wood and plants for medicine -- is rising.
"These people have nothing," said Norbert Mushenzi, director of the Congolese Institute for the Conservation of Nature.
On a recent day at the park, the authorities displayed half a dozen arrested poachers, including Bulabi Lubaga, a 62-year-old pygmy dressed in an irredeemably tattered jacket and pants. The authorities say he is a longtime poacher. He said he was in the park collecting honey and trapping monkeys to survive.
"I was hungry," he said.
But Mr. Lubaga is only a bit player in a poaching problem that wildlife officials say has risen substantially since the turbulence in Congo began in the early 1990's. Poaching has always existed, officials say, but after 1994 the poachers began to do their work with automatic weapons, which made killing far more efficient.
The weapons were bought cheaply from Hutu former Rwandan Army soldiers who fled Rwanda that year after the killings of at least half a million Tutsi and moderate Hutu.
Since then Kahuzi-Biega National Park has been a base for Hutu rebels and Congolese guerrillas called the Mayi Mayi through two uprisings. The first one began in October 1996 and ended in the overthrow of Mobutu Sese Seko, the longtime dictator of Congo, then known as Zaire. The second began last August, and continues today in its drive to oust Mobutu's successor, Laurent Kabila.
Mr. Oyisenzoo, the park director, said poaching had become highly organized in the absence of any authority in the park. Elephants are slaughtered for meat, he said, and the ivory is shipped to Rwanda and then on to Dubai. Gorillas, he said, are also killed for meat -- which he said costs about the same as elephant -- and their heads are shipped abroad as trophies. Live baby gorillas are also sold abroad, he said.
What makes Mr. Oyisenzoo's numbers all the more worrying is that he is only able to see a small part of the park, the highlands that rise about 7,500 feet to the park's east 15 miles from Bukavu. The vast lowlands, which make up some 90 percent of the park, are still occupied by the Hutu rebels and the Mayi Mayi.
And he said he fears that many of the 2,200 eastern lowland gorillas there -- among a total population of perhaps 5,000 in Congo before the war -- may have been slaughtered for meat.
"The Mayi Mayi don't eat vegetables," he said. "Only meat."
The park's eastern highlands are distinct for two reasons.
First, some experts say the gorillas there, while called lowland gorillas, are actually closer genetically to the nearly extinct mountain gorilla. There are only 650 mountain gorillas left, in parks in Rwanda and Uganda and farther north in Congo. Eight tourists were killed in March by Hutu rebels, while tracking mountain gorillas in Uganda, and tourism has yet to rebound.
Second, many of the gorillas killed recently -- 12 of the 20 in the last three months -- had been conditioned to human contact and were, in fact, the gorillas that tourists came to see. Before the war, five families of gorillas had undergone what is called "habituation," a process that takes two years or more. While some conservationists object, tourists could actually touch the park's gorillas.
"You could swim among them," said John Kahekwa, 35, a gorilla tracker who has worked in the park since 1983.
Since then, four out of the five habituated silverbacks, the male gorillas who lead the families, have been killed.
And so now gorillas are much harder to find, which may make the revival of the park, apart from the war, that much more difficult. On a recent day, Mr. Kahekwa and other trackers followed a group of gorillas once led by a silverback named Nindja.
In October 1997 Nindja was shot to death by poachers while crossing a road. The head female of the group, Mugoli -- the name means Queen in the local Mashi language -- took over but has since been afraid of human beings.
"She doesn't want to see people because they fired on them," Mr. Kahekwa said.
He led a group of visitors though the forest, stopping at one point over the ashes of a campfire left by poachers and by a tree where elephants had once scratched their heads.
"I walk in here every day and I haven't seen any elephants for the past three months," he said.
Of the 24 gorillas in Nindja's original group, only 6 remain -- among them a young male, the only gorilla Mr. Kahekwa found after three hours of looking. He is not used to human beings, and with a loud growl, he charged at Mr. Kahekwa twice. Mr. Kahekwa dropped down but stood his ground. The gorilla backed off.
"He charged just to intimidate," he said. "But I talked to him. I said, 'Calm down.' "
The local authorities are praying for the war to end and for the tourists to return. Although a peace accord was drafted in Zambia this month, the three rebel groups have yet to sign and the fighting goes on, a bad sign for people and wildlife alike.
"If we cannot respect man," Mr. Oyisenzoo asked, "how can we respect the animals in the forest?"
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photo: A western lowland gorilla and baby. Central Africa's gorillas are increasingly endangered by war. (Wildlife Conservation Society)
 
Map showing the location of Kahuzi-Biega National Park: Kahuzi-Biega National Park in Congo is now without tourists.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

COUNTRY: AFRICA (94%); CENTRAL AFRICA (93%); CONGO, THE DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC OF THE (92%); RWANDA (79%); UNITED STATES (79%); 

COMPANY: WILDLIFE CONSERVATION SOCIETY (59%); WILDLIFE CONSERVATION SOCIETY (59%); 

ORGANIZATION: WILDLIFE CONSERVATION SOCIETY (59%); WILDLIFE CONSERVATION SOCIETY (59%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: CONGO (FORMERLY ZAIRE); AFRICA; KAHUZI-BIEGA NATIONAL PARK (CONGO); AFRICA (94%); CENTRAL AFRICA (93%); CONGO, THE DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC OF THE (92%); RWANDA (79%); UNITED STATES (79%); 

SUBJECT: CIVIL WAR AND GUERRILLA WARFARE; ANIMALS; WILDLIFE SANCTUARIES; TRAVEL AND VACATIONS; POACHING; ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS NATIONAL PARKS (92%); PRIMATES (90%); MAMMALS (90%); WILDLIFE (90%); ETHNIC CONFLICTS (90%); WAR & CONFLICT (90%); WILDLIFE CONSERVATION (89%); ANIMAL POACHING & TRAFFICKING (89%); TRAVEL HOSPITALITY & TOURISM (78%); AGRICULTURAL PRICES (78%); FOOD PRICES (77%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (77%); CIVIL WAR (76%); ENVIRONMENTAL & WILDLIFE ORGANIZATIONS (76%); ENVIRONMENTALISM (76%); INTERNATIONAL TOURISM (73%); ZOOLOGY (73%); MAMMALOGY (73%); BEEF (72%); ADMISSIONS & CONFESSIONS (66%); TRENDS (66%); ECONOMIC NEWS (61%); PARKS & PLAYGROUNDS (58%); POPULATION DENSITY (56%); SCHOOL BUILDINGS (50%); 

PERSON: FISHER, IAN DIAN FOSSEY (74%); 

LOAD-DATE: July 28, 1999



664 of 738 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 28, 1999

SECTION: Section C; Page 13; Column 3; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 378 words

HEADLINE: THE MARKETS: BONDS;
Prices Gain As Attractive Yields Lure Investors

BYLINE: By Bloomberg News 

 BODY:
Bond prices rose for the first time in a week as yields above 6 percent lured buyers.
"Any time yields are above 6 percent, they're pretty attractive," said Mitchell Stapley, who invests $3 billion of bonds for the Kent Funds in Grand Rapids, Mich. 
 The price of the benchmark 30-year bond rose 9/32, to 89 19/32. Its yield, which moves in the opposite direction from the price, fell to 6.01 percent from 6.03 percent.
Bonds also drew support after the Conference Board said its index of consumer confidence fell to 135.6 in July from 139 in June, a sign higher interest rates may be slowing the economy. Expectations were for a smaller decline, to 137.8.
Still, gains were limited by concerns that about $30 billion of corporate and Treasury debt scheduled for sale and the prospect of higher interest rates would hurt prices later. Two reports tomorrow may point to economic strength and inflation and prompt the Federal Reserve to raise interest rates for a second time when its policy committee meets on Aug. 24.
"The corporate calendar is quite heavy," said Christopher Sullivan, who manages the $475 million bond portfolio for United Nations Federal Credit Union. "It may be a bit of a struggle" getting all the bonds sold.
Sales by Wal-Mart Stores Inc. and other companies planned for the days ahead offer investors a higher-yielding alternative to Treasuries. Wal-Mart, the world's biggest retailer, plans to raise $5 billion, while Sun Microsystems Inc. and Home Depot Inc. are each expected to sell at least $1 billion of bonds.
Allied Waste North America Inc. sold $2 billion of bonds yesterday, while United Pan-Europe Communications issued $1.54 billion and 300 million euros of debt.
Companies are rushing to borrow to avoid any glitches from the Year 2000 computer problem and ahead of a possible increase in interest rates.
Besides the corporate debt sales, the Treasury will issue $15 billion of two-year notes today, which may draw demand from outstanding bonds. These sales also hurt Treasuries because investment banks tend to sell government debt before underwriting big bonds.
They do this to protect against a drop in prices as investors absorb the new securities. They buy their Treasuries back when the sales are complete.
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Graph tracks the Treasury Yield Curve for the past month. (Source: Technical Data)
 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

TICKER: WMT (NYSE) (83%); HD (NYSE) (82%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS452910 WAREHOUSE CLUBS & SUPERCENTERS (83%); NAICS452112 DISCOUNT DEPARTMENT STORES (83%); NAICS444120 PAINT & WALLPAPER STORES (82%); NAICS444110 HOME CENTERS (82%); NAICS541512 COMPUTER SYSTEMS DESIGN SERVICES (66%); NAICS511210 SOFTWARE PUBLISHERS (66%); NAICS334111 ELECTRONIC COMPUTER MANUFACTURING (66%); SIC7373 COMPUTER INTEGRATED SYSTEMS DESIGN (66%); SIC5045 COMPUTERS & COMPUTER PERIPHERAL EQUIPMENT & SOFTWARE (66%); SIC4841 CABLE & OTHER PAY TELEVISION SERVICES (53%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); EUROPE (79%); NORTH AMERICA (79%); 

STATE: MICHIGAN, USA (92%); 

CITY: GRAND RAPIDS, MI, USA (72%); 

COMPANY: WAL-MART STORES INC (83%); HOME DEPOT INC (82%); ORACLE AMERICA INC (66%); UGC EUROPE INC (53%); UNITED NATIONS (55%); UNITED NATIONS (55%); 

ORGANIZATION: UNITED NATIONS (55%); UNITED NATIONS (55%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES; UNITED STATES (92%); EUROPE (79%); NORTH AMERICA (79%); MICHIGAN, USA (92%); GRAND RAPIDS, MI, USA (72%); 

SUBJECT: FINANCES; GOVERNMENT BONDS BONDS (93%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); PRICE INCREASES (90%); PRICE CHANGES (90%); BOND MARKETS (90%); PUBLIC DEBT (90%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (89%); TREASURY SECURITIES (89%); PUBLIC FINANCE (89%); INTEREST RATES (88%); BOND ISSUES (79%); DEBT FINANCING (79%); CORPORATE DEBT (79%); GOVERNMENT BONDS (79%); CORPORATE BONDS (79%); CONSUMER CONFIDENCE (78%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (78%); PERSONAL FINANCE (77%); RETAILERS (75%); ECONOMIC POLICY (74%); PUBLIC POLICY (74%); DEBT NOTES (74%); FRIENDLY & PROVIDENT SOCIETIES (72%); INVESTMENT BANKING (72%); UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (67%); YEAR 2000 PROBLEM (50%); 

LOAD-DATE: July 28, 1999



665 of 738 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 28, 1999

SECTION: Section C; Page 13; Column 3; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 737 words

HEADLINE: THE MARKETS: STOCKS;
Shares Surge as Investors Chase Bargains After Selloff

BYLINE: By Bloomberg News 

 BODY:
Stocks had their biggest gains of the month as investors speculated that the drop of the last week made shares a good buy as long as interest rates do not rise much further.
Intel led a surge in computer-related shares after an analyst said the company, the world's largest semiconductor maker, was benefiting from strong demand for cheap computers. 
 The Nasdaq composite index rose 60.14 points, or 2.3 percent, to 2,679.33, after losing 8.6 percent since July 16. The Standard & Poor's 500-stock index gained 15.08 points, or 1.1 percent, to 1,362.84. The Dow Jones industrial average climbed 115.88, or 1.1 percent, to 10,979.04.
After declines like those of the past week, "I step in there and buy," said Uri Landesman, chief investment officer at Aaron Fleck & Associates, which manages $400 million. "It presents a tremendous opportunity for those who keep their heads."
Sellers overreacted to concern that the Federal Reserve would raise interest rates, Mr. Landesman said. Now that that selling has dried up, investors who expect that rates will not head much higher are buying, he said.
Any Fed rate increase is likely to be limited to a quarter-point, or a half-point at most, Mr. Landesman said. "I don't think that would be nearly enough to choke off the earnings momentum we're seeing," he said.
About 723.9 million shares changed hands on the New York Stock Exchange, below the three-month daily average of 756 million. Eight stocks rose for every seven that fell on the Big Board.
Intel, the most-active stock, gained 4 11/16, to 67 9/16, after Drew Peck, an analyst at SG Cowen, raised the shares to buy from neutral and added 8 cents to his profit forecast for the year. He now expects the chip maker to earn $2.33 a share. Intel had lost 7.5 percent in the previous eight sessions.
Other makers of computer chips also rose. Micron Technology, the biggest United States maker of computer memory chips, gained 5 7/8, to 57 7/8, and Texas Instruments rallied 7 7/8, to 143 1/8. Semiconductor makers have benefited in recent weeks as chip prices have risen in tandem with demand for PC's.
American Express rose 5 7/8, to 142 3/8, after Kenneth Posner, an analyst at Morgan Stanley Dean Witter & Company, started coverage of the stock with a strong-buy recommendation on optimism the company would keep increasing profit, partly through Internet initiatives. Mr. Posner said the shares could reach $175 in the next 12 months.
Over all, profit from operations for the 342 companies in the S.& P. 500 that have reported earnings was 15.3 percent higher than in the second quarter of 1998, according to the First Call Corporation, which tracks company earnings. Once all the companies in the index have reported, profit growth should be about 15 percent, the company said.
Waters, a maker of scientific instruments, rose 3 5/8, to 56 3/4, after reporting second-quarter earnings that beat analysts' estimates.
Hartford Life, a leading seller of variable-annuity retirement savings plans, rose 3/8, to 50 9/16, after posting a greater-than-expected 21 percent increase in profit.
Ebay fell 4 13/16, to 99 9/16, on concern profit will suffer as the on-line auction company spends more to add workers and computer systems.
Chubb fell 1 15/16, to 62 15/16. The property and casualty insurer said second-quarter earnings increased 5.9 percent, lagging behind analysts' forecasts.
Excite@Home rose 4 3/4, to 50 15/16. A decision by San Francisco officials gives Excite@Home the exclusive right to offer Internet access over the city's cable television system, shutting out rivals such as America Online. San Francisco will revisit the issue later.
AT&T, Excite@Home's largest shareholder, rose 1/8, to 55. America Online, which slid 7.2 percent on Monday, dropped 1 15/16, to 98 3/16.
Some investors remain concerned that interest rates are headed higher. Alan Greenspan, the chairman of the Federal Reserve, said last week that the central bank would move quickly if the signs of inflation cropped up, leading investors to conclude the central bank will raise rates as soon as its Aug. 24 meeting.
Mr. Greenspan will testify on the economy today before the Senate Banking Committee. While the speech will be a repeat of the one he gave last week to the committee's House counterpart, investors will listen to the question-and-answer session for clues on the direction of interest rates.
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Graph tracks the Dow Jones industrial average over the past year. (Sources: Associated Press; Bloomberg Financial Markets)
 
Tables: "Hot & Cold" provides a look at stocks with large percentage gains and losses; "The Favorite Stocks" lists stocks held by largest number of accounts at Merrill Lynch. (Compiled from staff reports, The Associated Press, Bloomberg News, Bridge News, Dow Jones, Reuters) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: INTC (NASDAQ) (84%); MS (NYSE) (61%); MU (NASDAQ) (58%); TXN (NASDAQ) (58%); AXP (NYSE) (57%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS334413 SEMICONDUCTOR & RELATED DEVICE MANUFACTURING (84%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (61%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (61%); NAICS334112 COMPUTER STORAGE DEVICE MANUFACTURING (58%); SIC3674 SEMICONDUCTORS & RELATED DEVICES (58%); SIC3572 COMPUTER STORAGE DEVICES (58%); NAICS333318 OTHER COMMERCIAL & SERVICE INDUSTRY MACHINERY MANUFACTURING (58%); SIC3578 CALCULATING & ACCOUNTING MACHINERY, EXCEPT ELECTRONIC COMPUTERS (58%); NAICS522210 CREDIT CARD ISSUING (57%); SIC6141 PERSONAL CREDIT INSTITUTIONS (57%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); 

COMPANY: NATIONAL ASSN OF SECURITIES DEALERS AUTOMATED QUOTATIONS; NEW YORK STOCK EXCHANGE INTEL CORP (84%); MORGAN STANLEY (61%); MICRON TECHNOLOGY INC (58%); TEXAS INSTRUMENTS INC (58%); AMERICAN EXPRESS CO (57%); NEW YORK STOCK EXCHANGE LLC (54%); FINANCIAL INDUSTRY REGULATORY AUTHORITY (FINRA) (59%); 

ORGANIZATION: NATIONAL ASSN OF SECURITIES DEALERS AUTOMATED QUOTATIONS; NEW YORK STOCK EXCHANGE FINANCIAL INDUSTRY REGULATORY AUTHORITY (FINRA) (59%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%); 

SUBJECT: STOCKS AND BONDS; DOW JONES STOCK AVERAGE; STANDARD & POOR'S 500-STOCK INDEX STOCK INDEXES (96%); INTEREST RATES (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); ELECTRONICS (89%); STOCK EXCHANGES (89%); MICROPROCESSORS (89%); COMPUTER CHIPS (89%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (89%); SEMICONDUCTOR MFG (89%); BUSINESS FORECASTS (89%); COMPANY EARNINGS (89%); COMPANY PROFITS (87%); BROKER RECOMMENDATIONS (79%); INSURANCE PREMIUMS (78%); EARNINGS PREANNOUNCEMENTS (78%); BONDS (78%); COMPUTER EQUIPMENT (77%); FINANCIAL RESULTS (77%); SEMICONDUCTORS (76%); BANKING & FINANCE ASSOCIATIONS (73%); MEMORY TECHNOLOGY (72%); INTERNET & WWW (70%); EXECUTIVES (68%); MEMORY CHIPS (66%); 

PERSON: URI LANDESMAN (67%); ALAN GREENSPAN (57%); 

LOAD-DATE: July 28, 1999



666 of 738 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 28, 1999

SECTION: Section C; Page 10; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 718 words

HEADLINE: Business Travel;
Corporate travel managers win an important victory from Delta Air Lines on Internet fares.

BYLINE: By Edwin McDowell 

 BODY:
DELTA AIR LINES' decision last week to make its discount Internet fares available to corporate customers appears to have been an important victory for travel managers, who are always looking to hold down business fares.
Much of the pressure behind Delta's decision was applied by the National Business Travel Association, which had argued that those fares should be made available to corporations and that such bookings should count toward the volume quotas that determine the size of discounts that corporations negotiate with the airlines. (Internet fares, which are typically lower than negotiated fares, seldom appear in computerized reservations systems.) 
 In addition, Northwest Airlines said it would soon test negotiated rates and Internet fares for three corporations through its Web site.
Almost two months ago, Mark Johnson, the president of the travel association, wrote to the major airlines to ask them to load Internet fares into the computerized reservations systems so that companies would have access to them. Delta's decision was announced at the travel association's annual convention last week, even though it will probably not go into effect until December.
When Delta's plan does go into effect, it is expected to bypass the computerized reservations systems in favor of its Sky Links site and electronic tickets. The airline said traditional ticketing costs $500,000 a year and is four times more expensive than booking through its on-line site. Delta also hopes to implement a system of direct payment that will eliminate credit card fees.
But even while some details remain to be worked out, Norman Sherlock, executive director of the National Business Travel Association, said Delta's decision was a "very significant initiative."
He added, "We've been talking to other carriers, and we believe they'll follow suit."
 
Electronic Books
Beginning next Monday, British Airways passengers in first-class or business-class lounges at O'Hare International Airport in Chicago will be able to pick up an electronic book filled with the equivalent of 400 pages of daily newspapers, current magazines, financial information and perhaps even current novels or nonfiction books. Daily newspapers and financial information will be downloaded twice a day. The E-books, as they are called, weigh 22 ounces and, at 7 by 6 inches, fit comfortably into a reader's hand.
The trial period will last a month, while the airline gauges consumer reaction with the goal of putting the books in lounges at 22 United States airports to which it flies. It also plans to make E-books available on British Airways flights worldwide.
Eventually passengers will be able to check out the E-books before their departure flights and return them upon reaching their destination, or when they complete their journey. If all goes well, passengers will be able to phone and request a specific book to be downloaded into the E-book which they can pick up at the airport.
 
Millennium Tests
Japan Airlines, All Nippon Airways and Japan Air System each say they have completed their Year 2000 computer tests and are now fully compliant. Nevertheless the Japan Travel Bureau, the nation's biggest travel agency, said it would not sell package tours whose flights are scheduled to be in the air midnight Greenwich mean time on Dec. 31.
The reason, the agency said, is concern that other countries will not be fully compliant, and it "puts the safety of its customers first." The agency said it might reconsider, however, if the International Civil Aviation Organization declared the world to be 100 percent safe from the Year 2000 computer problem.
 
Playing Through
It may be hard for some to believe, especially when they think of the Upper Peninsula in winter, but Michigan is now one of the top golfing states. A 1998 report, recently released by the National Golf Foundation, placed Michigan eighth nationally, behind Florida, South Carolina, California, Texas, North Carolina, Arizona and Nevada.
Among those who travel primarily to play golf, it trailed only Florida, South Carolina, Texas and North Carolina. Michigan officials say it has more public golf courses than any other state, nearly 800, and that golfers contribute almost $1 billion annually to the state's economy. 
http://www.nytimes.com

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

TICKER: DAL (NYSE) (92%); 

INDUSTRY: SIC4512 AIR TRANSPORTATION, SCHEDULED (92%); NAICS481111 SCHEDULED PASSENGER AIR TRANSPORTATION (57%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (53%); 

STATE: ILLINOIS, USA (53%); 

CITY: CHICAGO, IL, USA (53%); 

COMPANY: DELTA AIR LINES INC; BRITISH AIRWAYS PLC; JAPAN AIRLINES; ALL NIPPON AIRWAYS; JAPAN AIR SYSTEM; NATIONAL BUSINESS TRAVEL ASSN; NORTHWEST AIRLINES; NATIONAL GOLF FOUNDATION DELTA AIR LINES INC (92%); BRITISH AIRWAYS PLC (57%); NATIONAL BUSINESS TRAVEL ASSOCIATION (84%); NATIONAL BUSINESS TRAVEL ASSOCIATION (84%); NATIONAL GOLF FOUNDATION (59%); NATIONAL GOLF FOUNDATION (59%); 

ORGANIZATION: DELTA AIR LINES INC; BRITISH AIRWAYS PLC; JAPAN AIRLINES; ALL NIPPON AIRWAYS; JAPAN AIR SYSTEM; NATIONAL BUSINESS TRAVEL ASSN; NORTHWEST AIRLINES; NATIONAL GOLF FOUNDATION NATIONAL BUSINESS TRAVEL ASSOCIATION (84%); NATIONAL BUSINESS TRAVEL ASSOCIATION (84%); NATIONAL GOLF FOUNDATION (59%); NATIONAL GOLF FOUNDATION (59%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;MICHIGAN; UNITED STATES (53%); ILLINOIS, USA (53%); CHICAGO, IL, USA (53%); 

SUBJECT: AIRLINES AND AIRPLANES; COMPUTERS AND THE INTERNET; PRICES (FARES, FEES AND RATES); NEWS AND NEWS MEDIA; GOLF; ACCIDENTS AND SAFETY AIRLINES (92%); BUSINESS TRAVEL SERVICES (92%); COMPUTERIZED RESERVATION SYSTEMS (90%); AIR FARES (90%); ELECTRONIC BOOKS (89%); AIRPORTS (89%); ELECTRONIC PUBLISHING (89%); INTERNET & WWW (78%); ELECTRONIC TICKETS (78%); EXECUTIVES (78%); NON FICTION LITERATURE (78%); GOLF (74%); CONFERENCES & CONVENTIONS (72%); NOVELS & SHORT STORIES (67%); CREDIT CARDS (64%); 

PERSON: MCDOWELL, EDWIN ANN LIVERMORE (56%); 

LOAD-DATE: July 28, 1999



667 of 738 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 28, 1999

SECTION: Section C; Page 25; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 780 words

HEADLINE: Kelvin Lancaster, 74, Dies; Revised Economic Theory

BYLINE: By MICHAEL M. WEINSTEIN 

 BODY:
Kelvin J. Lancaster, whose theoretical writings reshaped the economics profession's ideas about trade, industrial structure and regulation, died on Friday at his home in New York City. He was 74.
The cause was cancer, his son, Clifton, said. 
 Mr. Lancaster made two powerful contributions to economic theory, and they were felt far beyond the world of theoreticians. He and R. G. Lipsey wrote an article for Review of Economic Studies (1956-57) that outlined "The General Theory of Second Best." Before Mr. Lancaster, economists generally agreed that society's best option for consumers would be unregulated, perfect competitive markets -- which would drive prices to their bare minimum. That is why economists used to reflexively call for lifting tariffs or other barriers to free trade.
But Mr. Lancaster asked a simple, if intellectually shattering, question: Is free trade for all goods still best in the face of market flaws somewhere in the economy? For example, what if strong unions drove up wages and prices in the domestic auto industry, causing production to fall below its ideal level?
Mr. Lancaster's work showed that under these circumstances, a tariff on foreign cars could raise consumer demand for domestic cars, offsetting the depressive impact of unions on domestic production. Mr. Lancaster's point is that economists ought not jump to conclusions: when the best option -- perfect competition everywhere -- is impossible, society's second-best option might run counter to the economists' clarion calls for free trade and unfettered competition.
Mr. Lancaster's elegantly analyzed proposition was that economists forever after needed to carefully determine what policies worked best in a world where some markets work well, but others work poorly. A colleague, Prof. Jagdish Bhagwati of Columbia University, said after Mr. Lancaster's death "that economists constantly pay homage to Mr. Lancaster's insight, often prefacing a policy pronouncement with the reminder, 'In the world of the second best. . .' "
Mr. Lancaster's second major contribution was to revise the economic tool for analyzing consumer demand. Before him, economists studied the demand for a whole product -- how much consumers were willing to pay for bananas compared with apples. But Mr. Lancaster developed the theory for analyzing more basic preferences -- for something's underlying characteristics. For cars, that might require analyzing consumer demand for horsepower versus weight and fuel economy. That might seem an obvious way to analyze demand, but Mr. Lancaster's theory paved the way for economists to tackle a surprising array of new problems.
For example, classical theory held that countries would ordinarily trade with countries that looked like their opposites: The high-tech United States would export computers to the Third World in exchange for commodities like copper. But in fact the bulk of United States trade takes place with similarly industrialized places like Canada, Japan and Western Europe. Mr. Lancaster provided the ingredients for a potent explanation. Europe and the United States shipped cars back and forth because they specialized in cars with different characteristics.
Only by breaking down the analysis of consumer demand into constituent characteristics, economists came to realize, could they understand something as basic as trade flows. Prof. James Heckman of the University of Chicago said "Mr. Lancaster's theories have had a wide variety of applications, for example, giving companies a tool to analyze how consumers will react to the introduction of new goods -- goods that do not yet exist but that offer consumers bundles of characteristics whose demand can be studied on the basis of past purchasing patterns."
Mr. Lancaster was born in Sydney, Australia, and volunteered for the Royal Australian Air Force during World War II. He earned undergraduate degrees in English literature, geology and mathematics at Sydney University, and received his Ph.D. in economics from the University of London in 1958.
Mr. Lancaster was the John Bates Clark Professor of Economics at Columbia University and served twice as the department's chairman. He was elected to the American Academy of Arts and Sciences and elected as a Distinguished Fellow of the American Economic Association.
He is survived by his wife, Deborah Grunfeld Lancaster; two sons, Clifton, of Avon, Conn. and Gilead, of Redding, Conn., and five grandchildren.
"He was widely regarded as a potential recipient of the Nobel Prize," said Professor Bhagwati. "He joins the list of extraordinary economists whom death deprived of this singular honor."
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photo: Kelvin J. Lancaster (Columbia University)
 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Biography; Obituary (Obit)

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (92%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (90%); 

COMPANY: COLUMBIA UNIVERSITY PRESS (53%); COLUMBIA UNIVERSITY (59%); COLUMBIA UNIVERSITY (59%); 

ORGANIZATION: COLUMBIA UNIVERSITY (59%); COLUMBIA UNIVERSITY (59%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%); NEW YORK, USA (92%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (90%); 

SUBJECT: DEATHS (OBITUARIES); BIOGRAPHICAL INFORMATION DEATHS & OBITUARIES (97%); MARKET RESEARCH (89%); TARIFFS & DUTIES (88%); EXPORT TRADE (78%); TAXES & TAXATION (78%); AUTOMOTIVE MFG (72%); CANCER (72%); MOTOR VEHICLES (72%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (63%); 

PERSON: LANCASTER, KELVIN J; WEINSTEIN, MICHAEL M DEBORAH GRUNFELD LANCASTER (97%); KELVIN J LANCASTER (56%); 

LOAD-DATE: July 28, 1999



668 of 738 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 28, 1999

SECTION: Section C; Page 1; Column 2; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 807 words

HEADLINE: Insurer Establishes Foundation to Settle Lawsuits

BYLINE: By MILT FREUDENHEIM 

 BODY:
Advancing its campaign to consolidate Blue Cross and Blue Shield companies in the Northeast, Anthem Inc. agreed yesterday to finance a $41 million public health foundation for poor and uninsured people in Connecticut.
The agreement settled lawsuits filed by state officials and a coalition of consumer, labor and religious groups after Anthem merged in 1997 with Connecticut Blue Cross and Blue Shield, the state's largest health insurance company. 
 Anthem, based in Indianapolis, is also acquiring the Blue Cross plans in Maine, where it agreed two weeks ago to create a public foundation valued at about $100 million, and New Hampshire, where the foundation would be about $80 million, a company spokesman said. Both deals must be approved by state regulators.
The Blue Cross-financed foundations, which have ranged from $28 million in Ohio to several billion dollars in California, respond to laws requiring compensation for tax breaks and subsidies given to Blue Cross plans over the years. In the biggest example, the conversion of California Blue Cross by Wellpoint Health Plans, two foundations received cash and stock valued at $3 billion.
A merger between Anthem and New Jersey Blue Cross and Blue Shield two years ago collapsed after the state attorney general insisted that Blue Cross assets in New Jersey be dedicated to a foundation and Anthem refused. Anthem has lately been flexible on the foundation issue, adjusting to varying state laws and policies.
Although each state is singular, the Anthem-financed foundations are context for a much larger conversion planned by Empire Blue Cross and Blue Shield in New York. Empire, which says it is about to report operating profits for the third consecutive quarter, has been meeting officials of the state attorney general's office and insurance and health departments to iron out plans to convert to a for-profit company.
Empire plans to issue stock, all of which would be turned over to a public foundation. The conversion requires the approval of a state supreme court. With the settlement in Connecticut, "Anthem has decided to take its medicine and pay the bill," said Nancy Wyman, the State Comptroller, who joined Richard Blumenthal, the Attorney General, in the suit.
Anthem said in a statement that extended litigation would not have served its policyholders or taxpayers in Connecticut and could have affected the company's reputation and good will.
Anthem, which is a mutual insurance company owned by its policyholders as was Connecticut Blue Cross. Anthem has about four million members in Blue Cross plans in Indiana, Kentucky and southern Ohio, and one million more in Connecticut. Maine Blue Cross has 380,000 members. New Hampshire Blue Cross has 320,000.
Massachusetts Blue Cross, the biggest in New England, rebuffed overtures from Anthem and is trying to block a takeover of Blue Cross of Rhode Island by Anthem.
Each of the New England Blue Cross plans is the biggest health insurer in its state but they are all financially weak and face competition from bigger regional companies, including Aetna U.S. Healthcare, Cigna's Healthsource unit, and the nonprofit Harvard Pilgrim and Tufts health plans. Kaiser Permanente, the nonprofit California-based health plan, recently decided to cut its losses in New England and left the region.
"We see a tremendous opportunity to take advantage of efficiencies and economies of scale that consolidations can create," said Jim Parker, a spokesman for Anthem.
In a still unresolved bidding war for Blue Cross of Colorado/Nevada, which has 500,000 members, Anthem raised its commitment to establish a $140 million foundation to match a competing offer by Wellpoint.
Todd Richter, a health care analyst at Banc of America Securities, said Anthem would have "a very tough time financing all the deals."
But Arun Kumar, an analyst at Standard & Poor's, said Anthem had a strong balance sheet and a big surplus and could arrange loans if necessary.
Anthem reported $178 million in operating income on $5.9 billion in revenue last year. It had $79 million of operating income in 1997 and $141 million in 1996. With reserves of $1.7 billion, Anthem has more than twice the reserve level set by the National Association of Insurance Commissioners, even after setting up foundations in all the states it hopes to enter, Mr. Parker said.
Wellpoint and Anthem are among the nation's largest Blue Cross plans, along with Highmark Inc. in Western Pennsylvania, Michigan Blue Cross, the merged Illinois and Texas Blues plans, and Empire.
A spokeswoman for Empire said yesterday that its reserves were $454.6 million on June 30. Operating income was $13.9 million for the second quarter of this year, $14.5 million in the first quarter, and $14.9 million in the last three months of 1998.
 
http://www.nytimes.com

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

TICKER: WLP (NYSE) (94%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS524114 DIRECT HEALTH & MEDICAL INSURANCE CARRIERS (95%); SIC6324 HOSPITAL & MEDICAL SERVICE PLANS (95%); SIC6321 ACCIDENT & HEALTH INSURANCE (94%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (99%); 

STATE: CONNECTICUT, USA (99%); INDIANA, USA (93%); OHIO, USA (92%); MAINE, USA (92%); NEW HAMPSHIRE, USA (92%); CALIFORNIA, USA (92%); NORTHEAST USA (92%); NEW JERSEY, USA (91%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); KENTUCKY, USA (79%); RHODE ISLAND, USA (79%); 

CITY: INDIANAPOLIS, IN, USA (72%); 

COMPANY: ANTHEM INC; BLUE CROSS AND BLUE SHIELD; BLUE CROSS AND BLUE SHIELD OF CONNECTICUT ANTHEM BLUE CROSS & BLUE SHIELD OF OHIO (95%); WELLPOINT INC (94%); BLUE CROSS OF CALIFORNIA (90%); EMPIRE BLUE CROSS & BLUE SHIELD (85%); NEW ENGLAND (57%); 

ORGANIZATION: ANTHEM INC; BLUE CROSS AND BLUE SHIELD; BLUE CROSS AND BLUE SHIELD OF CONNECTICUT NEW ENGLAND (57%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: CONNECTICUT; UNITED STATES (99%); CONNECTICUT, USA (99%); INDIANA, USA (93%); OHIO, USA (92%); MAINE, USA (92%); NEW HAMPSHIRE, USA (92%); CALIFORNIA, USA (92%); NORTHEAST USA (92%); NEW JERSEY, USA (91%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); KENTUCKY, USA (79%); RHODE ISLAND, USA (79%); INDIANAPOLIS, IN, USA (72%); 

SUBJECT: MEDICINE AND HEALTH; MERGERS, ACQUISITIONS AND DIVESTITURES; CLASS-ACTION SUITS; HEALTH INSURANCE; SUITS AND LITIGATION LITIGATION (91%); SUITS & CLAIMS (91%); UNDERINSURED & UNINSURED PATIENTS (90%); INSURANCE (90%); HEALTH INSURANCE (90%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (90%); SETTLEMENT & COMPROMISE (90%); FOUNDATIONS (89%); ATTORNEYS GENERAL (89%); INSURANCE POLICIES (89%); MERGERS (78%); HEALTH DEPARTMENTS (78%); TAKEOVERS (78%); FRIENDLY & PROVIDENT SOCIETIES (78%); GOVERNMENT CONTROLLERS & AUDITORS (78%); TALKS & MEETINGS (77%); PUBLIC POLICY (77%); APPROVALS (77%); PHARMACY BENEFITS (73%); TAX LAW (73%); GOVERNMENT GRANTS & SUBSIDIES (73%); COMPANY PROFITS (72%); RELIGION (72%); PUBLIC FINANCE (72%); INTERIM FINANCIAL RESULTS (71%); FINANCIAL RESULTS (71%); STOCK OFFERINGS (69%); TAXES & TAXATION (69%); SUPREME COURTS (66%); 

PERSON: FREUDENHEIM, MILT RICHARD BLUMENTHAL (57%); 

LOAD-DATE: July 28, 1999



669 of 738 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 28, 1999

SECTION: Section C; Page 1; Column 5; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 596 words

HEADLINE: Former Chief Of GE Capital Plans to Start Buyout Fund

BYLINE: By RICHARD A. OPPEL Jr. 

 BODY:
Gary C. Wendt, who built GE Capital Services into a financial powerhouse before leaving last year in a management shake-up, is planning a buyout and private-equity investment fund that he would run with other former GE Capital executives.
Mr. Wendt expects to focus on Japan and Europe, two areas that have attracted attention from big United States investors because of the large amount of nonperforming Japanese debt, estimated at as much as $1 trillion, and the quickening pace of reorganizations and takeover activity in Europe. 
 In a statement issued late yesterday, Mr. Wendt confirmed a Bloomberg News report about his plans, saying he had not determined how much money he would try to raise. He added that if he was able to garner enough to begin a fund, he and his partners "will not focus only on highly leveraged investments but will stress operating management, not simply financial acumen."
Mr. Wendt, 57, declined to comment further on his plans, as did Paul Street, a former senior executive at GE Capital and Lazard Freres, who is expected to be part of the group. But a person close to the situation said the group would seek to raise more than $1 billion.
At GE Capital, Mr. Wendt built a reputation as a dynamic executive who made the company into the biggest and most profitable unit of General Electric. In his dozen years at the helm, profits at the unit rose to nearly $4 billion from $300 million.
But it was a messy divorce from his high school sweetheart, Lorna J. Wendt, that ultimately gave him a higher national profile. In their divorce proceedings, Mrs. Wendt rejected a settlement offer of $10 million and sought half of Mr. Wendt's net worth, which her lawyer estimated could be more than $100 million. In December 1997, a judge in Connecticut awarded Mrs. Wendt $20 million -- half the Wendts' hard assets -- but a smaller part of Mr. Wendt's stock options and future pension benefits. To many, her legal fight came to serve as an exercise in determining the true economic value of a corporate spouse.
And despite Mr. Wendt's success at running GE Capital, he was said to have had a strained relationship with John F. Welch Jr., G.E.'s chief executive. During the divorce proceedings, for example, Mr. Wendt acknowledged that he and Mr. Welch were not close. And in December, when Mr. Wendt departed, Mr. Welch said that Mr. Wendt had not been considered a candidate to succeed him.
GE Capital has been very active in Japan, most recently buying $11 billion in commercial loans from the Long-Term Credit Bank of Japan. But a person close to Mr. Wendt's group said it would stay away from the sort of investments that might also draw G.E.'s interest.
In Europe, Mr. Wendt's group would join a long list of American investment funds that have sought to cash in on the growing number of takeovers, spinoffs and other reorganizations brought on, in part, by the monetary union. Buyout firms that have set up offices in Europe or begun funds recently include Apollo Advisors; the Carlyle Group; Clayton, Dubilier & Rice; Hicks, Muse, Tate & Furst; Kohlberg Kravis Roberts; the Texas Pacific Group, and Warburg Pincus.
Dan Blanks, a partner in Hicks, Muse, a Dallas buyout firm that is putting together a $1.5 billion European fund, said that according to IFR Securities, total mergers and acquisition activity in Europe has risen fourfold since 1984, to almost $600 billion last year.
"Europe is really undergoing a fundamental change," Mr. Blanks said. "The watchword has become, 'Get big, become competitive, or lose out.' "
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photo: Gary C. Wendt says he expects his new fund to focus on investments and buyouts in Japan and Europe. (pg. C12)
 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

TICKER: GNE (PAR) (94%); GEC (LSE) (94%); GE (SWX) (94%); GE (NYSE) (94%); 8301 (JASDAQ) (50%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS336412 AIRCRAFT ENGINE & ENGINE PARTS MANUFACTURING (94%); NAICS335222 HOUSEHOLD REFRIGERATOR & HOME FREEZER MANUFACTURING (94%); NAICS335210 SMALL ELECTRICAL APPLIANCE MANUFACTURING (94%); NAICS519130 INTERNET PUBLISHING & BROADCASTING & WEB SEARCH PORTALS (57%); NAICS519110 NEWS SYNDICATES (57%); NAICS511120 PERIODICAL PUBLISHERS (57%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (50%); SIC6029 COMMERCIAL BANKS, NEC (50%); 

COUNTRY: EUROPE (93%); JAPAN (93%); UNITED STATES (79%); 

STATE: CONNECTICUT, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: GE CAPITAL CORP GENERAL ELECTRIC CO (94%); BLOOMBERG LP (57%); BANK OF JAPAN (50%); 

ORGANIZATION: GE CAPITAL CORP

GEOGRAPHIC: JAPAN; EUROPE; EUROPE (93%); JAPAN (93%); UNITED STATES (79%); CONNECTICUT, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: STOCKS AND BONDS; BIOGRAPHICAL INFORMATION BUYINS & BUYOUTS (91%); PRIVATE EQUITY (90%); EXECUTIVES (89%); FAMILY LAW (86%); TAKEOVERS (78%); BONDS (72%); LAWYERS (70%); DIVORCE & DISSOLUTION (69%); STOCK OPTIONS (66%); JUDGES (63%); SETTLEMENT & COMPROMISE (63%); COMMERCIAL LENDING (60%); 

PERSON: OPPEL, RICHARD A JR; WENDT, GARY C JACK WELCH (78%); 

LOAD-DATE: July 28, 1999



670 of 738 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 28, 1999

SECTION: Section C; Page 8; Column 4; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 419 words

HEADLINE: Consumers' Confidence in Economy Slips

BYLINE: Bloomberg News 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, July 27

 BODY:
Consumer confidence in the economy slipped this month from its highest level in more than 30 years even as Americans said they planned to increase their spending on big items, the Conference Board's figures showed today.
The research group, based in New York, said its index of consumer confidence fell to 135.6 this month from 139 in June, the first drop in nine months. 
 A separate index measuring consumers' impressions of current economic conditions, however, rose to a record, and indexes reporting consumer plans to buy houses, appliances and autos all rose.
"Consumers are expressing some vague feeling of unease, but fundamentally for them things are good," said Nick Perna, chief economist at Fleet Financial Group in Hartford.
Concern about the state of the economy six months from now pushed down the overall index. Consumers surveyed expect overall business conditions to weaken, with fewer jobs available and pay increases limited.
That may reflect "headlines about higher gas prices and interest rates," said Cary Leahey, an economist with Primark Decision Economics in New York. "People have jobs and are getting real wage increases, and they say to themselves, 'how can things get any better?' "
Certainly, Americans seem sanguine about their own prospects. The Conference Board's measure of consumer plans to buy houses rose to 4 percent this month from 3.9 percent in June. The percentage of those who plan to buy major appliances rose to 30.7 percent from 28.4 percent, and the percentage of those who plan to buy cars rose to 10 percent from 8.3 percent.
The key to consumers' current optimism lies in the survey's employment measures. For instance, the percentage of those surveyed who see jobs as plentiful rose to a record this month. A study of the index by the New York Federal Reserve Bank last year found that people spend based on their own situation, not the state of the overall economy.
"Consumers seem to spend more when they feel good about future job prospects than they do when they think business conditions are favorable," said Sydney Ludvigson, a New York Fed economist and co-author of the study.
In the first half of this year, companies created 1.2 million jobs, and the nation's unemployment rate has averaged 4.3 percent, close to a 29-year low.
At the same time, personal incomes have risen the last five months, and the Dow Jones industrial average set closing highs above the 11,000-point level for most of the first three weeks of July.
 
http://www.nytimes.com

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: BAC (NYSE) (83%); BAC (LSE) (83%); 8648 (TSE) (83%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (83%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (83%); SIC6712 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (83%); NAICS521110 MONETARY AUTHORITIES - CENTRAL BANK (73%); SIC6011 FEDERAL RESERVE BANKS (73%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (94%); 

COMPANY: CONFERENCE BOARD BANK OF AMERICA CORP (83%); FEDERAL RESERVE BANK OF NEW YORK (73%); 

ORGANIZATION: CONFERENCE BOARD

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%); NEW YORK, USA (94%); 

SUBJECT: UNITED STATES ECONOMY; CONSUMER BEHAVIOR ECONOMIC NEWS (92%); CONSUMER CONFIDENCE (92%); PURCHASE INTENT (90%); ECONOMIC RECOVERY (90%); POLLS & SURVEYS (90%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (90%); BUSINESS CLIMATE & CONDITIONS (89%); MARKET RESEARCH (79%); CONSUMER BEHAVIOR (79%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (78%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (78%); LABOR SECTOR PERFORMANCE (77%); STOCK INDEXES (77%); BANKING & FINANCE REGULATION (75%); BANKING & FINANCE (74%); WAGES & SALARIES (73%); RESEARCH REPORTS (72%); INTEREST RATES (67%); OIL & GAS PRICES (67%); CENTRAL BANKS (67%); MARKETING SURVEYS (59%); 

LOAD-DATE: July 28, 1999



671 of 738 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 28, 1999

SECTION: Section A; Page 1; Column 5; Foreign Desk 

LENGTH: 1736 words

HEADLINE: For Serb Draftee in Kosovo, A Close-Up of Deadly Purges

BYLINE: By STEVEN ERLANGER 

DATELINE: LESKOVAC, Serbia, July 25

 BODY:
Vlada sleeps late and often doesn't bother to shave. He says he has stopped talking in his sleep, but he often finds himself shuddering uncontrollably, staring down at his trembling body as if it belonged to someone else.
His business as an artisan here in southern Serbia is in tatters, but he is forgiving people their debts because he knows they have no money. "I'm satisfied with small things now," he said, licking the paper on a cheap Drina cigarette so it would burn longer. "I want to make a lot of friends and not argue over anything petty. But if there's a car accident and there are dead -- I'm utterly indifferent." 
 Vlada, 31, was a unit commander of the Yugoslav Army in Kosovo. He hated it, but he is proud that he passed through, and he thinks he kept his soul.
But there was ethnic purging, and some of his men helped carry it out. They held the ground while the police and paramilitary troops moved through villages, killing and expelling Albanians. They looted freely and burned houses and stood by while others did the dirtiest work.
"There was a war down there, and the main thing was to stay alive," Vlada said. "Mostly, when I arrived, the cleansing was done, and it was done by police and paramilitaries, and it was awful and stupid. We soldiers are softer, we are not murderers, and it's an ugly thing to say, but those guys did a job for us."
He and his men spent 60 days without clean water or electricity, sleeping on the floor of abandoned Albanian houses in the hills, moving between Gnjilane and Kacanik. They prepared pond water for drinking by removing the tadpoles and dumping in purifying tablets.
Vlada watched his friends crack up or die or turn into avid looters or killers. They dug in against the NATO bombing, and they lived with the constant fear felt by uniformed soldiers in a hostile countryside facing a peasant army. They dreaded not only the Kosovo Liberation Army, but also booby traps and ambushes and almost any Albanian civilian.
"It was dangerous to turn your back, even on an old lady," he said. "You always had your gun in your hands or within reach."
He told the story of an Albanian in civilian clothes walking toward a Serbian soldier, who approached him. Two uniformed Albanian fighters shot from an ambush.
"It was a tactic," Vlada said. "And the guy who didn't shoot was a fool, and his family is without him. But if he shot first, then he's a murderer."
He rubbed his face and licked another Drina.
"When I was mobilized, I went to church and prayed for two things," he said. "First, not to kill anyone. And second, to come back alive." Even the first prayer was answered, he said. At least he thinks so.
But then he tells the story of three men in his unit who killed three Albanian fighters at close range. "Each one thinks he didn't kill someone," Vlada said. "But those guys had so many bullets in them, each one must have hit them all."
He commanded 14 or so soldiers on patrol, and "we became very good," he said with some pride. "We protected each other and we were faithful to each other."
There was a lot of looting, he said. "In the beginning, it was silently licensed by the officers, under the theory, 'Take what you need or want and use it when you're here.' Then people got crazy and took a lot of things. The first thing stolen from a house was the television. Our unit sometimes had seven sets, but of course there was no electricity," he said, shaking his head.
And there was no way to bring the loot back, except for the officers, who had access to trucks. So there was a lot of destruction, too, especially of expensive things like televisions, refrigerators and tractors.
About the expulsion and murder of Albanian citizens, his stories match those of others: The army held the ground; special police and paramilitary units, sometimes with long hair, beards and bandanas, cleared the villages, often killing those who resisted leaving; the civilians were channeled toward buses or the border; bodies were often cleared out by other police units. Then the army checked the villages again.
But there was some army involvement in driving ethnic Albanians from their homes. For these special actions, "to expel or 'cleanse' or whatever you say," another officer would come to collect two men, who would be gone for 48 hours or so.
"Everything was awful in Kosovo," he said. "It was full of horrible things. Not on the level of massacres, not that I saw happening at least, but there was nothing good. I think of myself as a form of pacifist, and even going there was horrible enough."
Vlada described how the paramilitaries and police units emptied Zegra, south of Gnjilane: "About 260 of them cleaned Zegra in 12 hours, 6,000 to 7,000 people. They took about a minute a house. There was shooting. The volunteers got to the center of town and started to shoot the first people to come to them. The whole village heard this and people started to run away on their own, and there were police to guide them toward Macedonia."
Then they went into the houses, looking for people, and sometimes Albanian fighters remained and there were firefights. "Soldiers couldn't do that," Vlada insisted. "It would have taken us three days to do all the houses. Soldiers couldn't just go into a house and start shooting all the people in the house right away."
He stopped, sighed, continued. "It was ugly but it happened, and everyone you saw felt like an enemy. It's the worst kind of war. A granny could have a grenade. The first blood demands second blood, revenge, and so it goes. The K.L.A. had their positions and their bunkers themselves, and as we were drafted, so were they, and their orders were to stay and cause trouble, and many of them were sacrificed."
To be sure, he said, some people liked the killing. "You find out a lot about people in 24 hours in a war," he said. He described clearing a house in a village where there were elderly Albanians still inside. One man went in while Vlada and another soldier kept guard. Another group of Serbs arrived, pulling out knives and wanting to kill the Albanians.
"These are my Albanians, and if you want to kill Albanians, you go catch them in some other house," Vlada told them. "But I was scared. It was stupid. We were yelling and nearly shooting each other, and we were all targets, and if someone was hiding in the stable, he could have killed us all."
They burned many houses, "especially the big, rich ones," Vlada said. "If we got in a house where we found K.L.A. insignia, or uniforms or pictures of men in K.L.A. uniforms with arms, you cannot stay calm. They are not the only ones guilty for this war, but they are among them. And a lot were in big houses, with Jacuzzis, and Albanian flags, when 70 percent of those in Albania don't have electricity, and you can't be calm. There's rage in you and you ask yourself, what more does he want than this? There is no sign inside of this country, but only of another country, and it burns."
He became mystical about the houses, he said. "Sometimes, they won't burn, even with oil," he said. "It's like the house protects itself. Then I thought, This is the house of honest people. And I ordered: Leave this house alone. You can see it won't burn."
Asked if the Serbs thought the Albanians would never be back to demand an accounting, Vlada sighed.
"People thought there would be some deal with NATO or a partition of Kosovo or something," he said. "They were stupid. You can't clean out two million people or kill 100,000 people, but some thought you could. There were a lot of army and police, and you had the weapons, and the Albanians were too few and poor. And without NATO, they could have done nothing."
Life at war was exhilarating and terrifying, full of adrenaline and sensation, and life afterwards is pallid and full of worries, especially in a war-broken, sanctions-battered economy where money, gasoline, sugar and even cooking oil are scarce.
Vlada has taken part in the daily demonstrations of army reservists in Leskovac for their back pay and for the resignation of President Slobodan Milosevic. His experience is typical of many of the reservists interviewed, but he was a commander and more insightful than most. There is fury here, but unfocused, a tinder box waiting for a leader and a spark. The daily demonstrations are dwindling, last only about 15 minutes, and often no one even speaks.
"It's apathy," Vlada said. "There are lots of problems to deal with, daily things like money and bread, and like an animal, you deal with those things only."
No one here really wants to hear about the war. There are already a lot of divorces among his friends, he said. "People can't talk about it. Your life is awful and you're trying to survive that. People ask, 'How are you?' The answer now is: 'Same as you,' and everyone's face falls."
Already, he said, "people feel like the war was two years ago: they are trying to cope with current problems, trying to get money, trying to prepare for the winter" -- canning and storing food, when they can afford it, or cutting wood.
As for questions of war crimes, "it's the same as in Belgrade," Vlada said, "no one wants to deal with it."
But it does not much matter now, he says. "Kosovo and its problems are too far away. It's a luxury to think of Kosovo when I have such problems here. People are so poor that when they go to the shops, they just write i.o.u.'s. It makes you feel guilty, you feel somehow lost, you lose all the self-confidence that you had when you were there, in Kosovo."
The first days after the reservists came home, the police were absent. Now, with the protests, they cruise around town, not just in their little Zastava cars but in big blue four-wheel-drive vehicles with white bars on the windows. Many of them are from surrounding towns, Vlada says. "It's good thinking. It's hard to beat or arrest your neighbors."
Sometimes now, he says, he dreams that he is being arrested, but he is not sure for what. "Not for Kosovo, but because of the protests, or because I owe money for electricity, or whatever," he says. "But it's a horrible feeling of insecurity, and for all the reservists it's the same."
They talk to each other; they go fishing. "This is like the golden age of fishing," he said. "It's the cheapest form of entertainment and escape from reality," he said. "Really, a perfect escape."
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photo: Serbian soldiers, stunned by their role in ethnic purges, grow apathetic. On July 5, back from Kosovo, many rallied in Leskovac for back pay. (Associated Press)(pg. A6)
 
Map showing the location of Leskovac: Their service in Kosovo has left Army veterans in Leskovac angry. (pg. A6)
 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

COUNTRY: SERBIA (99%); SERBIA & MONTENEGRO (94%); KOSOVO (94%); ALBANIA (94%); UNITED STATES (92%); 

COMPANY: NORTH ATLANTIC TREATY ORGANIZATION NORTH ATLANTIC TREATY ORGANIZATION (59%); NORTH ATLANTIC TREATY ORGANIZATION (59%); 

ORGANIZATION: NORTH ATLANTIC TREATY ORGANIZATION NORTH ATLANTIC TREATY ORGANIZATION (59%); NORTH ATLANTIC TREATY ORGANIZATION (59%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: SERBIA; KOSOVO (SERBIA); SERBIA (99%); SERBIA & MONTENEGRO (94%); KOSOVO (94%); ALBANIA (94%); UNITED STATES (92%); 

SUBJECT: UNITED STATES ARMAMENT AND DEFENSE; UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; BIOGRAPHICAL INFORMATION; LOOT AND LOOTING ARMED FORCES (90%); PARAMILITARY & MILITIA (90%); ARMIES (90%); REBELLIONS & INSURGENCIES (73%); MILITARY WEAPONS (73%); IMPROVISED EXPLOSIVE DEVICES (72%); BOMBINGS (68%); PROPERTY VACANCIES (66%); 

PERSON: ERLANGER, STEVEN

LOAD-DATE: July 28, 1999



672 of 738 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 28, 1999

SECTION: Section A; Page 4; Column 1; Foreign Desk 

LENGTH: 749 words

HEADLINE: House Renews China's Trading Benefits

BYLINE: By ERIC SCHMITT 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, July 27

 BODY:
The House today renewed trading privileges with China for another year, separating United States commercial interests from a long list of grievances that Washington has with Beijing.
The vote was 260 to 170 to reject a measure that would have ended the trade benefits. 
 The outcome was widely expected, even though relations with China have nosedived after allegations that China stole American nuclear secrets, the bombing of the Chinese Embassy in Belgrade, a soaring trade deficit with Beijing, and China's crackdown on a spiritual movement, Falun Gong.
An unusual alliance of liberal Democrats and conservative Republicans tried to capitalize on the strained relations to buttress their contention that granting trade privileges to China would reward a Government that abuses the rights of its own people, persecutes its citizens for their religious beliefs and menaces neighboring Taiwan.
But the critics never gained much traction, buffeted by an intensive lobbying campaign of business groups like the United States Chamber of Commerce and corporations with interests in China like General Motors, Boeing and Kodak.
As a result, opponents picked up just four more votes than they did last year to end what is now called "normal trade relations" with China.
The House vote last year was 264 to 166.
Supporters of extending trade privileges, including the House Republican leadership and moderate Democrats, argued that engaging China through trade rather than isolating it would give Washington more influence to improving human rights and religious tolerance there.
"We can have a constructive, purposeful engagement with China or we can have a new cold war with a new evil empire," said Representative Tim Roemer, Democrat of Indiana.
Corporate America applauded the vote and expressed confidence that it would rekindle momentum for a deal to gain entry for China into the World Trade Organization this year. Such a bargain would require Congress to drop the annual debate and grant China a permanent version of what was once called "most favored nation status."
"China's accession to the World Trade Organization is the next key step, and one we hope Congress will take promptly, once a final market-opening trade agreement is reached," Dana G. Mead, chairman of Tenneco and of the Business Roundtable, an association of chief executives, said in a statement.
In April, President Clinton and Prime Minister Zhu Rongji of China fell short of striking a major trade deal to present to Congress when Mr. Clinton pulled back at the last minute.
The bombing of the Chinese Embassy in Belgrade on May 7 cut off negotiations altogether.
House opponents to making the trade benefits permanent have pledged a fierce battle. Administration officials are pinning their diminishing hopes for a deal on a meeting between Mr. Clinton and President Jiang Zemin of China in September in New Zealand at an Asia-Pacific Economic Cooperation forum.
"I remain determined to pursue an agreement for China to join the W.T.O. on viable commercial terms," Mr. Clinton said in a statement.
Annual votes on trade with China are required under a 1974 law that was intended to pressure Communist Governments to relax emigration policies. The votes were routine until the killings of pro-democracy protesters at Tiananmen Square in 1989. Congress has never revoked the trade privileges.
The Senate has not yet considered the matter this year.
In a test vote this month, senators indicated that they would extend benefits, mostly lower taxes on Chinese goods shipped to the United States, for an additional year.
Even with the outcome preordained, a spirited debate seized the House floor today.
One of the most emotional speeches came from Representative David Wu, a freshman Democrat from Oregon who is the first Taiwanese-American elected to the House.
"The business of America must be more than just business, and engagement must be through more than just the cash register," Mr. Wu said in opposing renewed trade relations. "Real engagement sees the Chinese people as real people, people like us, people with aspirations, with hopes, people who aspire to walk the path of freedom."
But Representative Philip M. Crane, Republican of Illinois, said cutting off benefits would be counterproductive.
"A nation of 1.2 billion people is more likely to imitate our powerful example," Mr. Crane said, "than it is to bend as a result of our threats."
 
http://www.nytimes.com

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

TICKER: BOE (LSE) (55%); BAB (BRU) (55%); BA (NYSE) (55%); GM (NYSE) (55%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS336414 GUIDED MISSILE & SPACE VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (55%); NAICS336412 AIRCRAFT ENGINE & ENGINE PARTS MANUFACTURING (55%); NAICS336411 AIRCRAFT MANUFACTURING (55%); SIC3761 GUIDED MISSILES & SPACE VEHICLES (55%); NAICS336112 LIGHT TRUCK & UTILITY VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (55%); NAICS336111 AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING (55%); 

COUNTRY: CHINA (99%); UNITED STATES (95%); SERBIA (93%); ASIA (79%); NEW ZEALAND (79%); TAIWAN (79%); 

STATE: NORTH CENTRAL CHINA (92%); 

CITY: BELGRADE, SERBIA (93%); BEIJING, CHINA (90%); 

COMPANY: BOEING CO (55%); GENERAL MOTORS CO (55%); UNITED STATES CHAMBER OF COMMERCE (56%); UNITED STATES CHAMBER OF COMMERCE (56%); 

ORGANIZATION: UNITED STATES CHAMBER OF COMMERCE (56%); UNITED STATES CHAMBER OF COMMERCE (56%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: CHINA; UNITED STATES; CHINA (99%); UNITED STATES (95%); SERBIA (93%); ASIA (79%); NEW ZEALAND (79%); TAIWAN (79%); NORTH CENTRAL CHINA (92%); BELGRADE, SERBIA (93%); BEIJING, CHINA (90%); 

SUBJECT: UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; CHINA-INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS-US; INTERNATIONAL TRADE AND WORLD MARKET; LAW AND LEGISLATION; LOBBYING AND LOBBYISTS POLITICAL PARTIES (91%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (90%); LOBBYING (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); RELIGION (90%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (90%); TRADE TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (89%); MOST FAVORED NATION STATUS (89%); TRADE DEVELOPMENT (89%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (85%); LEGISLATION (78%); US PRESIDENTS (78%); BOMBINGS (76%); EMBASSIES & CONSULATES (76%); CONSERVATISM (75%); LIBERALISM (75%); CULTS & SECTS (75%); HUMAN RIGHTS (74%); PRIME MINISTERS (74%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (74%); GOODS & SERVICES TRADE BALANCE (73%); BUSINESS & PROFESSIONAL ASSOCIATIONS (72%); TALKS & MEETINGS (70%); EXECUTIVES (70%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE LAW (68%); TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (65%); 

PERSON: SCHMITT, ERIC BILL CLINTON (77%); 

LOAD-DATE: July 28, 1999



673 of 738 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 28, 1999

SECTION: Section C; Page 2; Column 5; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 622 words

HEADLINE: Cox Is in Deal With Gannett For Cable-TV Subscribers

BYLINE: By GERALDINE FABRIKANT 

 BODY:
Continuing to expand its cable-television holdings, Cox Communications said yesterday that it had agreed to acquire 522,000 cable subscribers from the Gannett Company.
Cox paid a high price to expand its cable operations. It is spending $2.7 billion in cash to acquire systems in Kansas, Oklahoma and North Carolina for a record $5,100 a subscriber. 
 However, the company said that its effective price was actually lower since the acquisition was a purchase of assets that generate a $350 million tax credit.
Nevertheless, the price was sufficiently higher than earlier transactions to push up the stock of other cable companies. Cox lost 81.125 cents a share, closing at $38, but Time Warner stock rose $1.1875, to close at $73.6875 a share. Comcast stock jumped $1.50, to close at $36.1875, and the Cablevision System Corporation rose 93.75 cents, to $72.0625.
While Cox did agree to pay a premium compared with other cable deals, the company is considered possibly the best operator in the industry, and analysts were optimistic that Cox could make the deal pay off. David Goldsmith, who follows cable for Buckingham Research Group, a New York-based firm, said that he believed the deal made a lot of sense, since Cox is "bulking up on subscribers and doing it in a clustered way."
"Cox already has a huge cluster in the Tidewater area of Virginia, so acquiring the Carolina system makes a lot of sense," Mr. Goldsmith added. "They are buying a scarce resource, and when you factor in the rollout of new services and what they will do to cash flow, that is not an egregious price." The new rollouts could be in the areas of digital television, Internet services and telephony.
Another part of the purchase -- Gannett's Multimedia Cablevision unit based in Wichita, Kan. -- fits into a regional cluster that Cox is building in the central United States. After its current acquisition is completed, Cox said it would have more than 2.4 million customers in a region spanning Texas, Oklahoma, Louisiana, Arkansas, Kansas and Nebraska.
Because Cox is paying a relatively high multiple of cash flow, the company was eager to explain the price by pointing out the tax benefits of a cash transaction. Cox's treasurer, Dallas Clement, said that the majority of cable deals are done for stock, and the acquiring company depreciates the value of the assets that are on the selling company's books. A cash purchase allows the buyer to write up the value of the assets closer to the purchase price and therefore higher. The buyer can expense a larger percentage of the purchase price and reduce taxable income.
Cox is the fifth-largest cable operator in the country and has been creating regional clusters through acquisitions. After its current and pending deals close it will have six million subscribers and will remain the fifth-largest cable operator.
Many of Gannett's systems are already upgraded and considered a good mesh with Cox's systems. However, Gannett, which bought the cable systems five years ago from the Multimedia Corporation for $2.3 billion, has never been a major player in the industry, which has consolidated dramatically. This has enabled the larger companies to benefit from economies of scale.
Cox Communications was initially part of Cox Enterprises, the privately held media giant that owns The Atlanta Constitution and 18 other daily newspapers, as well as TV and radio station and an auto auction business. In 1993, James Kennedy, the grandson of Cox's founder and chairman of Cox Enterprises, decided that Cox either had to grow in cable or sell out. The company then took its own cable operations public and used that stock to acquire Times Mirror's cable operations.
 
http://www.nytimes.com

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: GCI (NYSE) (94%); CVC (NYSE) (83%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS511110 NEWSPAPER PUBLISHERS (94%); SIC2711 NEWSPAPERS: PUBLISHING, OR PUBLISHING & PRINTING (94%); NAICS515210 CABLE & OTHER SUBSCRIPTION PROGRAMMING (83%); SIC4841 CABLE & OTHER PAY TELEVISION SERVICES (83%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (55%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%); 

STATE: KANSAS, USA (93%); NORTH CAROLINA, USA (92%); TEXAS, USA (79%); LOUISIANA, USA (79%); ARKANSAS, USA (79%); NEBRASKA, USA (79%); VIRGINIA, USA (77%); NEW YORK, USA (70%); MIDWEST USA (58%); 

CITY: WICHITA, KS, USA (79%); DALLAS, TX, USA (67%); 

COMPANY: GANNETT CO; COX COMMUNICATIONS INC GANNETT CO INC (94%); CABLEVISION SYSTEMS CORP (83%); COX COMMUNICATIONS INC (58%); BUCKINGHAM RESEARCH GROUP INC (55%); 

ORGANIZATION: GANNETT CO; COX COMMUNICATIONS INC

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%); KANSAS, USA (93%); NORTH CAROLINA, USA (92%); TEXAS, USA (79%); LOUISIANA, USA (79%); ARKANSAS, USA (79%); NEBRASKA, USA (79%); VIRGINIA, USA (77%); NEW YORK, USA (70%); MIDWEST USA (58%); WICHITA, KS, USA (79%); DALLAS, TX, USA (67%); 

SUBJECT: MERGERS, ACQUISITIONS AND DIVESTITURES; TELEVISION CABLE TELEVISION (90%); CABLE INDUSTRY (90%); SUBSCRIPTION TELEVISION (90%); CABLE & OTHER DISTRIBUTION (90%); TELEVISION INDUSTRY (90%); TAXES & TAXATION (89%); ACQUISITIONS (78%); DIGITAL TELEVISION (78%); TAX LAW (75%); INCOME TAX (70%); INTERNET & WWW (64%); 

PERSON: FABRIKANT, GERALDINE

LOAD-DATE: July 28, 1999



674 of 738 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 28, 1999

SECTION: Section C; Page 1; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk

LENGTH: 572 words

HEADLINE: BUSINESS DIGEST

 BODY:

Little-Known Stocks Gain On Usually Reliable Ones
For most of the 1990's, individual investors have gotten rich in the stock market by sticking to a couple of relatively simple strategies: buying big-name companies whose products they know or use and piling into stocks that have already been big winners.
But these strategies appear to be losing steam. Some of the stocks that have been the hottest -- companies as diverse as America Online, Pfizer, Yahoo, Gillette and Dell Computer -- are down considerably from their highs of earlier this year. Many of these stocks have been outrun by companies few investors have ever heard of. Market Place. Page A1. 

Cox Buying Gannett Cable Unit
Cox Communications is spending $2.7 billion in cash to acquire a Gannett cable unit with 522,000 subscribers in Kansas, Oklahoma and North Carolina. C2.
 
Microsoft Rebuffs America Online
Continuing the battle over whether users of its software should be able to link into America Online's popular instant message system, Microsoft rebuffed America Online's invitation to discuss a possible deal. C2.
 
China and U.S. Hold Trade Talks
China and the United States held trade talks in Beijing and agreed to higher-level discussions later this year, a new sign of slowly thawing relations. But they remained frozen on the most prominent issue -- China's proposed entry into the World Trade Organization. Deputy Commerce Secretary David L. Aaron, above, met with Chinese officials to discuss commercial issues. Yet the Chinese only talked about trade organization membership indirectly, Mr. Aaron said, and they showed no willingness to establish a timetable for new negotiations. C4.
 
The House backed trading privileges for China for another year, separating United States commercial interests from a long list of grievances Washington has with Beijing. A4.
 
Nursing-Home Chain to Take Charge
Beverly Enterprises said it would take a second-quarter charge of $175 million to $225 million, which could equal earnings for the last eight years, in anticipation of settling a Medicare fraud investigation. C5.
 
Stocks Surge on Bargain Buying
Stocks made their biggest gains of the month as investors sought bargains. The Nasdaq rose 60.14 points, or 2.3 percent, to 2,679.33. The Standard & Poor's 500-stock index gained 15.08 points, or 1.1 percent, to 1,362.84. The Dow Jones industrial average climbed 115.88 points, or 1.1 percent, to 10,979.04. C13.
 
No Delay Granted in Cendant Suit
A Federal judge refused a request by prosecutors investigating Cendant to delay a class-action lawsuit against the company while they examine an accounting scandal. The United States Attorney's office in Newark had asked for the delay, arguing that continuing the civil action would interfere with its criminal inquiry into financial fraud at CUC International, which merged with HFS and formed Cendant. The fraud forced Cendant to restate earnings for three years. C11.
 
F.D.A. Approves Inhaled Flu Drug
The Food and Drug Administration approved a new inhaled drug to treat influenza -- Relenza by Glaxo Wellcome -- overriding a panel of independent scientific advisers. A14.
 
Consumer Confidence Fell in July
Consumer confidence in the economy slipped in July from its highest level in more than 30 years even as Americans said they planned to increase their spending on big items. C8.
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photo
 
Chart: "YESTERDAY"
Dow industrials -- 10,979.04 up 115.88
30-yr. Treasury yield -- 6.01% down 0.02
The euro -- $1.062 down 0.003
The dollar -- 116.36 yen down 0.25
 
Graph: "TODAY" shows Durable Goods Orders
June figures due at 6:30 A.M. Eastern.
Expected: +1.0%
 
Graph tracks Cendant share price's daily close since Tuesday, July 21.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Summary

TICKER: AOL (NYSE) (90%); PFZ (LSE) (57%); PFE (NYSE) (57%); MSFT (NASDAQ) (56%); 

INDUSTRY: SIC7379 COMPUTER RELATED SERVICES, NEC (90%); SIC7375 INFORMATION RETRIEVAL SERVICES (90%); NAICS325414 BIOLOGICAL PRODUCT (EXCEPT DIAGNOSTIC) MANUFACTURING (57%); NAICS325412 PHARMACEUTICAL PREPARATION MANUFACTURING (57%); NAICS325411 MEDICINAL & BOTANICAL MANUFACTURING (57%); SIC2836 BIOLOGICAL PRODUCTS, EXCEPT DIAGNOSTIC SUBSTANCES (57%); SIC2834 PHARMACEUTICAL PREPARATIONS (57%); SIC2833 MEDICINAL CHEMICALS & BOTANICAL PRODUCTS (57%); NAICS515210 CABLE & OTHER SUBSCRIPTION PROGRAMMING (56%); SIC4841 CABLE & OTHER PAY TELEVISION SERVICES (56%); NAICS511210 SOFTWARE PUBLISHERS (56%); SIC7372 PREPACKAGED SOFTWARE (56%); NAICS623311 CONTINUING CARE RETIREMENT COMMUNITIES (53%); NAICS623110 NURSING CARE FACILITIES (SKILLED NURSING FACILITIES) (53%); SIC8059 NURSING & PERSONAL CARE FACILITIES, NEC (53%); SIC8051 SKILLED NURSING CARE FACILITIES (53%); 

COUNTRY: CHINA (95%); UNITED STATES (95%); 

STATE: NORTH CENTRAL CHINA (90%); NORTH CAROLINA, USA (79%); 

CITY: BEIJING, CHINA (70%); 

COMPANY: AOL INC (90%); PFIZER INC (57%); COX COMMUNICATIONS INC (56%); MICROSOFT CORP (56%); GGNSC HOLDINGS LLC (53%); WORLD TRADE ORGANIZATION (54%); WORLD TRADE ORGANIZATION (54%); 

ORGANIZATION: WORLD TRADE ORGANIZATION (54%); WORLD TRADE ORGANIZATION (54%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: CHINA (95%); UNITED STATES (95%); NORTH CENTRAL CHINA (90%); NORTH CAROLINA, USA (79%); BEIJING, CHINA (70%); 

SUBJECT: NO INDEX TERMS FROM NYTIMES STOCK EXCHANGES (90%); TALKS & MEETINGS (90%); NEWS BRIEFS (90%); STOCK INDEXES (90%); SUITS & CLAIMS (88%); TRADE DEVELOPMENT (87%); LITIGATION (85%); FRAUD & FINANCIAL CRIME (85%); INVESTIGATIONS (85%); CRIMINAL INVESTIGATIONS (85%); CORPORATE WRONGDOING (77%); COMPUTER SOFTWARE (75%); COMPANY EARNINGS (74%); DELAYS & POSTPONEMENTS (71%); INSTANT MESSAGING (70%); CLASS ACTIONS (67%); MEDICARE (66%); COMMERCE DEPARTMENTS (66%); BUSINESS TORTS (64%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (64%); NURSING HOMES (62%); ACCOUNTING (61%); MEDICARE FRAUD (61%); SCANDALS (61%); JUDGES (60%); LONG TERM HEALTH CARE (50%); 

PERSON: DAVID L AARON (63%); 

LOAD-DATE: July 28, 1999



675 of 738 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 28, 1999

SECTION: Section B; Page 1; Column 2; Metropolitan Desk 

LENGTH: 1143 words

HEADLINE: New Home Costs Found Highest in New York

BYLINE: By DENNIS HEVESI 

 BODY:
A study commissioned by New York City has found that the cost of residential construction in the five boroughs is the highest in the country, with pervasive corruption, outdated regulations and excessive labor and material costs continuing to make it prohibitively expensive to build new homes.
The study found that it costs an average of $183,000 to build one apartment in a typical six-story building in New York City. That is 22 percent higher than Dallas, 10 percent more than Chicago and 4 percent higher than in Los Angeles, where added costs to reduce earthquake damage narrow the gap. 
 As a result, residential construction in New York City has failed to keep pace with demand, the report says, pointing out that although building permits for 52,000 new dwelling units were issued between 1980 and 1996, the city's population grew by 120,000 households during that period.
"That shortfall contributes to low vacancy rates, skyrocketing rents and incredible rent-to-income burdens," said one of the report's authors, Michael Schill, the director of the Center for Real Estate and Urban Policy at the New York University School of Law. "We found that rents in New York are the highest in the nation, and that one out of four renter households pays more than half its income for rent."
Labor is by far the largest contributor to the higher costs. For example, the report said, the base hourly wage and fringe-benefit rate for bricklayers in the city is $46.64, 35 percent more than Chicago, 42 percent more than Los Angeles and 155 percent more than Dallas.
While the cost of living has long kept wages high in New York, labor costs are also inflated, the report says, because of featherbedding and inefficient work rules, such as the requirement that plumbers install toilet paper holders, or that electricians install mailboxes.
The report was commissioned by the city's Department of Housing Preservation and Development and the New York City Partnership and Chamber of Commerce.
Among the report's major recommendations are a "broad redrafting" of the city's 38-year-old zoning code, which it calls "arcane and byzantine"; replacement of the building code with a model code written by a national engineering association to reflect current construction technology, and elimination of environmental reviews for new buildings of 90 apartments or less. Currently, all buildings with 3 or more apartments require an environmental review.
The report also finds that "contrary to allegations of some members of the real estate industry, rent regulation is unlikely" to contribute to higher building costs, except when a developer seeks to demolish an old building. In that situation, the report calls for the rewriting of the rent law to allow for the removal of holdout tenants, with fair compensation, if the new building will have 20 percent more floor space than the demolished one.
In conducting the study, the authors retained architects to draw up specifications for a town house, a six-story apartment house and a 15-story luxury building. Then they compared construction-cost estimates for New York with those in Chicago, Dallas and Los Angeles.
Professor Schill called the cost gaps "extremely conservative, because they factor out the far higher costs of land and soft costs," like professional fees, "in New York City."
Along with wage rates and inefficient union rules, the report cites corruption as a significant contributor to high labor costs in New York.
"Extortion, bid-rigging, bribery and other illegal practices are pervasive in the construction industry," it says. "These illegal practices often take place because organized crime has infiltrated labor unions and construction companies."
While Federal officials have been going after corruption in some of the city's largest building unions, the report says that more needs to be done. It recommends that the city create a commission to investigate and license all construction managers to weed out those connected to organized crime, something Mayor Rudolph W. Giuliani has proposed.
The report also recommends that builders and labor unions "negotiate a lower wage rate for construction outside the central core of Manhattan," and that wages "reflect the complexity of construction, and vary depending upon whether the development is low-, mid- or high-rise."
Edward J. Malloy, president of the city's Building and Construction Trades Council, questioned the cost estimates in the study.
"We are doing good-sized projects in the Bronx and have negotiated agreements on these projects that brought the price down to a number that the construction manager and the developer found competitive," he said. "I do not believe that there's that big a disparity in the wage package between New York, Chicago and Los Angeles."
Asked about the report's conclusions regarding featherbedding and corruption, Mr. Malloy said: "If you told me that 10 years ago, I would probably agree with you. But in today's market, all the agreements have been changed to reflect the competitive market, and most of the so-called featherbedding clauses have been eliminated."
The report says that a major reason that material costs in New York are excessive is that the city's building code is "stringent" and "cumbersome." The report cites as one example that plastic pipe can be used only in one- and two-family buildings in New York, while other cities allow it in larger buildings.
And the report says the city's zoning regulations "can only be described as arcane and byzantine."
"Only experts can wade through the multiple levels of regulation that may affect a single piece of property," it says. "This discourages new developers from entering the market and expanding the capacity of the city to produce housing."
Prof. Jerry Salama, who wrote the report with Prof. Martha Stark and Professor Schill, said that to meet housing needs the city must convert more manufacturing areas to residential use, something that zoning rules inhibit. The report also recommends against the requirement of environmental reviews for developments of up to 90 apartments, and up to 150 apartments of affordable housing.
"What we recommend," Professor Salama said, "is that the mayor and the City Council create a task force to undertake a broad redraft of the Zoning Resolution with the driving vision being to make it easier and more cost-effective to build housing."
The Commissioner of Housing Preservation and Development, Richard T. Roberts, called the study "a very good document."
Mr. Roberts added, "It really reaches the mark in terms of outlining specific steps that can be taken."
"We want to consult with the Mayor, the City Council and policymakers in Albany," he said, "and see how many of these recommendations we can put into effect in the next couple of years."
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Graph: "KEEPING TRACK: Home, Expensive Home"
A new study shows that it is more expensive to construct residential buildings in New York than in other cities. Here is an estimated cost comparison, not counting land costs, for two buildings.
 
1,470-square-foot apartment in a six-story apartment house

	LABOR	MATERIALS	 	New York	$86,384	$96,661	$183,045	Los Angeles	$79,348	$97,213	$176,561	Chicago	$73,112	$93,047	$166,159	Dallas	$62,315	$87,623	$149,938	
 
1,911-square-foot apartment in a 15-story luxury building

	LABOR	MATERIALS	 	New York	$155,588	$186,673	$342,261	Los Angeles	$142,802	$187,750	$330,552	Chicago	$131,330	$179,223	$310,553	Dallas	$111,903	$169,361	$281,264	
 
(Source: New York University School of Law's Center for Real Estate and Urban Policy)(pg. B7) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (96%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (96%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%); 

COMPANY: NEW YORK UNIVERSITY SCHOOL OF LAW (93%); 

ORGANIZATION: NEW YORK UNIVERSITY SCHOOL OF LAW (93%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK CITY; UNITED STATES (96%); NEW YORK, USA (96%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%); 

SUBJECT: HOUSING; PRICES (FARES, FEES AND RATES); LABOR; ETHICS; REGULATION AND DEREGULATION OF INDUSTRY REAL ESTATE (91%); CONSTRUCTION (91%); RESIDENTIAL CONSTRUCTION (91%); RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (90%); CITY GOVERNMENT (90%); RESEARCH REPORTS (90%); CONSTRUCTION COSTS (90%); ENVIRONMENTAL ASSESSMENT (89%); WAGES & SALARIES (89%); HOUSING AUTHORITIES (78%); HOUSING MARKET (78%); RENT CONTROL (78%); REAL PROPERTY LAW (78%); ENGINEERING (78%); CITY LIFE (78%); CITIES (78%); BUILDING & HOUSING CODES (78%); ZONING (78%); RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY VACANCY RATES (78%); LAND USE PLANNING (78%); RESIDENTIAL RENTAL PROPERTY (78%); POPULATION SIZE (78%); RELOCATIONS (78%); CORRUPTION (77%); LANDLORD & TENANT LAW (77%); ETHICS (77%); PUBLIC POLICY (77%); DEREGULATION (77%); HOUSEHOLD NUMBERS (76%); WRITERS (76%); POPULATION & DEMOGRAPHICS (76%); BUILDING PERMITS (73%); COST OF LIVING (72%); LAW SCHOOLS (71%); BUSINESS & PROFESSIONAL ASSOCIATIONS (66%); URBAN DEVELOPMENT (54%); ECONOMIC NEWS (54%); 

PERSON: HEVESI, DENNIS CHRISTIAN PIERRET (59%); 

LOAD-DATE: July 28, 1999



676 of 738 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 28, 1999

SECTION: Section A; Page 5; Column 1; Foreign Desk 

LENGTH: 650 words

HEADLINE: North Korea Urged Again Not to Test New Missile

BYLINE: By JANE PERLEZ 

DATELINE: SINGAPORE, July 27

 BODY:
Secretary of State Madeleine K. Albright and her counterparts from South Korea and Japan appealed today to the isolated Communist Government of North Korea to accept engagement with the world rather than risk "serious negative consequences" with a long-range missile test.
The warning, in a statement issued here, is part of a full-blown diplomatic effort to keep North Korea from going ahead with the test. 
 It was the latest in a series of admonitions from American officials including Defense Secretary William S. Cohen, who is visiting Japan and South Korea this week.
The prospect of another such test by North Korea, after a surprise test last August, has dominated the annual meeting of the Association of South East Asian Nations here.
It has added to the sense that security concerns have replaced economic matters as the top focus of the region. As the countries that were battered by financial crisis two years ago begin to recover, attention has turned to new tensions between China and Taiwan and to the threat of North Korea's missile and its ability to build nuclear weapons.
The United States fears that another test could set off a chain of potentially destabilizing actions around the Korean peninsula.
American intelligence data have pointed to steady preparations by North Korea to launch a Taepodong 2 missile, which has an estimated range of up to 3,750 miles, making it theoretically able to reach Alaska or Hawaii. The new rocket is described by officials as an advanced version of the Taepodong 1, which North Korea fired over Japan and into the Pacific Ocean in August.
The Japanese Foreign Minister, Masahiko Komura, said at a news conference here today that if North Korea went ahead with its test, the Japanese Government would probably withdraw the $1 billion it recently allocated for the Korean Energy Development Organization.
"Should there be another test launch by North Korea, in view of the Japanese people's sentiment, it will be extremely difficult for Japan to continue its cooperation" with the development organization, he said.
The development consortium, also backed by the United States, has agreed to build two light water nuclear reactors in North Korea in return for the Government's ending its nuclear program. The United States gives North Korea 500,000 tons of fuel oil a year as part of an effort to create an alternative to nuclear energy.
A breakup of the consortium could induce North Korea to resume construction of nuclear reactors that produce plutonium usable in nuclear weapons, officials said.
The Clinton Administration is also worried that another launching by North Korea would encourage South Korea to move ahead with several missile projects of its own, further fueling an arms race. South Korea recently proposed building a generation of medium-range missiles that could strike much of North Korea.
The test last year, which the North Koreans insisted was for a satellite launching, set off such concern in Japan that the Government decided to make an initial investment in the United States theater missile defense program. Another launching by North Korea would almost certainly increase Japan's interest in the proposed system -- thus irritating China, which views Japanese participation in missile defense as aimed at the Chinese mainland.
In their appearance together this morning, Ms. Albright and the two Foreign Ministers tried, without being very specific, to emphasize the positive incentives for North Korea not to test.
Ms. Albright said the policy of the South Korean President, Kim Dae Jung, for engagement with North Korea, its longtime enemy, and a program to be announced by former Defense Secretary William J. Perry, President Clinton's special envoy for North Korean affairs, would give North Korea a "good chance to strengthen its economic and political ties with the world."
 
http://www.nytimes.com

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (95%); KOREA, REPUBLIC OF (95%); JAPAN (95%); KOREA, DEMOCRATIC PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF (94%); SOUTH-EASTERN ASIA (92%); ASIA (92%); SINGAPORE (79%); TAIWAN (79%); CHINA (79%); NORTHERN ASIA (79%); 

STATE: ALASKA, USA (79%); HAWAII, USA (79%); PACIFIC OCEAN (69%); 

COMPANY: ASSOCIATION OF SOUTHEAST ASIAN NATIONS SOUTH EAST ASIAN BANK LTD (58%); ASSOCIATION OF SOUTHEAST ASIAN NATIONS (91%); 

ORGANIZATION: ASSOCIATION OF SOUTHEAST ASIAN NATIONS ASSOCIATION OF SOUTHEAST ASIAN NATIONS (91%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: NORTH KOREA; SOUTH KOREA; JAPAN; UNITED STATES (95%); KOREA, REPUBLIC OF (95%); JAPAN (95%); KOREA, DEMOCRATIC PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF (94%); SOUTH-EASTERN ASIA (92%); ASIA (92%); SINGAPORE (79%); TAIWAN (79%); CHINA (79%); NORTHERN ASIA (79%); ALASKA, USA (79%); HAWAII, USA (79%); PACIFIC OCEAN (69%); 

SUBJECT: UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; MISSILES; NORTH KOREA-INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS-US; TESTS AND TESTING; FOREIGN AID; ATOMIC ENERGY INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (91%); MISSILE SYSTEMS (90%); MISSILE RESEARCH & DEVELOPMENT (90%); MILITARY WEAPONS (89%); NUCLEAR ENERGY (89%); NUCLEAR WEAPONS (89%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (88%); FOREIGN RELATIONS (79%); TALKS & MEETINGS (79%); ARMS RACE (77%); DEFENSE DEPARTMENTS (75%); INTERNATIONAL ASSISTANCE (74%); STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (73%); PRESS CONFERENCES (72%); ENERGY & UTILITY CONSTRUCTION (71%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (68%); ENERGY DEVELOPMENT PROGRAMS (67%); REAL ESTATE DEVELOPMENT (67%); SATELLITE INDUSTRY (65%); 

PERSON: PERLEZ, JANE; ALBRIGHT, MADELEINE K (SEC); KOMURA, MASAHIKO (MIN) HILLARY RODHAM CLINTON (51%); HILLARY RODHAM CLINTON (51%); 

LOAD-DATE: July 28, 1999



677 of 738 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 28, 1999

SECTION: Section B; Page 5; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk 

LENGTH: 723 words

HEADLINE: Plaintiffs in Monmouth See Power Company Negligence and Lack of Planning in Blackouts

BYLINE: By MARIA NEWMAN 

 BODY:
When the power went out sporadically on four blisteringly hot days after the Fourth of July weekend, George J. Tzannetakis and some of his neighbors in Fair Haven, N.J., slept on their back lawns, missed out on work assignments because they could not use their computers and worried about elderly neighbors who could not get relief from the record heat.
It was not the first time in recent memory that the power had gone out because of system malfunctions at GPU Energy, the company that supplies power to Monmouth County. 
 But this time, Mr. Tzannetakis and his neighbors are not just getting angry. A few days ago, they filed a class-action lawsuit against GPU, accusing the company of poor planning, of failing to maintain its equipment properly and of failing to anticipate the increased demands that hot weather would put on its equipment.
"They've had other power failures, and they're never even given a slap on the wrist," said Mr. Tzannetakis, who is a consultant and an economics professor at Seton Hall University. "They're supposed to give us reliable and safe service, and they have not done that."
Mr. Tzannetakis is one of 12 plaintiffs who filed the lawsuit after blackouts that affected 10 towns in Monmouth County this month. The power demands stemming from the heat wave caused the failure of two 60-ton transformers at GPU's substation in Red Bank, N.J., so the utility ordered alternating four-hour blackouts that affected 40,000 customers in northeastern Monmouth County.
The company also cut power in some locations after several small pole-top transformers failed.
A spokesman for the company, Ronald Morano, said yesterday that GPU had not been served with the suit and that he could not comment on it specifically.
But Mr. Morano said the power failures were a result of a combination of problems at the Red Bank substation and the unprecedented weather conditions, circumstances that the company has explained in a report to the state's Public Utility Board, which is investigating the matter.
"We had not seen a combination of heat and humidity of that type since 1988," Mr. Morano said.
But the lawsuit, filed in State Superior Court in Monmouth County, contends that the company should have anticipated the hot weather during the holiday weekend, when temperatures reached well into the 90's.
"Temperatures were high, but within the foreseeable range," the lawsuit states. "Defendants knew or should have known that two transformers at GPU Energy's Red Bank substation needed to be replaced."
Mayors and police chiefs in the towns have also complained that the utility gave them little notice about the "rolling blackouts," creating chaos with their ability to respond to emergencies, traffic congestion because of signal light failures and a reduced ability to deliver other city services.
Mayor Gordon Gemma of Oceanport said that in his town, a group of elderly residents at a housing complex were moved when the air-conditioning and lights went out in their homes, first to the Monmouth Park race track, which also lost power later, and then to the headquarters of the regional sewer authority, which produces its own power and so was not affected by GPU's failure.
"We played 'move the seniors' all night," said Mr. Gemma, whose town is not a plaintiff in the lawsuit.
Mr. Gemma, who is a lawyer and once worked for a utility company, said he and other members of the Two Rivers Council of Mayors, most of whose communities were affected by the blackouts, planned to ask GPU for compensation on the real costs to their towns of the power failures.
"They want to maintain that the outages were due to an act of God and of the transformers going down," he said. "I don't think that was entirely honest."
Mr. Gemma, who is also a licensed professional planner, said that the company had not accurately anticipated the growth in the demand for power in the region and that it had not invested enough in improving and maintaining its infrastructure to provide even the same amount of service.
"There's going to be a lot of mea culpas going around," Mr. Gamma said. "But that won't get at the basic issue of why was there a major screw-up in notifying us about the blackouts, and what are they doing about improving their infrastructure to keep this from happening in the future." 
http://www.nytimes.com

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

INDUSTRY: SIC4911 ELECTRIC SERVICES; 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (79%); 

STATE: NEW JERSEY, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: GPU INC RED BANK MANUFACTURING CO LTD (54%); SETON HALL UNIVERSITY (55%); SETON HALL UNIVERSITY (55%); 

ORGANIZATION: GPU INC SETON HALL UNIVERSITY (55%); SETON HALL UNIVERSITY (55%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: MONMOUTH COUNTY (NJ); UNITED STATES (79%); NEW JERSEY, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: ELECTRIC LIGHT AND POWER; SUITS AND LITIGATION; CLASS-ACTION SUITS; HEAT; BLACKOUTS (ELECTRICAL); WEATHER POWER FAILURES (92%); SUITS & CLAIMS (91%); NATURAL GAS & ELECTRIC UTILITIES (90%); LITIGATION (90%); ELECTRIC POWER PLANTS (90%); UTILITIES INDUSTRY (90%); US INDEPENDENCE DAY (89%); WEATHER (89%); ELECTRICITY TRANSMISSION & DISTRIBUTION (89%); MAYORS (87%); HOLIDAYS & OBSERVANCES (78%); ENERGY DEMAND (78%); ELECTRIC POWER INDUSTRY (75%); MAINTENANCE & REPAIR (74%); ENERGY & UTILITY LAW (70%); CLASS ACTIONS (69%); BUSINESS EDUCATION (67%); INVESTIGATIONS (67%); POLICE FORCES (60%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (52%); 

PERSON: NEWMAN, MARIA GORDON GEMMA (72%); GEORGE J TZANNETAKIS (70%); RONALD MORANO (62%); 

LOAD-DATE: July 28, 1999



678 of 738 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 28, 1999

SECTION: Section A; Page 12; Column 1; National Desk 

LENGTH: 943 words

HEADLINE: With a New Image, Jackson Campaigns Outside 2000 Race

BYLINE: By PAM BELLUCK 

DATELINE: CHICAGO, July 27

 BODY:
With Vice President Al Gore and former Senator Bill Bradley set to address the Rev. Jesse Jackson's coalition of civil rights groups and urban activists next week, Mr. Jackson says he will not endorse either candidate for the Democratic Presidential nomination until he sees which seems more effective in championing causes he considers crucial.
"The issue is not who will I endorse," Mr. Jackson said in an interview here. "The issue is whether they will endorse the policies." 
 Mr. Gore and Mr. Bradley will have an opportunity to do that next week at a four-day national conference of Mr. Jackson's Rainbow/ PUSH Coalition, where each candidate will give a speech. Officials with both campaigns said they considered the conference an important chance for them to address Mr. Jackson's core African-American and liberal urban audience.
"We're going to work very hard to get his support and earn his support," said Chris Lehane, a spokesman for the Vice President. "We're absolutely not going to take anything for granted."
Mr. Jackson, who sought the Democratic nomination for President in 1984 and 1988 and is often mentioned as a potential candidate, decided this spring not to run in 2000. He wants to use his platform and political stature to influence the election from the outside and "set the climate for policy," he said on Monday, sitting at a plain round table at the South Side headquarters of the Rainbow/PUSH Coalition, the organization he founded more than 25 years ago.
Mr. Jackson says he wants to make sure the candidates -- and not necessarily just the Democrats -- feel compelled to focus on issues like health insurance for the poor, workers' rights, affirmative action and more money for urban schools.
Undoubtedly, one reason that Mr. Jackson, 57, decided not to seek office was that it seemed clear he could not win, but political analysts nonetheless consider him an important figure in Democratic politics, one who is seen much less as a controversial gadfly than as someone whose influence with potential voters has increased in recent years.
David Bositis, a senior policy analyst at the Joint Center for Political and Economic Studies, has been gauging Mr. Jackson's popularity in surveys he has conducted in each of the last four years. He said whites were increasingly seeing Mr. Jackson in a positive light.
In 1996, 30 percent of whites surveyed viewed Mr. Jackson favorably and 50 percent viewed him unfavorably, Mr. Bositis said. In a 1999 survey to be published soon, 57 percent of whites viewed Mr. Jackson favorably, and 29 percent regarded him unfavorably. Mr. Bositis also said more self-described conservatives gave Mr. Jackson favorable ratings than unfavorable ones.
Analysts say Mr. Jackson's improved image is partly due to the man himself and partly a reflection of the political climate. In the 1992 Presidential campaign, Bill Clinton, determined to show he was not a traditional liberal Democrat, seemed to make a point of distancing himself from Mr. Jackson and the black electorate by criticizing the rap performer Sister Souljah, who once suggested that blacks kill whites, at a Rainbow/PUSH Coalition convention. Now, analysts and Democratic strategists say, the party appears more well-rounded and the nation's strong economy makes Mr. Jackson's talk about helping the disadvantaged seem less threatening.
"At the national level there is no longer a sense that you're going to be opening up the public coffers to tons of welfare recipients if you say what Jesse Jackson agrees with," said Rachel Gorlin, a Democratic consultant.
In addition, Mr. Bositis said, Mr. Jackson's role as Mr. Clinton's spiritual adviser during the Monica Lewinsky scandal has given his religious persona more prominence. His campaign to encourage corporate investment in urban neighborhoods has introduced him to more business leaders. And, he continued, his role in freeing three American soldiers captured in Kosovo enhanced Mr. Jackson's public image, even if his intervention in the Yugoslavia conflict rankled the Clinton Administration.
Ms. Gorlin says Mr. Jackson has evolved "from being a figure who was able to inspire fear" to a point "where he's almost reached a statesman's status."
"He used to be a bogeyman," she added, "and that's no longer true."
Mr. Jackson said he decided not to run for President this time because campaign financing had distorted the political process, because candidates were not as free to express controversial opinions and because non-candidates had greater "moral authority."
Praising both Democratic candidates, Mr. Jackson, known for his lyrical, passionate speaking style, suggested that the less-than-galvanizing personalities of Mr. Bradley and Mr. Gore would not hinder their campaign success.
He described Mr. Bradley, who has talked a lot about racial issues, as "a very bright guy" who "has integrity" and has "sought to deal with real issues."
Eric Hauser, Mr. Bradley's spokesman, said the two men "have a lot of respect for each other."
Mr. Jackson clearly has a closer relationship with Mr. Gore. Although the two were rivals for the Democratic Presidential nomination in 1988, Mr. Jackson said the campaign ultimately started a friendship that was strengthened when Mr. Jackson comforted Mr. Gore after his son, Albert 3d, almost died in an automobile accident in 1989.
"He's so smart and so well-prepared," Mr. Jackson said. "Gore has been preparing his whole life for high national service."
But he was careful not to tip his hand.
"This is exhibition season," Mr. Jackson said. "I want to see how the game is played."
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photo: The Rev. Jesse Jackson, who was once a Presidential candidate himself, is being courted by the Gore and Bradley campaigns. (Cynthia Howe for The New York Times)
 
 
 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (79%); 

COMPANY: RAINBOW/PUSH COALITION (57%); 

ORGANIZATION: RAINBOW/PUSH COALITION (57%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%); 

SUBJECT: PRESIDENTIAL ELECTION OF 2000; ENDORSEMENTS PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (91%); CIVIL RIGHTS (90%); HUMAN RIGHTS ORGANIZATIONS (90%); CONFERENCES & CONVENTIONS (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (89%); POLITICS (89%); CONSERVATISM (78%); ELECTIONS (78%); LIBERALISM (78%); POLITICAL PARTIES (78%); COMMUNITY ACTIVISM (78%); AFFIRMATIVE ACTION IN EMPLOYMENT (78%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (78%); INTERVIEWS (78%); PLATFORMS & ISSUES (78%); AFRICAN AMERICANS (78%); CITIES (73%); POLITICAL SCIENCE (70%); AFFIRMATIVE ACTION (51%); HEALTH INSURANCE (50%); EMPLOYEE HEALTH PLANS (50%); 

PERSON: JACKSON, JESSE L (REV); GORE, AL (VICE PRES); BRADLEY, BILL; BELLUCK, PAM JESSE JACKSON (93%); AL GORE (90%); 

LOAD-DATE: July 28, 1999



679 of 738 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 28, 1999

SECTION: Section A; Page 8; Column 3; Foreign Desk 

LENGTH: 925 words

HEADLINE: Russian Premier Warns U.S. Against Role as Policeman

BYLINE: By JOHN M. BRODER 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, July 27

 BODY:
Sergei V. Stepashin, the new Prime Minister of Russia, warned today that the United States should not assume the role of international policeman, a sign that relations between the two countries remain frayed by the American-led military intervention in Kosovo.
Mr. Stepashin, in Washington to meet with President Clinton, Vice President Al Gore and other American leaders, rejected the notion of a "Clinton doctrine" of intervention in internal conflicts in sovereign nations. "It is very dangerous," he warned at a luncheon at the National Press Club. 
 Nevertheless, Mr. Stepashin asserted that relations between the United States and Russia had markedly improved after the severe chill brought on by the conflict in Kosovo.
The Prime Minister announced that the United States and Russia would open planned talks on a new round of nuclear arms reductions next month and would consider mutual reductions in the number of spies in each other's country as a gesture of good will after the end of the cold war.
Mr. Stepashin's visit to Washington was his first since he became Prime Minister in May. President Boris N. Yeltsin appointed him to replace Yevgeny M. Primakov, whom Mr. Yeltsin accused of moving too slowly on political and economic reforms.
His meetings with Administration and Congressional officials were intended to mend relations that were strained by the conflict in Kosovo, which Russia opposed in part because of its historic ties to Serbia. His visit was also timed to coincide with an International Monetary Fund board meeting that is expected to approve a $4.5 billion loan on Wednesday to help stabilize Russia's floundering economy.
Mr. Primakov was scheduled to visit Washington in March but turned his aircraft around over the Atlantic Ocean to return to Moscow after Mr. Gore told him that the United States was about to begin bombing Serbian targets.
Although Mr. Stepashin's sessions with Mr. Gore and Mr. Clinton were described as cordial, deep divisions remain between the two countries on Kosovo and the United States' view of its role in the world.
Mr. Stepashin criticized the Administration for plotting to remove the Yugoslav President, Slobodan Milosevic, from power and for refusing to provide food and other aid to help rebuild Serbia after 78 days of heavy allied bombardment.
"The thing is," Mr. Stepashin said in response to a question after his luncheon speech, "there are 10 million people there. Summer is there, and people are getting by. However, when the winter sets in, there will be a humanitarian catastrophe in the very heart of Europe. There are no roads. Enterprises have been destroyed. There is no gas supply, no water supply in many areas of the country."
Mr. Clinton has ruled out aid for Serbia as long as Mr. Milosevic remains in power, a position repeated emphatically on Monday by his national security adviser, Samuel R. Berger.
"We will not provide one penny for reconstruction and we will not work to bring Serbia into Europe, as we will do with the rest of the region, so long as an indicted war criminal rules in Belgrade," Mr. Berger said.
In an afternoon meeting, Mr. Gore and Mr. Stepashin talked about reducing the espionage efforts each country has aimed at the other.
Neither would respond directly to a question on the matter from a reporter.
"Some questions," Mr. Gore said at a press briefing this afternoon, "are best dealt with through completely private channels."
But Mr. Gore acknowledged that "old attitudes in both countries fade away slowly," leading to overenthusiastic intelligence-gathering efforts and bloated spy agency budgets. "And then the other side has to spend the same amount," he said.
Mr. Stepashin, the former director of Russia's security and counterintelligence services, confirmed that he and Mr. Gore had discussed the matter.
"As long as states exist, there will always be special services, intelligence communities," Mr. Stepashin said in a man-of-the-world tone. But he added that such ungentlemanly pursuits should not stand in the way of "partnerlike" relations between the two countries.
On arms control, Mr. Gore and Mr. Stepashin reaffirmed a decision announced last month by Mr. Clinton and Mr. Yeltsin to open negotiations on a Start III treaty, even though the Russian Parliament has let six years pass without ratifying Start II.
They also agreed to talk about the United States' desire to deploy a limited antimissile defense system that Russia says would violate the Antiballistic Missile Treaty of 1972.
"We both understand that there are ballistic missile threats we both face that do not come from each other, but from other nations," Mr. Gore said in a statement. "That is why it is important -- in parallel with achieving our arms control objectives -- to discuss implications for the ABM treaty should the United States decide to deploy a national missile defense."
Mr. Stepashin's visit came as the policy making board of the I.M.F. was preparing to approve a new $4.5 billion loan for Russia. The fund is releasing the money -- part of a $20 billion package frozen last summer -- to reward Russia for reducing inflation (to 50 percent from 85 percent last year), reversing a budget deficit, slowing capital flight and improving tax collections.
Despite some improvements in Russia's dire fiscal situation and an easing of tensions with the West since the end of the Balkan conflict, Mr. Stepashin's future is seen as no more secure than any other Prime Minister under the mercurial Mr. Yeltsin.
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photo: Vice President Al Gore and Prime Minister Sergei V. Stepashin of Russia at a joint news conference yesterday. Mr. Stepashin warned against American intervention in the internal conflicts of other nations. (Associated Press)
 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

COUNTRY: SERBIA (99%); UNITED STATES (99%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (98%); KOSOVO (94%); SERBIA & MONTENEGRO (92%); EUROPE (79%); 

STATE: ATLANTIC OCEAN (68%); 

CITY: MOSCOW, RUSSIAN FEDERATION (73%); 

COMPANY: NORTH ATLANTIC TREATY ORGANIZATION NATIONAL PRESS (57%); NORTH ATLANTIC TREATY ORGANIZATION (59%); NORTH ATLANTIC TREATY ORGANIZATION (59%); NATIONAL PRESS CLUB (57%); NATIONAL PRESS CLUB (57%); INTERNATIONAL MONETARY FUND (54%); INTERNATIONAL MONETARY FUND (54%); 

ORGANIZATION: NORTH ATLANTIC TREATY ORGANIZATION NORTH ATLANTIC TREATY ORGANIZATION (59%); NORTH ATLANTIC TREATY ORGANIZATION (59%); NATIONAL PRESS CLUB (57%); NATIONAL PRESS CLUB (57%); INTERNATIONAL MONETARY FUND (54%); INTERNATIONAL MONETARY FUND (54%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: RUSSIA; SERBIA; KOSOVO (SERBIA); SERBIA (99%); UNITED STATES (99%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (98%); KOSOVO (94%); SERBIA & MONTENEGRO (92%); EUROPE (79%); ATLANTIC OCEAN (68%); MOSCOW, RUSSIAN FEDERATION (73%); 

SUBJECT: UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; RUSSIA-INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS-US; ESPIONAGE; UNITED STATES ARMAMENT AND DEFENSE INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (92%); PRIME MINISTERS (92%); MILITARY WEAPONS (90%); TALKS & MEETINGS (90%); INTERGOVERNMENTAL TALKS (90%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (90%); ESPIONAGE (88%); EMERGING MARKETS (78%); FOREIGN RELATIONS (78%); COLD WAR (78%); US PRESIDENTS (78%); APPOINTMENTS (78%); BOMBINGS (72%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (67%); APPROVALS (65%); 

PERSON: BRODER, JOHN M; STEPASHIN, SERGEI V (PRIME MIN); GORE, AL (VICE PRES) BILL CLINTON (91%); AL GORE (89%); 

LOAD-DATE: July 28, 1999



680 of 738 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 28, 1999

SECTION: Section D; Page 1; Column 2; Sports Desk 

LENGTH: 635 words

HEADLINE: BASEBALL;
Second Thoughts Caused Split in Umpires' Union

BYLINE: By MURRAY CHASS 

 BODY:
The umpires' strategy to induce Major League Baseball to come to the bargaining table began to unravel as soon as some of the umpires returned home from the union meeting two weeks ago and began talking to their wives and lawyers.
"It's like we drank the Kool-Aid and had ether shot into the room," one umpire said yesterday, discussing the July 14 meeting in Philadelphia. "I got home that night and told my wife what we had done and she said, 'Don't you think you should have a cooling off period and talk it over with your family?' So simplistic and so true." 
 The umpire, who spoke on the condition he not be identified, said his wife's reaction had punctured the high on which he was still operating after returning home from the charged meeting, where more than 50 umpires signed letters of resignation, effective Sept. 2.
"After I came out out of the ether, I sat on the edge of the bed and said, 'What the heck have I just done?' " the umpire recounted in a telephone interview. "After giving it some thought, I was one of the first guys to rescind. Not that I fear anything, but I started looking at what happens if they accept the resignations. There's not a lot I could do to make this kind of money."
Other umpires said they had consulted their lawyers after returning home, and the lawyers reacted even more severely than the umpire's wife did, telling them they had left themselves open to the loss of their jobs. If they were going out on strike, which their labor contract prohibits them from doing, they would eventually reach a settlement with Major League Baseball and return to work. Once the umpires submitted their resignations, however, the leagues were free to accept them.
Sixteen umpires who had signed letters of resignation subsequently rescinded their action, joining eight who had never signed.
That left 42 umpires -- 9 in the American League, 33 in the National -- who yesterday withdrew their resignations after their union leader and lawyer, Richard Phillips, failed to win the first round of the union's lawsuit in United States District Court in Philadelphia.
The umpires who held to their resignations until yesterday resented those who abandoned the strategy. The refusal of those umpires to go along with the strategy was basically a repudiation of Phillips.
"It doesn't matter to me if I like Richie Phillips as a person or not," Jerry Meals, a third-year member of the N.L. staff, said in a telephone interview yesterday. "We as a union voted to retain Richie Phillips for our counsel for the next five years back in February. That is how we voted as a union and that is how the union should stand."
Randy Marsh, an 18-year N.L. umpire, said at Shea Stadium last night that he believed baseball officials would have "paid more attention to us" if the umpires had held together.
The division in the union has created hardships for the umpires.
Bruce Froemming, a member of the union's board of directors, heads a crew that has Mark Hirschbeck, the only N.L. umpire who did not resign, and Wally Bell and Jeff Nelson, the two who withdrew their resignations. "I think it's difficult for everybody," Froemming said by telephone from Atlanta. "It's a big hurt because I've treated two of these guys like my best friends and almost like my son and I feel they've turned their backs on me. Jeff just came on, but I've known Wally and Mark for a long time."
The other three, Froemming said, had told him that they thought he was making a mistake, "that I will be unemployed and they'll be working."
Secrecy has become routine in the locker room, the veteran umpire added.
"We're not an open group anymore," he said. "They have complicated it. This is about individuals thinking they can do better for themselves. They're not thinking as a group."
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photo: The umpires before the Mets-Pirates game at Shea Stadium. Their union's recent moves are being questioned. (G. Paul Burnett/The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); 

STATE: PENNSYLVANIA, USA (92%); 

COMPANY: MAJOR LEAGUE BASEBALL (84%); MAJOR LEAGUE BASEBALL (84%); NEW YORK METS (59%); PITTSBURGH PIRATES (59%); 

ORGANIZATION: MAJOR LEAGUE BASEBALL (84%); MAJOR LEAGUE BASEBALL (84%); NEW YORK METS (59%); PITTSBURGH PIRATES (59%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%); PENNSYLVANIA, USA (92%); 

SUBJECT: BASEBALL; UMPIRES; LABOR; SUSPENSIONS, DISMISSALS AND RESIGNATIONS BASEBALL (92%); LABOR UNIONS (91%); REFEREES & UMPIRES (90%); COLLECTIVE BARGAINING (89%); TALKS & MEETINGS (89%); RESIGNATIONS (89%); INTERVIEWS (87%); STRIKES (78%); LAWYERS (77%); LITIGATION (72%); SUITS & CLAIMS (72%); LAYOFFS (58%); 

PERSON: CHASS, MURRAY BRUCE FROEMMING (69%); RICHIE PHILLIPS (63%); JEFF NELSON (58%); WALLY BELL (58%); MARK HIRSCHBECK (58%); 

LOAD-DATE: July 28, 1999



681 of 738 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 28, 1999

SECTION: Section A; Page 1; Column 6; National Desk 

LENGTH: 1648 words

HEADLINE: U.S. DRAWING PLAN THAT WILL MONITOR COMPUTER SYSTEMS

BYLINE: By JOHN MARKOFF 

 BODY:
The Clinton Administration has developed a plan for an extensive computer monitoring system, overseen by the Federal Bureau of Investigation, to protect the nation's crucial data networks from intruders.
The plan, an outgrowth of the Administration's anti-terrorism program, has already raised concerns from civil liberties groups. 
 A draft prepared by officials at the National Security Council last month, which was provided to The New York Times by a civil liberties group, calls for a sophisticated software system to monitor activities on nonmilitary Government networks and a separate system to track networks used in crucial industries like banking, telecommunications and transportation.
The effort, whose details are still being debated within the Administration, is intended to alert law enforcement officials to attacks that might cripple Government operations or the nation's economy.
But because of the increasing power of the nation's computers and their emerging role as a backbone of the country's commerce, politics and culture, critics of the proposed system say it could become a building block for a surveillance infrastructure with great potential for misuse.
They also argue that such a network of monitoring programs could itself be open to security breaches, giving intruders or unauthorized users a vast window into Government and corporate computer systems.
Government officials said the changing nature of military threats in the information age had altered the nature of national security concerns and created a new sense of urgency to protect the nation's information infrastructure.
"Our concern about an organized cyberattack has escalated dramatically," Jeffrey Hunker, the National Security Council's director of information protection, who is overseeing the plan, said yesterday. "We do know of a number of hostile foreign governments that are developing sophisticated and well-organized offensive cyber attack capabilities, and we have good reason to believe that terrorists may be developing similar capabilities."
As part of the plan, networks of thousands of software monitoring programs would constantly track computer activities looking for indications of computer network intrusions and other illegal acts.
The plan calls for the creation of a Federal Intrusion Detection Network, or Fidnet, and specifies that the data it collects will be gathered at the National Infrastructure Protection Center, an interagency task force housed at the Federal Bureau of Investigation.
Such a system, to be put fully in place by 2003, is meant to permit Government security experts to track "patterns of patterns" of information and respond in a coordinated manner against intruders and terrorists.
The plan focuses on monitoring data flowing over Government and national computer networks. That means the systems would potentially have access to computer-to-computer communications like electronic mail and other documents, computer programs and remote log-ins.
But an increasing percentage of network traffic, like banking and financial information, is routinely encrypted and would not be visible to the monitor software. Government officials argue that they are not interested in eavesdropping, but rather are looking for patterns of behavior that suggest illegal activity.
Over the last three years, the Pentagon has begun to string together entire network surveillance systems using filters that report data to a central site, much as a burglar alarm might be reported at the local police station.
Officials said such a system might have protected against intrusions recently reported in computers at the Bureau of Labor Statistics, which produces information like the consumer price index that can affect the performance of the stock market.
The draft of the plan, which has been circulated widely within the executive branch, has generated concern among some officials over its privacy implications. Several officials involved in the debate over the plan said that the situation was "fluid" and that many aspects were still not final.
The report is vague on several crucial points, including the kinds of data to be collected and the specific Federal and corporate computer networks to be monitored. The report also lacks details about the ways information collected in non-Governmental agencies would be maintained and under what conditions it would be made available to law enforcement personnel.
Government officials said that the National Security Council was conducting a legal and technical review of the plan to study whether it would violate existing privacy laws and to address concerns about Government eavesdropping on private electronic communications and that a final version is to be released in September, subject to President Clinton's approval.
The plan was created in response to a Presidential directive in May 1998 requiring the Executive Branch to review the vulnerabilities of the Federal Government's computer systems in order to become a "model of information and security."
In a cover letter to the draft Mr. Clinton writes: "A concerted attack on the computers of any one of our key economic sectors or Governmental agencies could have catastrophic effects."
But the plan strikes at the heart of a growing controversy over how to protect the nation's computer systems while also protecting civil liberties -- particularly since it would put a new and powerful tool into the hands of the F.B.I.
Increasingly, data flowing over the Internet is becoming a vital tool for law enforcement, and civil liberties experts said law enforcement agencies would be under great temptation to expand the use of the information in pursuit of suspected criminals.
The draft of the plan "clearly recognizes the civil liberties implications," said James X. Dempsey, staff counsel for the Center for Democracy and Technology, a Washington civil liberties group, "But it brushes them away."
The draft states that because Government employees, like those of many private companies, must consent to the monitoring of their computer activities, "the collection of certain data identified as anomalous activity or a suspicious event would not be considered a privacy issue."
Mr. Dempsey conceded the legal validity of the point, but said there was tremendous potential for abuse.
"My main concern is that Fidnet is an ill-defined monitoring system of potentially broad sweep," he said. "It seems to place monitoring and surveillance at the center of the Government's response to a problem that is not well suited to such measures."
The Federal Government is making a concerted effort to insure that civil liberties and privacy rights are not violated, Mr. Hunker said.
He said data gathered from non-Government computer networks will be collected separately from the F.B.I.-controlled monitoring system at a separate location within a General Services Administration building. He said that was done to keep non-Government data at arm's length from law enforcement.
The plan also has drawn concern from civil libertarians because it blends civilian and military functions in protecting the computer networks. The draft notes that there is already a Department of Defense "contingent" working at the F.B.I.'s infrastructure protection center to integrate intelligence, counterintelligence and law enforcement efforts in protecting Pentagon computers.
"The fight over this could make the fight over encryption look like nothing," said Mary Culnan, an professor at Georgetown University who served on a Presidential commission whose work led to the May 1998 directive on infrastructure protection. "The conceptual problem is that there are people running this program who don't understand how citizens feel about privacy in cyberspace."
The Government has been discussing the proposal widely with a number of industry security committees and associations in recent months.
Several industry executives said there is still reluctance on the part of industry to directly share information on computer intrusions with law enforcement.
"They want to control the decision making process," said Mark Rasch, vice president and general counsel of Global Integrity, a company in Reston, Va., coordinating computer security for the financial services industries.
One potential problem in carrying out the Government's plan is that intrusion-detection software technology is still immature, industry executives said.
"The commercial intrusion detection systems are not ready for prime time," said Peter Neumann, a computer scientist at SRI International in Menlo Park, Calif., and a pioneer in the field of intrusion detection systems.
Current systems tend to generate false alarms and thus require many skilled operators.
But a significant portion of the $1.4 billion the Clinton Administration has requested for computer security for fiscal year 2000 is intended to be spent on research, and Government officials said they were hopeful that the planned effort would be able to rely on automated detection technologies and on artificial intelligence capabilities.
For several years computer security specialists have used software variously known as packet filters, or "sniffers," as monitoring devices to track computer intruders. Like telephone wiretaps, such tools can be used to reconstruct the activities of a computer user as if a videotape were made of his computer display.
At the same time, however, the software tools are routinely misused by illicit computer network users in stealing information such as passwords or other data.
Commercial vendors are beginning to sell monitoring tools that combine packet filtering with more sophisticated and automated intrusion detection software that tries to detect abuse by looking for behavior patterns or certain sequences of commands.
 
http://www.nytimes.com

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (79%); 

COMPANY: NATIONAL SECURITY COUNCIL; FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION CORPORATE COMPUTER SYSTEMS INC (67%); FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION (91%); FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION (91%); NATIONAL SECURITY COUNCIL (83%); NATIONAL SECURITY COUNCIL (83%); 

ORGANIZATION: NATIONAL SECURITY COUNCIL; FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION (91%); FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION (91%); NATIONAL SECURITY COUNCIL (83%); NATIONAL SECURITY COUNCIL (83%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%); 

SUBJECT: COMPUTERS AND THE INTERNET; COMPUTER SECURITY; TERRORISM; UNITED STATES ECONOMY; COMPUTER SOFTWARE LAW ENFORCEMENT (91%); COMPUTING & INFORMATION TECHNOLOGY (90%); SPECIAL INVESTIGATIVE FORCES (90%); COMPUTER EQUIPMENT (90%); NATIONAL SECURITY (90%); TERRORISM (89%); COMPUTER NETWORK SECURITY (89%); COMPUTER NETWORKS (89%); CYBERCRIME (89%); COMPUTER SOFTWARE (89%); INFORMATION SECURITY & PRIVACY (78%); COMPUTER CRIME (78%); COUNTERTERRORISM (78%); HUMAN RIGHTS ORGANIZATIONS (77%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS (72%); ONLINE SECURITY & PRIVACY (65%); 

PERSON: MARKOFF, JOHN; CLINTON, BILL (PRES) BILL CLINTON (59%); 

LOAD-DATE: July 28, 1999



682 of 738 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 28, 1999

SECTION: Section A; Page 18; Column 4; Editorial Desk 

LENGTH: 109 words

HEADLINE: Will a Tax Cut Hurt the Economy?

 BODY:

To the Editor:
Re "Seeking Common Ground on Federal Tax Cut" (news article, July 25):
Now is not the time for a tax cut. The Federal Reserve Board recently raised interest rates to slow the economy down. 
 A tax cut will stimulate the economy further, prompting the Federal Reserve to compensate with a larger interest-rate increase. At some future point when the economy needs a boost a tax cut would be a useful tool. Why squander it now?
In the meantime, there's a little matter of the national debt. When do Republicans figure the debt should be paid off? When we're in a recession?
 
JAMES AFFELD
Douglas, Alaska, July 25, 1999 
http://www.nytimes.com

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Letter

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (79%); 

STATE: ALASKA, USA (50%); 

COMPANY: FEDERAL RESERVE BANK OF NEW YORK (91%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%); ALASKA, USA (50%); 

SUBJECT: TAXATION; UNITED STATES ECONOMY US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (91%); TAX LAW (90%); LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); CENTRAL BANKS (90%); TAX RELIEF (90%); TAXES & TAXATION (90%); PUBLIC DEBT (88%); RECESSION (87%); ECONOMIC NEWS (87%); INTEREST RATES (85%); NATIONAL DEBT (82%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (74%); 

PERSON: AFFELD, JAMES

LOAD-DATE: July 28, 1999



683 of 738 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 28, 1999

SECTION: Section A; Page 18; Column 5; Editorial Desk 

LENGTH: 169 words

HEADLINE: Will a Tax Cut Hurt the Economy?;
Punishing the Strivers

 BODY:

To the Editor:
Enhancement of the New York State earned income tax credit is justifiable (editorial, July 24). Currently, however, the program suffers from flaws.
Above a certain income level, the loss of benefits as household income rises limits the value of additional work efforts. 
 For each additional $100 of income above $12,260, households lose $21 of credits. Households will also get fewer food stamps and pay more Social Security and Federal and state income taxes, as well as child-care and commuting expenses.
Therefore, the net earnings from the extra income can be quite low. Indeed, Congress estimated that in 1997, a household headed by a female with two dependent children netted only $861 if her wages rose from $15,000 to $20,000. The solution is to make the earned-income tax credit universal so that the near-poor can gain more from their extra work efforts.
 
ROBERT CHERRY
Brooklyn, July 24, 1999
 
The writer is a professor of economics at Brooklyn College, CUNY.
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Drawing (Thomas Fuchs)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Letter

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (92%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (90%); 

COMPANY: BROOKLYN COLLEGE (55%); SOCIAL SECURITY&FEDERAL (55%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%); NEW YORK, USA (92%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (90%); 

SUBJECT: TAXATION; TAX CREDITS TAX LAW (91%); TAXES & TAXATION (91%); LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); PERSONAL & FAMILY INCOME (90%); INCOME TAX (90%); WAGES & SALARIES (88%); SOCIAL SECURITY (88%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (74%); WRITERS (73%); COMPANY EARNINGS (73%); CHILD CARE (69%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (64%); BUSINESS EDUCATION (64%); 

PERSON: CHERRY, ROBERT (PROF) ROBERT CHERRY BROOKLYN (55%); 

LOAD-DATE: July 28, 1999



684 of 738 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 28, 1999
Correction Appended

SECTION: Section A; Page 12; Column 1; National Desk 

LENGTH: 1275 words

HEADLINE: A $200 Million School That May Never Open

BYLINE: By TODD S. PURDUM 

DATELINE: LOS ANGELES, July 24

 BODY:
It looms on a lonely lot at the edge of downtown, a hulking pile of buff brick and brown stone, like some half-finished temple or pharaoh's tomb. It would be the most expensive public high school ever built in the United States, at a cost of more than $200 million, but the Belmont Learning Center may never be finished -- and if it is, no one may want to go to school there.
The school was built atop an abandoned oilfield, despite repeated warnings, and officials now say there may be no way to vent away seeping methane gas and other hazards to make it safe to occupy. This week the Los Angeles Board of Education, with four newly elected members, voted to create a commission to recommend whether to abandon the project after $125 million has already been spent on it, or spend millions more to make it work. 
 The Belmont story is a classic Los Angeles tale of sunny civic boosterism and shadowy real estate speculation and of the ever-present environmental hazards in a city that a century ago was a sparsely populated outpost dotted with oil wells and bean fields and is now a giant metropolis built astride constantly shifting earthquake faults. As the drama has dragged on, the problem that Belmont was meant to address -- severely overcrowded schools in the city's downtown neighborhoods -- remains unabated.
"It's not going to go away," said State Senator Tom Hayden of Los Angeles, one of the Belmont project's most persistent critics, noting the no-win situation. "If they abandon it, it's going to be the subject of screenplays and East Coast merriment for years. And if they open it, they're going to face endless litigation by parents who think it's going to one day be the site of a methane fire or explosion."
The effort began more than a decade ago with a plan to build a downtown high school on the site of the old Ambassador Hotel, the once-grand hostelry where Senator Robert F. Kennedy of New York was assassinated in June 1968.
The school district condemned the property, but its owner, the New York developer Donald J. Trump, who wanted to build a skyscraper there, threatened a legal challenge over the price. In the real estate recession of the early 1990's, the Board of Education dropped that site in favor of one of the last remaining open parcels near downtown, a former oilfield at First Street and Beaudry Avenue.
From the beginning, the plan envisioned what school officials said would be the most expensive high school in the country, a 5,300-student complex comprising eight "academies," plus a housing and retail development to be built in a partnership with a private developer, Kajima Urban Development. But the retail and housing elements have since been dropped, in part because retail tenants were not interested in the somewhat isolated site, a gritty hillside sandwiched in an L made by the intersection of two freeways.
As early as 1993, officials of the state Division of Oil and Gas warned Los Angeles school officials about the dangers of building over an abandoned oilfield, but the school district and the developer forged ahead, taking soil samples that district officials and outside critics now say were clearly inadequate.
The Board of Education's outside legal counsel, David Cartwright of the city's leading law firm, O'Melveny & Myers, helped negotiate with the developer, Kajima, and assured the board that it was safe to go forward without a full environmental study, although it was later disclosed that his firm also represented the developer, a subsidiary of a giant Japanese construction company.
Mr. Cartwright has defended his actions as proper, but last winter the school board relieved him of duties on the Belmont project. He continues as counsel on other issues.
Construction began two years ago, with two dissenting votes on the seven-member school board. But before the groundbreaking, Assemblyman Scott Wildman, who represents the nearby communities of Glendale and Burbank and heads the Joint Legislative Audit Committee, with oversight of public entities like school districts, had begun raising questions about the contracting and safety issues for the project, and he urged the district to hold off.
Since then, Mr. Wildman has made public nine critical reports on the project, and environmental consultants hired by the district itself have shown dangerous concentrations of methane as well as hydrogen sulfide, a toxic gas that can cause neurological damage.
Some of the district's own experts have even suggested that the entire ground floor of the building be off-limits to children, to protect them from any buildup of dangerous gases. Even if a system could be devised to vent the gases, the reports have suggested, it would cost perhaps $100,000 a year to operate for the life of the school, while an earthquake fault running under the property could leave the mechanical systems subject to sudden failure.
"I think the project should be abandoned and torn down," Mr. Wildman said in a recent interview. "There shouldn't be children who go there and there shouldn't be people who work there. They made a mistake. We tried to stop them before they started, but they went ahead anyway. Frankly, they should have made the decision two years ago."
But several local officials, including Mayor Richard J. Riordan, had supported the project, and it was not until last fall, when the state Department of Toxic Substance Control concluded that the site had never been adequately assessed, that momentum grew for re-evaluation. After commissioning new tests, the district suspended most construction in February. Alternatives would be expensive, including building several smaller high schools in the area, at a cost of perhaps $75 million each.
A new, four-member majority was elected to the school board this spring on a promise to take a hard look at the Belmont project, and they had been expected to call a permanent halt. Instead, after a daylong closed session and a spirited public hearing on Tuesday, the board voted to "secure the site" by installing doors, windows and roofing to protect it from the elements, but postponed a definitive decision, opting instead to appoint a citizens' commission to make recommendations by mid-October. The board members also voted to impose a gag order on themselves and the district staff, barring any further comment on the project in the meantime.
"One of the problems with this project is there hasn't been a great deal of planning ahead," said a new board member, Caprice Young.
Despite the environmental debate, several parents testified at the hearing in support of finishing the school, saying the neighborhood badly needed it.
"Our concerns are not being heard and we are more overcrowded than ever," said Tina Hough, a 35-year resident of the neighborhood who was bused to far-flung neighborhoods to go to school. "Am I to put my children through the same thing I went through?"
Dominic Shambra, the former school official, now retired, who oversaw the Belmont project as the district's director of planning and development, also testified. He dismissed the environmental concerns as "unsubstantiated allegations," and told board members, "You are now surrounded by an environmental hysteria created by the district's own consultants."
Mr. Shambra said the problems could be remedied and that conclusions that the site is beyond repair are exaggerated.
But Mr. Wildman said it was too late to make the project work.
"It's just one thing after another," he said. "We keep finding more problems. Bureaucrats need to have permission to cut their losses and stop throwing good money after bad."
 
http://www.nytimes.com

CORRECTION-DATE: July 31, 1999, Saturday

 CORRECTION:
An article on Wednesday about the Los Angeles Board of Education's debate over whether to abandon a $200 million school project because of concerns about its environmental safety misstated the views of an outside lawyer for the school district. The lawyer, David Cartwright of the law firm O'Melveny & Myers, assured the board that it was safe to build the school on land adjoining a former oilfield only after a full environmental review and an analysis of recommended safety measures had been completed. He did not say the project would be safe without such a study.
The article also incompletely described the law firm's role in representing the district and the project's developer, Kajima Urban Development. The firm represented the developer on other matters, not the school project. Both clients were aware of and agreed to this arrangement and it was disclosed before negotiations on the project, not afterward.

GRAPHIC: Photo: The Belmont Learning Center, built atop an abandoned oil field near downtown Los Angeles, may never be finished because of methane gas. (Davis Barber for The New York Times)
 
Chart: "Mixing Oil and Students"
The Belmont Learning Center, the nation's most expensive public school, may never be completed due to seeping methane gas from existing oil wells. The chart shows where the abandoned oil wells, and active oil wells are located on the school property. (Sources: Los Angeles Unified School District; Department of Conservation)
 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: 2704 (TAIEX) (52%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS721110 HOTELS (EXCEPT CASINO HOTELS) & MOTELS (52%); SIC7011 HOTELS & MOTELS (52%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: CALIFORNIA, USA (94%); 

CITY: LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (94%); 

COMPANY: THE AMBASSADOR HOTEL LTD (52%); BELMONT LEARNING CENTER (80%); LOS ANGELES BOARD (59%); 

ORGANIZATION: BELMONT LEARNING CENTER (80%); LOS ANGELES BOARD (59%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: LOS ANGELES (CALIF); ; UNITED STATES (94%); CALIFORNIA, USA (94%); LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (94%); 

SUBJECT: EDUCATION AND SCHOOLS; OIL (PETROLEUM) AND GASOLINE; METHANE REAL ESTATE (89%); HIGH SCHOOLS (89%); METHANE (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); REAL ESTATE DEVELOPMENT (89%); CITIES (78%); PUBLIC SCHOOLS (77%); POPULATION DENSITY (77%); EDUCATION SYSTEMS & INSTITUTIONS (77%); PETROLEUM PRODUCTS (75%); SCHOOL BOARDS (74%); CONSTRUCTION (72%); RETAIL PROPERTY (72%); SCHOOL DISTRICTS (72%); EDUCATION ADMINISTRATION (72%); LITIGATION (50%); 

PERSON: PURDUM, TODD S DONALD TRUMP (79%); 

LOAD-DATE: July 28, 1999



685 of 738 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 28, 1999
Correction Appended

SECTION: Section A; Page 12; Column 1; National Desk 

LENGTH: 1275 words

HEADLINE: A $200 Million School That May Never Open

BYLINE: By TODD S. PURDUM 

DATELINE: LOS ANGELES, July 24

 BODY:
It looms on a lonely lot at the edge of downtown, a hulking pile of buff brick and brown stone, like some half-finished temple or pharaoh's tomb. It would be the most expensive public high school ever built in the United States, at a cost of more than $200 million, but the Belmont Learning Center may never be finished -- and if it is, no one may want to go to school there.
The school was built atop an abandoned oilfield, despite repeated warnings, and officials now say there may be no way to vent away seeping methane gas and other hazards to make it safe to occupy. This week the Los Angeles Board of Education, with four newly elected members, voted to create a commission to recommend whether to abandon the project after $125 million has already been spent on it, or spend millions more to make it work. 
 The Belmont story is a classic Los Angeles tale of sunny civic boosterism and shadowy real estate speculation and of the ever-present environmental hazards in a city that a century ago was a sparsely populated outpost dotted with oil wells and bean fields and is now a giant metropolis built astride constantly shifting earthquake faults. As the drama has dragged on, the problem that Belmont was meant to address -- severely overcrowded schools in the city's downtown neighborhoods -- remains unabated.
"It's not going to go away," said State Senator Tom Hayden of Los Angeles, one of the Belmont project's most persistent critics, noting the no-win situation. "If they abandon it, it's going to be the subject of screenplays and East Coast merriment for years. And if they open it, they're going to face endless litigation by parents who think it's going to one day be the site of a methane fire or explosion."
The effort began more than a decade ago with a plan to build a downtown high school on the site of the old Ambassador Hotel, the once-grand hostelry where Senator Robert F. Kennedy of New York was assassinated in June 1968.
The school district condemned the property, but its owner, the New York developer Donald J. Trump, who wanted to build a skyscraper there, threatened a legal challenge over the price. In the real estate recession of the early 1990's, the Board of Education dropped that site in favor of one of the last remaining open parcels near downtown, a former oilfield at First Street and Beaudry Avenue.
From the beginning, the plan envisioned what school officials said would be the most expensive high school in the country, a 5,300-student complex comprising eight "academies," plus a housing and retail development to be built in a partnership with a private developer, Kajima Urban Development. But the retail and housing elements have since been dropped, in part because retail tenants were not interested in the somewhat isolated site, a gritty hillside sandwiched in an L made by the intersection of two freeways.
As early as 1993, officials of the state Division of Oil and Gas warned Los Angeles school officials about the dangers of building over an abandoned oilfield, but the school district and the developer forged ahead, taking soil samples that district officials and outside critics now say were clearly inadequate.
The Board of Education's outside legal counsel, David Cartwright of the city's leading law firm, O'Melveny & Myers, helped negotiate with the developer, Kajima, and assured the board that it was safe to go forward without a full environmental study, although it was later disclosed that his firm also represented the developer, a subsidiary of a giant Japanese construction company.
Mr. Cartwright has defended his actions as proper, but last winter the school board relieved him of duties on the Belmont project. He continues as counsel on other issues.
Construction began two years ago, with two dissenting votes on the seven-member school board. But before the groundbreaking, Assemblyman Scott Wildman, who represents the nearby communities of Glendale and Burbank and heads the Joint Legislative Audit Committee, with oversight of public entities like school districts, had begun raising questions about the contracting and safety issues for the project, and he urged the district to hold off.
Since then, Mr. Wildman has made public nine critical reports on the project, and environmental consultants hired by the district itself have shown dangerous concentrations of methane as well as hydrogen sulfide, a toxic gas that can cause neurological damage.
Some of the district's own experts have even suggested that the entire ground floor of the building be off-limits to children, to protect them from any buildup of dangerous gases. Even if a system could be devised to vent the gases, the reports have suggested, it would cost perhaps $100,000 a year to operate for the life of the school, while an earthquake fault running under the property could leave the mechanical systems subject to sudden failure.
"I think the project should be abandoned and torn down," Mr. Wildman said in a recent interview. "There shouldn't be children who go there and there shouldn't be people who work there. They made a mistake. We tried to stop them before they started, but they went ahead anyway. Frankly, they should have made the decision two years ago."
But several local officials, including Mayor Richard J. Riordan, had supported the project, and it was not until last fall, when the state Department of Toxic Substance Control concluded that the site had never been adequately assessed, that momentum grew for re-evaluation. After commissioning new tests, the district suspended most construction in February. Alternatives would be expensive, including building several smaller high schools in the area, at a cost of perhaps $75 million each.
A new, four-member majority was elected to the school board this spring on a promise to take a hard look at the Belmont project, and they had been expected to call a permanent halt. Instead, after a daylong closed session and a spirited public hearing on Tuesday, the board voted to "secure the site" by installing doors, windows and roofing to protect it from the elements, but postponed a definitive decision, opting instead to appoint a citizens' commission to make recommendations by mid-October. The board members also voted to impose a gag order on themselves and the district staff, barring any further comment on the project in the meantime.
"One of the problems with this project is there hasn't been a great deal of planning ahead," said a new board member, Caprice Young.
Despite the environmental debate, several parents testified at the hearing in support of finishing the school, saying the neighborhood badly needed it.
"Our concerns are not being heard and we are more overcrowded than ever," said Tina Hough, a 35-year resident of the neighborhood who was bused to far-flung neighborhoods to go to school. "Am I to put my children through the same thing I went through?"
Dominic Shambra, the former school official, now retired, who oversaw the Belmont project as the district's director of planning and development, also testified. He dismissed the environmental concerns as "unsubstantiated allegations," and told board members, "You are now surrounded by an environmental hysteria created by the district's own consultants."
Mr. Shambra said the problems could be remedied and that conclusions that the site is beyond repair are exaggerated.
But Mr. Wildman said it was too late to make the project work.
"It's just one thing after another," he said. "We keep finding more problems. Bureaucrats need to have permission to cut their losses and stop throwing good money after bad."
 
http://www.nytimes.com

CORRECTION-DATE: August 18, 1999, Wednesday

 CORRECTION:
An article on July 28 about the Los Angeles Board of Education's debate over whether to abandon a $200 million school project because of environmental concerns misidentified the developer who is building the school. The developer is Temple Beaudry Partners; Kajima Urban Development is one of the partners that own Temple Beaudry. The article also misstated the developer's role in collecting soil samples from the site, which adjoins an abandoned oil field. Samples were collected by outside consultants hired by the school district. Temple Beaudry did not collect the samples.

GRAPHIC: Photo: The Belmont Learning Center, built atop an abandoned oil field near downtown Los Angeles, may never be finished because of methane gas. (Davis Barber for The New York Times)
 
Chart: "Mixing Oil and Students"
The Belmont Learning Center, the nation's most expensive public school, may never be completed due to seeping methane gas from existing oil wells. The chart shows where the abandoned oil wells, and active oil wells are located on the school property. (Sources: Los Angeles Unified School District; Department of Conservation)
 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: 2704 (TAIEX) (52%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS721110 HOTELS (EXCEPT CASINO HOTELS) & MOTELS (52%); SIC7011 HOTELS & MOTELS (52%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: CALIFORNIA, USA (94%); 

CITY: LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (94%); 

COMPANY: THE AMBASSADOR HOTEL LTD (52%); BELMONT LEARNING CENTER (80%); LOS ANGELES BOARD (59%); 

ORGANIZATION: BELMONT LEARNING CENTER (80%); LOS ANGELES BOARD (59%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: LOS ANGELES (CALIF); ; UNITED STATES (94%); CALIFORNIA, USA (94%); LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (94%); 

SUBJECT: EDUCATION AND SCHOOLS; OIL (PETROLEUM) AND GASOLINE; METHANE REAL ESTATE (89%); HIGH SCHOOLS (89%); METHANE (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); REAL ESTATE DEVELOPMENT (89%); CITIES (78%); PUBLIC SCHOOLS (77%); POPULATION DENSITY (77%); EDUCATION SYSTEMS & INSTITUTIONS (77%); PETROLEUM PRODUCTS (75%); SCHOOL BOARDS (74%); CONSTRUCTION (72%); RETAIL PROPERTY (72%); SCHOOL DISTRICTS (72%); EDUCATION ADMINISTRATION (72%); LITIGATION (50%); 

PERSON: PURDUM, TODD S DONALD TRUMP (79%); 

LOAD-DATE: July 28, 1999



686 of 738 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 29, 1999

SECTION: Section F; Page 1; Column 1; House & Home/Style Desk

LENGTH: 1679 words

HEADLINE: Attic Gold A Commute Away

BYLINE: By STEVEN SCLAROFF

 BODY:
WONDERING where to go on a weekend afternoon to get out of the sweltering city and find quality antiques at competitive prices? How about the suburbs? I spent a summer Saturday shopping for antiques in suburban New York and Connecticut. As a designer (read: snob), I had had my doubts, but what I discovered was a remarkable range of stores dealing in the high-end castoffs of big-money bedroom communities.
I had set out for the huge annual flea market in Farmington, Conn., but when I pulled out the map on the road and saw I would have to drive three more hours, I changed plans. Better to shop nearer to New York, I thought, and avoid spending hours in the car (which I did anyway). My six-hour odyssey took me from Larchmont to Stamford. 
 My detour was a bit of an epiphany. I remembered the good pickings in Larchmont and Mamaroneck from visits of 10 years ago while I was still an architecture student. And I had long meant to explore the immense, windowless antiques malls right by Interstate 95 in Stamford, since other designers and dealers were always talking up their quality. Each stop yielded good stuff.
While prices are consistent with those of downtown Manhattan antiques stores, the variety and quality is higher than you find in that heavily picked market, where an uncommonly flush economy is fueling voracious buying. And though flea markets in Connecticut tend to be full of country pieces, they also have an abundance of sophisticated furniture and accessories, from Renaissance revival to Florence Knoll, which would work as well in a slick city apartment as in a Tudor house on the links.
I got off the Hutchinson River Parkway in Larchmont, where antiques stores dot Boston Post Road. I stopped at the Woolf's Den, a small store that's a tangle of furniture, accessories and art. There were dark, heavily carved Renaissance-style and Chinese stools and tables from the 1920's ($150 to $400) and midcentury Murano crystal vases ($35 to $75). I saw piles of picture frames, from Victorian gilt to 50's lacquer ($30 to $200). Some still hold artwork of varying quality, much of which might best be termed outsider art.
Half Kurt Schwitters, half Joseph Cornell -- that's the charm of the place. Even the bad things have something humorous about them. The shop was founded by David Woolf and his brother more than 35 years ago, and it's easy to believe that merchandise from the first day survives at the bottom of the heap, obscured by vintage dust.
There are other stores to investigate along this strip in Larchmont, but I like this one best. Like the town, it is closely packed and without the Disneyesque polish of some surrounding communities. It even has a bit of the Edward Gorey flavor of Larchmont's Victorian houses. From the street, the shop is distinguished by windows so crammed with old crystal that the owner can't get to the burned-out display lights to change them.
Back in the car, I followed the Post Road north to Mamaroneck, turning off on Mamaroneck Avenue, which is Main Street, U.S.A. In addition to small gift shops, a dime store and a Christian Science reading room, the street boasts four antiques stores. More proletarian than professional, Mamaroneck is great: down to earth, even a bit sloppy. And because of all the 20's Tudor houses in the area, a wealth of ornate Gothic furnishings is lurking in the shops. In fact, 20's and 30's things abound, because that's mostly when these towns rose from farmland.
The biggest store is Chatsworth Auction Gallery, at the same spot since 1937. The turnover seems brisker than at the Woolf's Den, but the merchandise is piled as high. There are four floors, mostly of furniture, some of it heinous, but I made great finds. Within the floor-to-ceiling stacks, I spotted a pair of 30's limed-oak step bookcases ($125 each), a lacy, white, king-size iron headboard in what could be termed Miami Beach baroque ($175) and a wrought-iron-and-glass fishbowl that would be at home in a Jules Verne novel ($125). There are rows of sofas and armchairs in the rough ($100 to $800), both traditional and modern.
The other stores on Mamaroneck Avenue deal in wares as diverse as carved midcentury baroque furniture and turn-of-the-century family photo albums (all exhibited in virtual darkness). Though Chatsworth is really the prize, the others are worth a look.
Along the Post Road from Mamaroneck to Stamford, I stopped on well-scrubbed Purchase Street in Rye. There I visited Twig Antiques, a small store specializing in American antiques from the late 18th and early 19th centuries. The selection is focused and nicely arranged, and all sales benefit United Hospital. I bought three large apothecary jars with reverse-painted glass labels for $25 each. They would more typically cost about $75 each. I saw a beautiful set of 12 English export-china plates in bold red and blue with little or no wear for less than $1,000 and nice Chippendale-style mirrors and mahogany tables, bureaus and chairs in excellent repair. Though decidedly preppy (like Colonial revival Rye), these familiar classics are easy to like.
From Rye, I took Route I-95 to Stamford, getting off at Exit 7, which is all glitzy glass office buildings to the west and low-lying warehouses and a scrap heap to the east. I headed east, where there are antiques malls within blocks of one another.
Having derided friends who said they had found good things in such places (which I used to think of as repositories for movie ephemera and military memorabilia), I'm embarrassed to say they are right. From the potholed, desolate streets, these mammoth, windowless bunkers don't look like much, but inside lies a huge stock of garden ornaments, highboys and everything in between. A lot of it, though not cheap, is special and in ready-to-use condition. And no trouble spotting defects under the stadium-style lighting.
The Stamford area has not always enjoyed wealth and culture, but nearby Greenwich and New Canaan certainly have. And while it's conjecture, I'll bet that a lot of the French and English antiques circulating are rejects from professionally decorated houses in those towns, because many of these stylish objects evoke the decorating trends of the 1960's and early 70's. The castoffs look pretty good today.
At Hiden Galleries, at Canal and Jefferson Streets, there were modish pairs of carved French chairs ($1,000 to $2,000), a very simple, modern-feeling Italian bombe console in patchwork veneer ($2,200) and some great lamps in crystal, woven metal and alabaster, as well as a humorous pair made from mock-classical Greek vases (as interpreted circa 1955). Like the other Stamford antique malls, this one sprawls, but it has a hidden double-height room full of overscale pieces and architectural artifacts. The room is, if nothing else, a surprise to discover.
Down Canal Street, at Debbie's Stamford Antiques Center (a former bra factory, then train shed), I found a pair of foliate Romanesque terra cotta newel posts for $2,350. Reminiscent of Karl Blossfeldt images, they would be perfect for a garden or as gateposts by a driveway, though you might have a little trouble hoisting them onto a terrace. They were in perfect condition, and the price was fair. Amazingly, there was a plywood Frank Lloyd Wright Usonian side chair ($3,950) from the Manson House in Wausau, Wis. A central corridor full of display cases holds myriad accessories, including silver serving pieces and china.
At the Antique and Artisan Center on Jefferson Street, I found a bonanza of 20th-century modern -- a 1956 George Nelson coffee table for $675, a Florence Knoll credenza for $1,250, a Paul McCobb cherry breakfront for $1,500 -- and an assortment of chic Continental furniture, including French club chairs, English drabware, a spidery tole chandelier and rare books on art and design. In the entryway are outdoor pieces in terra cotta, iron and wood. This store is more expensive than Hiden or Debbie's, and I sensed that many of the shoppers were fellow designers from their studied ensembles and large canvas bags. The booths are more styled. The staff is larger, the trend barometer more on the mark. I bought a couple of nice old design books here.
Over all, these places were uncrowded and minimally staffed, both assets. There were no competitive shoppers squeezing ahead of me and no hovering clerks monitoring my activities. When I saw things I might have use for, I clicked away with my camera and measured with a tape, and no one bothered me.
Most of these stores open at 10:30 A.M. and close promptly at 5:30 P.M. (noon to 5 on Sundays), so there is a limit to how compulsively you can shop. But if you don in-line skates in the Stamford malls and eat drive-through, it's possible to hit them all in a day. And you need leave the comfort of air-conditioning only when you dash from the parking lot.
 
Only 45 Minutes From Broadway
 
ANYONE with a car and a long weekend afternoon can make out well buying antiques in New York City's northern suburbs. Here are some spots that are worth a stop:
 
WOOLF'S DEN -- 2130 Boston Post Road, Larchmont, N.Y. 10538; (914) 834-0066. Open Monday to Saturday, 10 A.M. to 5 P.M.
 
CHATSWORTH AUCTION GALLERIES -- 151 Mamaroneck Avenue, Mamaroneck, N.Y. 10543; (914) 698-1001. Open Tuesday to Saturday, 8 A.M. to 6 P.M.
 
TWIG ANTIQUES -- 15 Purchase Street (just off Boston Post Road), Rye, N.Y. 10580; (914) 967-4518. Open Monday to Saturday, in summer from 10 A.M. to 1 P.M.; winter, to 4 P.M.
 
DEBBIE'S STAMFORD ANTIQUES CENTER -- 735 Canal Street, Stamford, Conn., 06902, (888) 329-3546. Open daily, 10:30 A.M. to 5:30 P.M.
 
HIDEN GALLERIES -- 481 Canal Street (half a block west of Debbie's, near the corner of Jefferson Street), Stamford, Conn. 06902; (203) 323-9090. Open Monday to Saturday, 10:30 A.M. to 5:30 P.M.; Sunday, noon to 5.
 
THE ANTIQUE AND ARTISAN CENTER -- 69 Jefferson Street, Stamford, Conn. 06902; (203) 327-6022. Open Monday to Saturday, 10:30 A.M. to 5:30 P.M.; Sunday, noon to 5.
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photos: FINDERS KEEPERS -- The curious wrought-iron-and-glass fishbowl, above, is yours for $125 at the Woolf's Den in Mamaroneck, N.Y. (Suzanne DeChillo/The New York Times)(pg. F1); VINTAGE SUBURBAN -- Murano crystal vases, top, $35 to $75 at the Woolf's Den in Larchmont. Above, terra cotta newel posts, $2,350 at Debbie's Stamford Antiques Center. MODERNS AT THE MALL -- Midcentury at the Antique and Artisan Center in Stamford: a George Nelson coffee table, Paul McCobb breakfront, Florence Knoll credenza. TILL YOU DROP -- Suburban castoffs include, from left, pristine English export-china at Twig Antiques in Rye; an olivewood console ($2,200), burled walnut cube ($595 for a pair), and alabaster lamps ($975 a pair) at Hiden Galleries in Stamford, and a rare find, a Frank Lloyd Wright Usonian side chair at Debbie's Stamford Antiques Center, well priced at $3,950. For good pickings in Mamaroneck. (Photographs by Suzanne DeChillo/The New York Times)(pg. F7)
 
Map of Long Island Sound, from New York City to Stamford, Conn. (pg. F7)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (94%); CONNECTICUT, USA (94%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%); NEW YORK, USA (94%); CONNECTICUT, USA (94%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%); 

SUBJECT: Terms not available from NYTimes. ANTIQUE DEALERS (90%); SUBURBS (90%); ANTIQUES & COLLECTIBLES (89%); TEMPORARY STAND RETAILING (77%); 

PERSON: DAVID WOOLF (61%); 

LOAD-DATE: July 29, 1999



687 of 738 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 29, 1999

SECTION: Section F; Page 1; Column 1; House & Home/Style Desk

LENGTH: 1504 words

HEADLINE: Need Attitude? Voila, a Concierge

BYLINE: By WILLIAM L. HAMILTON

 BODY:
ITS front-line employees having completed a three-month training program to improve service for travelers, Amtrak announced in advertisements this month: "10,000 employees went back to school. 10,000 concierges graduated."
In the same way that the breakfast roll became a croissant, even with a fried egg and Canadian bacon on it, the concierge has become a concept that knows few bounds. 
 "We picked the word because 'concierge' means someone you can approach who will make it happen," said Barbara Richardson, Amtrak's executive vice president.
Though it bases its popularity on the reputations of desk clerks at four-star hotels, for whom no service request is unrealizable, today's concierge industry is untethered to performance.
"If you have the attitude of a concierge, that's a large part of it," said Holly Stiel, a former concierge, who started Holly Speaks, a consulting business in Mill Valley, Calif., whose clients include Bank of America and Compaq.
On Amtrak's No. 171 from New York to Washington on Saturday, the newly trained ex-conductors and attendants had much in common with the traditional concierge: the French war widow with the keys who runs the hotel by her own rules. One conductor was helping two extensively tattooed men not with tickets to "Wit," but with return times to New York. In the cafe car, the attendant was bullying a small boy into choosing a sandwich.
"Next stop Newark!" said Mike Sternfeld, the conductor on the intercom, who introduced himself I'm-your-server style, listing the stations like chef's specials. But the next stop was unannounced: 10 minutes in the bleached green marshes of New Jersey, as unexplained as a delay between courses.
Amtrak is hopping a business trend for personal services. Hospitals and kennels now boast concierges. "I even received a call from a prison that was interested in having me come and speak to them," said Michael Romei, chief concierge at the Waldorf Towers in New York.
Increasingly, concierges are finding themselves back where they started: on residential building staffs. Though they are not castle candle-keepers, or "comtes des cierges," as they were in the middle ages, the year-old National Concierge Association estimates that one-quarter of its 150 members are now residential concierges.
In New York, the phenomenon is not new, but it is newly popular, with a prosperous real estate market and a demand for the latest level of, and last word in, building services. A concierge has a je ne sais quoi, like a fragrance brand, that a doorman doesn't -- more personal assistant than package-toter.
"A terrific number of buildings have inaugurated concierge services in the last five years," said Stuart Saft, chairman of the Council of New York Cooperatives and Condominiums. "Certainly, new buildings have built front desks and designated clerks as concierges. Interestingly, older buildings are doing it now."
Hal Henenson, director of on-site sales and marketing at Douglas Elliman, the commercial and residential real estate firm, agreed. "The word has a certain cachet," he said. "It's marketing as much as anything."
But if the ambiance of having a concierge is specific, the services are not.
Brian Byrne, a concierge at the Exchange, at 25 Broad Street, a two-year-old converted office building, won't pick up or return videotapes, but he will recommend them.
" 'Waking Ned Devine,' " Mr. Byrne said. "A very nice Irish movie."
Typically, a concierge is asked to coordinate pickups and deliveries, call car services, log guests in and out and expedite requests, like making arrangements for repairs. Infrequently, George Almegor, at a one-year-old apartment building at 150 East 57th Street, has reserved a restaurant table or tickets for a show. He has also fed fish. He has paid bills. He has played Cupid for single tenants.
When two women asked for male strippers, he gave them the yellow pages. "They could have been my grandmothers," he said.
At a previous job, he broke up a fight in the lobby. After knocking on a door one night, he discovered a dead body. "A guy with a football helmet. Rubbed out."
Mr. Almegor admitted to stress on the job.
"How to please everyone when you're pulled in 10 directions at once," he said. "People can be nasty, make a mountain out of a molehill. Dry cleaning -- a missing suit at 8 in the morning."
If not the patience of a saint, Mr. Almegor has technique.
"I take a step back, count to 3, to recover my professional poise," he said.
As people find themselves squeezed for time between work and play, equally stressful schedule-flexing spheres in New York, the perception of what a residential concierge can or can't do has begun to shimmer like a mirage. For tenants thirsty for services, the small desk in the lobby, palmy with pleasant, friendly faces, is the nearest oasis in the desert.
But few concierges end up working like camels. Most draw a line in the sand.
The city's newest luxury buildings are promising a caravan of services through the concierge. At the Textile Building, at 66 Leonard Street, which is now selling condominiums at $795,000 to $6.5 million, these include housekeepers, personal trainers, masseuses, acupuncturists and caterers, said Annabelle Schachner, the sales director. But even $6.5 million later, the concierge will talk the talk, not walk the walk.
"I'll tell you where the line is," Ms. Schachner said of the limits of the job. "They can't leave the desk."
In fact, the desk is the front line in the new theater of war on what the concierge is there to do. Because the concierge is not a doorman or an elevator man, he or she is perceived as a free agent, available to run errands, walk dogs, park cars and supervise repairs, deliveries and other services upstairs in tenants' apartments.
Alex Szabo, at the Alfred, a condominium building on West 61st Street, has been asked to do all of the above. Time permitting, he complies or, he said, "You bow out gracefully."
"You say, 'I'm not available,' " he said. "They ask for someone else on the staff."
Mr. Szabo, a young man with stiffly gelled blond hair and a goatee, was a doorman in the building for four years before becoming a concierge four years ago.
"It's all job titles," he said, sitting in a square enclosure in the lobby. "Basically it's the same thing."
Mr. Szabo will walk dogs on his break. Tenants' increasing time pressures also make them forget. "They forget to make arrangements for a delivery, or they forget to tell you there's someone on their way. You have to contact them at work."
Like many concierges in the city, Mr. Szabo recites the golden rule.
"If you do it once, it becomes your job," he said.
Gabriella Szathmary, a concierge at the new Trump Place condominiums at 200 Riverside Boulevard, recited her version.
"What you do today as a favor, tomorrow they're going to expect," she said, standing behind a marble desk that extends like a ship's bow into the entrance lobby. Ms. Szathmary was previously a private secretary for a woman living on Park Avenue. She will walk dogs in an emergency. "You would do it for your neighbor -- they know I'm not a dog-walker," she said. But doing errands is not in the cards. "Obviously, grocery shopping is not going to happen," she added.
Mark Caudwell, a professor of English at Fordham University and the author of "A Short History of Rudeness" (Picador USA, 1999), explained that the rise in popularity of the concierge as a new type of service staff member might be a convenient diffusion of a difficult social situation: newly affluent tenants in an expanding economy who are able to employ servants but uncertain about how to engage them.
"They rely on iconographic signs," he said. "If someone's behind a desk, or if the uniform looks more like a business suit, it legitimizes more in the way of demands. You think: 'A concierge is a competent profession. I can stop at the desk and make any demand I want to.' "
Fabian Smith, a concierge at River Tower on West 63d Street, says no as the Japanese do: by saying yes-but.
" 'I would love to do it, but I can't do it -- it's against management rules,' " he said, repeating his response to requests he can't grant. " 'It's in our union contract.' I go into details. If you say no bluntly, they think you're being rude." Mr. Smith directs his large lobby briskly, like a traffic policeman, dispatching service people, recommending a cleaning woman, answering his telephones. He makes wake-up calls. He helps tenants who can't cook with advice about oven temperatures.
A young man in a business suit approached the desk and asked Mr. Smith if he would supervise a furniture delivery, waiting in the apartment until the furniture was installed.
"I would love to," Mr. Smith explained, "but I can't. It's management policy." The tenant observed that the failure to gain Mr. Smith's cooperation "kind of defeats the purpose of a concierge building." Mr. Smith smiled commiseratively, suggesting a call to management.
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photos: NIGHT MERE -- A Parisian concierge. (Henry Ries/The New York Times)(pg. F1); ASKING FOR IT -- George Almegor, above, a concierge on East 57th Street, at his desk; Mr. Almegor has fed fish, paid bills and played Cupid for tenants. Inset, the mother of them all: the French concierge, 1953. (pg. F11)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: BAC (NYSE) (56%); BAC (LSE) (56%); 8648 (TSE) (56%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS482111 LINE-HAUL RAILROADS (90%); SIC4011 RAILROADS, LINE-HAUL OPERATING (90%); NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (56%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (56%); SIC6712 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (56%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (92%); NEW JERSEY, USA (79%); 

CITY: NEWARK, NJ, USA (54%); 

COMPANY: NATIONAL RAILROAD PASSENGER CORP (AMTRAK) (90%); BANK OF AMERICA CORP (56%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%); NEW YORK, USA (92%); NEW JERSEY, USA (79%); NEWARK, NJ, USA (54%); 

SUBJECT: Terms not available from NYTimes. HOTEL STAFF (90%); RESTAURANTS (89%); PERSONAL SERVICES (78%); HOTELS & MOTELS (78%); REAL ESTATE (75%); PERFUMES & COLOGNES (73%); CONSULTING SERVICES (73%); EXECUTIVES (70%); HOUSING MARKET (65%); CONSTRUCTION (65%); REAL ESTATE MARKET (60%); 

PERSON: GEORGE ALMEGOR (62%); HOLLY STIEL (55%); 

LOAD-DATE: July 29, 1999



688 of 738 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 29, 1999

SECTION: Section F; Page 1; Column 3; House & Home/Style Desk

LENGTH: 2401 words

HEADLINE: And the Meek Shall Inherit Nothing

BYLINE: By NEAL KARLEN

 BODY:
A YEAR after his father died in Florida, Richard Nelson, 51, can finally talk about what he calls "the war of the glockenspiel," when Mr. Nelson, an organizational consultant, and his younger brother, Larry, battled for months over the instrument their father played in the Shriner drum corps.
"We fought like Cain and Abel over that glockenspiel, because it represented the hours we both waited for him to come around the corner in Shriner parades playing 'When the Saints Go Marching In,' " Mr. Nelson said. 
 They had heated arguments over it whenever they saw each other. "And we didn't see each other very much, because we were both so mad that we'd always end up yelling about it," he added.
Last month, Mr. Nelson received the glockenspiel, after his mother brokered a deal to stop the squabbling. "Larry got visitation rights," he said, "as well as Dad's complete Spike Jones record collection and the family's home movies."
Familial fights like the Nelsons' are ripping apart many a middle-class clan. Economists have predicted that the largest intergenerational transfer of wealth in history -- approximately $12 trillion -- would take place from the mid-1990's until around 2020 as the security-minded Depression generation dies off and leaves its money and its carved mahogany bedroom suites, split-level ranch houses, family china, grandfather clocks and moldering photographs to its baby boom children, a generation weaned on irony, credit cards and broken marriages.
The bull market since 1994 may well have swelled the World War II generation's stock portfolios and retirement fund accounts even further.
"It doesn't matter if it's a lot or a little money," said Dr. Henry F. Smith, a psychoanalyst affiliated with the Harvard Medical School. "Money is a way to quantify love. And both anticipating and receiving the inheritance intensifies both the loving and hating aspects of relationships between child and parent, and sibling and sibling." That goes double when what is being inherited is valuable and tangible: the ocean-front home in the Hamptons, the collection of Art Deco furniture, even the drawer full of Bakelite jewelry or Mother's old mink coat.
The squabbling will be intensified by other problems along the way. The youngest boomer is now 35 and the oldest 53. Their parents are living ever longer. Some children could be receiving Social Security before they see a penny of inheritance.
Moreover, in the benchmark statistical study presented in 1994 by the economists Robert Avery and Michael Rendall, most of the wealth turns out to be headed for the pockets of only the few. According to the Avery-Rendall study, one-third of the money will go to 1 percent of the baby boomers, who will receive about $1.6 million apiece. Another third, representing an average bequest of $336,000, will go to the next 9 percent. The final slice, divided by the remaining 90 percent of the generation, will run about $40,000 apiece.
For those in the top bracket, "$1.6 million is worth fighting about," said Kathryn A. Johnson, chairwoman of an American Bar Association committee on trusts and estates and a lawyer in private practice in San Francisco. She added, "I think there is a big future in trust and estate litigation."
But the bulk of the population receiving $40,000, she said, would be ill-advised to go to court. She continued, "If they came in my office fighting over $40,000 I'd have to question them about why they were doing this, if they realized legal fees could eat everything up, and try and talk them into family mediation."
Besides, for most baby boomers, $40,000 is a drop in the bucket. "There's a good chance baby boomers will blow it," said Robert H. Frank, the Goldwin Smith professor of economics, ethics and public policy at Cornell University and author of "Luxury Fever: Why Money Fails to Satisfy in an Era of Excess" (Free Press, 1999; $25). "Children at the leading edge of the baby boom had their habits forged in the 1970's, when if you saved you were considered a chump. Now, a lot of baby boomer families are in deep debt, and a lot of those inheritances will be fully accounted for before they get it in the bank."
While some baby boomers are willing to do battle over a glockenspiel, a fairly large proportion lack sentimentality toward their parents' things, said Helaine Fendelman of Scarsdale, N.Y., co-host of the PBS program "Treasures in Your Attic" and one of the country's leading fine-arts appraisers.
"Baby boomers are much less interested in Eames or traditional 18th- and 19th-century furniture or antiques," she said. "They want flashy things from their own youth like Barbie dolls or baseball cards, but they want cash for their parents' most cherished items."
That lack of sentimentality is compounded when there is another generational remove, Ms. Johnson said. That is, the children will tussle over who got the Baccarat; the grandchildren just want the money. The fighting continues, however, since inheritance is like a quadratic equation being solved for the value of love.
And woe to the families left with an estate but no will. Six years ago, Pete Jakowski, 46, a San Francisco artist from a family he describes as "mediocre middle class, between the lower middle and just plain middle class," learned that his younger brother had been killed while riding in a friend's car. His brother had left no will.
"While I was literally shopping for caskets with my 76-year-old mother," Mr. Jakowski said, "my sister was cleaning out his house -- his furniture, car, stereo, keyboard and everything else of value. I was still in shock, and she and her husband were doing double time, completely emptying his place within 48 hours."
Mr. Jakowski said his sister later gave him keys to a storage locker and told him to keep anything he wanted. "All that was in there was his clothes, none of which fit me but which I held on to because it's all I have left of him," he said. "I come from a churchgoing family where you'd think this would never happen, and I'm here to tell you it does."
When telephoned about the contretemps, Mr. Jakowski's sister refused comment.
Even if there is a will, a vague phrase like "and the contents of the house will be divided equitably among the surviving children" can lead to years of arguments over who got stuck with the chipped majolica and who really wanted the Stickley breakfront. Many of the bad vibes emanate from how American society has changed since Ozzie and Harriet were considered the norm.
"When I first started practicing law 39 years ago, divorce was a rarity," Samuel Kaplan, a prominent Minneapolis business lawyer, said. "You only drew up antenuptial agreements when an 82-year-old was getting married. There might have been unhappiness when the head of the family died, but in almost every instance, those differences were worked out."
No more. "Now, divorce is common," Mr. Kaplan said, "and once the patriarch or matriarch who held the family together is gone, the amount of fighting between second husbands or wives who want their children treated appropriately can get quite brutal. The anger is astounding, especially when one sibling devoted their own life to caring for their parent at the end, while the others were gone."
And then there are the executors -- sometimes an oldest or most-trusted child (a position of honor that can lead to more family friction), otherwise a banker, lawyer or family adviser. Perhaps the shrillest battle over executors this decade concerned the estate of Joe Robbie, a Miami businessman and the owner of the Miami Dolphins who named three of his children as trustees of his estate without informing his six other children they wouldn't have direct control of their inheritance. After his death in 1990, a five-year battle was waged in court for control of the $72 million estate, with the three trustees ultimately dismissing the oldest son from the family businesses. Besides the money, childhood notions of fairness seemed to lurk behind the siblings' anger.
To avoid battles over who gets what, Morris Everett, 58, the owner of one of the largest accumulation of movie posters in the world, has chosen to get rid of his collection before he dies.
"It would be more of a burden to my family than an asset to pass it on," he said of his 200,000-piece collection, worth $8 million to $10 million and housed in Cleveland. "It represents dollar signs for my son and daughter, so it's my job to maximize the dollars."
But what about the emotional investment he made in a hobby that he started in 1961 with a lobby card for "Gunga Din" that he bought for 50 cents? "The joy of collecting is in the discovery," Mr. Everett said. "The worst thing to do is get handed a great collection. To just lay on my children this massive responsibility would be unfair."
Not every family ends up fighting over stuff. Some siblings even meet while their parents are alive and divide things up for later. "You can horse trade," said Steven Greenberg, owner of a computer company in Minneapolis called Designstein, who used this system with his two siblings. "I'd say, 'I'll trade you my next two picks for Mom's glass sugar bowl,' and the system worked."
But baby boomers -- conspicuous consumers -- may not have room left in their houses for the odd parental keepsake. And the items to be inherited have to be to their taste. The Nelsons who warred over their father's glockenspiel were not interested in his white polyester pants.
"My mother begged me to take a number of sentimental things, which I did out of respect," Mr. Nelson said. "But they never got out of the car before they went to Goodwill."
There was no squabbling over their father's 50 bowling trophies, which their mother insisted they have. "To us they symbolized all the time he didn't spend with us," he said. "After we were done grieving, Larry and I took great pleasure in throwing them into the dumpster one by one."
Sometimes, however, it's the baby boomer who wants to preserve the past. Art Simon, 40, an assistant professor of film studies at New Jersey's Montclair State University, refused to let his father sell the five-foot-tall wood-block printing press from the 1940's that once made window signs announcing sales in the family's clothing store in Minneapolis. "It's probably only worth a couple hundred dollars, if I could even find someone to buy it," Mr. Simon said. "But it was part of my family's history."
When his father died in 1996, Mr. Simon refused to put the printing press in the family's estate sale. Instead, he drove cross-country with the thing in the back of his car. "Now it's in storage," he said, "just like my dad had it."
It's a sentiment beyond dollars and cents that Ms. Fendelman, the appraiser, would applaud. "Whether you get an objet, or objet d'art, consider yourself lucky," she said. She tells clients, "The one thing no one can take from you is your memories."
 
Be Prepared
 SETTLING family treasures on family members is, like anything important, best done yesterday, worst done tomorrow and, if not done yet, should be done today.
Some tips for the children:
* If parents are still alive, gather the siblings with them to discuss what to do when they die and -- if not the specifics of their assets -- the mechanism by which those assets will be distributed.
"Sex is pretty easy to talk about these days," Dr. Henry F. Smith, a psychoanalyst in Cambridge, Mass., said. "But money is taboo." It will take effort to overcome everyone's reticence, but a candid discussion will make things easier later.
* Failing that, if a parent dies without leaving a clear indication of who gets what, hold a post-mortem draft. Gather all the siblings in one room with every item to be divided up. Any gift given by a child to a parent automatically reverts to that sibling. Then proceed down the line from oldest to youngest, with the children taking turns putting Post-it notes on items they are claiming. Prepare to horse trade.
* Even if there is little or no value to an estate, make sure parents and siblings are aware of the one item that means the most to you. "Be generous of spirit," said Mike Veeck, one of nine children of Bill Veeck, the Baseball Hall of Fame team owner and promoter, who died in 1986 leaving little money but a lifetime of good karma. Mike Veeck wanted an oil portrait showing his father sitting in a bar. So did some of the other children.
"But I'm from Chicago," he said, "so I called up mom and fixed it, like a closed election."
Some tips for the parents:
* Helaine Fendelman, a fine-arts appraiser, advises parents to learn the value of items, from abandoned G.I. Joe dolls to fireplace andirons, if they have any chance of being worth something. "A lot of parents leave messes for their children," she said. "And that's not a very nice thing to do when they're dealing with the loss of a parent."
* Take an extension course in estate planning that goes beyond mere dollars. Ann Barrash, 75, a Dubuque, Iowa, mother of six, attended a special class for women sponsored by the American Association of Retired Persons at Iowa State. "I was advised that every child would be fighting over this and that, after we were gone," she said. So she and her husband, Meyer, 76, a retired physician, made a list of every item they owned, circulated it among the kids, and made the children prioritize their choices. "It takes a long time but it really worked," she said, "because we didn't decide for them."
* If you have an estate large enough to be subject to the estate tax -- any amount above $650,000 from one person or $1.3 million from a married couple -- then before you die or become incapacitated you should hire an estate lawyer to work out what to do. An estate lawyer can show you ways to combine charitable gifts and insurance, for example, to pass on more to heirs.
* Serious collections may be sold now and money passed on to the children (next item). If the collection remains intact, leave detailed instructions on how it should be disposed of and through which experts, so the children will not have to hold a fire sale.
* Give items to children now, up to the $10,000 tax-free limit a year per parent. If a daughter needs a dining room table today, why wait?
Beyond that, make a will. And put every single thing you own in it. NEAL KARLEN
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photos: HORSE TRADER -- Steven Greenberg; his son, Davy, and inheritance. (Bruce Kluckhorn for The New York Times); ITEMIZERS -- Ann and Meyer Barrash had their children list all their choices. (Jane Melgaard for The New York Times)(pg. F12)
 
Illustrations (Illustrations by Warren Linn)(pg. F1)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (90%); 

STATE: FLORIDA, USA (90%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (90%); FLORIDA, USA (90%); 

SUBJECT: Terms not available from NYTimes. CHILDREN (87%); BABY BOOMERS (86%); PERCUSSION INSTRUMENTS (78%); WORLD WAR II (73%); ART COLLECTING (72%); ECONOMIC SURVEYS (71%); PSYCHOLOGY (62%); 

PERSON: RICHARD NELSON (77%); 

LOAD-DATE: July 29, 1999



689 of 738 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 29, 1999

SECTION: Section A; Page 10; Column 4; Foreign Desk

LENGTH: 813 words

HEADLINE: Morocco's Need for Aid Could Go Unmet

BYLINE: By DOUGLAS JEHL

DATELINE: CASABLANCA, Morocco, July 27

 BODY:
In the crowded cobbled alleyways of the old souk, the young men loitering in doorways and old women selling tattered wares say they know exactly what they want from Morocco's new King.
"The problem now is jobs," said Hussein Khadoe, 28, who like many desperate young Moroccans spent years in Europe as an illegal immigrant and is back home trying to make a living any way he can. 
 At least 20 percent of Moroccans are out of work, even by the most conservative estimates. About half are illiterate, one of the highest rates in the region. And a huge debt burden has left the Government with little money to create jobs or provide a social safety net.
Little wonder, then, that with the regal pomp and the show of international support that surrounded the funeral on Sunday for King Hassan II, the new King, Mohammed VI, was already trying to convert the good will into more tangible dividends.
Prime Minister Abderrahmane Youssoufi was quoted in Moroccan newspapers as saying he had discussed with President Clinton and others "the support that Morocco expects from foreign partners, especially the United States."
Moroccan officials hope that Jordan will provide a model. The accession there in February of King Abdullah, an untested 37-year-old, has been followed by increases in Western aid and by warmer relations with neighbors, to help him fend off the discontent that might spill over into regional instability.
In Morocco, the most surprising helping hand has come from Algeria, a longtime rival with which Morocco has long had border disputes. Among the guests at King Hassan's funeral was the new President, Abdelaziz Bouteflika, the first Algerian leader to visit here in 10 years.
Mr. Bouteflika signaled that he was prepared to reopen the border, which was shut in 1994, at a cost to Morocco that economists here estimates at $2 billion a year in lost trade. In a letter to King Mohammed made public here, the Algerian said he was strongly committed to move "hand in hand with Your Majesty for the prosperity of our two people."
It is less clear, however, Western diplomats here said, that the United States and its allies are ready to welcome Prince Mohammed with new aid. For one factor, Morocco is more than 2,000 miles removed from the epicenter of Arab-Israeli struggles. Despite its important role in the past as a broker of a wider peace, it is seen in the West as a less important strategic partner than Jordan, more than half of whose population is Palestinian and which borders Israel, Syria, Saudi Arabia and Iraq.
For another factor, diplomats said, the priority that Morocco has placed on internal security over economic development may mean that real obstacles stand in the way of improving its economy. For now, the second most powerful man in Morocco, after the King, is widely said to be Driss Basri, the long-serving Interior Minister, and many people doubt that King Mohammed would be ready to move him aside.
Mr. Basri is a palace hard-liner who has been accused of widespread abuses in his 20 years in power. He is widely believed to oppose further moves toward the democratization that King Hassan began tentatively to embrace in 1986 and that is still sought by the West.
Without outside help or major internal changes, however, economists here say Morocco has little room to maneuver. Some 85 percent of Government outlays cover salaries and payments on a foreign debt of $20 billion, among the highest for any Arab country.
The rate of economic growth, which hit an impressive 6.2 percent in 1998, is expected to slow to a trickle this year because of a severe drought. And foreign investment, which hit a record $1.2 billion in 1997, shrank last year to less than half that, in large part because of investors' doubts about the Government's commitment to a further opening of the economy.
Prime Minister Youssoufi, a Socialist who was elected 18 months ago, is technically in charge of economic policy. But the King has overarching authority, with the power to dismiss ministers and even the Government. Most people here say if economic conditions are to improve, the change will have to come from the top.
In Casablanca, the commercial capital, Hassan's most visible legacy may be the enormous mosque that bears his name. The gleaming structure that towers over the old city at the edge of the Atlantic was built in 1990 from $500 million in public contributions. But the shabby back streets are just as dominant a feature of this city, like the one where Mr. Khadoe practices his trade, usually by collecting commissions from the small shops to which he tries to guide the few foreign tourists.
Mr. Youssoufi was, perhaps, referring to people like Mr. Khadoe when he said over the weekend, "We achieved positive results in favor of our people, but there are still economic and social issues to be solved." 
http://www.nytimes.com

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

INDUSTRY: SIC2329 MEN'S & BOYS' CLOTHING, NEC (93%); 

COUNTRY: MOROCCO (97%); ALGERIA (93%); EUROPE (92%); ISRAEL (92%); UNITED STATES (92%); JORDAN (92%); SAUDI ARABIA (79%); PALESTINIAN TERRITORY, OCCUPIED (79%); IRAQ (79%); SYRIA (79%); 

COMPANY: SICOME SA (93%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: MOROCCO (97%); ALGERIA (93%); EUROPE (92%); ISRAEL (92%); UNITED STATES (92%); JORDAN (92%); SAUDI ARABIA (79%); PALESTINIAN TERRITORY, OCCUPIED (79%); IRAQ (79%); SYRIA (79%); 

SUBJECT: Terms not available from NYTimes. ALLIANCES & PARTNERSHIPS (78%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (77%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (77%); JOB CREATION (77%); IMMIGRATION (76%); PRIME MINISTERS (74%); INTERNATIONAL ASSISTANCE (73%); US PRESIDENTS (72%); ILLEGAL IMMIGRANTS (71%); TERRITORIAL & NATIONAL BORDERS (70%); ECONOMIC NEWS (67%); DIPLOMATIC SERVICES (65%); 

PERSON: BILL CLINTON (79%); ABDELAZIZ BOUTEFLIKA (54%); 

LOAD-DATE: July 29, 1999



690 of 738 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 29, 1999

SECTION: Section C; Page 8; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk

LENGTH: 446 words

HEADLINE: June Orders For Durables Rise Slowly

BYLINE: Bloomberg News

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, July 28

 BODY:
Orders for durable goods rose at a slower-than-expected pace in June, restrained by reduced demand for industrial machinery, Government figures showed today.
Total orders for items designed to last several years or more rose three-tenths of a percent last month after a gain of eight-tenths of a percent in May, the Commerce Department said. The June increase was less than the 1 percent rise analysts had expected. 
 "We haven't really turned the corner yet on exports, and that's the key factor holding manufacturing back," said Greg Jones, chief economist at Briefing.com in Jackson, Wyo.
The United States trade deficit in goods and services widened in May to a record $21.3 billion as exports fell for the sixth time in seven months, the Government reported last week.
Demand from consumers, however, continues to make up for slumping exports, keeping the economy's eight-year expansion on track toward a record early next year. United States companies' second-quarter profits rose a greater-than-expected 16.4 percent, the biggest gain in almost four years and well ahead of analysts' 12 percent forecast, as consumers snapped up everything from computers to pickup trucks.
The durable goods report also showed orders for nonmilitary capital goods excluding aircraft, a gauge of business investment, fell 4 percent in June after a 2.8 percent decrease in May.
Businesses overseas are not buying new equipment because of excess global production capacity and slow-growing economies, Mr. Jones said. The global economy is "clearly better than it was through much of 1998, but it's really stabilized more than it's rebounded," he said.
Industrial machinery orders, which include computers, fell 5.4 percent in June after a 4.5 percent decline a month earlier. Offsetting that weakness were orders for electrical equipment, including home appliances, and for autos, the Commerce Department said.
June sales at the General Motors Corporation and the Ford Motor Company increased, capping a record first half for the industry. North American auto makers announced earlier this month plans to increase third-quarter vehicle production 2 percent, to 4,087,700, according to Ward's Automotive Reports. That would set a record for the July-through-September period, exceeding the third quarter of 1997.
Meantime, orders for civilian aircraft fell 8.5 percent in June after a 34.3 percent increase in May, even as the Boeing Company said its June orders totaled 68 airplanes, compared with 11 orders in May. Boeing's numbers do not always track with Government reports, and analysts expect the increase in the company's orders to be reflected in coming months.
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Graph: "Durable Goods Orders" plots manufacturers' total new orders, since Jan. 1998. (Source: Commerce Department)
 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: FORDP (PAR) (84%); F (NYSE) (84%); BOE (LSE) (83%); BAB (BRU) (83%); BA (NYSE) (83%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS336112 LIGHT TRUCK & UTILITY VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (84%); NAICS336111 AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING (84%); SIC3711 MOTOR VEHICLES & PASSENGER CAR BODIES (84%); NAICS336414 GUIDED MISSILE & SPACE VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (83%); NAICS336412 AIRCRAFT ENGINE & ENGINE PARTS MANUFACTURING (83%); NAICS336411 AIRCRAFT MANUFACTURING (83%); SIC3761 GUIDED MISSILES & SPACE VEHICLES (83%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); NORTH AMERICA (79%); 

STATE: WYOMING, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: FORD MOTOR CO (84%); BOEING CO (83%); MOTORS LIQUIDATION CO (64%); BRIEFING.COM (57%); US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (83%); US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (83%); 

ORGANIZATION: US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (83%); US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (83%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%); NORTH AMERICA (79%); WYOMING, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: UNITED STATES ECONOMY DURABLE GOODS (93%); MANUFACTURING OUTPUT (92%); ECONOMIC NEWS (91%); FACTORY ORDERS (91%); EXPORT TRADE (90%); AUTOMOTIVE MFG (89%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (89%); AIRCRAFT ORDERS (79%); COMPANY PROFITS (78%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (78%); COMMERCIAL & GENERAL AVIATION AIRCRAFT (78%); GLOBALIZATION (78%); INTERIM FINANCIAL RESULTS (77%); AUTOMOTIVE MANUFACTURING OUTPUT (77%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (77%); COMMERCE DEPARTMENTS (76%); AUTOMOBILE MFG (75%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (75%); GOODS & SERVICES TRADE BALANCE (70%); CURRENT ACCOUNT BALANCE (70%); AUTOMAKERS (70%); MOTOR VEHICLES (70%); 

PERSON: GREG JONES (65%); 

LOAD-DATE: July 29, 1999



691 of 738 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 29, 1999

SECTION: Section A; Page 20; Column 1; Editorial Desk

LENGTH: 475 words

HEADLINE: The Census as an Act of God

 BODY:
Acting as though they had just discovered that the Constitution requires a census every decade, the House Republican leadership has declared that next year's national headcount will be financed with an "emergency" appropriation of $4.5 billion. The leaders treated veterans' health care the same way, deeming it an off-budget emergency.
The process of putting together a Federal budget is always untidy, but this year the House Appropriations Committee has been turned into a wonderland. The unhappy chairman, C. W. Bill Young, had been warning for months that the spending caps imposed by the 1997 Balanced Budget Act were impossibly rigid, but no one seemed willing to listen. Both parties happily supported a $15.5 billion increase in the defense budget, to $266 billion. That used up about half of the $538 billion set aside for discretionary spending, painting Mr. Young into a corner as the pot available for other purposes grew smaller and smaller. 
 The unrealistic caps set in 1997 were a classic example of politicians' tendency to schedule all their really tough challenges for sometime in the future. President Clinton and leaders from both parties have been bragging for three years about the way they got spending under control, even as they began looking for loopholes to protect themselves from the consequences.
Last year Congress approved "emergency" expenditures outside the caps to the tune of more than $20 billion. This year the House leaders have already decided to pay for the census with an emergency appropriation, as if it were a flood or earthquake. Thanks to an accounting gimmick, additional spending on veterans' programs is supposed to be financed through the borrowing authority of the Tennessee Valley Authority. This week G.O.P. leaders were entertaining a delusion that the nation's Republican governors would help them out by giving back $6 billion in Federal funds the states received to pay for welfare reform.
The appropriations battles are part of a larger spectacle of fiscal irresponsibility, like the Republican leadership's insistence on a $792 billion tax cut that would eat up a projected surplus whose size is based, in part, on the same spending cap fictions that Mr. Young is wrestling with. Republican moderates, who wanted more modest tax reductions, settled for a compromise that was at best a meaningless fig leaf.
This is the worst kind of budgeting, a cynical exercise in which both parties try to trick the public into believing that the Government can make Draconian cuts in spending while still providing the programs people want. Responsible fiscal policy requires a clear and honest set of numbers, achievable goals and a willingness to forgo a certain amount of political gamesmanship in the name of responsible government. None of that is happening in Washington this year. 
http://www.nytimes.com

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Editorial

INDUSTRY: NAICS221113 NUCLEAR ELECTRIC POWER GENERATION (53%); NAICS221112 FOSSIL FUEL ELECTRIC POWER GENERATION (53%); NAICS221111 HYDROELECTRIC POWER GENERATION (53%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (79%); 

COMPANY: TENNESSEE VALLEY AUTHORITY (53%); HOUSE REPUBLICAN (89%); 

ORGANIZATION: HOUSE REPUBLICAN (89%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%); 

SUBJECT: Terms not available from NYTimes. GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); BUDGETS (90%); APPROPRIATIONS (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (89%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (89%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (89%); PUBLIC POLICY (78%); POLITICS (78%); SUPPLEMENTAL APPROPRIATIONS (78%); VETERANS (77%); MILITARY BENEFITS (77%); PUBLIC FINANCE (77%); DEFENSE SPENDING (72%); APPROVALS (71%); TAX LAW (70%); ENERGY DEPARTMENTS (66%); GOVERNORS (65%); ECONOMIC POLICY (61%); ECONOMIC NEWS (61%); TAX RELIEF (61%); 

PERSON: C W BILL YOUNG (78%); BILL CLINTON (58%); 

LOAD-DATE: July 29, 1999



692 of 738 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 29, 1999

SECTION: Section C; Page 1; Column 4; Business/Financial Desk

LENGTH: 1665 words

HEADLINE: THE MARKETS -- Big Board at Brink of Unknown;
Questions Abound as Exchange Ponders Going Public

BYLINE: By DIANA B. HENRIQUES

 BODY:
A quarter-century ago, when Richard A. Rosenblatt was first developing his skills as a trader on the floor of the New York Stock Exchange, it was widely predicted that the Big Board's days were numbered.
Fixed commissions were banned in May 1975, plunging Wall Street into a frenzy of competition for customer trades. As trading fees shrank, dozens of less efficient brokerage firms closed their doors. With member firms falling away, the price of an exchange seat even dropped as low as $35,000. 
 But Mr. Rosenblatt's eyes shine when he remembers those fearsome days. "For a young entrepreneur, the opportunities just exploded," he said. With prices suddenly within his reach, he was able to borrow money and buy a seat on the exchange in 1979; it became the cornerstone of the institutional trading firm that bears his name.
Today, skeptics are once again predicting the demise of the Big Board. Its trading floor in lower Manhattan is no match, they say, for the new computer-driven systems that are attracting a growing share of the trading that traditionally has been done on the exchange and its archrival, the Nasdaq market.
And once again, Mr. Rosenblatt is optimistic. "This game is for the New York Stock Exchange to lose," he said confidently last week, on the eve of the exchange's confirmation that it hoped to transform itself into a for-profit corporation with public shareholders before the end of the year. "They've got it -- they've got a better product for the customer."
Of course, as the New York exchange and its chief executive, Richard A. Grasso, search for a survival strategy, Wall Street's central symbol faces a daunting array of challenges. The exchange must protect its franchise and find a way to blend the best aspects of its floor-based auction system with the speed and the capacity that only computers can provide. It must become more cost-efficient without becoming less careful about policing its business -- a challenge of such public importance that Arthur Levitt, chairman of the Securities and Exchange Commission, warned Mr. Grasso earlier this week that regulatory competence will be the make-or-break issue when the commission reviews his plans.
And, as a public company, the Big Board must figure out how to make money doing all this -- enough money to placate potentially impatient shareholders.
Mr. Rosenblatt has a personal stake in how well the exchange fends off its new competitors. "I need an environment where I can make a difference to my customers," he said.
So far, the Big Board has lost only about 5 percent of its trading volume to the electronic communications networks, or E.C.N.'s, that have gobbled up nearly 30 percent of the Nasdaq market's volume.
But keeping a grip on its primary business is likely to be more of a challenge for the Big Board in the future than it has been in the past. In recent weeks, the New York exchange has liberalized its Rule 500, which prevented companies from withdrawing from the exchange without their shareholders' approval. Now, companies can withdraw merely by obtaining the approval of their independent directors.
The theory behind this change was that more companies would be willing to list on the Big Board in the first place if it was easier for them to leave. But the practical effects may simply be that it is easier to move elsewhere.
Another bellwether is the fate of Rule 390, which requires members of the exchange to trade all Big Board stocks that were listed before April 1979 only on a registered stock exchange, most likely to be the Big Board itself during the hours the exchange is open.
The rule now affects only about a third of the Big Board stocks, its supporters point out. But if this rule falls -- and the Nasdaq market has been muttering for years about challenging it -- the New York exchange could soon find that more of its trading volume has moved to other markets.
The Big Board's fabled liquidity -- a volume of trading so deep that large blocks of stock can be traded quickly without a drastic impact on prices -- is a key element of its premier brand. A migration of trading volume to competing trading systems would not only reduce its revenues, it would also undermine the value of that brand.
"This is a critical issue -- the real dollars-and-cents issue for the Big Board," said John C. Coffee Jr., a securities law professor at Columbia University and a member of the legal advisory committees for both the Nasdaq market and the Big Board. "It's a key part of their franchise, and I cannot see them liberalizing it, especially as they move to become public."
But Benn Steil, a senior fellow for foreign economic policy on the Council on Foreign Relations in New York, argues that the elimination of Rule 390 would simply increase the healthy pressure on the exchange to create a trading structure that people want, rather than one they are required to use.
In any case, the Big Board may have no choice but to live without the protections of Rule 390. "I can't imagine that it can remain in place," he said. "It is such an anomaly, with so many competitive pressures arguing against it."
There is considerable speculation that the New York exchange will be able to increase revenues by making strategic acquisitions -- perhaps buying one of the upstart E.C.N.'s, or purchasing one of the for-profit stock exchanges that are proliferating abroad, or buying a company that develops innovative software for trading services.
But for the near-term, the Big Board will most likely make its money the old-fashioned way: by charging fees for companies to list on the exchange and for investors to trade there. And in today's competitive environment, both listing fees and trading fees "are going to be under competitive pressures," Mr. Steil said.
To cope, he said, "they need to bring their costs down."
Mr. Steil believes that cost pressures in competition will force the exchange to abandon the expensive trading floor -- a trading environment that Mr. Rosenblatt insists is the symbol of the exchange and "the envy of the world" -- and replace it with an electronic trading system.
Mr. Rosenblatt disagrees. "You don't want to automate the auction," he insisted, arguing that the relationships and reputations of individual floor traders allow them to get better prices for their customers. "But you sure want to automate everything around it," he said.
Either option requires money, of course. And the need to pay for swift and significant improvements in technology will increase the pressure on the Big Board to curtail other costs.
And that raises questions about whether the exchange will be able to produce profits for its new shareholders and still adequately pay for its self-policing efforts.
It is an issue that already faces the for-profit electronic communications networks, or E.C.N.'s, that elect to compete with the Big Board and the Nasdaq market by becoming full-fledged stock exchanges.
"If you allow the E.C.N.'s to become exchanges, regulating themselves, you are inevitably going to have scandals," Professor Coffee said. Under pressure to produce profits, the for-profit exchanges may well "start to shop for the cheapest and the least, shall we say, intrusive regulator," he continued. "If that trend accelerates, you've got a race to the bottom."
Mr. Levitt, the S.E.C. head, wants to prevent that race from starting. He offered one suggestion in his first response on Monday to the idea of allowing for-profit stock trading entities: "More formally separating the self-regulatory role from the role of exchanges as trading venues."
That is exactly what the National Association of Securities Dealers is planning if it proceeds with a plan to spin off the Nasdaq market as a for-profit corporation early next year.
But that is not the plan that Mr. Grasso outlined for the exchange last week. Instead, he envisions retaining the exchange's regulatory operation within the new for-profit company.
Professor Coffee worries that in-house regulators would be vulnerable to cost-cutting pressures. His concern is shared by James J. Needham, a former S.E.C. commissioner who was the first paid chairman of the New York Stock Exchange, from August 1972 to May 1976.
With for-profit exchanges, "there is the potential for serious conflicts of interest," Mr. Needham said. "We cannot rely on self-regulation anymore."
Arthur Don, a securities lawyer in Chicago with wide experience in advising newly public companies, was less concerned about an erosion of regulatory efforts. "You just have to have sanctions sufficiently strong that noncompliance becomes uncompetitive behavior," he said.
Mr. Rosenblatt, the veteran floor trader, has heard the various arguments and said that he did not think members of the exchange cared where the regulators hung their hats. "We just care that regulation is not so cumbersome that you can't function and that regulators understand the difference between jaywalking and premeditated murder," he said.
Mr. Needham, the former New York exchange chairman, said the changes in ownership structure being contemplated by the Big Board and the Nasdaq market were so dramatic that the S.E.C. ought to hold public hearings before approving either proposal.
"The worst thing would be for the public to lose confidence because they don't understand what's happening," Mr. Needham said. "Before we take the next step, let's find out what we're really talking about."
Mr. Rosenblatt, staring down at the unstylish side-laced shoes that cushion his feet during long days on the trading floor, wondered aloud whether anyone could truly assess where the changes of today will leave the markets of tomorrow.
"For anyone to think that, five years from now, any of us will be doing business the way we do today would be dangerously naive," he said. "You show me a better way to trade, and I won't trade one more share on the N.Y.S.E. But nobody's shown me that yet."
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photo: Richard A. Rosenblatt, a trader, on the floor of the New York exchange. (Chester Higgins Jr./The New York Times)
 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (91%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (91%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (78%); 

COMPANY: NEW YORK STOCK EXCHANGE LLC (58%); BIG BOARD (96%); NEW YORK (67%); 

ORGANIZATION: BIG BOARD (96%); NEW YORK (67%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (91%); NEW YORK, USA (91%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (78%); 

SUBJECT: STOCKS AND BONDS; NEW YORK STOCK EXCHANGE (NYSE) STOCK EXCHANGES (93%); SECURITIES LAW (78%); SHAREHOLDERS (78%); BONDS (78%); ENTREPRENEURSHIP (76%); AUCTIONS (76%); ELECTRONIC COMMUNICATIONS NETWORKS (73%); COMPUTER EQUIPMENT (72%); EXECUTIVES (50%); 

PERSON: RICHARD A ROSENBLATT (67%); 

LOAD-DATE: July 29, 1999



693 of 738 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 29, 1999

SECTION: Section A; Page 3; Column 1; Foreign Desk

LENGTH: 1207 words

HEADLINE: Despite Maneuvers, China Seems Cautious on Taiwan

BYLINE: By SETH FAISON

DATELINE: BEIJING, July 28

 BODY:
A Chinese news service reported today that the navy was conducting mobilization exercises along the southern coast, across from Taiwan. But it appears to be a relatively moderate operation that hints at little real military preparation.
On Tuesday, a newspaper ran a front-page photograph of military helicopters intended to look as if they were preparing for battle. But the picture was so badly doctored, so obviously fake, that it had the opposite effect of signaling Beijing's distinctly halfhearted attitude toward potential conflict with Taiwan. 
 Nearly three weeks after President Lee Teng-hui caused an uproar by asserting that Taiwan would deal with China only on a "special state-to-state" basis, heightening tension about a possible military conflict, Chinese officials and Western diplomats say Beijing is shying away from any action.
Despite Beijing's insistence that it would use military force to block a declaration of independence by Taiwan, which it has considered a renegade province since the Chinese civil war ended in 1949, the danger of military conflict, it seems clear, is receding. Editorials in the Communist Party newspaper People's Daily continue to denounce Mr. Lee, but behind the often vociferous warnings, the overall reaction in Beijing has been restrained.
"China has to express its position strongly," a senior Chinese official involved in talks with Taiwan said. "But there doesn't seem to be any need for military action this time."
One reason behind China's relatively reserved response, the official said, is that Mr. Lee is scheduled to be replaced in elections in March. Because Beijing sees the Taiwan-born Mr. Lee as biased against China, it makes sense to wait until his successor takes office. That is especially the case because the candidate who is leading in Taiwan opinion polls, James Soong, favors more cordial ties with China.
"Seven months is not such a long time," the official said. "We can wait."
A second reason is that Beijing recognizes that its decision in the last Taiwan crisis, in 1996, to launch missiles near Taiwan only created sympathy for Mr. Lee, achieving the opposite of what it intended. China's military may have also been humiliated when the United States sent two carrier battle groups to the region to show support for Taiwan.
"They learned a lesson in '96," a Western diplomat in Beijing said as he referred to China's leaders. "This time, if they sit back and do nothing, it's Lee who's getting all the flak."
It is indeed Mr. Lee who has drawn international criticism for roiling diplomatic waters. When President Clinton spoke out last week in support for Beijing's position that the Chinese mainland and Taiwan should continue to be considered a single country, that effectively drew Washington closer to Beijing and further from Taipei.
"Lee Teng-hui is actually bringing China and the U.S. closer together," said the Chinese, who favors close ties with the United States. "We should thank him."
In Taiwan today, Mr. Lee rejected the sobriquet "troublemaker" that Beijing has tried to pin on him, saying that Taiwan should wait until China is more democratic and economically developed before it seriously considers reunification.
Talks between China and Taiwan, which have been off-again-on-again since they began in 1993, appear to be off again. Wang Daohan, a senior Chinese official scheduled to visit Taiwan in October, is virtually certain to cancel that trip.
Officially, Mr. Wang is waiting for his Taiwan counterpart, Koo Chen-fu, to take a public stance on Taiwan-China relations before a decision is made about continuing talks. But Beijing said over the weekend that with the vanishing premise of the talks -- that both sides agree on a "one China" formula -- it is highly unlikely that they will go forward.
From Beijing's view, the danger of taking no real action in response to Mr. Lee's move is that politicians in Taiwan may conclude that they can take steps to distance themselves further from China without any negative response from Beijing.
In an effort to deliver a tough-sounding, but ultimately ambiguous, message, Beijing appears to have authorized reports in China-backed news media in Hong Kong of military preparations off the Taiwan coast.
Last week, Wen Wei Po, a Communist Party-owned newspaper in Hong Kong that rarely covers sensitive political news without instruction from Beijing, reported in unusual detail about military preparations by the Nanjing Military Region, which oversees Chinese military forces in Fujian province, across the coast from Taiwan.
The paper reported that the deputy chief of staff of the Nanjing Military Region, Su Jing, had watched military drills in which sailors sang, "We will liberate Taiwan." Yet two days later, officials in the region denied the reports.
The report today by China News Service appeared to follow the same pattern, reporting military preparations that send a guarded signal to Taiwan, but allowing Beijing room for deniability.
All along, Taiwan military intelligence has told local news media that it detected no serious military activity on the mainland side of the 100-mile wide strait that separates Taiwan from the mainland.
As Foreign Minister Tang Jiaxuan of China reminded reporters in Singapore this week, China has never renounced the threat of using force against Taiwan, should peaceful means fail to achieve Beijing's cherished goal of reunification.
In more tough-sounding language, the New China News Agency reported today that the chief of the People's Liberation Army general staff had warned Mr. Lee to stop "separatist" activity.
"The P.L.A. has the determination and strength to defend the state's sovereignty and territorial integrity," the official, Fu Quanyou, told a visiting Malaysian military official.
Yet behind such language, there seems to be relatively little punch.
One factor often overlooked by outsiders is that military experts say any large-scale amphibious assault on Taiwan by China would face enormous military difficulties. Taiwan, operating American-supplied F-16 fighter planes, has distinct air superiority.
Even a more militarily feasible attack on one of the small islands controlled by Taiwan that are next to China's southern coast, Kinmen and Matsu, could prompt retaliation by Taiwanese guided missiles that would cause serious damage to mainland cities.
A less direct military confrontation could involve the launching of Chinese missiles into the sea near Taiwan, as in 1995 and 1996, or an attempt to blockade sea traffic around Taiwan.
There is little sign that Beijing has the political will for military action in the near future.
China's leaders left Beijing this week for the seaside resort of Beidaihe, where they are holding an annual political gathering intended to sort out pressing issues of the day. Although Taiwan may be on the agenda, leaders appear to be more concerned now with Falun Gong, the spiritual movement that Beijing has outlawed and has made the target of a major political campaign.
The other top issue at the gathering is said to be money-losing state-run industries, which the authorities have been trying to reorganize, without success.
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photo: A Beijing vendor selling military magazines yesterday. China is issuing strong statements about heightening tensions and military affairs. (Associated Press)
 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: CHINA (99%); TAIWAN (99%); UNITED STATES (92%); 

STATE: NORTH CENTRAL CHINA (96%); 

CITY: BEIJING, CHINA (96%); TAIPEI, TAIWAN (79%); 

COMPANY: CHINESE INFORMATION & CULTURE CENTER (91%); CHINESE INFORMATION & CULTURE CENTER (91%); 

ORGANIZATION: CHINESE INFORMATION & CULTURE CENTER (91%); CHINESE INFORMATION & CULTURE CENTER (91%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: CHINA (99%); TAIWAN (99%); UNITED STATES (92%); NORTH CENTRAL CHINA (96%); BEIJING, CHINA (96%); TAIPEI, TAIWAN (79%); 

SUBJECT: Terms not available from NYTimes. ARMED FORCES (78%); ELECTIONS (75%); US PRESIDENTS (75%); POLITICS (75%); DIPLOMATIC SERVICES (74%); SEPARATISM & SECESSION (73%); MILITARY HELICOPTERS (73%); POLITICAL PARTIES (66%); HELICOPTERS (57%); POLLS & SURVEYS (51%); 

PERSON: BILL CLINTON (57%); 

LOAD-DATE: July 29, 1999



694 of 738 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 29, 1999

SECTION: Section C; Page 10; Column 3; Business/Financial Desk

LENGTH: 650 words

HEADLINE: THE MARKETS: STOCKS;
Computer Issues Help Spark A Nasdaq Increase of 26.51

BYLINE: By ROBERT D. HERSHEY Jr.

 BODY:
Computer-related stocks lifted the Nasdaq market to its second straight gain yesterday, even as a majority of other issues sagged. Activity slackened as investors braced for key economic reports from Washington today.
"The stock market is waiting for some heavy-duty data," said Christine A. Callies, chief investment strategist at CS First Boston, mainly to examine them for any signs of inflation that might persuade Fed policy makers to raise short-term interest rates again. 
 Although Alan Greenspan, the Federal Reserve chairman, made his second Congressional appearance in two weeks yesterday, he provided no fresh clues about the central bank's intentions on interest rates, and members of Congress concentrated their questions on the wisdom of tax cuts.
Consequently, market operators are now awaiting today's Labor Department survey of employment costs and the Commerce Department's first estimate of gross domestic product, both covering the quarter ended June 30.
"The market is sort of slip-sliding around here" except for a "relief" rally in high technology, said Robert H. Stovall, president of Stovall/21st Advisers. After skidding four of six sessions for a loss of 245 points, the technology-dominated Nasdaq composite index has now posted back-to-back gains for the first time since mid-month. Yesterday's bounce of 26.51 points, or just under 1 percent, was aided by a decision by the Financial Accounting Standards Board to postpone tougher rules for writing off research and development costs in acquisitions, analysts said.
But the Dow Jones industrial average could not sustain its Monday advance and finished with a loss of 6.97 points, closing at 10,972.07, after having been ahead by as many as 45.
And the Standard & Poor's 500-stock index, while ekeing out a gain of about two-tenths of 1 percent, showed little strength apart from technology. The index closed up 2.56 points at 1,365.40.
Interest rates were little changed yesterday as the Treasury's $15 billion auction of two-year notes went smoothly.
Stocks highly sensitive to interest rates have been prominent among those making new 52-week lows, Mr. Stovall noted, reflecting fears of narrowed margins and dampened business. New lows over all swamped new highs by 134 to 54 yesterday on the New York Stock Exchange, where 1,602 issues fell and 1,374 rose.
Turnover eased to 690.96 million shares from 714.6 million Tuesday.
But the general lackluster mood did not keep speculative-minded investors from chasing the latest Internet initial public offering. Drugstore.com's 5 million shares were offered at 18, began trading at 65 and changed hands at 70 before closing at 50 1/4 on volume of 8.86 million shares.
Intel was once again a market star, rising 2 3/4 to 70 5/16 after a 4 11/16-point surge on Tuesday as chip prices were reported to have firmed and S G Cowen raised its rating from "neutral" to "buy." Volume climbed to 41.7 million shares from 39 million.
Other big high-tech winners included Texas Instruments, up 5 7/16, to 148 9/16; Broadcom, up 11 3/8, to 128; Micron Technology, up 3 7/8, to 61 3/4; Microsoft, up 1 3/16, to 90; Priceline.com up 11 11/32, to 85, and Ebay and Amazon.com up 5 3/8 and 4 3/4, respectively.
Compaq Computer edged up 9/16, to 25 15/16; after the close, the company, the biggest maker of personal computers, reported a second-quarter loss that was in line with analysts' forecasts and a restructuring to cut costs that would result in the loss of 8,000 jobs.
Among the Dow blue chips, Dupont gained 11/16 to 72 13/16 after reporting earnings at the top end of expectations and I.B.M. gained 2 1/8 to 128 3/8.
Overseas, stocks were moderately higher in Tokyo, Hong Kong and Britain, slightly higher in Germany and France and down by four-tenths of 1 percent in Brazil. Mexico and Toronto jumped 1.43 percent and 1.26 percent, respectively.
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Graph tracks the Dow Jones industrial average over the past year. (Sources: Associated Press; Bloomberg Financial Markets)
 
Tables: "Hot & Cold" provides a look at stocks with large percentage gains and losses; "The Favorite Stocks" lists stocks held by largest number of accounts at Merrill Lynch. (Compiled from staff reports, The Associated Press, Bloomberg News, Bridge News, Dow Jones, Reuters) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: INTC (NASDAQ) (58%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS334413 SEMICONDUCTOR & RELATED DEVICE MANUFACTURING (58%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); 

COMPANY: INTEL CORP (58%); NEW YORK STOCK EXCHANGE LLC (51%); US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (56%); US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (56%); FINANCIAL ACCOUNTING STANDARDS BOARD (54%); FINANCIAL ACCOUNTING STANDARDS BOARD (54%); 

ORGANIZATION: US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (56%); US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (56%); FINANCIAL ACCOUNTING STANDARDS BOARD (54%); FINANCIAL ACCOUNTING STANDARDS BOARD (54%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%); 

SUBJECT: STOCKS AND BONDS STOCK INDEXES (91%); INITIAL PUBLIC OFFERINGS (89%); INTEREST RATES (89%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); STOCK EXCHANGES (89%); MARKET OPEN CLOSE (89%); GROSS DOMESTIC PRODUCT (78%); BANKING & FINANCE REGULATION (78%); INVESTMENT ADVISERS (78%); STOCK OFFERINGS (78%); BONDS (78%); PUBLIC POLICY (77%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (77%); TAXES & TAXATION (77%); COMMERCE DEPARTMENTS (77%); CENTRAL BANKS (76%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (76%); TREASURY SECURITIES (75%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (75%); ACCOUNTING STANDARDS (73%); POLLS & SURVEYS (72%); TAX LAW (70%); LABOR DEPARTMENTS (68%); EMPLOYMENT COSTS (68%); RESEARCH & DEVELOPMENT (67%); ACCOUNTING (50%); 

PERSON: ALAN GREENSPAN (57%); 

LOAD-DATE: July 29, 1999



695 of 738 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 29, 1999

SECTION: Section A; Page 14; Column 1; National Desk

LENGTH: 783 words

HEADLINE: Tab for Washington Lobbying: $1.42 Billion

BYLINE: By DAVID STOUT

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, July 28

 BODY:
The capital of the United States is a city with no real industry except for politics and influence, and so huge sums of money are paid to lobbyists trying to influence politicians. Last year $1.42 billion was spent in that endeavor, a research group said today.
That total was a 13 percent increase over the $1.26 billion that lobbyists were paid in 1997, said the group, the Center for Responsive Politics. If all the money had been spent on Capitol Hill, it would have worked out to $2.7 million earmarked to persuading each of the 535 lawmakers on a host of issues, the center said. 
 Of course, not all was spent on Capitol Hill; much was spent trying to persuade various regulatory agencies and other offices of the executive branch, the center's communications director, Paul Hendrie, pointed out.
The $1.42 billion was paid to lobbyists by airplane manufacturers, bankers, doctors and lawyers, drug companies, hospitals, universities, Indian tribes -- in short, by just about any person or any institution that has business before the Federal Government.
"There's certainly nothing inherently illegitimate about any of these interests' having their voices heard," Mr. Hendrie emphasized.
"We don't think so, either," said Tom McMahon, a spokesman for Cassidy & Associates, which took in $19.9 million in fees last year. Cassidy dislodged Verner, Liipfert, Bernhard, McPherson & Hand as the capital's top lobbying firm by about $1 million.
Still, Mr. Hendrie said, the huge sums spent on lobbying are cause for concern. "People who don't have the money to spend are not going to speak with as loud a voice," he said. "Money does talk."
Through more and more mouths, he might have added. In mid-1997, there were 14,946 lobbyists registered in Washington, the center's report said. A year later there were 18,590, and by this June 15 there were 20,512, or about 38 lobbyists for each member of the House and the Senate.
The Center for Responsive Politics describes itself as a nonpartisan, nonprofit research organization that tracks money in politics, and money's effects on elections and public policy. Its report was based on disclosures filed with the Secretary of the Senate and the Clerk of the House under lobbying-disclosure regulations.
Mr. Hendrie said his organization was not advocating legislation to curb lobbyists. As for the money spent by interests trying to have their way with the Federal bureaucracy, he said, "It's hard to say what a reasonable figure would be."
And he agreed that the cynical-sounding term "special interest" meant different things to different people.
Take the real estate lobby, for example. It has long been a powerful one in Washington, and millions of middle-class Americans who wouldn't know a soybean future from a floating debenture are glad that the real estate lobby protects their cherished tax deductions for mortgage interest.
Businesses involved in real estate, insurance and finance, which make up one of 13 broad economic sectors defined in the report, spent $203 million on lobbying in 1998, topping the list for the second straight year. (Those businesses are also the perennial leaders in campaign contributions, the center said.)
The report notes that money is not always spent to get things done. Sometimes it is spent in the hope that things will not get done. Tobacco companies spent $67.4 million on lobbying last year, nearly double the $38.2 million they spent in 1997.
Was the $67.4 million well spent? It is impossible to make a direct connection, of course, but what ever happened to the bill that would have raised the tax on cigarettes by $1.10 a pack?
Cassidy & Associates was founded in 1975 by Gerald S. J. Cassidy, a former trial lawyer who was active in the Democratic Party and served as general counsel to a Senate select committee on nutrition.
People who know their way around Washington are good lobbyists, of course. Leon E. Panetta, a former Democratic Congressman from California and onetime chief of staff in the Clinton White House, has done consulting work for Cassidy & Associates, and Martin A. Russo, a former Democratic Congressman from Illinois, is a member of the firm.
Just as good investors diversify their portfolios, well-run lobbying firms vary their clientele to protect themselves against boom-and-bust cycles. Cassidy -- whose top client last year was Boston University, which paid the firm $760,000 -- depended on its five leading clients for only 15 percent of its revenue. Verner, Liipfert got 44 percent of its revenue from its top five, including the biggest single lobbying fee paid in Washington last year: $3.62 million, from the Philip Morris Companies. 
http://www.nytimes.com

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (97%); 

STATE: DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA, USA (92%); 

CITY: WASHINGTON, DC, USA (90%); 

COMPANY: CASSIDY&ASSOCIATES (86%); VERNER LIIPFERT BERNHARD MCPHERSON&HAND (64%); CENTER FOR RESPONSIVE POLITICS (57%); CENTER FOR RESPONSIVE POLITICS (57%); 

ORGANIZATION: CENTER FOR RESPONSIVE POLITICS (57%); CENTER FOR RESPONSIVE POLITICS (57%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (97%); DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA, USA (92%); WASHINGTON, DC, USA (90%); 

SUBJECT: Terms not available from NYTimes. LOBBYING (92%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); REAL ESTATE (78%); NONPROFIT ORGANIZATIONS (78%); PUBLIC POLICY (78%); RESEARCH INSTITUTES (77%); REGULATORY COMPLIANCE (74%); ENERGY & UTILITY LAW (74%); PHARMACEUTICALS INDUSTRY (73%); AIRCRAFT MFG (53%); 

PERSON: PAUL HENDRIE (77%); 

LOAD-DATE: July 29, 1999



696 of 738 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 29, 1999

SECTION: Section C; Page 25; Column 1; National Desk

LENGTH: 683 words

HEADLINE: Harry (Sweets) Edison, 83, Trumpeter for Basie Band, Dies

BYLINE: By BEN RATLIFF

 BODY:
Harry (Sweets) Edison, a member of the Count Basie band from 1938 to 1950 and a trumpeter of original, minimalist conviction who played behind singers like Billie Holiday, Ella Fitzgerald and Frank Sinatra, died on Tuesday at his home in Columbus, Ohio. He was 83.
Jazz is full of lunging, piercing talents, and Mr. Edison's niche was to act as a coolheaded counterweight to that tendency. In the Basie band, he had a supple, warm sound, regulated by a fanned mute, and he often stayed on repeated notes that he would bend and ripple; his obbligato playing, while accompanying a soloist, was sometimes indistinguishable from his own spotlighted improvisations. As he grew older, the notes became shorter, his tone became softer, and the listener had to follow him into a kind of secret, hidden world. Often he would end a piece with one repeated note or riff that gradually faded into silence. 
 It wasn't the sound of resignation; his music wasn't sad, but funny and sweet. The saxophonist Lester Young must have been thinking of this when, sitting in the lobby of New York's Woodside Hotel in the 1930's, he nicknamed Mr. Edison "Sweetie-Pie." That was soon shortened to Sweets, which would identify him for the rest of his life.
Mr. Edison was born in Columbus. His father, a Zuni Indian named Wayne Edison, left the family when he was 6 months old. Young Harry then lived with relatives in Kentucky, where an uncle gave him his first trumpet and taught him scales at the age of 10.
Toward the end of high school he joined Earl Hood's band in Columbus, and in 1933 he joined the Jeter-Pillars Orchestra in Cleveland, which moved to St. Louis one year later. In 1937 he landed in New York, playing for Lucky Millinder. At a battle of the bands in Baltimore, according to Count Basie's memoir, "Good Morning Blues," the Millinder group played in a tight competition against Basie's band. Not long after, Mr. Edison defected to the New York-based Count Basie camp.
His timing was perfect: during this period the Basie band recorded dozens of famous pieces -- including "Every Tub," "Swingin' the Blues" and "Sent for You Yesterday" -- models of directness, economy and hard swing.
As some classic recordings with Billie Holiday in the late 1930's would begin to prove (including "The Man I Love"), Mr. Edison was particularly good behind singers, negotiating around their breathing space and spurring on their sense of rhythm.
Nelson Riddle said that Mr. Edison was often directly responsible for leavening the mood on a record. "The humor is in Harry's head," he once said. "You show him what you want, you delineate the area that he's going to play in, and he's the one who actually makes the humor of the comment. You just show him where." Some of Mr. Edison's work is found on Sinatra's mid-1950's albums, including "Swing Easy" and "Songs for Swingin' Lovers," and the Holiday album "Songs for Distingue Lovers." Mr. Edison also worked with Sarah Vaughan and Nat (King) Cole.
When Basie's band broke up in 1950, Mr. Edison moved to Los Angeles where he found studio work. He traveled with Norman Granz's Jazz at the Philharmonic tours and was the musical director for Josephine Baker in the early 1950's. He played with big bands led by Buddy Rich, Quincy Jones, Louis Bellson and Henry Mancini, and until the end of his life he made many solo albums.
In 1993 Mr. Edison was named an American Jazz Master, and he frequently toured. To the end, even when his energy failed him, he knew how to use what he had, which was a sort of rhythmic tension based in the language of the riff and the repeated single note; he could kick a band into swinging while playing as lightly as one can. And he was always funny, with a routine of double-entendres on song titles and hyperbolically lavish self-introductions at the end of a set. In December he moved back to Columbus from Los Angeles because of failing health; he had been living with cancer for 14 years. His last recording is "Live at the Iridium," on Telarc Records.
He is survived by a daughter, Helena, of Columbus.
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photo: A warm, supple sound: Harry (Sweets) Edison at the Iridium in 1996. (Jack Vartoogian) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Obituary (Obit); Biography

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (90%); 

STATE: OHIO, USA (90%); NEW YORK, USA (90%); MARYLAND, USA (58%); 

CITY: COLUMBUS, OH, USA (90%); CLEVELAND, OH, USA (78%); BALTIMORE, MD, USA (58%); 

COMPANY: NEW YORK'S WOODSIDE HOTEL (56%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (90%); OHIO, USA (90%); NEW YORK, USA (90%); MARYLAND, USA (58%); COLUMBUS, OH, USA (90%); CLEVELAND, OH, USA (78%); BALTIMORE, MD, USA (58%); 

SUBJECT: Terms not available from NYTimes. DEATHS & OBITUARIES (95%); SINGERS & MUSICIANS (90%); JAZZ & BLUES (90%); WIND INSTRUMENTS (90%); MUSIC GROUPS & ARTISTS (89%); MUSICAL INSTRUMENTS (78%); MUSIC (78%); 

PERSON: WILLIAM JAMES 'COUNT' BASIE JR (93%); ELLA FITZGERALD (73%); FRANCIS ALBERT 'FRANK' SINATRA (73%); 

LOAD-DATE: July 29, 1999



697 of 738 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 29, 1999

SECTION: Section A; Page 1; Column 2; Foreign Desk

LENGTH: 1356 words

HEADLINE: With U.S. Training, Colombia Melds War on Rebels and Drugs

BYLINE: By LARRY ROHTER

DATELINE: TRES ESQUINAS, Colombia, July 27

 BODY:
This tangle of jungle and rivers is a front line in Colombia's war against the twin plagues of drugs and guerrillas, the place where the United States is betting that it can help the Colombian military finally gain the upper hand.
Most of the cocaine exported from Colombia is grown in guerrilla-controlled territory around this isolated Colombian Air Force base. It is money from the coca grown here that supports the increasingly successful insurgents, who briefly this month advanced within 30 miles of the nation's capital. 
 But now Colombian officials and the Americans who have long been urging them to be more aggressive against the rebels think they have found a weapon to turn the tide: a new Anti-Narcotics Battalion that is being trained and supplied by the United States for deployment here later this year. Its job is to weaken the guerrillas by depriving them of their drug riches, a job that Colombia's armed forces has proved unable to accomplish.
"This is the army of the future in Colombia," the Defense Minister, Luis Fernando Ramirez, said today at the 1,000-man unit's main training center in Tolemaida, a town north of here. "This is only the beginning. This is the army we want, and we are going to continue training battalions like this all over Colombia until we have what we need."
Two weeks ago, Mr. Ramirez, accompanied by Gen. Fernando Tapias, the commander in chief of the Colombian Armed Forces, flew to Washington to seek a substantial increase in American aid by asking for $500 million over the next two years.
President Clinton responded by saying that the United States increasingly sees the anti-drug effort in Colombia as "in our national security interests to do what we can" to help the country win the battle.
This year, Colombia is getting $289 million in such assistance, making it the third-largest recipient of American aid in the world. But some American officials argue that as much as $1 billion more may be needed just in the next year to strengthen Government forces in their counternarcotics efforts, which are more and more difficult to distinguish from the combat with the guerrillas.
The Anti-Narcotics Battalion's mission will be to deny the country's main leftist guerrilla group, the Revolutionary Armed Forces of Colombia, or FARC, its main source of income: the taxes collected on the coca leaves grown and processed in this area that have underwritten its recent military surge. Guerrilla groups now control or operate freely in nearly 40 percent of Colombian territory.
"This is an emergency situation," Gen. Barry McCaffrey, director of the White House's Office of National Drug Control Policy, said during a visit here today, part of a three-day trip to assess the worsening situation in this country. The sense of urgency is driven, he said, by awareness that even "if we seize a drug plane out over the Caribbean, the guerrillas have already been paid," and have used the money to buy arms.
"The only way to brake the dynamic of these groups and the violence that is produced in Colombia by narcotics trafficking is to attack their sources of financing," said General Tapias. "So long as we have not reduced the departure of cocaine by half, we will not be able to begin to weaken these groups."
Ostensibly, all American military aid to Colombia is intended exclusively for use in anti-drug efforts, not in counterinsurgency campaigns. But recent events have eroded the line between those two concepts, as declarations by Colombian and American officials today made clear.
"You've got 25,000 people out there with machine guns, mortars, rockets and land mines," said General McCaffrey, a former chief of United States military forces in Latin America. "We keep arguing over what is it you call them. I don't know what we ought to call them, but I know what they're doing: They are operating, they are massing, in forces of up to a couple of thousand people, and they are carrying out simultaneous attacks on 11 provinces on the same night."
Colombia's poorly equipped and inadequately trained Armed Forces have in recent years adhered to a largely defensive strategy, letting the guerrillas come at them and leaving to the police the burden of trying to root out what are known here as "narco-guerrilla operations." The Anti-Narcotics Battalion is an effort to reverse the momentum and seize the initiative by putting soldiers and policemen together in a joint unit.
"The task of this battalion is to confront the armed groups on land and water so that police will be able to move ahead in their work of fumigation and eradication" of coca fields protected by the guerrillas, General Tapias said. "At the moment, our airplanes and helicopters cannot do that, because they are shot down whenever they enter this region."
American officials estimate that on average, between 100 and 150 American military personnel are in Colombia. General Tapias said that "less than a dozen" were involved in training the battalion at any one time and that their role "will definitely end" when the program is completed in October.
The Americans involved in training the new battalion are from the Seventh Special Forces group, based in Fort Bragg, N.C., according to Colombian and American officials. They offer instruction in areas that include intelligence, communications, reconnaissance, riverine operations and mortar use, the officials said.
Once operations begin in December, though, "We will not have a single American soldier here fighting at the side of Colombians," General Tapias said.
"We have the experience, the trained army, and a population willing to help," he continued. "What we do not have, because of the economic crisis the country is experiencing right now, is the capacity to acquire the means of mobility and technical intelligence that we need."
But human rights and advocacy groups say they are not yet persuaded by such assurances. They see the new American-supported force as a first step toward the sort of much deeper and direct United States involvement that occurred in Central America and Vietnam.
"Our concern is that this battalion almost inevitably will become involved in counterinsurgency operations because of where it will be deployed and who is involved," said Winifred Tate, a Colombia analyst at the Washington Office on Latin America. "United States involvement is limited now to special forces training missions, but it is a very slippery slope from counternarcotics training to taking on an adviser's role."
The base, which consists of a landing strip, barracks and communications center near the confluence of the Caqueta and Orteguaza rivers, has also been the subject of much speculation among Colombians, thanks largely to the decision of the United States Embassy in Bogota to declare it off-limits to Colombian and American reporters. As a consequence, fanciful tales of Green Berets in fierce combat with guerrillas have proliferated, raising suspicions about the stated purpose of the base and the battalion.
Concerns have also been expressed in Colombia and abroad about human rights issues. Human rights groups have long complained about links between the Colombian Armed Forces and right-wing paramilitary groups that have massacred civilians, and it was partly in order to alleviate those preoccupations that a special vetting procedure was used in recruiting members of the battalion.
In addition, the unit's curriculum includes a heavy dose of human rights training, including case studies in which soldiers are presented with battlefield situations and told how they should behave. After viewing several such presentations during his visit to the training center today, General McCaffrey described himself as encouraged by the battalion's fighting capacity and its willingness to abide by international law.
While "there is always a question in the minds of people looking at this," if properly trained, "that's what these kids will tend to do in the field of operations," he said. "You get these 18-year-old soldiers, you give them these lessons, and I think it makes a difference."
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photo: Colombian soldiers, part of an Anti-Narcotics Battalion that is being trained and supplied by the United States, on an obstacle course. (Associated Press)(pg. A6)
 
Map of Colombia shows location of Tres Esquinas: Cocaine grown around Tres Esquinas supports guerrilla forces. (pg. A6)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: COLOMBIA (99%); UNITED STATES (98%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: COLOMBIA (99%); UNITED STATES (98%); 

SUBJECT: Terms not available from NYTimes. ARMED FORCES (90%); REBELLIONS & INSURGENCIES (90%); ARMIES (90%); NARCOTERRORISM (89%); COCAINE (89%); REVOLUTIONARY ARMED FORCES OF COLOMBIA (89%); DRUG POLICY (89%); TERRORIST ORGANIZATIONS (78%); DRUG INTERDICTION (78%); ILLEGAL DRUGS (78%); NARCOTICS ENFORCEMENT (77%); US PRESIDENTS (77%); DEFENSE & MILITARY POLICY (77%); MILITARY BASES (77%); NATIONAL SECURITY (73%); AIR FORCES (73%); DEFENSE DEPARTMENTS (72%); INTERNATIONAL ASSISTANCE (69%); 

PERSON: BILL CLINTON (53%); 

LOAD-DATE: July 29, 1999



698 of 738 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 29, 1999

SECTION: Section A; Page 1; Column 4; National Desk

LENGTH: 1861 words

HEADLINE: Gore's Plan for Success in 2000: Wide Array of Specific Positions

BYLINE: By KATHARINE Q. SEELYE

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, July 28

 BODY:
Vice President Al Gore believes he has a not-so-secret weapon in the Presidential race -- his knowledge of public policy issues. He has staked out positions on scores of topics and suggests that his opponents, both Democratic and Republican, have been vague and therefore undeserving.
On everything from education to crime to cancer research, Mr. Gore has weighed in: preschool for all children, a ban on gang-style clothing, requiring photo licenses for anyone who buys a handgun, and a doubling of financing for cancer research over the next five years. 
 He pledges to keep "the prosperity going" and to create more time for families to spend together. He wants to end trade barriers and outlaw any tax on sales made over the Internet.
He warns of the "digital divide," in which black and Hispanic Americans have less access to computers than whites, a disparity he says undermines their job training and threatens America's ability to remain the world's economic superpower. Chiefly, he says, he wants to give the country a moral transfusion, making it "not only better off, but better."
On Friday, Mr. Gore plans to offer more specifics, this time on tax cuts. He is to propose his own version of tax cuts for the middle class, aides say. Today, he bashed Republicans for proposing to spend most of the budget surplus on a "risky" tax cut without first shoring up Medicare.
The blizzard of positions is the essence of the Gore-for-President campaign, designed to show voters that the Vice President has ideas and experience and, by contrast, to suggest that his opponents do not.
"I'm campaigning this way because I believe that campaigns ought to be based on ideas, and I think voters have a right to know exactly what a candidate for President is proposing to do as President," Mr. Gore said in an interview. "Our democracy is ill-served by an over-reliance on generalities and fuzzy rhetoric and is much better served by specific, detailed discussions of the tough choices we have to make."
Mr. Gore's advisers say they have been disappointed that news organizations have dwelt on his political problems despite his focus on issues, although a recent poll by The Dallas Morning News suggests that voters at this point seem to put little stock in issues. The poll found that even though most Americans admit they know little about Gov. George W. Bush of Texas, the Republican front-runner, they strongly favor him over Mr. Gore and former Senator Bill Bradley, Mr. Gore's rival for the Democratic nomination.
But since mid-May, Mr. Gore has delivered five speeches that his aides call major policy addresses, covering education, crime, the economy, faith-based organizations and cancer research.
Many of his positions follow routes laid out by President Clinton, including insisting on a balanced budget. Some bump up against Democratic orthodoxy, like his advocacy of teacher testing. But perhaps the most striking thing about his positions is the sheer volume of them, especially so early in the campaign.
Mr. Gore becomes almost indignant when asked if his avalanche of positions might be overwhelming voters.
"When people say, 'You're giving too many details, you're offering too many specifics,' my response is, too many compared to what?" he asked. "Compared to nothing? And how did we get in a situation where it's considered odd to offer a detailed set of policy proposals for the challenges we face?"
Mr. Gore, who last year floated and then abandoned the slogan of "practical idealism," has not adopted another that melds his various proposals into an overarching theme. Asked what he stands for, he offered the following: "Keep the prosperity going, make certain no one's left behind, bring revolutionary improvement to our public schools, build stronger families and more liveable communities."
He generally stays away from emotional and ideological causes, although he supports abortion rights and the death penalty and has endorsed affirmative action programs. In a visit to Washington State this month, he denounced a ballot initiative, passed by the state's voters in 998, that struck down affirmative action programs in hiring by public agencies and admissions to state colleges.
By de-emphasizing such matters, and supporting Republican ideas like Federal money for churches to help fight social ills, Mr. Gore is placing himself squarely in the school of "New Democrats" that Mr. Clinton pioneered so effectively. But Mr. Clinton has already carved out that territory, leaving his Vice President to cast about for self-definition that does not seem derivative. Even Mr. Gore's pending proposal for a middle-class tax cut has a Clinton provenance. As a candidate in 1992, Mr. Clinton promised a middle-class tax cut, though he soon abandoned it.
Peter Hart, a Democratic consultant who is not involved with the Gore campaign, said Mr. Gore had yet to break through to voters with a clear sense of himself. "The hardest thing for Al Gore is that Clinton put his imprint every place on the issues, so for Al Gore to be able to find 'his' issues is a lot more difficult," Mr. Hart said. "In the end, all of these issues have to tell us something about Gore and what the election is about. The problem is, the campaign needs a theme."
Mr. Gore began his strategic rollout of issue speeches with education to signal his belief that a strong educational system is the underpinning of a strong economy. "In order to stay first in the world economically, we must become first in the world educationally," he said.
He called for a substantial but unspecified Federal investment in public education. Few of his proposals provide a specific cost, but Mr. Gore promises to provide all of his programs within a balanced budget.
Apart from universal preschool and teacher testing, he proposed a teacher corps, where young people would teach in needy schools in exchange for $10,000 for college. He proposed "second-chance" schools, in which students who "are headed for trouble" are put in more disciplined environments.
Mr. Gore said he wants teachers and parents to meet at the start of the school year and sign a strict discipline code, and he would require employers to give time off for such meetings. He also would extend the Family and Medical Leave Act to allow parents to attend parent-teacher conferences. And he wants schools to teach "character education" courses.
The Vice President frequently uses the word "require" when talking about his plans for schools, but the Federal Government has limited authority, and some of his proposals would have to be approved by local school boards.
Mr. Gore also wants to reduce the size of classes to 18 students in early grades and to no more than 20 for all grades. Opposing the use of school vouchers, he said, "We must reject the false promise of siphoning public-school funding away to private schools."
He said he would use the technological revolution to replace standardized textbook learning with individualized learning at each child's own pace. He wants every child computer-literate by the eighth grade. Mr. Gore would also create a nationwide volunteer army of "e-tutors," or on-line instructors.
His broadest high-technology achievement so far is a program that is in the process of hooking up every school and library in the country to the Internet. The program, which is being financed by everyone who pays a monthly telephone bill through a "universal connectivity charge," has already collected $2 billion.
Mr. Gore also proposed a national tuition savings program, which would extend to the entire country programs now in 30 states to encourage parents and grandparents to contribute to tax-free college education funds. And he wants to create new tax-free 401-J accounts that let workers save for job training and other educational experiences.
Much of what Mr. Gore advocates would require Congressional approval and might be hard to achieve if Republicans maintain control of the House and Senate. In promising an overhaul of the criminal justice system, for instance, he is calling for photo licenses for any purchaser of a handgun and a ban on cheap handguns, and he wants to increase penalties for gun-related crimes.
Mr. Gore also supports the Administration's proposals for a three-day waiting period before buying a gun, limiting purchases of guns to one a month and requiring child-safety locks on handguns. But some of those proposals were defeated in the House last month after an intense campaign by the gun lobby.
"I will fight to protect America's families by launching the most effective and comprehensive anti-crime strategy our nation has seen," he said. "I will change a political culture in Washington that puts the interests of the gun lobby ahead of the needs of American families."
Mr. Gore said he would quadruple the investment in after-school programs and provide money for computer-mapping software for police, so they can target crime hot spots. And he proposed amending the Constitution to promote victims' rights.
"Victims should have a voice in trial and other proceedings," he said, adding that they should also be notified when an offender is released into the community.
He said he would fight for a Federal anti-gang law that set curfews on specific gang members, a ban on gang-related clothing, which some critics have said would be unconstitutional, and the authority to break up gangs.
In another speech, he advocated using Federal money for religious organizations to help combat social problems like drug addiction, gang violence and homelessness, a proposal Mr. Bush has also made.
"As long as there is always a secular alternative for anyone who wants one, and as long as no one is required to participate in religious observances as a condition for receiving services," Mr. Gore said, "faith-based organizations can provide jobs and job training, counseling and mentoring, food and basic medical care."
He said he would expand a provision in the welfare-to-work law called Charitable Choice, which allows states to enlist faith-based organizations to provide basic welfare services.
He noted that companies usually provide matching gifts for charitable contributions made by employees but that they generally do not match gifts to faith-based organizations. He would encourage them to do so.
On cancer research, he said he would double to $9 billion the amount the Federal Government spends over five years. He has also set a goal of doubling the declines in cancer deaths over the next 10 years. "This would mean that by 2010 each year, 700,000 fewer Americans would get cancer and 200,000 less would die from it," he said.
In an unusual challenge to the scientific community, Mr. Gore has called for researchers to identify by 2002 every gene that predisposes people to cancer, and to develop blood tests and diagnostic tests for every type of cancer within five years to speed up detection.
He also said he would back legislation to require all health plans to allow patients, including those on Medicare, to participate in clinical trials, where they may receive the most advanced treatments.
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photo: Campaigning in Houston, Vice President Al Gore addressed participants at the National Council of La Raza annual conference yesterday. (Reuters)(pg. A16)
 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: TEXAS, USA (79%); 

CITY: HOUSTON, TX, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: DALLAS MORNING NEWS INC (51%); NATIONAL COUNCIL OF LA RAZA (59%); NATIONAL COUNCIL OF LA RAZA (59%); 

ORGANIZATION: NATIONAL COUNCIL OF LA RAZA (59%); NATIONAL COUNCIL OF LA RAZA (59%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%); TEXAS, USA (79%); HOUSTON, TX, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: Terms not available from NYTimes. TAX LAW (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (90%); VOTERS & VOTING (89%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (89%); MEDICAL RESEARCH (89%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (89%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (89%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (78%); PUBLIC POLICY (78%); INTERVIEWS (78%); POLLS & SURVEYS (78%); POLITICAL PARTIES (77%); PARAEDUCATORS (76%); CHILDREN (76%); CANCER (76%); FAMILY (76%); BUDGETS (75%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (74%); AFRICAN AMERICANS (73%); GANGS (71%); NEWS REPORTING (67%); RELIGION (50%); 

PERSON: AL GORE (92%); GEORGE W BUSH (58%); 

LOAD-DATE: July 29, 1999



699 of 738 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 29, 1999

SECTION: Section C; Page 4; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk

LENGTH: 115 words

HEADLINE: COMPANY NEWS;
CABOT PLANS JOB CUTS AND AN INITIAL PUBLIC OFFERING

BYLINE: Reuters

 BODY:
The Cabot Corporation, the world's largest producer of carbon black, said yesterday that it planned to cut 250 jobs, or about 5.6 percent of its 4,500-person work force, as part of a broad reorganization aimed at lifting earnings. Carbon black is used in printing and tire manufacturing. The job cuts will save the company $30 million to $35 million a year. Cabot, a chemical and energy company based in Boston, also plans to make an initial public offering of 15 percent of its microelectronic materials business and to issue targeted stock for its liquefied natural gas business. The company said it would explore an alternative ownership structure for its tantalum materials business. 
http://www.nytimes.com

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: CBT (NYSE) (93%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS325180 OTHER BASIC INORGANIC CHEMICAL MANUFACTURING (93%); SIC2895 CARBON BLACK (93%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); 

STATE: MASSACHUSETTS, USA (92%); 

CITY: BOSTON, MA, USA (92%); 

COMPANY: CABOT CORP (CBT) CABOT CORP (93%); 

ORGANIZATION: CABOT CORP (CBT)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (92%); BOSTON, MA, USA (92%); 

SUBJECT: LABOR AND UNEMPLOYMENT LAYOFFS (90%); LABOR FORCE (90%); INITIAL PUBLIC OFFERINGS (90%); CARBON BLACK (90%); CARBON BLACK MFG (90%); NATURAL GAS (83%); NATURAL GAS PRODUCTS (83%); TIRE MFG (55%); LIQUEFIED NATURAL GAS (51%); 

LOAD-DATE: July 29, 1999



700 of 738 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 29, 1999

SECTION: Section A; Page 1; Column 4; National Desk

LENGTH: 1259 words

HEADLINE: G.O.P. Senators Repel an Effort To Scale Back Tax-Cut Proposal

BYLINE: By RICHARD W. STEVENSON

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, July 28

 BODY:
Republicans in the Senate turned aside a Democratic plan today to limit the size of their proposed tax cut, even as centrists from both parties laid out a middle ground on which a compromise could eventually be reached.
But as Republicans moved closer to Senate passage of the largest tax cut since 1981, they suffered a quirky procedural defeat that in theory would force them to rescind their tax reductions in 10 years, just after they would take full effect. 
 On the first day of debate in the Senate on how large a tax cut the nation can afford in an era of anticipated Federal budget surpluses, Republicans made a case for sending as much excess revenue as possible back to taxpayers while Democrats warned that too big a reduction would wreak havoc with the economy, favor the wealthy and starve vital Government programs.
Most Republicans and a few Democrats were pushing for legislation that would cut taxes by $792 billion over 10 years, using the bulk of the nearly $1 trillion in projected surpluses over the next decade that the two parties agree are up for grabs. The House passed a tax cut last week along party lines that is the same size but is made up of different provisions.
"After paying for the Government programs for which Congress has planned and budgeted, the change must now be returned to the taxpayer," said Senator William V. Roth Jr., the Delaware Republican who is chairman of the Finance Committee.
President Clinton has threatened to veto the Senate or the House version, saying both would risk a return to budget deficits and limit Washington's ability to shore up the ailing Social Security and Medicare programs. But he has opened the door to negotiations, and has countered the Republican plan with an offer of a tax cut of up to $300 billion, a figure supported by most Democrats in Congress.
"We must not mislead the American people by promising them massive tax cuts which may well be based only on phantom surpluses which never materialize," said Senator Robert C. Byrd, Democrat of West Virginia. "Even if the surpluses do happen, this Republican tax-cut plan could emasculate national security, public investments and the operations of Government."
A group of 10 centrist Democrats and Republicans sought to start the process of finding a middle ground today by proposing a $500 billion compromise plan that includes elements sought by both parties.
Based on preliminary votes today, Republicans appeared to have the votes they need to pass their $792 billion plan in the Senate by the end of this week. They defeated an attempt by Democrats to limit the tax cut to $290 billion over 10 years on a vote of 60 to 39.
But Republicans suffered at least a symbolic setback when they were unable to sidestep a rule -- written at a time when Congress was intent on limiting the growth of budget deficits -- that makes it difficult to pass tax cuts that remain in effect for more than 10 years.
The rule essentially bars any provisions in a tax or budget bill that result in the Government losing revenue after the first 10 years, which a net tax cut of the sort under consideration by both parties does by definition. The Republicans asked for a waiver of the rule, a step that requires 60 votes. But they could muster only 51 votes, as all 45 Democrats and 3 moderate Republicans voted to keep the rule in effect.
Should the Senate bill become law -- an unlikely prospect given Mr. Clinton's veto threat -- it would phase in most of its tax cuts gradually over the next decade as the projected budget surplus increases. Republicans also had intended that should their bill become law, the cuts would remain in effect permanently. But under the budget rule, while the $792 billion in tax cuts would occur over the next decade, these lower tax rates would not be permanent, as the entire tax cut would be rescinded after 2009.
The practical effect would not necessarily be so dire for Republicans, who could pass new budget rules in future sessions of Congress or could pass legislation later extending the tax cuts past 2009.
Perhaps more important, any compromise tax proposals will require bipartisan support to become law, and any deal between the Republicans and Mr. Clinton would likely bring along enough Democrats in the Senate to get over the 60-vote hurdle needed to waive the rule.
Despite the harshly partisan tone of today's debate, the $500 billion compromise plan advanced by five Republicans and five Democrats suggested some willingness to reach a deal, though probably not until after Congress finishes passing some version of the current Republican proposals and Mr. Clinton vetoes it.
The sponsors of the compromise measure, which is likely to be considered by the Senate on Thursday, said their plan had almost no chance of being adopted at this point. But they said it could be the basis for negotiations between the White House and Congress, probably starting in September.
"If we're serious about passing a tax cut this year, I believe this alternative is the right way to go," said Senator John Chafee, Republican of Rhode Island, one of the sponsors of the $500 billion compromise. "If we are successful, I believe the final package will look a lot like our bipartisan alternative."
The other Republicans backing the compromise plan were Senators James Jeffords of Vermont, Arlen Specter of Pennsylvania, Susan Collins of Maine and Olympia Snow of Maine. The Democrats were Senators John Breaux of Louisiana, Bob Kerrey of Nebraska, Mary Landrieu of Louisiana, John Edwards of North Carolina and Evan Bayh of Indiana.
The $500 billion plan would substantially increase the standard deduction, providing a $283 billion cut in personal income taxes over the next decade.
Under the plan, the current $7,200 deduction for married couples filing jointly would be increased to $11,550 and the current $4,300 standard deduction for single filers would increase to $5,600. Since upper-income households usually itemize their deductions, the change would primarily benefit lower- and middle-income households.
The compromise package would also reduce the so-called marriage penalty, which leaves many two-income couples paying more in taxes than they would if single. It would include a modest reduction in capital gains taxes and in inheritance taxes on large estates, and would provide tax breaks for education and the purchase of health insurance.
"It is much more tax relief for lower-income working people, and I think it's apt to be the glue that kind of brings Republicans and Democrats together," Mr. Kerrey said.
The centerpiece of the $792 billion Senate Republican plan is a reduction in the current 15 percent personal income tax bracket to 14 percent and an expansion of the 14 percent bracket to higher income levels.
The $290 billion Democratic alternative that was rejected by the Senate today was built around an increase in the standard deduction for personal income taxes.
Republicans remained on the defensive today over comments made by Alan Greenspan, the Federal Reserve chairman. Repeating a message he first sent to Congress last week, Mr. Greenspan told the Senate Banking Committee that Congress would be "better off holding off on a tax cut immediately."
Mr. Greenspan said there is no certainty that the projected surpluses will materialize, and that the economy would benefit more from reducing the national debt than from tax cuts. But he said he would prefer tax cuts to using the surplus for additional Government spending.
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photo: Senator Connie Mack of Florida, right, listened to Senator Phil Gramm, a fellow Republican, discuss tax proposals yesterday. (Paul Hosefros/The New York Times)(pg. A16)
 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%); 

STATE: DELAWARE, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: DELAWARE REPUBLICAN (67%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%); DELAWARE, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: Terms not available from NYTimes. TAX RELIEF (93%); TAXES & TAXATION (93%); TAX LAW (92%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); LEGISLATION (89%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (89%); BUDGETS (89%); US POLITICAL PARTIES (79%); VETO (79%); SOCIAL SECURITY (79%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (75%); BUDGET DEFICITS (75%); MEDICARE (70%); NATIONAL SECURITY (70%); 

PERSON: ROBERT BYRD (59%); BILL CLINTON (59%); CONNIE MACK (59%); PHIL GRAMM (59%); 

LOAD-DATE: July 29, 1999



701 of 738 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 29, 1999

SECTION: Section C; Page 25; Column 3; Classified

LENGTH: 218 words

HEADLINE: Paid Notice: Deaths
KEENAN, RONALD GREGORY

 BODY:
KEENAN-Ronald Gregory, 51, of Verona, N.J., died June 27, 1999, at St. Elizabeth's Hospital, Utica, N.Y. A memorial service will be held at 7:30 PM Sunday, August 1, in the sanctuary of Union Congregational Church, Upper Montclair, N.J. Mr. Keenan was born in Middletown, Conn., and lived in Montclair and Verona for 30 years. Mr. Keenan graduated from Notre Dame High School, New Haven, Conn. He received BS and MA degrees in Economics at Lehigh University. He was elected to Beta Gamma Sigma, the National Economics Honor Society. Mr. Keenan was the managing director of American Re Securities Corporation in Princeton, N.J. Previously, he was the managing director of Chase Securities in New York City. Mr. Keenan was a member of the Board of Directors of the Liberty Brokerage Investment Corporation, the Mortgage Backed Securities Clearing Corporation, and the Bond Market Association, where he chaired the Mortgage and Asset-Backed Committee. Mr. Keenan was a member of the Union League Club in New York City, the Adirondack League Club in Old Forge, N.Y., and the Montclair Golf Club. He served as chairman of the Parents' Fund Committee of Smith College. He is survived by his wife, Eileen, and his daughter, Anne. Donations may be made in Mr. Keenan's memory to Smith College, Northampton, Mass. 
http://www.nytimes.com

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Paid Death Notice

TICKER: 002235 (SZSE) (55%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS322121 PAPER (EXCEPT NEWSPRINT) MILLS (55%); SIC2621 PAPER MILLS (55%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (92%); CONNECTICUT, USA (91%); NEW JERSEY, USA (90%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%); 

CITY: UTICA, NY, USA (92%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%); NEW HAVEN, CT, USA (71%); 

COMPANY: LIBERTY BROKERAGE INVESTMENT CORP (69%); BETA GAMMA SIGMA (57%); LEHIGH UNIVERSITY (57%); LEHIGH UNIVERSITY (57%); BETA GAMMA SIGMA (57%); 

ORGANIZATION: BETA GAMMA SIGMA (57%); LEHIGH UNIVERSITY (57%); LEHIGH UNIVERSITY (57%); BETA GAMMA SIGMA (57%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%); NEW YORK, USA (92%); CONNECTICUT, USA (91%); NEW JERSEY, USA (90%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%); UTICA, NY, USA (92%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%); NEW HAVEN, CT, USA (71%); 

SUBJECT: DEATHS & OBITUARIES (96%); CALENDARS (90%); STUDENT HONOR SOCIETIES (76%); BOARDS OF DIRECTORS (75%); BANKING & FINANCE ASSOCIATIONS (75%); CLEARING OPERATIONS (74%); MORTGAGE BACKED SECURITIES (74%); BONDS (68%); GOLF (66%); CHRISTIANS & CHRISTIANITY (57%); 

PERSON: KEENAN, RONALD GREGORY ANDREW SMITH (68%); 

LOAD-DATE: July 29, 1999



702 of 738 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 29, 1999

SECTION: Section G; Page 11; Column 3; Circuits 

LENGTH: 865 words

HEADLINE: Lights to Ease Boomers Down the Road

BYLINE: By ERIC TAUB 

 BODY:
IF driving at night has recently become more difficult, don't necessarily blame your headlights. Once you move out of your 20's, there's a good chance that the problem has nothing to do with your car's equipment and everything to do with your age.
 Baby boomers are getting old, and one sign of that is a loss of visual acuity. "When you're 45, you need 50 percent more light to see as well as you did when you were 25," said Jeff Erion, lighting manager for Visteon Automotive Systems in Dearborn, Mich. 
 Facing the largest group of geezers in history, the automobile industry has an economic incentive to make things brighter. The relaxation of Federal regulations and the advent of powerful computer software have made it possible for the industry to create new headlight designs in record time.
 In any headlight, the light needs to be properly dispersed. A headlight bulb generates light back toward an aluminum-coated reflector, which then reflects it toward the front of the headlight, which may have a plastic or glass lens. In a traditional parabolic headlight, up to 200 separate facets on the lens direct the light onto the road, which insures that the beam is wide enough, evenly spread and aimed in the correct direction to illuminate road signs, while not shining in oncoming drivers' faces. There are other designs as well: jeweled headlights do not use lenses, while projection-beam headlights do.
 The newest trend is the jeweled, completely clear, headlight. Stare into a jeweled headlight (unlighted, if you're smart) and you can see through it to the back of the reflector. Showing up on models from nearly all makers, these lights "give the front of the car a more three-dimensional look," Mr. Erion said.
 Until the 1980's, there was little designers could do to improve either a car headlight's output or looks because headlights, according to lighting engineers, were the most regulated part of a vehicle. Cars manufactured for sale in this country had to meet stringent guidelines for headlight size, shape, placement and intensity. All lights had to be sealed beams, in which the lens, light and reflector are in one unit, and had to be mounted in either one or two pairs. A good result of such standardization was that it kept prices down for replacing headlight units.
 By the mid-1980's, Federal guidelines had been eased. Headlights can now be any shape -- as long as the rules governing the lights' brightness, throw (how far the beam extends) and direction are followed. Ford's 1986 Taurus was one of the first models to use aerodynamic headlights that were flush with the sheet metal. And headlights no longer have to be replaced as a unit; lights can now use replaceable, brighter halogen bulbs, the kind that have been used by most manufacturers outside the United States
 The first aerodynamic headlights using replaceable bulbs had a different shape but performed no better than their sealed-beam predecessors. Engineers still needed to find an elegant compromise that would allow them to put enough light in the right places along the road without blinding oncoming drivers. Every time a new headlight shape is created, that process begins anew.
 The lighting industry has toyed with a number of solutions to increase nighttime illumination. Manufacturers have experimented with headlights that can reflect ultraviolet light up to twice the distance of conventional lamps, but for such lights to be effective, all road signs (and pedestrians' clothing) would have to be coated with UV-reflective paint.
 BMW, Lexus and other manufacturers have tried projection-beam headlights, which use fish-eye lenses to concentrate the light and make it appear brighter. While projection lamps are good at reducing stray light and glare from raindrops, "there's a great flood of foreground light with projection lenses, but not so much in the distance," Mr. Erion said.
 The state of the art today is high-intensity-discharge lighting. Rather than using a glowing filament to create light, H.I.D. lamps use high voltage to generate a bluish spark between two electrodes, exciting the xenon gas and leading to the emission of a bluish light. These headlights create brighter illumination within Government standards. Because the light is blue, it appears brighter still. H.I.D. lights are still expensive; most are found on luxury cars.
 Car models that appeal to older buyers tend to have headlights that throw more light directly in front of the car, said Jeff Mikel, senior vice president of the Guide Corporation, a lighting supplier, while those that appeal to younger people will often have headlights that project light a greater distance.
 Without computers, it would take weeks of trial and error to create a jeweled headlight. "Unlike a regular headlamp, these may have only 20 discernible reflecting facets, so each must be angled precisely to throw the light," Mr. Mickel said.
 In the next decade, expect to see H.I.D. lighting on less expensive cars and the introduction of a "light engine," a single lighting source that will transmit illumination via fiber-optic cable to light up headlights, taillights and turn signals.
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photos/Chart:
The lighting industry has tried different strategies to give drivers better light for night driving, redesigning both the innards of headlights and their reflectors and glass and plastic lenses. Lighting laws vary by country. In the United States, more light is directed up and to the right, as most road signs here are not illuminated. In Europe and Japan, light from headlights hugs the road and illuminates more of the shoulder.
 
"Making Light"
Here are two innovative ways to generate light -- one now quite common and
the second very new.
 
HALOGEN Headlights with halogen bulbs once seemed shockingly bright to drivers who were used to bulbs more like those in living room lamps, but they are now quite common and accepted. In fact, halogen low beams deliver about one-half the light allowed by Federal law. Like many bulbs, they use a glowing filament to produce light. First, an electric current passes through the tungsten filament, causing it to glow. Some tungsten evaporates, but halogen gas (bromine and iodine) helps return the tungsten to the filament. That reduces tungsten deposits on the inner surface of the bulb so the bulb stays brighter as it ages.
 
HIGH-INTENSITY DISCHARGE H.I.D. lamps are much newer and more expensive, and they produce light twice as bright as halogen bulbs. They use tungsten-rod electrodes rather than filaments. A 10,000-volt charge is delivered to one electrode housed in a quartz glass capsule. A spark arcs through inert xenon gas (a cousin of neon) to the other electrode and the lamp lights up. Then the current drops back to about 85 volts to keep the blue-white arc alight. H.I.D. lamps last 10,000 hours, compared with the typical 1,000 hours of a halogen bulb.
 
"Spreading the Light"
A headlight bulb sends light back toward an aluminum-coated reflector, which then reflects it toward the front of the lamp. Regardless of its source, the light has to illuminate the road evenly without blinding oncoming drivers. Here is how that can be done.
 
Traditional parabolic headlights
A parabolic reflector collects light from the bulb and directs it to the lens, which can have up to 200 separate facets to create a desired beam pattern. Some light is lost in the thick molded glass or plastic lens.
 
Jeweled headlights
Instead of having a light-shaping lens in the front of the headlight, the reflector itself is responsible for the correct beam pattern and direction. The reflector can have some 50,000 individually calculated points to direct the light from the bulb.
 
Projection-beam headlights
Light from an ellipsoid reflector is focused by a fish-eye lens, which projects it onto the road. The beam can be made smaller in diameter, making it look brighter. This type of light tends to illuminate the road near the car well but does not do as good a job with things at a distance.
(Sources: Hella, Osram and Guide Corporations)(Photographs by Tony Cenicola for The New York Times; Thomas Dallal for The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: VC (NYSE) (57%); 

INDUSTRY: SIC3714 MOTOR VEHICLE PARTS & ACCESSORIES (57%); 

COUNTRY: EUROPE (79%); UNITED STATES (79%); JAPAN (79%); 

STATE: MICHIGAN, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: VISTEON AUTOMOTIVE SYSTEMS (57%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: EUROPE (79%); UNITED STATES (79%); JAPAN (79%); MICHIGAN, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: AUTOMOBILES; HEADLIGHTS AUTOMOTIVE MFG (77%); AUTOMOTIVE ELECTRONICS (77%); AUTOMOBILE MFG (77%); BABY BOOMERS (77%); MOTOR VEHICLE PARTS MFG (75%); TRENDS (71%); COMPUTER SOFTWARE (69%); 

PERSON: TAUB, ERIC A JEFF ERION (64%); 

LOAD-DATE: July 30, 1999



703 of 738 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 29, 1999
Correction Appended

SECTION: Section G;Page 1;Column 5;Circuits

LENGTH: 1592 words

HEADLINE: Humming Off Key For Two Decades

BYLINE: By PHIL PATTON

 BODY:
ON the original model of the Sony Walkman, introduced in the United States 20 years ago this month, there was an orange button. The TPS-L2, a blue-black plastic model released in this country under the name Soundabout, played cassette tapes, but it also had a second earphone jack and an extra set of earphones. When you pushed the orange button, the sound emerged from two sets of phones.
It was a revealing feature: Sony was apparently worried about the solitary nature of the device. The orange button was like a panic button, an emergency "share" feature. The company was hesitant to release a product that could be considered selfish, Akio Morita, a Sony co-founder, wrote later. 
 The orange button was soon removed and the name Soundabout was replaced with Walkman, the name under which the device had been released in Japan six months earlier. Sony's invention quickly became an enormous success, largely because of its solitary nature. Competitors introduced rival products into the new category of "personal portable audio," but the trademark name Walkman became synonymous in everyday speech with personal portable tape player.
Now, on the 20th anniversary, the Walkman is close to a staple; more than 186 million have been sold. A Walkman very much like the model that cost $200 20 years ago can be found for $20, blister-wrapped on the shelves of discount stores or even drugstore chains. The basic shape of the first model has evolved into many models and styles of Walkmans (Sony's preferred plural): personal sound demanded personal style.
Stephen Bayley, a design historian, calls the Walkman one of the most significant products of its time. For many years, it symbolized the success of Japan's economy, as well as the skill of its engineers in miniaturization and of its marketers in sales and packaging. It even evoked the Japanese tradition of design: the blue-black case resembled a traditional Japanese lacquered box.
More important, the Walkman changed people's relationship to technology; its solitary, enveloping quality became its defining feature. The Walkman and its rivals quickly became a landmark in the history of media and a symbol of an inwardly focused era. "Personal sound" was a forerunner of personal computers and personal digital assistants.
Michael Schiffer, author of "The Portable Radio in American Life" (University of Arizona Press, 1991), notes that the idea of private portable music was initiated in the mid-1950's by the transistor radio with its single earpiece. The difference the Walkman brought, Professor Schiffer said in an interview, was to free the listener from dependence on the fixed programs of radio. The tape cassette (first introduced in 1965) allowed people to choose their music. People made tapes of their favorite music, but they also purchased recorded tapes. By 1983 the Walkman had helped push sales of cassette tapes past those for vinyl records.
Robert Nell, Sony's vice president in charge of audio products, said that the Walkman "provided listeners with a personal soundtrack to their lives."
Stephen Holt, of the design firm Frogdesign, which provided Sony with alternative designs in the early days of the Walkman, said that the Walkman "brought a kind of spectacle to daily life and made humdrum activities feel cinematic."
Three decades ago, the sociologist Edward Hall introduced the concept of the space bubble, a culturally conditioned distance that dictates how close people stand to others and how much space someone needs to feel comfortable.
The Walkman might be said to have introduced another kind of bubble: a technogical bubble of concentration and obliviousness to surroundings, a private space in public. Today, the streets are full of cellular telephone users enveloped in similar bubbles of communication and concentration. Palm organizers and other small digital devices have similar effects.
The psychological effects showed up first with the Walkman: note how the mobile Walkman user boldly makes eye contact with other pedestrians, as if somehow unconsciously reasoning that because onlookers cannot hear what he is listening to, they also cannot see what he is looking at.
Having arrived at the beginning of the 80's, the Walkman seems to have signaled the beginning of a time of introspection, even narcissism. Mr. Holt recalls hearing and reading the sentiment in the early 1980's that the Walkman fostered dangerous isolation and immersion. That immersion led to traffic laws forbidding drivers to wear the devices, lest they fail to hear a crucial horn or siren.
There are many different accounts of the creation of the Walkman. One widely disseminated tale had Akio Morita playing tennis and wishing that he could have his music with him on the court. That corporate myth is in keeping with the Japanese business tradition of crediting a company's leader with all important innovations. Another apocryphal tale had Mr. Morita visiting a factory and talking to a worker who asked for tunes on the assembly line. (Here the chief executive figures as benevolent boss.)
But the most convincing account, pieced together from Sony's own documents and Mr. Morita's autobiography, "Made in Japan," ascribes the Walkman idea to Masaru Ibuka, with whom Morita had founded the company. Mr. Ibuka was the more technical of the pair and often visited the development laboratories. He expressed frustration at not being able to carry his favorite music with him on airplanes.
To please him, in November 1978 a Sony engineer named Shizuo Takashino began with the Pressman, a Sony tape recorder popular among reporters. He removed the recording apparatus and speaker and added a stereo amplifier. The only real technical breakthrough was the development of light headphones, with their little sponge earpieces. These were found in a laboratory next door.
The revealing part of Mr. Morita's tale regards the reaction when he took the prototype Walkman home. "I noticed my experiment was annoying my wife, who felt shut out," he reported in his book, so he ordered the addition of a second headset jack and the orange button. Mr. Morita "thought it would be considered rude for one person to be listening to his music in isolation."
Sony's sales staff had another worry -- that no one would buy a tape player that could only play, not record. Mr. Morita insisted that it be a player only. Car stereo players didn't record and no one minded, he pointed out. Without any market testing, the product was ordered into production within four months.
The virtuosity of the first Walkman was that it daringly exposed precise technology to the perils of portability. In the years since, personal music technology has improved a great deal. The first Walkman could run for 8 hours on a single charge of its batteries; today's models can run for 60. But for listening to sound on the go, tape was succeeded by the portable CD. From the Walkman sprang the Discman and the Watchman and their competitors. Sony's Minidisc, a format that has still not caught on, continues the tradition, as do portable MP3 devices like the Diamond Rio and Creative's Nomad: different media, same message.
Sony continues to tinker with the device it made famous. There is a Walkman room in a Sony building in the Shinagawa section of Tokyo that housed the advanced engineering team for the company. It is the only place in the world where an example of each of the 200-some Walkman models is preserved. The best known are displayed in a glass box of 30 cubicles; shelves contain dozens more. There are hundreds, perhaps even thousands, of variants in color and material. No one in the company seems to know quite how many.
Richard Gioscia, director of Sony's design center in Park Ridge, N.J., said the phrase "lifestyle enhancement" was now used to match the design of individual Walkman models to activities like running or camping -- the Walkman had quickly become associated with athletic activity. People ran or did aerobics with their machines in hand. But when the designers really looked at runners using the devices, Mr. Gioscia said, they found that instead of clipping them to their waistbands or belts, they tended to carry them. So his designers developed "grip" models.
Changes in fashion have brought white, then black, then silver Walkmans. The Sports line took its yellow from the bright color of scuba divers' air tanks. A line called Outback came in sand-colored plastic and had a ribbed body, signaling ruggedness like a Jeep Sahara vehicle. In the United States, Sony has offered models called Freq and Psyc. Aimed at teen-agers, the Psyc line clips to a belt or backpack. Some Psyc models are molded of the same translucent blues and greens as the iMac computer.
"I am as different as they are," the slogan for the Psyc line, would serve as a worthy motto for the whole history of the Walkman. A product that began as a basic box, a universal sound appliance, has taken on as many different shapes and styles as the music played on it.
Increasingly models have been developed for varying markets around the world. In Europe, there is Yppy, a ribbed metallic line, as rigid as the techno music popular there. In Japan there are glow-in-the-dark Walkmans and models inspired by the Hello Kitty line of characters.
Last year, Sony released a kidney-shape plastic model called Beans. It was the first Walkman to be designed by a woman, Rie Isono. Its shape suggested a device as vital to daily life as an internal organ.
 
http://www.nytimes.com

CORRECTION-DATE: August 6, 1999, Friday

 CORRECTION:
An article in Circuits on July 29 about the history of the Sony Walkman misstated the function of an orange button on the original model. When pressed, the button enabled two users of a single Walkman to speak to each other through a microphone; it did not activate a second headphone jack.

GRAPHIC: Photos: SOUND EFFECTS -- The success of the original Walkman created the category of personal, portable technology and filled consumer's pockets with an array of new products in an expanding range of formats. (pg.G7)
 
Chart: "A Space of One's Own"
All figures are for the Walkman cassette players only.

The first Walkman
Released: July 1979
Price: $199.95
Name: Walkman (Japan)
Soundabout (United States)
Freestyle (Australia)
Stowaway (Britain)
 
Number of models distributed since 1979
In Japan: 180
Worldwide: more than 600
 
Sales since 1979
186 million as of March 1999
 
Landmarks
In 1983, for the first time, the number of prerecorded cassettes sold in the United States (236 million) exceeded that of LP's sold.
In 1986 the trademarked name Walkman was included in the Oxford English Dictionary.
(pg. G1)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: SON (LSE) (93%); SNE (NYSE) (93%); 6758 (TSE) (93%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS512220 INTEGRATED RECORD PRODUCTION/DISTRIBUTION (93%); NAICS339930 DOLL, TOY & GAME MANUFACTURING (93%); NAICS334310 AUDIO & VIDEO EQUIPMENT MANUFACTURING (93%); SIC3651 HOUSEHOLD AUDIO & VIDEO EQUIPMENT (93%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); JAPAN (92%); 

COMPANY: SONY CORP (93%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%); JAPAN (92%); 

SUBJECT: Terms not available from NYTimes. from NYTimes. PORTABLE MEDIA PLAYERS (89%); AUDIO & VIDEO EQUIPMENT (78%); HISTORY (78%); PRODUCT PACKAGING (77%); INTERVIEWS (71%); WRITERS (69%); PERSONAL COMPUTERS (68%); HANDHELD COMPUTERS (67%); TRADEMARK LAW (66%); DISCOUNT & CLUB STORES (64%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (60%); ANNIVERSARIES (51%); PHARMACIES & DRUG STORES (50%); 

PERSON: AKIO MORITA (56%); 

LOAD-DATE: July 29, 1999



704 of 738 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 30, 1999

SECTION: Section E; Part 2; Page 40; Column 1; Leisure/Weekend Desk

LENGTH: 1583 words

HEADLINE: SPARE TIMES;
FOR CHILDREN

 BODY:

Theater
 
"THE FROG PRINCE," a fairy tale by David Mamet, has the playwright's stamp although not his famously colorful language. The plot involves multiple deceptions, a hero who has trouble treating women as equals (and gets a gentle comeuppance) and, as might be expected, a less than rosy conclusion. Theatergoers over 6 will find it funny, and the bittersweet entertainment also has much to offer parents. 78th Street Theater Lab, 236 West 78th Street, Manhattan, (212) 873-9050. Sunday at noon and 2:30. Tickets: $9; age 12 and under, $7.
 
"GOLLY GEE WHIZ!," a musical set in 1939 in a town called Happyville, where the teen-agers decide to boost the economy by putting on a show, could have been pure saccharin. Instead, the show is a funny spoof, thanks to the authors, Eric Rockwell and Joanne Bogart, the director and choreographer, Cynthia Thole, and the spirited performances by Tada's 8- to 17-year-old thespians. Tada, 120 West 28th Street, Chelsea. Today at noon and 2 P.M.; tomorrow and Sunday at 1 and 3 P.M. Tickets: $12; $6 for ages 15 and under. Reservations advised: (212) 627-1732. 

Events
 
"ARE YOU READING MR. MELVILLE?" Readings from the work of Herman Melville, the author of "Moby-Dick," in celebration of the author's birthday, will take place tomorrow and Sunday from 2 to 5 P.M. at the Children's Center of the South Street Seaport Museum, 165 John Street, lower Manhattan. Youngsters can also act out favorite scenes and help design a mural. Free with admission: adults, $6; the elderly, $5; students, $4; children, $3. The museum will be collecting new and used children's books to give to a local charity. Children who bring a book donation will receive free museum admission. Information: (212) 748-8757.
 
"A BUG'S EYES." Youngsters will learn how to create bug masks, tomorrow and Sunday from 1:30 to 4:30 P.M. at the Staten Island Children's Museum, Snug Harbor Cultural Center, 1000 Richmond Terrace, Livingston. For all ages. Fee: $2 plus admission; $4; free for children under 2 and members. Information: (718) 273-2060.
 
CENTRAL PARK CONSERVANCY is offering two free workshops for youngsters tomorrow. "A Fish-Eye View" lets youngsters see what the world looks like to a fish. Youngsters will use an underwater camera and a television monitor to look at the wildlife of the Harlem Meer, from 1 to 3 P.M. at the Charles A. Dana Discovery Center, 110th Street, near Fifth Avenue, (212) 860-1370. "Rainbow in a Bottle:" children will put together a sand art bottle containing different colors of sand, 1 to 2:30 P.M. at Belvedere Castle, midpark at 79th Street, (212) 772-0210.
 
FAMILY ARTS FESTIVAL at the Theater of Riverside Church, 91 Claremont Avenue, at 120th Street, through Sunday. There will be performances to interest youngsters. Today: "The Race," a coming-of-age story (at 11 A.M.) and "Renaissance 2," a children's dance ensemble (at 7 P.M.). Saturday: "Children's Cake Walk and Senior's Swing," a workshop and performance, featuring Clyde Wilder and the Savoy Swingers demonstrating the jitterbug and lindy hop (at 7 P.M.). Sunday: "Stepping Stones," a workshop and interactive performance combining history and music (at 2 P.M.) and "The Family Reunion," for youngsters 12 and older. La Familia, a theater troupe of former prisoners, willreunite for a special performance to honor their founder Felix Camillo (at 7 P.M.) Tickets: $10; $5 for children. Information: (212) 870-6784. or (212) 870-6700.
 
"MOVIES FOR KIDS BUGS OUT!," a family series devoted to insects by the Film Society of Lincoln Center. The movie series runs most Saturdays and Sundays, through Sept. 19, at 2 P.M. at the Walter Reade Theater, 165 West 65th Street, plaza level, Lincoln Center, (212) 875-5600. This weekend the movie is "Them!" (1954), a 93-minute movie directed by Gordon M. Douglas about enormous ants (genetically altered by years of atomic testings) invading L.A. storm drains. For youngsters 8 and older.
 
"LA MUELA DEL REY FARFAN/THE TOOTHACHE OF KING FARFAN, a children's zarzuela or Spanish operetta about a stubborn king, will provide lessons about love and respecting others. The Spanish children's classic will feature more than 20 life-size puppets, tomorrow at 1 P.M. as part of the A T & T Latino Arts Festival, through Aug. 8 at the Queens Theater in the Park, Flushing Meadows Corona Park, off Exit 9E of the Grand Central Parkway, near Shea Stadium, Queens. Performed in Spanish, with English subtitles. Ticket: $6. Information: (718) 760-0064, English; (718) 760-0686, Spanish.
 
"STORY CORNER: THE WILD WEST." Children can imagine they are cowboys and cowgirls of the Wild West and learn about life on the plains and the colorful characters who lived there a century ago, tomorrow at 4 P.M. on the fourth floor of the Jan Martense Schenck House at the Brooklyn Museum of Art, 200 Eastern Parkway, at Prospect Park. Free with museum admission: $4; students, $2; the elderly, $1.50. Information: (718) 638-5000, extension 327.
 
Exhibitions
 
"BUSYTOWN," a science exhibition based on the work of the author and illustrator Richard Scarry and featuring Lowly Worm, a familiar Scarry character, at the New York Hall of Science in Flushing Meadows-Corona Park, Queens, through Sept. 26. The bilingual (Spanish and English) hands-on 5,000-square-foot-exhibition has areas where children can experience the basic scientific principles behind conveyer belts, windmills and pulleys. For ages 2 through 10. Hours: Mondays, 9:30 A.M. to 2 P.M.; Tuesdays through Sundays, until 5 P.M. Admission: $6; $4 for children, 4 to 15 and the elderly; free under 4. Information: (718) 699-0005.
 
"A KID'S GOT TO DO WHAT A KID'S GOT TO DO: CELEBRATING 20 YEARS OF NICKELODEON," an exhibition and screening series through Sept. 12 at the Museum of Television and Radio, 25 West 52d Street, Manhattan. Screenings today through Sunday: at 1 P.M., for the preschool set, with "Blue's Clues," "Eureeka's Castle" and "Gullah Gullah Island"; at 3 P.M., shows from 1992 that were shown on Saturdays, "Clarissa Explains It All," "Roundhouse" and "Are You Afraid of the Dark?" Admission: $6; students and the elderly, $4; ages 12 and under, $3; members, free. Information: (212) 621-6800.
 
"GLOBAL SHOES," an exhibition with footwear to suit just about anyone, except perhaps Cinderella. The exhibition gives children a chance to discover what it's like to be in the shoes of people from the Netherlands, Japan, China and other farflung places. Children learn what shoes reveal about other cultures and ways of life. A display called "Standing on Ceremony," for instance, shows footwear with ritual significance. The exhibition runs through Oct. 17 at the Brooklyn Children's Museum, 145 Brooklyn Avenue, at St. Mark's Place, Crown Heights. Hours: Wednesdays through Friday, 2 to 5 P.M.; Saturday and Sunday, 10 A.M. to 5 P.M. Suggested admission: $3. Information: (718) 735-4400.
 
"REAL LOVE: THE DRAWINGS FOR SEAN," an exhibition of 12 colored cartoonlike renderings of animals created by John Lennon to help his son Sean learn to read. Children's Museum of Manhattan, 212 West 83d Street, through Labor Day, (212) 721-1223. Hours: Tuesdays through Sundays, 10 A.M. to 5 P.M. Admission: $6; $3 for the elderly; free for children under 1 and members.
 
"TALES IN TALL TREES," a traveling exhibition from the Staten Island Children's Museum, consists of 13 stations that use cutout wooden trees to explore the art of storytelling. They range from the artistic (the Peek Into Tree, whose tiny windows open onto storybook dioramas) to the fanciful (the Pupppet Tree and the Me Tree, which has dress-up clothes and a mirror) to the literary (the Tell a Story Tree, which offers cards printed with words and phrases). The exhibition, extended through Aug. 21 at the Queens Borough Public Library, 89-11 Merrick Boulevard, Jamaica, is part of the "Celebrate! Read!" program at city libraries this summer to encourage children to read. Tomorrow from 1 to 3 P.M., storytelling, a puppet show and arts and crafts for children of all ages. Pre-registration required: (718) 990-8642. Gallery hours: Monday to Friday, 10 A.M. to 9 P.M.; Saturday, 10 A.M. to 5:30 P.M.
 
"TODAY AND EVERYDAY," a group exhibition by artists focusing on issues of identity, memory and notions of place geared toward children. Works include miniaturized pieces of furniture by Betsabee Romero, oversize ceramic replicas of household objects (like Q-Tips and Alka-Selzer tablets) and a monumental wall painting inspired by architecture and the urban landscape by Carlos Cardenas. The exhibition is on view through Sept. 3 at the Galeria Ramis Barquet, 41 East 57th Street, fifth floor, (212) 644-9090. Hours: Monday through Friday, 10 A.M. to 6 P.M.
 
Zoos
 
"CELEBRATION CONGO" is held Saturdays and Sundays from 11:30 A.M. to 4:30 P.M. through Aug. 15 in the 6.5-acre Congo Gorilla Forest, which opened recently at the Bronx Zoo, Bronx River Parkway at Fordham Road, Fordham. This attraction, partly outdoors, partly indoors, has 75 species, including colobus monkeys, okapi (zebra-striped creatures related to giraffes), mandrills, red river hogs and, of course, gorillas. Congo admission: $3. Hours through October: daily, 10 A.M. to 5 P.M., until 5:30 P.M. on weekends and holidays. Zoo admission: $7.75; ages 2 to 12, $4; under 2, free, and free for everyone on Wednesdays. Parking, $6. Information: (718) 367-1010.
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photo: EVENTS -- A scene from "The Toothache of King Farfan," an operetta (in Spanish, with English subtitles) at Queens Theater in the Park. (Sociedad Educativa de las Artes)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Schedule

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (93%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (93%); 

COMPANY: STATEN ISLAND TERMINAL (52%); CHILDREN'S CENTER (90%); 

ORGANIZATION: CHILDREN'S CENTER (90%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%); NEW YORK, USA (93%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (93%); 

SUBJECT: NO INDEX TERMS FROM NYTIMES DRAMA LITERATURE (90%); THEATER (90%); THEATER & DRAMA (90%); WRITERS (89%); MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (89%); ACTORS & ACTRESSES (79%); ARTISTS & PERFORMERS (79%); ADOLESCENTS (76%); CHOREOGRAPHY (74%); CHILDREN'S LITERATURE (73%); HARBORS & PORTS (64%); CHARITIES (62%); 

PERSON: DAVID ALAN MAMET (74%); 

LOAD-DATE: July 30, 1999



705 of 738 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 30, 1999

SECTION: Section E; Part 2; Page 33; Column 4; Leisure/Weekend Desk 

LENGTH: 4574 words

HEADLINE: ON THE ROAD;
Where Steel Was King, a New Spirit Reigns

BYLINE: By R. W. APPLE Jr. 

DATELINE: PITTSBURGH

 BODY:
One fine day this summer, wreckers toppled six towering smokestacks along the Monongahela River.
Once part of a huge coke works but long idle, they were the last vestiges of Big Steel left within the Pittsburgh city limits. The mills that once employed tens of thousands of workers and made a third of the world's steel have vanished like ghosts at dawn. Iron City, a k a Steeltown U.S.A., is no more. 
 But having survived the truly grueling loss of most of its heavy industry, Pittsburgh is alive and well and getting better. It has had not one renaissance but two, and a third is under way, fueled by an intense local pride and a gritty determination to bounce back. Two new downtown stadiums (one for baseball, the other for football), a new theater designed by Michael Graves and a new convention center are on the way. Designed by Rafael Vinoly, the $231 million convention center is to have a roof in the shape of a catenary curve; water running off the building's cooling towers will make it glitter by day, and interior lights will set it aglow at night.
At the same time, Pittsburgh is hard at work, striving to forge a new economic identity as a high-tech center and a regional medical capital.
Cultural life has a fresh elan as well, sparked partly by the hip, innovative Andy Warhol Museum -- "the posthumous home of the King of Pop," as someone called it. The 53d Carnegie International, one of the world's premier surveys of contemporary art, will open in November at the Carnegie Museum of Art with works by 40 established and relatively unknown artists from 17 nations, including installation art and video as well as paintings and sculpture.
The century-old Pittsburgh Symphony Orchestra, under the energetic, Latvian-born Mariss Jansons, one of the most prominent of the young conductors who have emerged in recent years from the Baltic countries, will open its season this fall not with a safe selection of Beethoven or Brahms but with Schoenberg's immense, romantic, seldom-performed "Gurrelieder." Among the soloists will be two of the more sought-after singers of the day, the Canadian tenor Ben Heppner and the American mezzo-soprano Jennifer Larmore.
And of course Pittsburgh glories, as ever, in its magnificent site, first scouted by George Washington as a British major in 1753. The city lies deep within the Allegheny Mountains, where the Allegheny River meets the Monongahela to form the broad Ohio. Ernie Pyle wrote once that this was a place of "hills, mountains, cliffs, valleys and rivers, up and down, around and around, in betwixt," much better suited to goats than people.
A pair of antique funiculars, called inclines here, still slide up and down the steep face of Mount Washington, across the water from the skyscrapers packed into downtown Pittsburgh at the tip of the Golden Triangle.
Max King, the former editor of The Philadelphia Inquirer, who moved to Pittsburgh this year to become the executive director of the $1.5 billion Heinz Endowments, sees a vibrancy in downtown Pittsburgh that is lacking in Philadelphia, and with industry having abandoned the riverfronts, he sees "a once-in-a-lifetime chance" to redevelop them to public benefit.
"Pittsburgh's economic troubles spared it the sprawl that is disfiguring Philadelphia," he said. "There, the hole is quickly emptying into the doughnut; all the action is in the suburbs. But Pittsburgh -- the city itself -- is still the center of this region, and it's holding."
There are, to be sure, plenty of problems. Race relations are not the best. Pockets of urban rot persist not only in the burnt-out mill towns up and down the river valleys and in the slums in the city itself, but also downtown. A tacky T-shirt store and a wig shop stand incongruously, for example, across the street from a new Lazarus department store.
The jury is still out on job creation, here as in other Rust Belt cities like Cleveland and Detroit. Pittsburgh's population is as old as those in some Sun Belt retirement cities, because too many of the area's most talented young people leave in search of economic opportunity.
 
A City of Amenities
But for those who stay or move here, the amenities are many. Leafy, close-in suburbs like Shadyside and Squirrel Hill. A low crime rate. Good schools. Moderate housing and living costs. Extensive parks. A terrific zoo. Three identical suspension bridges, all painted primrose yellow, crossing the Allegheny side by side. Three substantial universities: Carnegie Mellon, strong in science and technology; Duquesne, known for the liberal arts and law, and the University of Pittsburgh, a medical powerhouse where some of the pioneering work in liver transplants was carried out.
Pittsburgh has its own vernacular. "Redd" means clean, as in "redd off the table," and "youns" is the plural of "you." It has a certain innocence as well. Maybe, as some here complain, Pittsburgh is provincial (or, to adopt the kinder phrase, used by one local businessman, "not very cosmopolitan"). But it also lacks the edgy aggressiveness of many larger cities.
This is, after all, the hometown of Fred Rogers, the kids' sweet-natured friend Mr. Rogers, whose program is made at WQED, the nation's first public television station.
You arrive in Pittsburgh from the west, where the airport is situated, by way of the Fort Pitt Tunnel. One minute you are cruising along amid wooded hills, the next you are in the half-mile-long tube, and then you emerge onto a bridge. Dead in front of you is Pittsburgh's skyline, a sudden, dramatic, exhilarating sight, akin to spying the New York or San Francisco skyline from a steamship in the days before the dawn of jet travel.
The air is clean, the rivers are bright and clear, and if the sun is shining, John Burgee and Philip Johnson's PPG Place, the Houses of Parliament in London transmuted into a glass office building, catches your eye at once.
But of course the approach didn't always look so splendid.
 
Determined Mayors
It took a series of determined mayors to change the city's face, starting in the 1950's with David L. Lawrence, who adopted the slogan "Smoke Must Go." He and successors like Peter Flaherty and Richard Caliguiri made common cause with business leaders, notably Richard King Mellon.
Rachel Carson, who grew up not far from here, would have been proud of what they accomplished.
In its heyday as the self-described Workshop of the World, Pittsburgh was an industrial inferno. Only half a century ago, the rivers teemed with tugs and barges, and the mills poured brown and green ooze into the water and black and gray soot into the skies, so much so that street lights often had to be kept on all day. One week in 1948, 30 people were killed by smog in the grimy little borough of Donora (where, incidentally, the baseball hall-of-famer Stan Musial grew up).
"Blackest place I ever saw," said the 19th-century English traveler Anthony Trollope, and he knew grim industrial landscapes at home.
But Pittsburgh produced steel in prodigious quantities. At the end of World War II, United States Steel, the first billion-dollar corporation in history when it was formed in 1901, made twice as much steel as the entire Soviet Union. Set against that, what was a little pollution?
 
Enormous Fortunes
Pittsburgh also produced enormous fortunes for men like Andrew Carnegie, an immigrant from Scotland who built a steel empire; Henry Clay Frick, the king of coke, the baked coal essential to the steel-making process, who was first an aide and then a rival to Carnegie, and Andrew W. Mellon, the banker who financed the new magnates and grew rich in the process.
Mellon money built the National Gallery in Washington, and when Andrew Mellon's son, Paul, died this year at the age of 91, he had given it more than 1,000 pictures, including two van Goghs and 12 Winslow Homers in a final bequest, as well as $75 million in cash. Frick money built New York's finest small art museum. Carnegie money built libraries around the world.
Only small fractions of their wealth stayed in Pittsburgh, though their names grace monuments, buildings, parks, streets and museums.
To work in the mills, peasants came from all over Europe. A sign from one Carnegie plant, preserved in the excellent (if clumsily named) John Heinz Pittsburgh Regional History Center, warned of danger in English, Italian, Hungarian, Slovak and Serbo-Croatian. My great-grandfather was one of those hardy spirits, and his son, my grandfather, worked in nearby Jeanette, which was for some time the center of the American glass industry. My father was born there.
Myths grew up about industrial Bunyans like Joe Magarac, a Hungarian who could derail a locomotive with his little finger, and Steve Mestrovic, a Serb who could supposedly twist a 500-pound steel bar into a pretzel. In real life, the tough river towns where the immigrants settled produced more than their share of sports heroes, especially pro football quarterbacks, including Johnny Unitas, Joe Montana, Jim Kelly, Joe Namath and George Blanda.
Pittsburgh quickly became a battleground between labor and capital. In the notorious Homestead strike of 1892, Pinkerton detectives employed by Frick clashed with workers; 20 people were killed and 300 wounded. The Amalgamated Association of Iron and Steel Workers was crushed. Industry won the battle, but labor won the war, decades later, when Philip Murray organized the United Steel Workers Union. Now plans are afoot to bring the site of the strike and other steel-industry landmarks under the aegis of the National Park Service.
Blacks streamed into Pittsburgh as well, and soon built a thriving subculture. The Pittsburgh Courier was the nation's leading African-American newspaper, and the city produced a seemingly endless flow of jazz stars, from Billy Strayhorn to Erroll Garner to Mary Lou Williams. Before the integration of major league baseball, the Pittsburgh Crawfords and the Homestead Grays flourished on the black circuit with players like Josh Gibson and the inimitable Satchel Paige.
Sports still loom large here, as befits the city's six-pack image, though the relatively small population (350,000, with 1,335,000 in Allegheny County) makes supporting big-league teams difficult. The Pittsburgh Penguins, twice National Hockey League champions in recent years, were faced with bankruptcy until a judge approved a plan under which Mario Lemieux, the team's greatest star until he retired in 1997, took control of the team.
Legends live on, like the Pirates infielder Bill Mazeroski's improbable last-of-the-ninth home run to beat the Yankees, 10-9, in the seventh game of the 1960 World Series, and the Steeler running back Franco Harris's "immaculate reception" of Terry Bradshaw's deflected last-gasp pass to win a crucial playoff game in 1972.
 
Architectural Highlights
Pittsburgh is rediscovering its significant architectural heritage and urging visitors to do the same. Southwestern Pennsylvania has two of the very greatest American buildings, Henry Hobson Richardson's Allegheny County Courthouse and Jail, in Pittsburgh, and Frank Lloyd Wright's wonderful cantilevered country villa, Fallingwater, an hour to the southeast.
Fallingwater was built for the Pittsburgh merchant Edgar J. Kaufmann, who cooked up a number of other projects, most of them never built, with the master of Taliesen. Plans and models can be seen in a show at the Carnegie Museum through Oct. 3.
The courthouse -- a great castlelike structure of rusticated granite, with a 325-foot tower -- is connected to the jail by a Bridge of Sighs like the one that links the Doge's Palace and the jail in Venice. It is a massive, masculine ensemble; the voussoirs, or blocks, that form the main entrance, one of Richardson's trademark Romanesque arches, are eight feet long. Yet there is nothing clumsy or heavy about the structure.
If Richardson whets your appetite for more, walk down Grant Street. On the way you will see Frick's Union Trust Building (1915), with a breathtaking stack of nine balconies, crowned by a round stained-glass skylight, and a froth of terra-cotta turrets, balustrades, pinnacles and balustrades on the roof; the Koppers Building (1929), in an urbane Art Deco style, and the USX Building (1970), a bold tower in Cor-Ten steel, which oxidizes to a deep red-brown, protecting against deterioration.
The USX Building, by Harrison & Abramovitz, looks much less dated than the slightly earlier buildings from the same hands, the Metropolitan Opera House and Avery Fisher Hall at Lincoln Center. Its exoskeleton of vertical beams is filled with water and antifreeze as a fire retardant.
In a real sense the USX Building is a continuing advertisement for the company that built it, once named United States Steel. So is the former Alcoa Building (1953), nearby on Sixth Avenue, whose skin is formed of preformed aluminum panels, and the glass-faced PPG Place (1984), on Fourth Avenue, which was built by a company formerly called Pittsburgh Plate Glass.
 
A Cultural Catalyst
No family has done more for Pittsburgh, especially for the arts in Pittsburgh, than the Heinzes, purveyors to the world of 57 Varieties -- actually, today, more like 5,700. It was H. J. Heinz 2d, known as Jack, who had the idea that cultural resources could aid in jump-starting an economic revival here. He bought four abandoned movie theaters downtown and helped turn them into the Cultural District, anchored by Heinz Hall, home to the Symphony.
Fritz Reiner, William Steinberg, Andre Previn and Lorin Maazel all helped to mold the orchestra's global reputation, but Heinz dollars balanced the organization's budget. Without them, as Gideon Toeplitz, the managing director, said several years ago, Pittsburgh would have "a small regional orchestra rather like the Wheeling Symphony just down the road."
In December, the new home of the Pittsburgh Public Theater will open across the street from Heinz Hall with a world premiere of a play by August Wilson, a Pittsburgh native. Designed by Michael Graves, with a great copper cowl giving its facade a distinctive appearance, it has a Heinz connection, too. It was partly financed by the friends of, and named for, Anthony J. F. O'Reilly, the H. J. Heinz Company's 's Irish-born chairman.
Next door will stand a fountain designed by Louise Bourgeois.
Drama is a many-layered thing in Pittsburgh. Apart from the Public Theater and the musicals that also play in the Cultural District, there are the venturesome City Theater on the South Side and Karla Boos's lively Quantum Theater, which performs in spaces either discovered or improvised.
Neither opera nor dance is big-league yet, but the city has an amazing number of dance organizations, large and small. The most prominent is the Pittsburgh Ballet Theater, whose artistic director, Terrence Orr, has steered it away from the Balanchine tradition toward that of his alma mater, American Ballet Theater.
The Phipps Botanical Gardens, an 1893 gift from Henry Phipps, one of Carnegie's sidekicks, has a 13-room Victorian conservatory, one of the finest in the country. And the Frick Art Museum, a country cousin of the New York showplace, exhibits the collection of Henry Clay Frick's daughter, Helen; its highlights are a magisterial Rubens portrait and works by the Sienese masters Duccio and Sassetta.
 
Bones and Art
But the heaviest hitters here, in addition to the Symphony, are the Carnegie and Warhol museums.
The Carnegie complex, in Oakland, east of downtown, includes a museum of natural history, renowned for its dinosaur collection, as well as the art museum, headquarters for the International, whose curator this year is Madeleine Grynsztejn. Since its beginning, the art museum has concentrated on the art of the 19th and 20th centuries -- "the Old Masters of tomorrow," as Carnegie himself put it.
Paintings, sculpture and the decorative arts are intermingled to good effect in galleries occupied by the permanent collection. Take, for instance, the room devoted to the Arts and Crafts Movement; there, furniture by C. F. A. Voysey and Harvey Ellis and copperware by W. A. S. Benson keep company with two huge, newly acquired Pre-Raphaelite canvases by Burne-Jones.
First-rate pictures by the likes of Cezanne, Kirchner and Degas (a smashing portrait of the engineer Henri Rouart) lie ahead. But most intriguing to me was a selection of pioneer American abstractionists like Burgoyne Diller, George L. K. Morris and Stanton Macdonald-Wright.
Over at the Warhol, installed in an old seven-story building renovated by the New York architect Richard Gluckman, you are greeted by a big cobalt-blue self-portrait of the artist, wide-eyed, spiky-haired. The building is filled with Warhol's collections (milk glass, shoes of famous people); Warhol's wallpaper (I liked the pink-and-yellow cow pattern); Warhol's films; Warhol's portraits of Mao, Liz and Mick; Warhol's books and Warhol's archives -- 605 identical boxes filled with everything from the master pack rat's mail to the original images on which he based his famous silk screens.
A Pittsburgh native whose parents came from the Carpathian Mountains in central Europe, Warhol once wrote: "You live in your dream America that you've custom-made from art and schmaltz and emotions just as much as you live in your real one." The museum is Andy's world, custom-recreated.
Pittsburgh has taken to it slowly; Thomas Sokolowski, the director, says, "It's a sober city, very Presbyterian." Of the 65,000 visitors to the museum last year, half came from out of state, many from Japan and Germany. But Mr. Sokolowski keeps plugging. He has started a Friday happy hour and has big plans for musical events, including a staging of the Satie-Poulenc-Ravel triple bill "Parade," as big a scandal in its day as Warhol in his.
 
Enjoying Pittsburgh
Pittsburgh is 365 miles southwest of New York City. Here is a sampling of attractions and places to stay and eat in the area, along with travel information:
 
Where to Stay
 
DOUBLETREE HOTEL, 1000 Penn Avenue, (412) 281-3700. Renovated only this year, the Doubletree is Pittsburgh's freshest hotel, with a light-filled, four-story atrium lobby. Theaters are just a couple of blocks away, and an enclosed walkway leads to the convention center. Though pretty prosaic, the rooms are a good deal roomier than the chain hotel standard. Double rooms: $189 weekdays; $119 to $189 weekends.
 
PITTSBURGH HILTON, Gateway Center, (412) 391-4600. In a city that woefully lacks a top-drawer hotel, the Hilton is blessed with those three cardinal virtues: location, location and location. Overlooking the junction of the Allegheny and Monongahela, with 711 rooms and 38 suites, it is a convention hotel par excellence, with all the pluses and minuses that go with that. The crisp, smallish, up-to-date rooms on the top floors are the best. Double rooms: $199 to $250.
 
SUNNYLEDGE, 5124 Fifth Avenue, Shadyside, (412) 683-5014. Oakland once had a pair of fine big hotels, the Schenley and Webster Hall. Both are long gone, alas, but this eight-room red-brick inn provides a classy refuge for visitors to the universities and the museums. All mod cons: minibars, cable television, Jacuzzi tubs, hair dryers and Frette linens. Double rooms: $189 and $199; suites, $275.
 
WESTIN WILLIAM PENN, 530 William Penn Place, (412) 281-7100. Henry Clay Frick built this Beaux-Arts pile to house his business friends when they came to town. After countless face lifts, the old girl is handsome enough, with enormous crystal chandeliers in the Palm Court. But the service is disheartening, with breakfast cards sometimes left dangling on doorknobs, unfilled, and desultory delivery of baggage and messages. Today's nabobs send their visitors down the street to the veddy private Duquesne Club. Double rooms: $169 to $229, weekdays; $99 to $169, weekends.
 
Where to Eat
 
CAFE ALLEGRO, 51 South 12th Street, (412) 481-7788. The cooking is a tad uneven at this relaxed spot next to the 1915 South Side Market House, just off post-industrial Carson Street; one night recently, the veal chop was tasty and sweet seared scallops were nicely mated with a tangy tangerine-juice reduction, but smoked trout was too dry and soft-shell were crabs overcooked. Still, the spirit is willing; baffled at first by a request for cheese at meal's end, the kitchen quickly improvised an appealing assortment.
 
CASBAH, 229 South Highland Avenue, Shadyside, (412) 661-5656. This is the lead restaurant of an entrepreneurial duo who call themselves Big Burrito Inc. The menu is Mediterranean: tagines from Morocco, fearlessly fiery merguez sausage from Tunisia, pasta, a dense ragout of lamb with couscous. Flavors are as emphatic as a smack in the chops. Terrific wines, especially the Rhones, and a sultry, sand-colored decor with hanging lamps reminiscent of Venice and Fortuny.
 
STEELHEAD GRILL, 112 Washington Place, (412) 394-3474. An outpost of Drew Nieporent's empire (and hence a sibling of TriBeCa Grill and Nobu), this is the city's top table, for my money. Greg Alauzen, a hometown boy, concocts a shellfish chowder that would delight any Down Easter, and serves skillfully grilled shrimp on a bed of linguine with a rich basil-lemon sauce. The wines are chosen by the savvy Daniel Johnnes of Montrachet.
 
TESSARO'S, 4601 Liberty Avenue, Bloomfield, (412) 682-6809. You're tired of beurre blanc and balsamic vinegar and waiters named Clyde. You need a joint with no attitude. In Pittsburgh, Tessaro's fills the bill perfectly: a bar in a working-class neighborhood with Sam Adams on draft, decadently juicy half-pound burgers cooked on a hardwood grill, and plenty of good cheer. No french fries, no dessert, no reservations, just sensational meat.
 
LA CUCINA FLEGREA, 2114 Murray Avenue, Squirrel Hill, (412) 521-2082. The room is plain and tiny, but the minute you walk in, you know you're in the right place. It smells Italian, not Italian-American. Anna Fevola comes from a village north of Naples, and her cooking has that superbly unadorned clarity of flavor we all long for. Order the grilled sausage, with charred edges, served underneath a blanket of bitter rapini. B.Y.O.B.
 
Attractions
 
CARNEGIE MUSEUM OF ART, 4400 Forbes Avenue, Oakland, (412) 622-3131. "Merchant Prince and Master Builder: Edgar J. Kaufmann and Frank Lloyd Wright," through Oct. 3. "Forum: Felix de la Concha," through Sept. 19. "The Other 19th Century: European Prints and Drawings," through Aug. 15. Hours: Tuesdays through Saturdays, 10 A.M. to 5 P.M.; Sundays, 1 to 5 P.M.; also open Mondays, 10 A.M. to 5 P.M., through Aug. 30. Admission: $6; $5 for the elderly; $4 for students and children 3 and older.
 
ANDY WARHOL MUSEUM, 117 Sandusky Street, (412) 237-8300. The permanent collection has more than 3,000 works of art, including drawings, prints, paintings, sculptures, film and video tapes, along with archival material. "The Architecture of Reassurance: Designing the Disney Theme Parks," through Oct. 10. Hours: Thursdays through Saturdays, 11 A.M. to 8 P.M.; Sundays and Wednesdays, 11 A.M. to 6 P.M. Admission: $7; students, $4; the elderly, $6; children over 3, $4.
 
FRICK ART MUSEUM, 7227 Reynolds Street, (412) 371-0600. The permanent collection consists of European paintings, sculptures and decorative arts from the 12th to the 18th centuries; there is also Clayton, the turn-of-the-century Victorian residence of the industrialist Henry Clay Frick and his family. Opening today, "Shamans, Gods and Mythic Beasts: Colombian Gold and Ceramics in Antiquity." Through Oct. 3. Hours: Tuesdays through Saturdays, 10 A.M. to 5 P.M.; Sundays, noon to 6 P.M. Admission to the Art Museum, as well as the Car and Carriage Museum, is free.
 
PITTSBURGH SYMPHONY ORCHESTRA, Heinz Hall, 600 Penn Avenue, at Sixth Avenue, (412) 392-4900. The season begins on Sept. 17 at 8 P.M. with Schoenberg's "Gurrelieder" conducted by Mariss Jansons; repeated Sept. 19 at 2:30 P.M. Tickets: $14 to $69.
 
PITTSBURGH PUBLIC THEATER, 6 Allegheny Square (two blocks from the Andy Warhol Museum), (412) 321-9800. A college production of Shakespeare's "Twelfth Night" runs through Sunday. Tickets: $12. The regular, main-stage season runs from October through June. In December, the Public will move into the O'Reilly Theater, a new 650-seat theater designed by Michael Graves across from Heinz Hall. The first production there will be the world premiere of August Wilson's new work, "King Hedley II."
 
CITY THEATER, 57 South 13th Street, (412) 431-4900. The season opens on Sept. 10 with "A Raisin in the Sun," co-produced with the Kuntu Repertory Theater and running through Oct. 10. Tickets: $19 to $28.
 
QUANTUM THEATER, a company that presents new works and adaptations of classics in site-specific spaces in Pittsburgh. The next production is Shakespeare's "Merchant of Venice," from Aug. 18 through Aug. 29 (daily except for Monday, Aug. 23), at the former Kerotest Building, a 19th-century factory at 25th Street and Liberty Avenue. Tickets: $12. Information: (412) 422-3823.
 
PITTSBURGH BALLET THEATER, Benedum Center, Seventh Avenue between Penn and Liberty Avenues, (412) 456-6666. The fall season begins on Oct. 7 with "Dracula."
 
JOHN HEINZ PITTSBURGH REGIONAL HISTORY CENTER, 1212 Smallman Street, (412) 454-6000. The main permanent exhibition is "Points in Time: Building a Life in Western Pennsylvania, 1750-Today." Also: "Eat'n Park's Anniversary: Celebrating 50 Years of Smiles," through Sept. 12; "Pittsburgh Rhythms: Music of a Changing City, 1820-1950," through Jan. 2; "Heinz: Preserved in Pittsburgh," through spring 2001. Hours: Daily except holidays, 10 A.M. to 5 P.M.; library closed Sundays and Mondays. Admission: $6; $4.50 for the elderly and children 3 to 18; free for children under 3.
 
PHIPPS CONSERVATORY AND BOTANICAL GARDENS, 1 Schenley Park, (412) 622-6914. A 13-room Victorian glass house features desert plants, palms, orchids, seasonal butterflies and traditional flower shows. The Butterfly Forest, with 26 species of butterfly, is open through Oct. 15. Visitors can see butterflies hatching and flying freely around the glass pavilion. Hours: Tuesdays through Sundays, 9 A.M. to 5 P.M. Admission: $5; $3.50 for the elderly and students; $2 for children 2 to 12; free for children under 2.
 
Getting There
 
BY AIR: U.S. Airways (800 428-4322) has nine nonstop flights daily to Pittsburgh from La Guardia and eight from Newark. Last-minute fares are approximately $307 each way from La Guardia and $322 each way from Newark. There is a special $306 round-trip last-minute fare from Newark with departure on a Saturday or Sunday and a return on a Saturday or Sunday. The 14-day advance fare from Newark is $316 round trip; not available from La Guardia. The least expensive fare, $248 round trip from Newark, requires a Saturday stayover, is based on availability and requires 21 days' notice. Continental (800 525-0280) has six nonstop flights daily from Newark. Last-minute fares range from $324 to $425 each way. The 14-day advance fare from Newark ranges from $293 to $476 round trip, with a Saturday stayover. The least expensive fare, which requires 21 days' notice and a Saturday stayover, ranges from $252 to $425. R. W. APPLE Jr.
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photos: A funicular on Mount Washington, above Pittsburgh's Golden Triangle. (Terry Clark for The New York Times)(pg. E33); Allegheny County Courthouse, above, and the Clayton mansion at the Frick Museum complex. (Photographs by Terry Clark for The New York Times)(pg. E39)
 
Map of Pittsburgh highlighting tourist attractions. (pg. E39)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); BALTIC STATES (53%); 

STATE: PENNSYLVANIA, USA (94%); APPALACHIAN MOUNTAINS (79%); 

CITY: PITTSBURGH, PA, USA (94%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: PITTSBURGH (PA); UNITED STATES (94%); BALTIC STATES (53%); PENNSYLVANIA, USA (94%); APPALACHIAN MOUNTAINS (79%); PITTSBURGH, PA, USA (94%); 

SUBJECT: GEOGRAPHIC PROFILES; TRAVEL AND VACATIONS IRON & STEEL MILLS (90%); MOUNTAINS (86%); MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (86%); CLASSICAL MUSIC (85%); PAINTING (78%); RIVERS (78%); SCULPTURE (78%); VISUAL & PERFORMING ARTS (73%); ARTISTS & PERFORMERS (73%); BASEBALL (69%); STADIUMS & ARENAS (69%); SINGERS & MUSICIANS (67%); MUSIC GROUPS & ARTISTS (67%); 

PERSON: APPLE, R W JR ANDY WARHOL (54%); 

LOAD-DATE: July 30, 1999



706 of 738 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 30, 1999

SECTION: Section A; Page 19; Column 5; Editorial Desk 

LENGTH: 700 words

HEADLINE: On My Mind;
The March of Folly

BYLINE: By A. M. ROSENTHAL 

 BODY:
"A phenomenon noticeable throughout history regardless of place or period is the pursuit by governments of policies contrary to their own interests.
"Why do holders of high office so often act contrary to the way reason points and enlightened self-interest suggests? 
 "Why, to begin at the beginning, did Trojan rulers drag that suspicious-looking wooden horse inside their walls despite every reason to suspect a Greek trick?"
The questions open a book by the late American historian Barbara Tuchman. Its title shames Western democracy even more than when it was published 15 years ago -- "The March of Folly."
For most of this century we have been staring at the horses of totalitarian governments and not only opening the gate but stuffing them with feed. We garlanded them with money and weaponry -- until the soldiers leapt out, German soldiers, Japanese, Iraqis, soldiers who have been not only a danger to us but the instrument of oppression for their own people, the engine of destruction of the freedoms we hold so dear for ourselves.
But never have democracies accepted with such sweaty eagerness the influence of totalitarian society, so allowed themselves to be influenced by foreign tyranny against their own interests, turned a more cold and cowardly shoulder to the victims of foreign dictatorship than in the case of Communist China. About China America is no worse than its allies.
Right now, the issue is the right of a small nation to mention in the mildest terms a most obvious truth. Taiwan, self-made and free, does not demand independence but believes it should deal with China as state to state. That sent the ever-terrified Beijing Politburo into froth-mouthed fury and the U.S. Government into an orgy of appeasement.
This slavering endorsement of China's vendetta against Taiwan is simply one example of the peonage of American policy to China, and of the knowing hypocrisy of "engagement" and "partnership" with China.
Recognition of Communist China as reality was overdue when Nixon-Kissinger "reopened" China. But Americans believed that reopening would include the Chinese people, and engagement would include open debate about the relative merits of Communism and freedom.
Instead the engagement has become between the Washington and Beijing bureaucracies. China's people? Beijing gave them orders to continue keeping mouths closed. As the price of doing business with China, Beijing ordered American businessmen to do the same. Our two most recent Presidents passed on the orders to their subordinates.
So America's Government apparatus zippered mouths about the real extent and duration of Chinese espionage, about forced labor as an official part of the Chinese economy, about the enslavement of Tibet, the arrests of Christians who refuse to worship only in the place and manner ordered by the Communist Party, and about the continuing hysterical roundup of Chinese whose tradition-based spiritual movement attracts millions.
For China to become far more influential in America requires more than Presidents. Other parts of American society had to go along and have -- the majority of Congress, press commentators, academics, American clergy who tell us not to rock the boat, and particularly business.
American business executives convinced themselves and their beneficiaries in politics that somehow the Chinese economy, still tottering under a Government frenzied with fear of its own people, is a future U.S. gold mine. Meanwhile, Americans passively absorb the $50 billion trade deficit the wait costs.
American believers in human rights, secular and religious, do not talk war. Only Beijing, not the Chinese or U.S. people, encourages hostility with threats and aggressive insults. Human rights advocacy asks only that we not strengthen despotism so that we become part of its oppression machinery.
Why do powerful free nations like America keep acting against their interests by building up despotisms until they feel strong enough to threaten us?
One reason is self-deception stemming from stupidity -- the refusal to learn from experience. In a person that is a danger; in a free nation it is closer to a deliberate sin. 
http://www.nytimes.com

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Op-Ed

COUNTRY: CHINA (99%); UNITED STATES (97%); TAIWAN (92%); TIBET (79%); IRAQ (76%); GERMANY (71%); 

STATE: NORTH CENTRAL CHINA (94%); SOUTHWEST CHINA (79%); 

CITY: BEIJING, CHINA (91%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: CHINA; UNITED STATES; CHINA (99%); UNITED STATES (97%); TAIWAN (92%); TIBET (79%); IRAQ (76%); GERMANY (71%); NORTH CENTRAL CHINA (94%); SOUTHWEST CHINA (79%); BEIJING, CHINA (91%); 

SUBJECT: ESPIONAGE; FREEDOM AND HUMAN RIGHTS; UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; CHINA-INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS-US HISTORY (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (78%); POLITICAL PARTIES (78%); HORSES (76%); HUMAN RIGHTS (67%); CHRISTIANS & CHRISTIANITY (65%); RELIGION (60%); ESPIONAGE (60%); 

PERSON: ROSENTHAL, A M; CLINTON, BILL (PRES) BILL CLINTON (59%); 

LOAD-DATE: July 30, 1999



707 of 738 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 30, 1999

SECTION: Section C; Page 1; Column 5; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 928 words

HEADLINE: Daimler's Profit Trails Forecasts And theShares Fall Sharply

BYLINE: By ROBYN MEREDITH 

DATELINE: DETROIT, July 29

 BODY:
Shares of DaimlerChrysler A.G. took a pounding on two continents today after it turned in flat second-quarter earnings, hurt mostly by weaker-than-expected profits from Chrysler models.
The company, formed in November when Daimler-Benz A.G. bought the Chrysler Corporation, said its second-quarter adjusted net income fell three-tenths of 1 percent, to 1.48 billion euros, or $1.53 billion, compared with the 1.49 billion euros, or $1.534 billion, that the two companies together earned in the quarter a year earlier. 
 Revenue rose roughly 10 percent, to 37.33 billion euros, or $38.48 billion, from 33.87 billion euros, or $34.92 billion.
Analysts had expected more. Their consensus was that DaimlerChrysler would earn $2 a share in the second quarter, according to the First Call Corporation, which tracks earnings. But the company earned 1.47 euros, or $1.52, a diluted share, down from the 1.52 euros, or $1.64, a share in the period a year earlier.
In Frankfurt, shares of DaimlerChrysler dropped 5.45 euros, or 6.8 percent, to 74.25 euros. They fared even worse in the United States, falling $7.4375, or 8.75 percent, to $77.5625.
"Expectations were not met," said Scott F. Merlis, a managing director and head of the automotive practice at Wasserstein Perella Securities Inc. "It is a paradox that the earnings were so disappointing because the company continues to set sales records."
He said profits suffered because rebates were higher than expected in North America and Europe and because of heavy losses from the Smart car in Europe.
Executives defended the financial results. "These are quite good numbers," said Jurgen E. Schrempp, the co-chairman.
"We kept our eyes on the ball and continued to grow the business profitably," Mr. Schrempp said. "We expect this trend of profitable growth to continue in the second half of the year."
David B. Healy, an auto analyst with Burnham Securities, said DaimlerChrysler's earnings in the second quarter suffered from three problems: heavy losses in the Asian and Latin American operations of the former Chrysler, continued losses on Daimler's Smart car in Europe and the weakness of the euro, which made European profits worth less when converted into dollars.
Because the reporting of quarterly earnings remains fairly new for DaimlerChrysler, the company might have made conservative accounting choices that will result in better profits later this year, particularly as economies from the merger begin to be realized, Mr. Healy said. But he added that the steep fall in DaimlerChrysler's shares today suggested that many investors did not believe this.
Despite the hottest American sales market ever, profits were lower than expected from the mass-market brands sold under Chrysler marques because higher rebates and other incentives were required to keep people buying in the United States and because unit sales outside North America fell 20.1 percent in the quarter.
Second-quarter operating profits for Chrysler, Plymouth, Dodge and Jeep brands rose just 1.4 percent, to $1.36 billion compared with $1.34 billion in the quarter a year earlier. Revenue for those lines rose 9.6 percent, to $16.77 billion, from $15.3 billion.
Robert J. Eaton, the other co-chairman, said sales continued their sizzling pace this month and that sales of Chrysler minivans, which had seemed to be flagging, were picking up. "We're going to have a very strong July, headed by minivans," he said.
The luxury Mercedes-Benz line fared better. Operating profits for Mercedes and Smart jumped 17.8 percent, to $635 million, from $539 million in the second quarter of last year. The tiny Smart car remains unprofitable, but the gains came from rising Mercedes sales, particularly high-profit sales of the Mercedes M-class sport utility vehicle, built in Alabama.
Operating profits from sales of DaimlerChrysler's commercial vehicles dropped 1.2 percent, to $329 million from $333 million in the second quarter of last year. Profits were hurt by the economic crisis in Brazil.
Earnings from DaimlerChrysler's aerospace unit jumped 21.1 percent, to $195 million. The company plans to merge its aerospace unit, known as Dasa, with the Spanish state aerospace company, called Casa.
Mr. Eaton said that the company had found many synergies since the $36 billion deal combining the two auto makers and that DaimlerChrysler was on track to meet its goal of finding $1.4 billion in savings this year. Of the 1,200 separate projects undertaken this year to combine the companies, 31 percent are complete and 80 percent will be finished this year, he said.
Although executives expect further consolidation in the auto industry, DaimlerChrysler is concentrating on making its own deal work rather than shopping for other auto companies to buy. "We are not looking for any further acquisitions, except if something would pop in front of us," Mr. Schrempp said.
Judging from the performance of DaimlerChrysler's stock since the merger, there is still some work to be done. In Europe, DaimlerChrysler's stock has risen 4.3 percent since the deal was completed. In the United States, the company's shares, which are traded on the New York Stock Exchange, have fallen 7.5 percent in value.
Mr. Schrempp continued today to campaign for DaimlerChrysler's inclusion in the Standard & Poor's 500-stock index, a step that would increase demand for its shares by index mutual funds. He explained the stock's poor performance this way: "Most analysts so far have us on buy, but not sufficient people have bought us yet."
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photo: In blending big auto makers, Mercedes-Benz is proving better for the bottom line than the rebate-powered Chrysler cars. Jurgen E. Schrempp, a DaimlerChrysler co-chairman, elaborated in New York yesterday. (Associated Press)(pg. C7)
 
Graph: "Taking the Plunge"
Flat second-quarter earnings caused DaimlerChrysler stock to plummet to its lowest point in the United States since the Daimler-Benz and Chrysler merger took effect on Nov. 17, 1998. Graph plots Daimler Chrysler share price, plotted daily, from Dec. 1998 through July 1999. (Source: Bloomberg Financial Markets)(pg. C7) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: DAI (FRA) (96%); DAI (BIT) (96%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS336111 AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING (96%); SIC3711 MOTOR VEHICLES & PASSENGER CAR BODIES (96%); SIC7375 INFORMATION RETRIEVAL SERVICES (69%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); EUROPE (93%); GERMANY (79%); NORTH AMERICA (79%); LATIN AMERICA (78%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (79%); FRANKFURT AM MAIN, GERMANY (57%); 

COMPANY: DAIMLERCHRYSLER AG DAIMLER AG (96%); CHRYSLER GROUP LLC (86%); FIRST CALL CORP (69%); WASSERSTEIN PERELLA & CO (67%); 

ORGANIZATION: DAIMLERCHRYSLER AG

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%); EUROPE (93%); GERMANY (79%); NORTH AMERICA (79%); LATIN AMERICA (78%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); FRANKFURT AM MAIN, GERMANY (57%); 

SUBJECT: COMPANY REPORTS COMPANY EARNINGS (91%); INTERIM FINANCIAL RESULTS (90%); EURO (90%); SALES REBATES (89%); FINANCIAL RESULTS (89%); BUSINESS FORECASTS (87%); MERGERS (79%); ANNUAL FINANCIAL RESULTS (79%); COMPANY LOSSES (78%); COMPANY PROFITS (78%); TRENDS (74%); 

PERSON: SCHREMPP, JURGEN E; MEREDITH, ROBYN

LOAD-DATE: July 30, 1999



708 of 738 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 30, 1999

SECTION: Section A; Page 19; Column 2; Editorial Desk 

LENGTH: 595 words

HEADLINE: Patients' Rights, Done Wrong

BYLINE: By Tom A. Coburn; Tom A. Coburn is a Republican Congressman representing Oklahoma.

DATELINE: WASHINGTON

 BODY:
Even though I am a Republican Congressman, I am also a doctor, and I have continued to treat patients and deliver babies in Muskogee, Okla.
I have experienced first hand the frustrations that have pushed managed care reform to the forefront of the Congressional agenda. Indeed, after treating patients, I usually return to Washington with a new horror story about a health insurance bureaucrat who has arbitrarily denied care to one of my patients. 
 While I believe the vast majority of health maintenance organizations are doing a good job and provide quality care at an affordable price, the frequency of abuse across the nation justifies prompt Congressional action. Unfortunately, the managed care bill recently passed in the Senate does little to solve the problems.
A credible bill should restore the doctor-patient relationship, which is being increasingly severed by insurance companies whose primary motivation is profit. Doctors no longer charge patients, patients no longer pay doctors, and neither determines what is medically necessary. Only by restoring the intimate bond between doctor and patient can Congress return free-market principles to an industry that in many ways resembles an arbitrary and inefficient Soviet-style economy.
The Senate bill, however, is so narrow that it completely ignores most insurance plans and the needs of the vast majority of Americans. And even for the minority of Americans the bill does cover, the 48 million people in self-financed health plans usually offered by large employers that do not fall under state regulation, the Senate's approach has three major flaws.
First, the Senate bill gives insurance companies rather than doctors the authority to decide what care is medically necessary. This bill would permit plans to deny coverage to patients, even if they are contradicting medical advice. Any bill that tries to protect patients is worthless if it doesn't have a proper standard of medical necessity. Indeed, the ability of insurance plans to adopt arbitrary definitions of medical necessity is at the root of many of the problems in managed care.
Second, the Senate bill falls short of establishing an independent external appeals process for patients who have been denied coverage. Under the Senate's plan, the appeals process is stacked in favor of insurance companies. The appeals panel would not be truly independent and objective. Reviewers would be allowed to have a financial relationship with the insurer, and the company could choose which cases would be appealed. If an insurance plan's decision caused injury or death, a patient would have no legal recourse. No other industry or individual in America enjoys this special exemption.
Congress can create an external appeals process with teeth, without resorting to lawsuits. Two Republican colleagues, Charlie Norwood of Georgia and John Shadegg of Arizona, and I have drafted a bill that would impose daily fines on health plans that are guilty of denying coverage. These fines would be so horrendous that companies would wish lawsuits were an option.
Finally, under the Senate bill, most people enrolled in an H.M.O. would still be unable to choose their own doctors.
I certainly don't believe that excessive government involvement in health care will lead to long-term solutions. But Congress can write legislation that allows the market to control our health care system while also protecting patients. Indeed, modest protections won't harm the industry any more than child labor laws slowed the Industrial Revolution.
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Drawing. (Igor Kopelnitsky)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Op-Ed

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (96%); GEORGIA (55%); 

STATE: OKLAHOMA, USA (92%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES; UNITED STATES (96%); GEORGIA (55%); OKLAHOMA, USA (92%); 

SUBJECT: MEDICINE AND HEALTH; LAW AND LEGISLATION; HEALTH INSURANCE; HEALTH MAINTENANCE ORGANIZATIONS AND MANAGED CARE; DOCTORS MANAGED CARE ORGANIZATIONS (91%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (91%); HEALTH MAINTENANCE ORGANIZATIONS (90%); LEGISLATION (90%); HEALTH CARE POLICY (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); HEALTH INSURANCE (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); INSURANCE COVERAGE (89%); INSURANCE (89%); DENIAL OF INSURANCE COVERAGE (89%); APPEALS (87%); WOUNDS & INJURIES (78%); PHYSICIANS & SURGEONS (78%); HEALTH CARE LAW (76%); FINES & PENALTIES (69%); SUITS & CLAIMS (68%); LITIGATION (66%); 

PERSON: COBURN, TOM (REPR) TOM COBURN (58%); 

LOAD-DATE: July 30, 1999



709 of 738 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 30, 1999

SECTION: Section A; Page 18; Column 1; Editorial Desk 

LENGTH: 421 words

HEADLINE: Rebuilding the Balkans

 BODY:
President Clinton's meeting with more than 30 other national leaders in Sarajevo today offers a chance to get the postwar reconstruction of Southeastern Europe off to a sound start. Billions of dollars have already been pledged to help rebuild Kosovo and several neighboring countries. But a lot of this could be wasted unless Washington, the European Union and the United Nations show they have learned from their only partly successful efforts in Bosnia. This time, more must be done to build new locally based economic and political institutions so that international relief can give way to long-term recovery.
The Sarajevo meeting launches the Balkan Stability Pact, an international relief and recovery plan intended to help the Balkan region overcome its history of conflict and ethnic strife and speed its integration into democratic Europe. The main beneficiaries will be Kosovo, Albania, Macedonia and Montenegro, which like Kosovo is formally part of Yugoslavia. Help will also be available for Romania and Bulgaria. 
 So long as Slobodan Milosevic remains in power, most international reconstruction aid will rightly bypass Serbia. The point is not to punish the Serbs but to hasten Mr. Milosevic's downfall. Once he is gone, building a more democratic and prosperous Serbia will help cement regional stability.
Bosnia shows that it is best to avoid building big, overlapping international bureaucracies that attract corruption and crowd out local political and economic initiatives. Western intervention brought desperately needed peace to Bosnia. But unemployment remains devastatingly high, foreign investment minuscule and politics dominated by ethnic nationalist parties.
In Kosovo, international administrators need to make sure moderates and independents get a fair chance to compete politically with the activists of the Kosovo Liberation Army. The K.L.A. has begun forcibly taking over political institutions and businesses while the U.N. administration is still getting organized. Once U.N. officials take charge, they should set a reasonable target date for local elections to begin the process of establishing self-government. A degree of economic self-sufficiency can be attained relatively quickly by assisting local farmers in getting back on their feet. They need modern equipment and lower trade barriers for their exports.
President Clinton helped to free Kosovo from brutal Serbian rule and enable its refugees to return home. Now he must help consolidate a wider Balkan peace. 
http://www.nytimes.com

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Editorial

COUNTRY: SERBIA (99%); SERBIA & MONTENEGRO (94%); KOSOVO (94%); EUROPE (94%); UNITED STATES (94%); BOSNIA & HERZEGOVINA (94%); SOUTHERN EUROPE (92%); SOUTHEASTERN EUROPE (92%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (91%); MACEDONIA, THE FORMER YUGOSLAV REPUBLIC OF (79%); MONTENEGRO (79%); ROMANIA (79%); ALBANIA (79%); BULGARIA (79%); EASTERN EUROPE (73%); 

CITY: SARAJEVO, BOSNIA & HERZEGOVINA (94%); 

COMPANY: EUROPEAN UNION; UNITED NATIONS UNITED NATIONS (83%); EUROPEAN UNION (83%); EUROPEAN UNION (83%); UNITED NATIONS (83%); 

ORGANIZATION: EUROPEAN UNION; UNITED NATIONS UNITED NATIONS (83%); EUROPEAN UNION (83%); EUROPEAN UNION (83%); UNITED NATIONS (83%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: SERBIA; SARAJEVO (BOSNIA); KOSOVO (SERBIA); BOSNIA; SERBIA (99%); SERBIA & MONTENEGRO (94%); KOSOVO (94%); EUROPE (94%); UNITED STATES (94%); BOSNIA & HERZEGOVINA (94%); SOUTHERN EUROPE (92%); SOUTHEASTERN EUROPE (92%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (91%); MACEDONIA, THE FORMER YUGOSLAV REPUBLIC OF (79%); MONTENEGRO (79%); ROMANIA (79%); ALBANIA (79%); BULGARIA (79%); EASTERN EUROPE (73%); SARAJEVO, BOSNIA & HERZEGOVINA (94%); 

SUBJECT: EDITORIALS; UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; SERBIA-INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS-US; ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS; POLITICS AND GOVERNMENT; FOREIGN AID INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (92%); POSTWAR RECONSTRUCTION (90%); TALKS & MEETINGS (90%); INTERNATIONAL ASSISTANCE (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); POLITICS (89%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (89%); EUROPEAN UNION (78%); EXPORT TRADE (77%); ETHNIC CONFLICTS (77%); UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (76%); ELECTIONS (74%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (73%); REFUGEES (72%); FOREIGN INVESTMENT (70%); AGRICULTURAL TRADE (66%); CORRUPTION (65%); ECONOMIC NEWS (64%); TRENDS (60%); 

PERSON: CLINTON, BILL (PRES) BILL CLINTON (89%); 

LOAD-DATE: July 30, 1999



710 of 738 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 30, 1999

SECTION: Section A; Page 16; Column 1; National Desk 

LENGTH: 1062 words

HEADLINE: Senate G.O.P. Moves Ahead On Tax Plan

BYLINE: By RICHARD W. STEVENSON 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, July 29

 BODY:
Republicans moved closer today to Senate passage of a $792 billion tax cut over the opposition of President Clinton and Congressional Democrats, but they still face the difficult task of uniting the party on what form the cuts should take.
The Senate took up dozens of amendments to the tax bill today, rejecting the broadest of them and heading toward a vote on final passage on Friday. 
 The Senate bill was all but certain to pass with its major provisions intact, including a reduction in the lowest personal income tax rate.
Seeking to make political points, Democrats offered a series of amendments, including one that would have postponed the tax cuts and another that would have carved out money to provide a prescription drug benefit as part of Medicare. All were defeated, largely on party-line votes.
Senators debated but did not vote on a compromise plan offered by a bipartisan group of centrists. That plan would have cut taxes by $500 billion over 10 years, an effort to find a middle ground between the Republican plan and Mr. Clinton's insistence that any tax cut be limited to $300 billion.
The Senate voted down an effort by conservative Republicans to rework the $792 billion tax bill to include a reduction in all income tax rates and in capital gains tax rates, provisions that are in the House version of the bill.
It was also considering numerous special-interest amendments. Senators Mitch McConnell and Jim Bunning of Kentucky, both Republicans, sought a change that would benefit horse owners by reducing to one year from two years the time they would need to own a horse before being able to sell it at a favorable capital gains rate.
The House passed its version of the $792 billion Republican tax-cut plan last week. Once the Senate has finished work on its legislation, appointees from both chambers will meet to hash out the many variations in their bills. Some reflect fundamental differences in approach to tax cuts and others reflect the priorities of interest groups with a political or economic stake in the outcome.
Given that Republicans have no higher priority this year than passing a tax cut -- even though they know that Mr. Clinton will veto it -- they will almost certainly reach a compromise among themselves in the next week on what the tax package should look like.
"The debates will be of high energy and great commitment, but I think it gets done," said Representative Michael N. Castle of Delaware, one of a handful of House Republicans who believes that the $792 billion tax cut is too big. "Those committed to getting this bill done are more committed to getting it done at $792 billion than to any particular provision."
But getting there may not be easy. And even after the House and Senate negotiators reach agreement, they could face a tricky task in selling the deal to their members, especially in the House, where a group of moderate Republicans is watching closely to make certain that their concerns are addressed in the final package.
"There are significant differences both in approach and in structure in the House and Senate bills," said Trent Duffy, a spokesman for Representative Bill Archer, the Texas Republican who is chairman of the Ways and Means Committee. "Conferencing them will be challenging."
The House bill is generally more appealing to conservatives in both chambers than the Senate bill, which was written to draw some support from Democrats.
The House bill, written by Mr. Archer, is built around a gradual reduction in all income tax rates, a provision that Republicans say would benefit those people who pay the most in taxes but that Democrats say disproportionately rewards the wealthy.
The Senate version, which was written by Senator William V. Roth Jr. of Delaware, the chairman of the Finance Committee, provides a smaller income tax cut and directs a greater proportion of it to middle-income households than the House bill.
It would reduce only the lowest income tax rate, bringing the current 15 percent bracket down to 14 percent and expanding it to include more taxpayers at higher income levels.
But the Senate version goes farther than the House version in addressing the so-called marriage penalty, a primary goal of social conservatives, one of the most influential of Republican constituencies. The Senate plan would almost eliminate the penalty -- which leaves many two-income couples paying more in taxes than if they were single -- by eventually allowing married couples to file as if they were single.
The House plan would limit its marriage penalty provisions to people who use the standard deduction, meaning that it would do little for higher-income couples, who almost invariably itemize their deductions. The House bill also contains a reduction in the top rate on capital gains to 15 percent from 20 percent, while the Senate version has no provision for capital gains.
The House and Senate negotiators will have to maintain a delicate political balance, retaining the appeal of the package both to the conservative wing of the party and the moderate wing.
Keeping that balance will be especially challenging in the House, where Republicans have a razor-thin majority.
A group of Republican moderates in the House objected to the size and composition of the original bill last week, forcing concessions from party leaders intended to assure that the tax cuts would not lead to renewed budget deficits.
Today, a group of those same moderates circulated a letter demanding that the party retain a feature of the House bill that is certain to bring intense objections from the Senate. The House bill contains a "trigger" that would allow the income tax reductions to take place only if the interest cost on the national debt does not rise.
Seventeen of the Republican moderates had signed the letter by tonight, suggesting that the leadership could have trouble passing the final version of the bill if it does not include the trigger.
"A lot of us have told the leadership that without a hard trigger we will have difficulty supporting the bill," said Representative Fred Upton, Republican of Michigan.
The Senate bill has a procedural wrinkle that also could give the negotiators headaches. It would require that the tax cuts be rescinded after 10 years, a provision that would be unappealing to conservatives in the House.
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photo: Senators John D. Rockefeller 4th, left, Tom Daschle and John Kerry watched Edward M. Kennedy argue for tax-cut plan changes yesterday. (Stephen Crowley/The New York Times)
 
Chart: "Tax-Cutting Proposals in Congress"
Congress is considering two Republican tax-cutting bills. The House approved legislation last week cutting taxes by $792 billion over the next 10 years. The Senate is debating a proposal that would cut taxes by the same amount over that period. President Clinton has promised to veto either version.
Although they are similar in scale, the two bills take very different approaches to reducing taxes for individuals and companies. The following is a description of some of their main provisions.
 
Personal Income Taxes
 
HOUSE
Would reduce all personal income tax rates by 10 percent, each gradually over 10 years.
COST -- $373.5 billion over 10 years.
 
SENATE
Would reduce the 15 percent income tax rate -- the lowest of the five brackets -- to 14 percent, starting in 2001. Would also expand the 14 percent bracket so that fewer taxpayers must pay the next-highest rate of 28 percent.
COST -- $297.5 billion over 10 years.
 
Married Couples
 
HOUSE
Would reduce the so-called marriage penalty, the quirk in the tax code that leaves many couples paying more in combined taxes than they would individually if single. The main provision would gradually increase the standard deduction for a couple filing jointly to twice the level of the standard deduction for a single filer (this year the deduction for married couples is $7,200 while the deduction for single people is $4,300).
COST -- $47.5 billion over 10 years.
 
SENATE
Would almost eliminate the marriage penalty. Married couples filing joint returns would have the option of filing single returns on a combined tax form, enabling them to take the standard deduction for single people rather than the standard deduction for joint filers, which is less than twice as big. But they would both have to take the standard deduction or itemize, and the change would not take effect until 2005.
COST -- $117.7 billion over 10 years.
 
Minimum Tax
 
HOUSE
Would gradually repeal the individual minimum tax, which was created to insure that wealthy people paid a fair share of income tax even if they were able to take advantage of deductions and other breaks, but which has increasingly applied to middle income taxpayers.
COST -- $63.7 billion over 10 years.
 
SENATE
Would limit the effects of the alternative minimum tax by allowing personal exemptions to be included in determining tax liability.
COST -- $96.1 billion over 10 years.
 
Savings and Investment
HOUSE
Would reduce the top rate on long-term capital gains from the sale of stocks, bonds and other assets. The rate would fall to 15 percent from 20 percent, and to 7.5 percent from 10 percent for people in the current 15 percent income tax bracket. It would apply retroactively to transactions after June 30 of this year.
COST -- $51.6 billion over 10 years.
 
Would also exclude some interest and dividend income from taxation, with the amount increasing to a maximum of $400 for joint filers and $200 for singles in 2003.
COST -- $19.6 billion over 10 years.
 
SENATE
Would make a variety of changes intended to stimulate more retirement savings. Among the changes would be increasing the contribution limit for individual retirement accounts to $5,000 from $2,000, increasing the income limits that determine eligibility for tax-deductible IRA's, and gradually increasing the maximum annual contribution to 401(k) programs to $15,000 from $10,000.
COST -- $69.5 billion over 10 years.
 
Inheritance Tax
 
HOUSE
Would phase out the estate and gift tax, which is currently levied on estates and gifts valued at $650,000 or more.
COST -- $65.4 billion over 10 years.
 
SENATE
Would reduce the estate and gift tax. Would reduce the top rate to 50 percent. Would change the unified credit that excludes most estates from taxation to an exemption. Would increase the exemption to $1.5 million from $1 million starting in 2007.
COST -- $58.6 billion over 10 years.
 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (79%); 

STATE: DELAWARE, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: TEXAS REPUBLICAN (56%); MEDICARE (56%); 

ORGANIZATION: MEDICARE (56%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%); DELAWARE, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: TAXATION TAXES & TAXATION (94%); TAX LAW (92%); INCOME TAX (91%); LEGISLATION (90%); TAX RELIEF (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (89%); CONSERVATISM (79%); US POLITICAL PARTIES (79%); VETO (79%); TALKS & MEETINGS (78%); CAPITAL GAINS TAX (78%); PHARMACY BENEFITS (74%); PRESCRIPTION DRUG INSURANCE (69%); HORSES (64%); PRESCRIPTION DRUGS (54%); 

PERSON: STEVENSON, RICHARD W; CLINTON, BILL (PRES) BILL CLINTON (90%); JOHN KERRY (79%); JAY ROCKEFELLER (74%); MICHAEL N CASTLE (59%); JIM BUNNING (59%); TED KENNEDY (59%); MITCH MCCONNELL (59%); TOM DASCHLE (58%); 

LOAD-DATE: July 30, 1999



711 of 738 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 30, 1999

SECTION: Section C; Page 8; Column 5; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 887 words

HEADLINE: THE MARKETS: STOCKS & BONDS;
SharePrices Tumble After Report Shows Gains in Wages

BYLINE: By ROBERT D. HERSHEY Jr. 

 BODY:
Stock prices tumbled sharply and broadly yesterday after the Government reported that employers paid unexpectedly large wage and benefit increases during the spring quarter, making it more likely -- but by no means certain -- that the Federal Reserve will again increase interest rates to avert inflation.
As traders reacted to a 1.1 percent jump in the Labor Department's employment cost index, the main gauges remained in negative territory throughout the session. The Dow Jones industrial average finished down 180.78 points, or 1.65 percent, at 10,791.29, but that was somewhat above its low. 
 For a while the Dow's slide was the biggest since May 27, but the late firming made it less severe than a 191.55-point selloff early last week.
The Standard & Poor's 500-stock index skidded 24.37 points, or 1.78 percent, closing at 1,341.03, while the recently-battered Nasdaq market took the biggest hit, dropping 65.83 points, or 2.43 percent, to 2,640.01.
"The numbers, chiefly the labor costs, were worse than expected," said Jeffrey M. Applegate, chief United States strategist at Lehman Brothers. "This makes another Federal Reserve tightening more likely than not."
A separate Labor Department report showed a sharp cut in first-time claims for unemployment insurance last week, suggesting that the labor market remained tight into summer. Market operators took little comfort from a Commerce Department estimate that the economy's growth rate was slower than had been expected during the spring.
Trading volume quickened a bit, but analysts said much of the weakness reflected program trades by professionals and there was little evidence of indiscriminate selling.
"This is just a correction, not the beginning of anything we should be concerned about," said Jeffrey Rubin, research director at Birinyi Associates. "It's not your grandmother going and throwing the baby out with the bathwater."
Others were less sanguine. For example, Richard T. McCabe, chief market analyst at Merrill Lynch, said, "It looks like a resumption of the downswing that started last week" when investors who had bet correctly on strong second-quarter profits decided to cash in. And the next upward push is unlikely to occur before the Fed's Aug. 24 policy meeting, he said, with the interim clouded by fears that the central bank will find much to fret about, especially next Friday's report on the labor market in July.
Paul Rich, a trader at BT Brokerage, largely agreed. "We're seeing some serious selling" because of interest-rate jitters, he said, expressing disappointment that good corporate earnings, the best since the first quarter of 1997, have been rewarded with such heavy profit-taking.
Bond prices also slumped yesterday on rate fears, putting pressure on financial stocks, with J. P. Morgan falling 3 3/8 to 130 5/8, leading the decline of the blue-chip Dow average.
Only four of the 30 Dow stocks gained. The only sizable gains were from Procter & Gamble, up 2 a share, to 88 1/8, and Minnesota Mining & Manufacturing, up 1 11/16, to 90 13/16. Both reported profits that beat expectations.
Gold stocks, one of the most depressed groups, were higher, with Newmont Mining rising 1 1/8, to 19 3/8.
Waste Management was a major casualty, skidding 5 1/2 a share, to 25 15/16, after warning again of lagging profits. The shares, which traded at 60 in early May, hit a new low of 24.
In a prominent initial public offering, Net2Phone's shares surged as high as 29 1/2 from 15 before closing at 26 9/16. A total of 18.7 million shares changed hands, meaning that each of the 5.4 million shares issued averaged more than three different owners.
Declining issues swamped advancing ones on the New York Stock Exchange, 2,242 to 809; there were 166 new lows compared with 31 new highs.
Major European stock markets, which were open long enough to digest the American economic news, closed with even bigger losses, ranging from 2.8 percent in Paris to 3.4 percent in Frankfurt. Mexico's Bolsa dropped nearly 4 percent while earlier, stock prices climbed 1.6 percent in Tokyo.

 	 	 		--------------------	 	
 
Treasury Prices Fall
 By Bloomberg News
Bond prices fell yesterday after a bigger-than-expected rise in second-quarter job costs fanned speculation the Federal Reserve might increase interest rates soon.
The report heightened concern that rising labor costs would push up prices on goods and services, and now "there's a genuine concern that the Fed will take action" when it meets on Aug. 24, said Margo Cook, who helps invest the bond portfolio at Bank of New York, which manages $50 billion.
The price of the 30-year Treasury bond fell 25/32, to 88 27/32. The bond's yield, which moves in the opposite direction from the price, rose to 6.07 percent from 6.00 percent on Wednesday.
With today's declines, investors who bought 30-year bonds at the start of the year are now sitting on paper losses of 10.1 percent.
"The bond market is not taking this well," said Charles Parkhurst, co-head of Government bond trading at Salomon Smith Barney. "There's more concern that the Fed will raise rates."
Also raising bond traders' fears of inflation, crude oil traded at more than $21 a barrel on the New York Mercantile Exchange for the first time since November 1997.
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Graph tracks the Dow Jones industrial average over the past year. (Sources: Associated Press; Bloomberg Financial Markets)
 
Tables: "Hot & Cold" provides a look at stocks with large percentage gains and losses; "The Favorite Stocks" lists stocks held by largest number of accounts at Merrill Lynch. (Compiled from staff reports, The Associated Press, Bloomberg News, Bridge News, Dow Jones, Reuters) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: MLY (LSE) (58%); MER (NYSE) (58%); 8675 (TSE) (58%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (58%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (58%); NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (58%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (58%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (58%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (58%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (79%); 

COMPANY: MERRILL LYNCH & CO INC (58%); LEHMAN BROTHERS HOLDINGS INC (55%); US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (54%); US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (54%); 

ORGANIZATION: US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (54%); US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (54%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%); 

SUBJECT: STOCKS AND BONDS; DOW JONES STOCK AVERAGE; STANDARD & POOR'S 500-STOCK INDEX; NASDAQ COMPOSITE INDEX; LABOR; WAGES AND SALARIES STOCK INDEXES (96%); WAGES & SALARIES (92%); STOCK EXCHANGES (90%); BOND MARKETS (90%); BONDS (90%); LABOR SECTOR PERFORMANCE (89%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (89%); COMPANY PROFITS (89%); INTERIM FINANCIAL RESULTS (78%); LABOR DEPARTMENTS (78%); JOBLESS CLAIMS (78%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (78%); EMPLOYMENT COSTS (78%); FINANCIAL RESULTS (78%); COMPANY EARNINGS (78%); INTEREST RATES (77%); ECONOMIC NEWS (77%); CENTRAL BANKS (77%); COMMERCE DEPARTMENTS (76%); UNEMPLOYMENT INSURANCE (73%); 

PERSON: HERSHEY, ROBERT D JR

LOAD-DATE: July 30, 1999



712 of 738 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 30, 1999

SECTION: Section B; Page 3; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk 

LENGTH: 572 words

HEADLINE: Multiplex Is Planned Above Bus Terminal

BYLINE: By THOMAS J. LUECK 

 BODY:
Continuing its efforts to transfer pieces of its vast real estate empire to private hands, the Port Authority of New York and New Jersey said yesterday that it had selected a developer to build a multiplex movie theater on top of its George Washington Bridge bus station in upper Manhattan.
Under the plan, approved by the Port Authority board yesterday, McCann Real Equities, a developer in Armonk, N.Y., will conduct a six-month engineering study for erecting the multiplex over the roof of the three-story station, which straddles the congested traffic lanes of the Cross Bronx Expressway leading to the George Washington Bridge in Washington Heights. 
 If the project proves feasible, the developer will build a 12-screen, 2,800-seat multiplex and sign a 40-year lease for its use. The deal calls for McCann to pay $20 million in lease payments to the Port Authority, increasing from $350,000 to $809,000 a year over the term of the lease. The plan was first reported yesterday in the New York Post.
Martin Berger, the managing partner of McCann, said yesterday that engineering studies had already been conducted on the bus station site and that he was "very encouraged" that the project could proceed.
Executives of the Port Authority said the project provided the latest example of how a private, money-making venture would provide a financial return on its real estate and benefit the public. Other recent ventures by the agency have included the transfer of two terminals at Kennedy International Airport to private operations and the sale of land it had owned in Yonkers. The agency also plans to sell development rights for a hotel or other private development over the Port Authority bus depot at 42d Street and Eighth Avenue.
"This project will be a powerful economic tool for economic revitalization in Washington Heights," Charles A. Gargano, vice chairman of the Port Authority and the chief development adviser to Gov. George E. Pataki, said of the multiplex plan.
McCann has built several large projects in the New York area, including a multiplex theater in Huntington, N.Y., and a nursing home in Jackson Heights, Queens. Mr. Berger said the Washington Heights project was appealing because the neighborhood had been bypassed by the recent wave of movie theater construction elsewhere in the city.
"It is pretty close to a free zone," he said, adding that McCann hoped to start building by the end of the year and complete its project by the end of 2000. He said McCann was negotiating with several large movie theater chains, which he declined to name, to select an operator of the Washington Heights multiplex.
The main construction difficulty, Mr. Berger said, stems from the bus station's location directly above local streets and highway lanes leading to the George Washington Bridge, which would require crews to work mainly at night and on weekends.
The plan calls for the multiplex to be built on pillars rising above the roof of bus station, which is now used for public parking. By leaving the roof in place, Mr. Berger said, it could be used by the multiplex operators for customer parking, providing 150 spaces.
But despite its location at a major interchange of car traffic, he said that no more parking spaces were planned than those already set aside on the bus station roof, and that most patrons would be expected to use public transportation to get to the multiplex.
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Map of Manhattan shows location of the proposed theaters: The George Washington Bridge bus station might get theaters.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

INDUSTRY: NAICS485999 ALL OTHER TRANSIT & GROUND PASSENGER TRANSPORTATION (91%); SIC4119 LOCAL PASSENGER TRANSPORTATION, NEC (91%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (96%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (96%); NEW JERSEY, USA (93%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%); 

COMPANY: PORT AUTHORITY OF NEW YORK AND NEW JERSEY; MCCANN REAL EQUITIES PORT AUTHORITY OF NEW YORK & NEW JERSEY (91%); PORT AUTHORITY (94%); NEW YORK (67%); 

ORGANIZATION: PORT AUTHORITY OF NEW YORK AND NEW JERSEY; MCCANN REAL EQUITIES PORT AUTHORITY (94%); NEW YORK (67%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK CITY; UNITED STATES (96%); NEW YORK, USA (96%); NEW JERSEY, USA (93%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%); 

SUBJECT: MOTION PICTURES; THEATERS (BUILDINGS) PORT AUTHORITIES (92%); REAL ESTATE (90%); MOVIE THEATERS (90%); BUS STATIONS & TERMINALS (90%); CITY GOVERNMENT (89%); INDOOR RECREATIONAL CONSTRUCTION (77%); CITY LIFE (75%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (74%); APPROVALS (73%); LEASE AGREEMENTS (73%); AIRPORTS (64%); 

PERSON: LUECK, THOMAS J MARTIN BERGER (79%); 

LOAD-DATE: July 30, 1999



713 of 738 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 30, 1999

SECTION: Section B; Page 4; Column 4; Metropolitan Desk 

LENGTH: 736 words

HEADLINE: Hillary Clinton Shifts Her Focus to Taxes

BYLINE: By ADAM NAGOURNEY 

DATELINE: ELMIRA, N.Y., July 29

 BODY:
Hillary Rodham Clinton came to this Republican patch of upstate New York today intent on embracing what Democrats see as a major issue in next year's Congressional elections: the Republican drive to put through the largest Federal tax cut since 1982. But she also found herself again discussing the question of whether someone who does not live in New York could represent it in the Senate.
The First Lady, on her third week of touring the state since she officially began exploring a Senate race, sought to frame her latest "listening forum" around the Republican tax bill being debated in Washington, which President Clinton has said he would veto. 
 "There is a debate going on in the Senate about a nearly $1 trillion Republican tax cut that I believe would damage most New Yorkers," Mrs. Clinton said. Mayor Rudolph W. Giuliani, who is likely to seek the Republican nomination for the Senate seat, declined today to say if he supports the proposal being advanced by fellow Republicans in Washington, though he has said he supports using some of the Federal surplus for a tax cut.
Even as Mrs. Clinton sought to turn the topic to Republican fiscal policy with what were her most partisan remarks since she began this tour, she twice found herself answering questions from Elmira residents about her interest in representing a state where she has never lived.
Both of the residents were cordial, and afterward, both said they were impressed by her answers. Nonetheless, their questions, coming after the First Lady has spent a fair amount of time in the state -- and in a week in which Mr. Giuliani traveled to Little Rock, Ark., where Mrs. Clinton used to live, to draw attention to the issue -- suggest the task that Mrs. Clinton faces.
"If you become Senator from New York State," asked David Caton, a factory worker at the Hillard Corporation plant here, "would you work at getting a bill through that you have to be a resident for 'X' amount of time before you can run for office?"
"No, that would be a state decision," Mrs. Clinton responded instantly. "That's in the State Constitution and it's state law. So the people of New York would have to make whatever changes they would make through their State Legislature."
As Mrs. Clinton and Mr. Caton exchanged smiles and handshakes, she then called out with a grin: "But I like it the way it is."
The question came up again at the end of the forum, when Jim Davis, a registered Republican who is an executive with a natural gas company here, told Mrs. Clinton that he admired her work in Washington. "But why did you choose New York, and how are you going to overcome the carpetbagger question?" he asked.
"It's a very fair question," Mrs. Clinton said. She said that she and her husband had decided to live in New York before anyone raised the idea of her running for Senate. And then, when some New Yorkers began pushing her to consider running for the seat being vacated by Senator Daniel Patrick Moynihan, she found, she said, that many of the concerns that they raised, like health care, mirrored her own interests.
"Ultimately, it will be up to the people of New York," she said.
The re-emergence of the residency issue today had to be somewhat frustrating to Mrs. Clinton. Her decision to discuss the Republican tax cut plan so pointedly today marked a strategic departure at these sessions. By all appearances, she was trying to engage Mr. Giuliani on an issue that her advisers believe will be a vital one in the months ahead.
In describing her opposition to the Republican tax plan, Mrs. Clinton reprised many of the arguments being made by Democrats in Washington, including the President.
"It does not do enough for Social Security," she said. "It does not provide one additional dollar for Medicare. And it certainly doesn't provide a prescription drug benefit for seniors who need it. It would undermine the kind of education aid that New York needs for its schools and colleges. And it very well might undermine the economic progress we have made for the past eight years."
Mr. Giuliani, speaking in Alabama during a fund-raising trip on Wednesday, said that he supported using some of the surplus for a tax cut but that he did not have a position on the Republican plan.
"Oh, I'd really have to analyze those proposals," he said. "I would support reducing taxes. Exactly which proposals, I would have to go over."
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photo: Hillary Rodham Clinton greeted residents in Elmira, N.Y., yesterday at Granny's Restaurant, where she ate lunch. Mrs. Clinton is touring New York in preparation for a possible race for the United States Senate. (Keith Meyers/The New York Times)
 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

INDUSTRY: NAICS 213112 OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (62%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (97%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (97%); ARKANSAS, USA (79%); 

CITY: LITTLE ROCK, AR, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: SENATE (US)

ORGANIZATION: SENATE (US)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK STATE; ELMIRA (NY); UNITED STATES (97%); NEW YORK, USA (97%); ARKANSAS, USA (79%); LITTLE ROCK, AR, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: ELECTIONS; ELECTION ISSUES; TAXATION US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (92%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (91%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (91%); TAXES & TAXATION (91%); ELECTIONS (90%); US FEDERAL ELECTIONS (90%); TAX LAW (90%); PLATFORMS & ISSUES (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (89%); VETO (78%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (77%); LEGISLATION (77%); PUBLIC POLICY (77%); PUBLIC FINANCE (73%); ECONOMIC POLICY (66%); ECONOMIC NEWS (66%); OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (62%); NATURAL GAS PRODUCTS (50%); 

PERSON: NAGOURNEY, ADAM; CLINTON, HILLARY RODHAM HILLARY RODHAM CLINTON (95%); BILL CLINTON (79%); RUDY GIULIANI (58%); JIM DAVIS (54%); 

LOAD-DATE: July 30, 1999



714 of 738 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 30, 1999

SECTION: Section C; Page 1; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk

LENGTH: 587 words

HEADLINE: BUSINESS DIGEST

 BODY:

Big Gain in Labor Costs Raises Fear of Higher Rates
The Labor Department reported that the so-called employment cost index rose 1.1 percent from the first to the second quarter of the year, its biggest increase in eight years. The unexpected gain overshadowed a separate Government report that showed the robust American economy took a breather in the spring. 
 Stock and bond prices plunged as investors appeared worried that Alan Greenspan, the Federal Reserve chairman, who closely monitors the employment gauge, might be more likely to favor raising interest rates to keep inflation in check. Page A1.
 
Stock and Bond Prices Tumble
Stock and bond prices fell on inflation fears. The Dow Jones industrial average declined 180.78 points, or 1.65 percent, to 10,791.29. The Standard & Poor's 500-stock index skidded 24.37 points, or 1.78 percent, to 1,341.03, and the Nasdaq composite index decreased 65.83 points, or 2.43 percent, to 2,640.01. The yield on the 30-year Treasury bond increased to 6.07 percent from 6 percent on Wednesday. C8.
 
The National Association of Securities Dealers board authorized its staff to step up preparations for converting the Nasdaq stock market into a publicly traded company. C7.
 
Trash Hauler Issues Profit Warning
Waste Management warned for the second time this month that its second-quarter earnings would be tepid at best. Though the company announced several steps, including the resignations of Gregory T. Sangalis, its general counsel, and Earl E. DeFrates, its chief financial officer, to improve its forecasting ability and shore up its bottom line, Wall Street was not appeased. Investors sent the shares down $5.50, to $25.9375, less than half the $60 the stock peaked at May 4. C2.
 
Rejection of Airline Deal Expected
The Department of Transportation is expected to reject the three-year effort by American Airlines and British Airways to win approval to share revenue and to coordinate schedules and fares. But the two carriers said they would broaden their cooperation in other ways. C2.
 
Japan Punishes Credit Suisse
Japanese authorities imposed severe sanctions on the Credit Suisse Group, closing a six-month investigation into the firm's sale of derivative securities intended to help Japanese banks and companies hide huge losses. C6.
 
Procter & Gamble Tops Forecasts
Procter & Gamble, aided by successful new products and recovering foreign markets, reported robust quarterly earnings that beat Wall Street expectations. C7.
 
Martha Stewart to Issue Stock
Martha Stewart, the doyenne of domestic details, plans to sell $100 million in stock in her company, Martha Stewart Living Omnimedia, according to documents filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission. Investors will be able to buy stock in a company dominated by the monthly magazine Martha Stewart Living, but whose television, merchandising and Internet businesses are growing robustly. C4.
 
Strong Earnings for AT&T and MCI
The nation's two largest long-distance telephone carriers, AT&T and MCI Worldcom, posted strong quarterly earnings. MCI met forecasts and AT&T was a bit higher. C4.
 
2 Weeks Given to Resolve Dispute
Morgan Stanley Dean Witter and the Equal Employment Opportunity Commission have been given two weeks to resolve a dispute over whether the firm must produce all the information the Federal Government agency has subpoenaed in a sex discrimination case, people briefed on court proceedings said. C7.
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Chart: "YESTERDAY"
Dow industrials -- 10,791.29 down 180.78
30-yr. Treasury yield -- 6.07% up 0.07
The euro -- $1.073 up 0.007
The dollar -- 115.40 yen down 0.72
 
Graph: "TODAY" shows percent change in personal income, from Dec. 1998 through May 1999. June figures due today. Expected: +0.5%

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Summary

TICKER: CSGN (SWX) (81%); CS (NYSE) (81%); NDAQ (NASDAQ) (55%); PGP (PAR) (51%); PG (NYSE) (51%); MSO (NYSE) (50%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (81%); NAICS524126 DIRECT PROPERTY & CASUALTY INSURANCE CARRIERS (81%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (81%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (81%); SIC4512 AIR TRANSPORTATION, SCHEDULED (58%); NAICS523210 SECURITIES & COMMODITY EXCHANGES (55%); SIC6231 SECURITIES & COMMODITY EXCHANGES (55%); NAICS481111 SCHEDULED PASSENGER AIR TRANSPORTATION (53%); NAICS325620 TOILET PREPARATION MANUFACTURING (51%); NAICS325611 SOAP & OTHER DETERGENT MANUFACTURING (51%); NAICS322291 SANITARY PAPER PRODUCT MANUFACTURING (51%); SIC2844 PERFUMES, COSMETICS, & OTHER TOILET PREPARATIONS (51%); SIC2841 SOAPS & OTHER DETERGENTS, EXCEPT SPECIALTY CLEANERS (51%); SIC2676 SANITARY PAPER PRODUCTS (51%); NAICS512191 TELEPRODUCTION & OTHER POSTPRODUCTION SERVICES (50%); NAICS511120 PERIODICAL PUBLISHERS (50%); NAICS454113 MAIL-ORDER HOUSES (50%); NAICS423220 HOME FURNISHING MERCHANT WHOLESALERS (50%); NAICS332215 METAL KITCHEN COOKWARE, UTENSIL, CUTLERY & FLATWARE (EXCEPT PRECIOUS) MANUFACTURING (50%); NAICS327110 POTTERY, CERAMICS & PLUMBING FIXTURE MANUFACTURING (50%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%); JAPAN (93%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (92%); 

COMPANY: CREDIT SUISSE GROUP AG (81%); AMERICAN AIRLINES INC (58%); NASDAQ OMX GROUP INC (55%); BRITISH AIRWAYS PLC (53%); PROCTER & GAMBLE CO (51%); MARTHA STEWART LIVING OMNIMEDIA INC (50%); FINANCIAL INDUSTRY REGULATORY AUTHORITY (FINRA) (55%); 

ORGANIZATION: FINANCIAL INDUSTRY REGULATORY AUTHORITY (FINRA) (55%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%); JAPAN (93%); NEW YORK, USA (92%); 

SUBJECT: NO INDEX TERMS FROM NYTIMES STOCK INDEXES (94%); BONDS (91%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); NEWS BRIEFS (90%); EMPLOYMENT COSTS (90%); STOCK EXCHANGES (90%); INFLATION (90%); BOND MARKETS (90%); INTERIM FINANCIAL RESULTS (89%); COMPANY EARNINGS (89%); AIRLINES (85%); LABOR DEPARTMENTS (78%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (78%); INVESTIGATIONS (78%); DERIVATIVE INSTRUMENTS (78%); PRICE CHANGES (78%); COMPANY PROFITS (78%); BANKING & FINANCE (76%); TREASURY SECURITIES (76%); BANKING & FINANCE ASSOCIATIONS (76%); BANKING & FINANCE REGULATION (76%); BANKING & FINANCE AGENCIES (76%); GOVERNMENT BONDS (76%); STOCK OFFERINGS (74%); INTEREST RATES (73%); APPROVALS (72%); PROFIT WARNINGS (72%); SELF REGULATING ORGANIZATIONS (71%); INTERNET & WWW (69%); EXECUTIVES (65%); SOLID WASTE COLLECTION (65%); NEW PRODUCTS (64%); LAWYERS (63%); 

PERSON: ALAN GREENSPAN (56%); MARTHA STEWART (50%); 

LOAD-DATE: July 30, 1999



715 of 738 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 30, 1999

SECTION: Section A; Page 1; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 1150 words

HEADLINE: Jump in Labor Cost Prompts Fear of Rising Interest Rates

BYLINE: By SYLVIA NASAR 

 BODY:
An unexpected spike in an important inflation warning signal that tracks labor costs spooked financial markets yesterday, overshadowing a separate Government report that showed the robust American economy took a breather in the spring.
Despite the reassuring signs that the economy was not overheating, both the stock and bond markets fell sharply after the Labor Department reported that the employment cost index rose 1.1 percent from the first to the second quarter of the year, its biggest gain in eight years. The measure tracks changes in total compensation -- wages and salaries, of course, but also fringe benefits like health insurance and pension contributions. Both benefits and pay leapt, with the biggest increases coming in the highest-and lowest-paying industries. 
 Investors appeared worried that the Federal Reserve chairman, Alan Greenspan, who closely monitors the gauge, might now be more likely to favor raising interest rates in the near future as a preventive measure against rising prices.
The Dow Jones industrial average dropped 180.78 points, or 1.65 percent, to close at 10,791.29. The broader market fell even more, with the Standard & Poor's 500 index down 1.78 percent and the Nasdaq composite index dropping 2.43 percent.
The Treasury market, ever sensitive to inflation fears, took a direct hit. The price of the benchmark 30-year bond was down about three-quarters of a point as the yield, which moves in the opposite direction, rose to 6.07 percent from 6 percent on Wednesday.
The Fed already nudged short-term rates up by a quarter of a point at the end of June, and in the past several days Mr. Greenspan has warned that he would act "promptly and forcefully" at the first hint that inflation was accelerating.
But several analysts cautioned that the financial markets may have overreacted to the threat of inflation and that any upswing in prices was likely to be muted.
"The best days of inflation news may be behind us," said Nicholas Perna, chief economist at the Fleet Bank in Hartford. Still, he added, "nothing untoward is necessarily down the road."
And Bill Cheney, chief economist at John Hancock, the insurance and investment company in Boston, said that the big rise in compensation costs last quarter needed to be balanced against the previous two quarters, when the gain was unusually small. "The wage inflation picture is still benign," he said.
Meanwhile, even though economic growth moderated significantly in the April-June quarter, there were plenty of signs of continued strength in the latest figures.
The gross domestic product -- the nation's total output of goods and services -- expanded at a modest 2.3 percent annual pace, not much more than half the rate of last winter, the Commerce Department reported yesterday.
The slowdown in growth was much more abrupt than forecasters had been expecting.
American consumers, who had lately been doing so much of the world's buying, pulled back from their torrid 6.7 percent spending pace earlier in the year. But spending still advanced at a robust annual rate of 4 percent, with Americans digging deeper into debt by shopping more avidly than their gains in take-home pay could support.
The trade deficit continued to serve as a drag on the economy, but it was a less severe brake than in recent periods. Spending on housing slowed considerably and so did the accumulation of inventories by American businesses.
By contrast, business investment in equipment and buildings grew at a strong annual rate of 9.1 percent and computer purchases by businesses advanced at a blazing 41.5 percent annual rate.
After two years of growth well in excess of the 2.5 to 3 percent rate the Fed deems sustainable over the long haul, the signs of moderation would normally have been cause for celebration on Wall Street.
But instead it was the surprisingly large 1.1 percent jump in the Labor Department's employment cost index that created a commotion.
Financial firms sharply raised bonuses while retailers, coping with labor shortages in many parts of the country, increased both pay and benefits. The second-quarter increase was the biggest spurt since the spring of 1991 and nearly three times the first quarter's tiny increase of four-tenths of 1 percent.
Wages and salaries grew faster than fringe benefits, but benefit costs rose by nearly a percentage point in the spring. Costs for employer-provided health insurance had been remarkably tame in recent years, thanks to the pressure on most workers to shift to health maintenance organizations. But economists have been warning for some time that once the one-time savings have been achieved, health care costs will start rising faster. They now appear to be doing so.
Investors have been worried that the Fed was preparing to initiate a series of rate increases to rein in the exuberant economy. The outsize spurt in labor costs seemed to confirm their anxieties.
The economic picture, however, does not look as alarmingly different as the headline numbers on yesterday's reports made it seem.
Take the labor cost data first. For one thing, the spurt in labor costs followed a puzzling slowdown last winter when the index barely rose even as unemployment dropped to its lowest level in three decades. For another, compensation costs for private industry are up just 3.3 percent from a year ago, less than the 3.5 percent rise the previous year.
As of now, it is still possible that labor costs are simply catching up, and that the second quarter does not signal a new trend. "Nobody will know for another few quarters whether the second quarter increase was an aberration," Mr. Perna said.
Further, there was no evidence in yesterday's G.D.P. report that actual inflation was accelerating or that American corporations were finding it any easier to pass cost increases on to consumers. While import prices moved up sharply, the so-called G.D.P. deflator, which measures the prices of all domestically produced goods and services, rose at a tame 1.6 percent annual rate in the spring.
By the same token, the economy still appears to have plenty of momentum. After the big blowout on cars and other big-ticket items, which was accompanied by a surge in borrowing, a slowdown was not only inevitable, but reassuring.
Over all, the evidence seemed to point to a slight cooling off of the economy. "Slower growth in consumption, housing and inventories," said Dean Baker, an economist at the Preamble Center, a liberal advocacy group in Washington, "should eliminate any immediate concerns that the economy is growing at an unsustainable rate."
But given the mixed picture, investors and analysts will focus on next Friday's release of July employment data.
"The economy is moderating but the Fed is still on hair-trigger alert," said Bruce Steinberg, chief economist at Merrill Lynch in New York. "Stay tuned."
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Graph: "Rising Labor Costs" plots the employment cost index from 1991 through 1998. (Source: Bloomberg Financial Markets)(pg. C2)
 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: DJ (NYSE) (56%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS519110 NEWS SYNDICATES (56%); NAICS516110 INTERNET PUBLISHING AND BROADCASTING (56%); NAICS511110 NEWSPAPER PUBLISHERS (56%); SIC2711 NEWSPAPERS: PUBLISHING, OR PUBLISHING & PRINTING (56%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%); 

CITY: BOSTON, MA, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: LABOR DEPARTMENT (US); FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM; COMMERCE DEPARTMENT DOW JONES & CO INC (56%); DOW JONES & CO INC (56%); US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (59%); FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM (59%); US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (59%); FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM (59%); 

ORGANIZATION: LABOR DEPARTMENT (US); FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM; COMMERCE DEPARTMENT US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (59%); FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM (59%); US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (59%); FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM (59%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%); BOSTON, MA, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: UNITED STATES ECONOMY; EMPLOYMENT COST INDEX (ECONOMIC INDICATOR); STOCKS AND BONDS; CREDIT; LABOR; PRICES (FARES, FEES AND RATES); GROSS DOMESTIC PRODUCT STOCK INDEXES (91%); INTEREST RATES (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); TREASURY SECURITIES (90%); EMPLOYMENT COSTS (90%); MARKET OPEN CLOSE (90%); INFLATION (90%); BOND MARKETS (90%); BONDS (90%); WAGES & SALARIES (89%); GROSS DOMESTIC PRODUCT (89%); COMMERCE DEPARTMENTS (89%); MANUFACTURING OUTPUT (78%); LABOR DEPARTMENTS (78%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (78%); CENTRAL BANKS (78%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (78%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (78%); ECONOMIC INDICATORS (78%); PRICE INCREASES (76%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (76%); HEALTH INSURANCE (70%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (69%); 

PERSON: NASAR, SYLVIA; GREENSPAN, ALAN (CHMN) ALAN GREENSPAN (78%); 

LOAD-DATE: July 30, 1999



716 of 738 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 30, 1999

SECTION: Section A; Page 2; Column 3; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 1606 words

HEADLINE: NEWS SUMMARY

 BODY:

INTERNATIONAL A3-10
 
Mubarak Offers to Mediate For Peace in the Mideast
Egyptian President Hosni Mubarak offered to step in as an informal mediator to help settle a dispute that threatens to sidetrack the Middle East peace effort. After a meeting with Israeli Prime Minister Ehud Barak, Mr. Mubarak announced that the two men would soon meet with Yasir Arafat. A6
 
Albright Addresses Kosovars
Secretary of State Madeleine K. Albright addressed the Kosovar Albanians in their own capital on her first visit to Kosovo as Secretary of State. Her message was celebratory but cautious: a warning that lasting peace demands tolerance by all. A3 

Chinese Crackdown Continues
The Chinese police issued an arrest warrant for Li Hongzhi, the founder of a pacifist sect that has rattled China. The move was essentially meaningless because Mr. Li lives in New York and the United States does not have an extradition treaty with China. Chinese officials plan to meet with the State Department to press for Mr. Li's detention. A4
 
Search for Tourists Goes On
Rescue workers continued searching the rapids near Interlaken, Switzerland, for two tourists on a canyoning excursion who were missing after Tuesday's flash flood. The Swiss police have identified two of the 19 victims, a Swiss woman and a man from New Zealand who were guides on the excursion. A fireman told investigators he had warned the clients of Adventure World and their guides that an approaching storm could prove dangerous. A5
 
Sri Lankan Politician Killed
A leading Sri Lankan moderate who had sought a peaceful solution to the violent ethnic conflict that has raged for 16 years was killed in the capital by a suicide bomber. The politician, Neelan Tiruchelvam, a Tamil, had risked death for years in trying to end the strife between the mainly Buddhist majority and the Hindu Tamil minority in Sri Lanka. A10
 
Locusts a Threat in Asia
Locust swarms have spread from Kazakhstan into Russia, Uzbekistan and Kyrgyzstan, creating serious problems for farmers and posing an even a greater threat for next year's crops, according to a special alert issued by the U.N. Food and Agriculture Organization. (Reuters)
 
Blackout in Taiwan
Power was lost across the island of Taiwan on Thursday night. The cause of the blackout is under investigation, but the armed forces ruled out foul play involving China, noting that all military command and communication systems were operating normally and relying on independent power supplies. By early morning, power had been restored to most of the island. (Reuters)
 
World Briefing A10
 
NATIONAL A12-16
 
9 Slain in Atlanta Rampage; Gunman, 3 Kin Also Dead
A securities day trader killed nine people in two office buildings in Atlanta, eluded an extensive police manhunt for five hours, and then killed himself in his van after the police pulled him over in nearby Cobb County. Another 12 people were injured, seven of them from gunshot wounds, in the deadliest shooting spree in the city's history. The bodies of the suspect's wife and two children were found in an apartment in Stockbridge, 15 miles southeast of Atlanta, but it was unclear exactly when the three were shot. A1
 
Health Care Vote Delayed
The House Republican leadership backed away from plans to consider legislation on managed health care next week, with Speaker J. Dennis Hastert conceding that a vote before the August recess was now unlikely. The action comes in the face of another rebellion from some moderate and conservative Republicans. A1
 
Proposition 187 Is Killed
Proposition 187, a landmark California ballot referendum that barred illegal immigrants and their children from receiving services such as a public education, has been declared all but dead. Gov. Gray Davis has agreed to drop an appeal of a Federal court's ruling that found much of it unconstitutional, opponents of the measure agreed to drop lawsuits against the state and the United States Court of Appeals for the Ninth Circuit dismissed all Proposition 187 appeals. A1
 
G.O.P. Closer to Tax Cuts
Republicans moved closer to Senate passage of a $792 billion tax cut over the opposition of President Clinton and Congressional Democrats. But they still face the difficult task of uniting the party on what form the cuts should take. A16
 
Security Training Ordered
Energy Secretary Bill Richardson has ordered a one-day stand-down of many of the department's research and defense-related operations next week for counter-espionage and security training in the wake of charges that China has stolen United States nuclear secrets from a weapons laboratory. A16
 
Visa Improprieties Charged
A House panel accused a former State Department employee at the American Embassy in Beijing of improperly granting visas to Chinese citizens seeking entry to the United States -- sometimes approving entry documents for friends of a Democratic fund-raiser in return for gifts. A13
 
Clinton Fine Decided
A Federal judge ordered President Clinton to pay nearly $90,000 to Paula Corbin Jones's lawyers in compensation for extra work they performed due to the President's false testimony about his relationship with Monica S. Lewinsky. A15
 
Casino Opens in Detroit
Detroit has become the largest city in the United States with a casino. MGM Grand Detroit is the first of three casinos to open in Detroit this summer in an effort to bring prosperity back to the blighted city. A12
 
NEW YORK/REGION B1-10
 
Commuting a Nightmare On Long Island Rail Road
The 144,000 people who ride the Long Island Rail Road every day are brimming over with rage. The railroad's car fleet is literally falling apart; a purchase of 134 new diesel coaches is behind schedule; the 52 coaches that have entered service are riddled with mechanical, air-conditioning and computer problems, and the railroad cannot keep up with breakdowns. A1
 
Leader for State Police
Gov. Whitman is preparing to offer the job of commander of the New Jersey State Police to a Federal agent, Carson Dunbar, officials said. The Governor, looking to end her long and politically turbulent search to fill the post, is brushing aside criticism that Mr. Dunbar was responsible for shutting down F.B.I. surveillance of a group of suspected terrorists six months before they bombed the World Trade Center. B1
 
Questions for the First Lady
Hillary Rodham Clinton found herself again discussing the question of whether someone who does not live in New York could represent it in the Senate. While the First Lady tried to focus on the Republican plan for tax cuts on her visit to Elmira, N.Y., she was asked about her residency. B4
 
Woodstock Rape Inquiry
The State Police began interviewing crisis counselors from the Woodstock concert and reviewed videotapes for evidence of rapes they said occurred in the campground and near the main music stage. The police said they knew of four rapes at the three-day event, in Rome, N.Y. B1
 
Immigrants on Hunger Strike
A group of asylum seekers being held at the Immigration and Naturalization Service detention center in Queens have refused meals for three days to press demands that they be released on parole until their cases are decided, lawyers said. B7
 
WEEKEND E1-32; E33-44
 
SPORTS D1-8
 
OBITUARIES A17
 
Malachi Brendan Martin
An Irish-born former Jesuit priest and Vatican scholar who went on to write thrillers about the Roman Catholic Church, he was 78. A17
 
BUSINESS DAY C1-20
 
Stocks and Bonds Plunge
Stock and bond markets fell sharply after the Labor Department reported a surprisingly large 1.1 percent jump in its employment cost index. Traders feared that Federal Reserve chairman Alan Greenspan, who closely monitors the index for signs of inflation, might now be more likely to favor raising interest rates in the near future to head off rising prices. The Dow Jones industrial finished down 1.65 percent, the S.& P. 500 skidded 1.78 percent, and the Nasdaq composite dropped 2.43 percent. A1
 
DaimlerChrysler Stock Down
Shares of DaimlerChrysler A.G. took a pounding after the company turned in flat second-quarter earnings. Shares of the company, formed when Daimler-Benz A.G. bought Chrysler, dropped 6.8 percent in Frankfurt. They fared even worse in the United States, falling 8.75 percent. C1
 
Martha Stewart to Go Public
Martha Stewart will sell $100 million in stock in her company, Martha Stewart Living Omnimedia, according to documents filed with the S.E.C. But Ms. Stewart is retaining control of the company -- whose television, merchandising and Internet businesses are growing robustly -- that had $180 million in revenue last year. C4
 
Good Quarter for AT&T and MCI
AT&T and MCI Worldcom, the nation's two largest long-distance telephone carriers, announced strong quarterly financial results -- propelled by just about everything except long-distance phone service. The results underscored the fact that the recipe for growth in the long-distance business seems to be to expand into new markets while chopping costs in the old ones. C4
Business Digest C1
 
EDITORIAL A18-19
 
Editorials: The Atlanta shootings; rebuilding the Balkans; a deserved fine for Mr. Clinton; sneaky summer charter changes.
Columns: A. M. Rosenthal, Thomas L. Friedman.
 
Crossword E43
 
TV Listings E31
 
Public Lives B2
 
Weather B8
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photos

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Summary

COUNTRY: KOSOVO (94%); MIDDLE EAST (94%); CHINA (94%); SRI LANKA (93%); EGYPT (92%); UNITED STATES (92%); ISRAEL (92%); TAIWAN (92%); INDIA (92%); UZBEKISTAN (79%); SWITZERLAND (79%); KYRGYZSTAN (79%); NEW ZEALAND (79%); ALBANIA (79%); ASIA (79%); KAZAKHSTAN (79%); 

STATE: GEORGIA, USA (92%); TAMIL NADU, INDIA (92%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); 

CITY: ATLANTA, GA, USA (92%); BERN, SWITZERLAND (79%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: KOSOVO (94%); MIDDLE EAST (94%); CHINA (94%); SRI LANKA (93%); EGYPT (92%); UNITED STATES (92%); ISRAEL (92%); TAIWAN (92%); INDIA (92%); UZBEKISTAN (79%); SWITZERLAND (79%); KYRGYZSTAN (79%); NEW ZEALAND (79%); ALBANIA (79%); ASIA (79%); KAZAKHSTAN (79%); GEORGIA, USA (92%); TAMIL NADU, INDIA (92%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); ATLANTA, GA, USA (92%); BERN, SWITZERLAND (79%); 

SUBJECT: NO INDEX TERMS FROM NYTIMES RESCUE OPERATIONS (90%); TALKS & MEETINGS (90%); PEACE PROCESS (90%); NEWS BRIEFS (90%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (89%); POWER FAILURES (89%); CRIMINAL INVESTIGATIONS (88%); INVESTIGATIONS (86%); STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (79%); BUDDHISTS & BUDDHISM (78%); AGRICULTURE DEPARTMENTS (77%); ETHNIC CONFLICTS (76%); WEATHER (75%); RELIGION (74%); DISASTER RELIEF (72%); PRIME MINISTERS (72%); WAR & CONFLICT (70%); ARREST WARRANTS (69%); ARRESTS (69%); SUICIDE BOMBINGS (68%); INSECTS & ARACHNIDS (67%); CLIMBING (66%); WOUNDS & INJURIES (65%); EXTRADITION (54%); TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (53%); 

PERSON: HOSNI MUBARAK (90%); EHUD BARAK (57%); 

LOAD-DATE: July 30, 1999



717 of 738 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 30, 1999

SECTION: Section A; Page 12; Column 1; National Desk 

LENGTH: 1003 words

HEADLINE: Detroit, Still Blighted, Puts Hopes in Casinos

BYLINE: By ROBYN MEREDITH 

DATELINE: DETROIT, July 29

 BODY:
With glittering lights and the roll of dice, a casino opened here today, the first of a number of promised attractions that Detroit is counting on to bring long-lost prosperity back to its blighted streets.
The MGM Grand Detroit is the first of three casinos due to open before the end of the year, making Detroit the largest city in the United States with casinos. Two new sports stadiums will follow close on their heels, and the momentum has helped persuade the Compuware Corporation, maker of software, to announce plans to move its headquarters and 6,000 workers downtown from the suburbs. 
 The three casinos are expected to add 7,000 to 8,000 jobs in Detroit, where the unemployment rate, 7 percent, is more than double the suburban rate.
"The casino represents a piece of the puzzle that will be of enormous help that will enhance the city's economy and image," Mayor Dennis W. Archer said. "People will want to come to Detroit."
Ever since Henry Ford invented the assembly line, Detroit has been a gritty city; only the fleeting glamour of the Motown era interrupted its dirt-under-the-nails image. But just as Las Vegas used a string of casinos to transform itself from a lonely stretch of desert to a neon mecca, Detroit is hoping that opening casinos and building ball parks will make it a tourist destination as well.
The prospect of adding tens of millions of dollars to annual tax revenue persuaded a once-skeptical electorate to vote last spring to allow three casinos here. The three will eventually be situated on the city's waterfront, right across the Detroit River from a pair of competitors: government-run casinos in Windsor, Ontario.
Until those permanent Detroit casinos can be built, the city will make do with three temporary, less expensive versions, including the $220 million MGM Grand, which sits next to a highway downtown. They will stay open 24 hours a day, every day of the year.
At the MGM Grand, owned by the Las Vegas casino giant of the same name, bright lights beckon visitors to slot machines, some of which cost just a nickel to play. There are 80 table games -- blackjack or baccarat, pai gow or poker -- along with three restaurants, where gamblers can have something as simple as macaroni and cheese or as steady as a steak.
Except for all the card tables and slot machines, the place looks like a strip club. Most of the decorationsare of the two-legged variety, well-built young women wearing white-and-gold outfits cut low in front and high behind. These are the Grandettes, the waitresses and hostesses who serve up drinks and smiles to the customers.
By winter, the two other casinos are expected to open. And then thoughts will turn to the two new stadiums.
The Detroit Tigers will play their last home game at historic Tiger Stadium on Sept. 27 and will start up next April at Comerica Park, which construction crews have been working on all year. The new stadium, made of light brown brick, will replace one of the two oldest major league ball parks; Tiger Stadium opened on the same day in 1912 as Fenway Park in Boston.
The Ford family, which owns the Detroit Lions, has promised to build a $225 million football stadium next to the baseball park and, says Thomas J. Lewand, the Lions' vice president, could break ground for it by the end of the year.
Having pro football games downtown will itself benefit Detroit, which long ago lost the Lions to suburban Pontiac. But developers say the double-stadium complex is planned specifically not only to draw suburbanites into the city but to keep them there for a few extra hours.
Michael Ilitch, owner of the Tigers and the Detroit Red Wings hockey team, said that he planned a number of retail stores and restaurants and even a children's carousel in the stadium complex and that an Embassy Suites hotel would sprout just beyond right field. (The last new hotel here was built two decades ago.)
In fact, Mr. Ilitch believes that while the casinos will provide thousands of jobs, their impact on the city as a whole could be overstated.
"I think the people, when they go into the casinos, are not going to leave them," he said. "There's some spinoff from the casinos, but I don't think they're going to be the saviors by any means."
Still, he said, a momentum has been created in Detroit, and "the city will turn around."
To be sure, it has a long way to go. Race riots in 1967 caused the flight of tens of thousands of white residents, which in turn left this the nation's poorest big city. Detroit hit bottom in the 1980's, when a recession caused widespread layoffs in the auto industry just as crack hit the streets of the inner city. Even now, boarded-up buildings mar the downtown skyline, and on hot days people with nowhere better to be can be found whiling away the hours under trees in vacant lots, trying to stay cool.
The Mayor hopes to help some of those people, too, with taxes collected from the casinos. The city and the state will divide 18 percent of the gross profits from the gaming houses -- 55 percent of the tax share goes to Detroit and 45 percent to Michigan, which plans to spend the money on educational grants statewide. The city expects $250 million in casino taxes in the next four years.
Laying down their share will be people like Leona Monit, 49, a waitress from nearby Garden City, Mich. Ms. Monit, who was so eager to wager at the MGM Grand today that she lined up two hours before it opened at 4 P.M., said the casino would bring both good and bad to the city.
"The good is a lot of jobs, the bad is a lot of people are going to gamble who can't afford to," said Ms. Monit, who by 7:30 reported that she was even for the night, playing slots.
Among some of the gamblers, there was a buy-at-home sentiment. Gloria Wheeler, 58, who works on a pickup truck assembly line in Pontiac and was playing the slots tonight, said that she had been driving to the casinos in Windsor but that "it is better to turn over the money in the city."
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photos: Some were content to play the nickel slots, but they did not include Richard Larsh, who showed up ready to wager hundreds of dollars. (Hugh Grannum/Detroit Free Press); The MGM Grand Detroit opened just in time for Diane Merriweather, left, who won $900 at a slot machine. (Gabriel B. Tait/Detroit Free Press)
 
 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: CPWR (NASDAQ) (83%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS511210 SOFTWARE PUBLISHERS (83%); SIC7372 PREPACKAGED SOFTWARE (83%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (95%); CANADA (53%); 

STATE: MICHIGAN, USA (95%); NEVADA, USA (92%); ONTARIO, CANADA (53%); 

CITY: DETROIT, MI, USA (95%); LAS VEGAS, NV, USA (92%); 

COMPANY: MGM GRAND DETROIT CASINO COMPUWARE CORP (83%); 

ORGANIZATION: MGM GRAND DETROIT CASINO

GEOGRAPHIC: DETROIT (MICH); UNITED STATES (95%); CANADA (53%); MICHIGAN, USA (95%); NEVADA, USA (92%); ONTARIO, CANADA (53%); DETROIT, MI, USA (95%); LAS VEGAS, NV, USA (92%); 

SUBJECT: GAMBLING; CASINOS; LABOR; UNEMPLOYMENT DESTINATIONS & ATTRACTIONS (90%); GAMING (90%); CARD GAMES (89%); STADIUMS & ARENAS (89%); POKER (78%); CASINOS (78%); BASEBALL (76%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (74%); COMPANY RELOCATIONS (70%); COMPUTER SOFTWARE (70%); SUBURBS (70%); RESTAURANTS (65%); SOFTWARE MAKERS (55%); TOURISM (51%); 

PERSON: MEREDITH, ROBYN HENRY FORD II (55%); 

LOAD-DATE: July 30, 1999



718 of 738 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 30, 1999

SECTION: Section A; Page 3; Column 1; Foreign Desk 

LENGTH: 1069 words

HEADLINE: A Pillar of Opposition Who Keeps Belgrade Guessing

BYLINE: By STEVEN ERLANGER 

DATELINE: BELGRADE, Serbia, July 29

 BODY:
Dragoslav Avramovic is sorely tempted to heed the call, but he's nearly 80 and has serious kidney troubles, and he's not really sure the moment is ripe.
Mr. Avramovic, a frail, unlikely looking technocrat, is the most popular opposition figure in Yugoslavia, revered for beating back hyperinflation in 1994. And the Clinton Administration and the foundering Alliance for Change here are pushing him to become the Prime Minister of Serbia, the overwhelming power base in Yugoslavia, and there take a leading role in the effort to oust Slobodan Milosevic from the presidency of the Yugoslav federation. 
 But Mr. Avramovic, who speaks modestly but enjoys the spotlight, really is not convinced, he said in an interview on Wednesday, just before leaving today for Sarajevo, to attend a Balkan summit conference as the representative of the Serbian political opposition.
"I'm conscious of the pressure, and every morning I have a serious self-examination about whether to get in deeper and deeper," he said.
The country badly wants change, but not revolution, he said, and the opposition "has to have a theory about how it's going to work out."
"You just can't move from day to day without some idea of how it's going to work," he said.
The Alliance for Change, to which Mr. Avramovic belongs, and its rival, the Serbian Renewal Movement, which is led by Vuk Draskovic, both suggest the naming of a transitional government that they hope Mr. Milosevic will be forced to accept by popular pressure. That government is supposed to bring Yugoslavia back to the world's good graces and organize new elections, while Mr. Milosevic is supposed to resign.
A key member of the alliance, Vuk Obradovic, a former general, has openly pushed Mr. Avramovic to accept the leadership, as has the alliance coordinator, Vladan Batic. Mr. Avramovic, who will be 80 in October, is the least controversial possibility, with the broadest appeal.
But asked if he would agree to serve, Mr. Avramovic sighed.
"First, will there be a transitional government?" he said. "How will it take place?" He continued, "There's a theory that it will end up with a general strike, with all these people in the streets, but that's not clear."
Second, he said, "I'm not a young man, my health is not the best, and while I'll do what I can, I naturally have some reluctance to take on something with such demands."
And then there's his wife, Marija, "who thinks whatever I do is wrong," he said. "My wife says her whole life has been centered around me and public affairs," he continued, "and it's high time to have some family life."
The country demands and needs a change of leadership, he says. "The pressure comes from the feeling that there is no prospect for improvement now, for citizens or for their children," he said. "The prevailing uneasiness and demonstrations reflect this lack of perspective, and people in the streets reflect this pessimism and need for change."
After all, he said, Mr. Milosevic has been in power 10 years, "and there is an internal fatigue of a sort and a lack of imagination." While Mr. Milosevic "must feel it's not all his fault and the world illegitimately pushed him into a corner over Kosovo," Mr. Avramovic said, "the Government should not have gotten into a situation where the whole world is our enemy."
Mr. Avramovic, a socialist and lawyer who spent more than 20 years working with the World Bank, is disarming but shrewd. He says he wants to do no harm to the opposition, which he thinks is improving in its ability to work together. But he also has a healthy regard for the tactical strength of Mr. Milosevic and his ability to keep a tightly constrained economy afloat.
Mr. Avramovic served Mr. Milosevic from 1993 to 1996, mostly as governor of the central bank, probably saving the regime by ending hyperinflation.
His actions made him wildly popular. By ordering the exchange of 12 million old dinars for one new dinar equal to the German mark, he stabilized prices and wages and pensions, expanded the economy and gave the poor, old and working class not only hope, but sustenance.
He was dismissed in May 1996 after calling for the Government to resign after a dispute over monetary and fiscal policy, when he urged curbs on renewed inflation and refused to hand out loans indiscriminately. His popularity increased, and he is known as Deda Avram, or Grandpa Avram.
He agreed to lead the list of opposition candidates in the 1996 federal and local elections, and the list of the coalition Zajedno itself bore his name, as the list of the ruling coalition bore the name of Mr. Milosevic.
But shortly before the elections, Mr. Avramovic pulled out and insisted on taking his name off even the collective list. Many of the opposition were hurt and furious; Mr. Avramovic said simply that his health was too poor, but there were rumors, which he denies, that he was somehow blackmailed.
This week he talked about the decision, as he has rarely done. His health was indeed poor, he said; while he is off dialysis now, he was then having it three times a week, and his blood pressure was too high. But he also said he felt there were too many divisions within Zajedno, and that he "was pushed into deciding who would get what post, which was not my job." "I'm not a politician by training or by instinct," he said.
And last, "the coalition was moving too much to the right for my taste," both economically and politically, with too much of a nationalist tinge, he said.
Nationalism continues to disturb him, especially as the world wants "a non-domineering nation in Yugoslavia." He thinks Kosovo was a disaster and could have been kept within Yugoslavia had Mr. Milosevic agreed to make it a federal republic, instead of removing all its autonomy.
The Milosevic Government is not yet printing money, he said, and while there is a deep recession, basic commodities and food are probably adequate for the winter and at relatively stable prices.
But electricity is another matter. Many Yugoslavs heat with electricity, and the distribution system and the refineries were badly damaged by NATO bombs. Some Government ministers say they think that supplies will be one-third less than last year.
"If we can import electricity, will we have the hard currency for it, and if we get it, can we transmit it?" Mr. Avramovic said. "Really, this is the main threat to the regime."
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photo: Dragoslav Avramovic arrived at a recent opposition rally in Sabac. (Agence France-Presse)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Biography

COUNTRY: SERBIA (96%); SERBIA & MONTENEGRO (94%); UNITED STATES (79%); BOSNIA & HERZEGOVINA (79%); 

CITY: BELGRADE, SERBIA (93%); SARAJEVO, BOSNIA & HERZEGOVINA (79%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: SERBIA; SERBIA (96%); SERBIA & MONTENEGRO (94%); UNITED STATES (79%); BOSNIA & HERZEGOVINA (79%); BELGRADE, SERBIA (93%); SARAJEVO, BOSNIA & HERZEGOVINA (79%); 

SUBJECT: POLITICS AND GOVERNMENT; UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; SERBIA-INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS-US; BIOGRAPHICAL INFORMATION POLITICS (77%); US PRESIDENTS (76%); INTERVIEWS (76%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (76%); PRIME MINISTERS (76%); PROTESTS & DEMONSTRATIONS (72%); FAMILY (60%); 

PERSON: ERLANGER, STEVEN; CLINTON, BILL (PRES); AVRAMOVIC, DRAGOSLAV; MILOSEVIC, SLOBODAN (PRES) BILL CLINTON (72%); 

LOAD-DATE: July 30, 1999



719 of 738 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 30, 1999

SECTION: Section B; Page 1; Column 2; Metropolitan Desk 

LENGTH: 1671 words

HEADLINE: Waiters, a Newly Rare Ingredient;
Suddenly in Demand, They Have Become Demanding

BYLINE: By GLENN COLLINS 

 BODY:
A press of eager diners followed the boomlet of favorable reviews about Tabla and Eleven Madison Park, the new dining establishments owned by the empire-building Manhattan restaurateur Danny Meyer. So what could be bad?
Well, for starters, it was eight long weeks after the debut before he could open Eleven Madison Park for the lucrative lunch trade. Worse, it took eight full months for Tabla to be able to offer that perennial profit maker, Sunday-night dinner. 
 The reason? Mr. Meyer just couldn't find enough waiters.
With new upscale restaurants seemingly opening as fast as the most tyrannical maitre d'hotel could hope to turn a table, New York is in the throes of what people in the business describe as an escalating skilled-labor crisis.
It's "the worst shortage I've seen in 30 years," said Michael (Buzzy) O'Keefe, owner of the River Cafe and the Water Club. "It's across the board -- for waiters, sous-chefs, line cooks and front-of-house people."
The shortage is changing the nature of restaurants' employer-employee dynamic and transforming the culture of the dining trade, even affording waiters a measure of respectability they have rarely achieved outside Europe.
The dearth has led not only to headhunting but also to outright poaching. Luring waiters to work in new luxury eating places, managers are resorting to sweeteners ranging from fully paid health benefits and paid vacations to 401(k) retirement plans and free vouchers for meals in other top restaurants. And owners are increasingly relying on training to jump-start waiters from naifs to sophisticates.
The shortage has even fostered an ad hoc sort of unemployment insurance. When Cena, the highly regarded new three-star restaurant on East 22d Street, closed its doors this month, 50 stunned waiters, busboys and kitchen workers found themselves unemployed during the dog days of summer. Traditionally that's a nightmarish time to look for a job.
But 10 of Cena's unemployed were immediately snapped up to work at Sono, a new restaurant opening next month on East 57th Street. Others were hired at Gramercy Tavern, Zoe and Gotham Bar and Grill. Most of the former employees have landed permanent or temporary jobs.
While the need for waiters is cited most often, kitchen workers are also being stalked. "Every week I get calls from at least two or three new restaurants opening up," said Jennifer Roesch, student placement director for the 700 graduates of the French Culinary Institute. "Chefs are crying about how difficult it is to find qualified people."
"These days, the hard part is to choose which restaurant you want to work in," said Juan Pablo Vicente, a 35-year-old veteran of Patria and Osteria del Circo who is currently a waiter at Judson Grill.
Bernard Grenier, 39, a Judson Grill colleague who has waited tables at Zoe, Becco, Sign of the Dove and Tavern on the Green, agreed. "Now the whole job-interview process has changed," he said. "You used to be happy just to have a chance at a job. Now you feel free to question, to ask how much you can make -- and what the benefits are."
Waiters who work in hotel restaurants like Lespinasse and Le Cirque 2000 get pensions and health benefits through Local 6 of the Hotel Employees and Restaurant Employees Union. But most of the waiters at the city's top restaurants are nonunion.
Now, "increasingly we're seeing health benefits, paid vacations and even restaurants that pay for wine or cooking classes," said Eric Weiss, a Manhattan service and wine consultant. He added, "Such benefits were unheard-of only a few years ago."
Waiters are hardly celebrated for being treated well, and indeed in some New York restaurants they are still getting no respect -- or worse. Some cite horror stories about bullying owners, autocratic chefs and even managers who skim the waiters' pooled tips.
But as demand for skilled workers grows at premium restaurants, bargaining power is growing. For start-up restaurants, "It's even harder to attract staff, because experienced servers don't want to wait until the business builds," said Patrick O'Sullivan, a training consultant who is opening a 130-seat restaurant, Jack's Fifth, at 8 West 58th Street in September. To attract workers he is offering paid health insurance "and a 401(k) plan to all staff down to the dishwashers," he said.
Veterans of the dining wars have seen "a steady increase in benefits," said Carmine Cozzolino, a 40-year-old waiter at Le Cirque 2000. At Mr. Meyer's restaurants, employees get full dental coverage after three months. At Bayard's, owner Peter Poulakakos pays 100 percent of waiters' health insurance after three months and offers two weeks' paid vacation.
And now many fledgling eating places are easing the shortage by ambitiously educating their new servers. For example, there is a training session every evening for the wait staff of Pop, a buzzy new high-end restaurant at 127 Fourth Avenue near 12th Street in Manhattan.
"So, let's review," said Rudy Santos, the 37-year-old general manager, 20 minutes before the 6:30 arrival of the hungry horde on a recent evening. "When do we serve bread?" he asked the 16 young servers arrayed before him in the 130-seat restaurant's 1950's-Modern dining room.
There was a thoughtful pause. "Remember," Mr. Santos prompted, "the service of bread comes after cocktails, ideally after people have put in their order. It is the visual cue to our guests, signalling that the games have begun."
Even since its April opening, Pop has already suffered the theft of several waiters.
These days "the demand for qualified restaurant employees is the highest it's ever been," said E. Charles Hunt, executive vice president of the city chapter of the New York State Restaurant Association, a trade group with 2,500 member restaurants in the city.
The reason is that establishments that indulge New Yorkers' eating and drinking habits were one of the fastest-growing segments of the city's economy last year, up 5,000 jobs to a total of 145,400, according to the New York State Department of Labor. Such jobs have increased 24 percent since 1992. There are some 50,000 waiters in the five boroughs, Mr. Hunt of the Restaurant Association estimated. The city has issued 20,000 permits for restaurants, which collectively generated about $7.2 billion in revenues last year.
But the dearth is especially acute at Manhattan's 3,000 "tablecloth restaurants," primarily at high-end places that offer attentive service to a demanding clientele.
The shortage "has been growing since last summer," said Malcolm M. Knapp, a restaurant analyst who heads a consulting concern in Manhattan that bears his name. "The service expectations are so high now that the employment pool is much thinner."
And so these days, servers at the city's four-star ornaments are being relentlessly headhunted. Jose Faria, 38, a waiter at Jean Georges, recently turned down offers from Aquavit and Gigino's.
Kit Wong, a 33-year-old waiter at Jean Georges who has previously worked at Aureole and Les Celebrites, says that although "Jean Georges is the best restaurant I have ever worked for," he is jumping ship for a de luxe new dining place in the Paris Hotel in Las Vegas, opening in September.
Some chefs and managers "turn their dinner visits to other restaurants into recruiting trips," said Patrick F. Graham, a 30-year-old waiter at Balthazar who has worked at Aquavit and Verbena. "They come in, they have dinner, they say, 'I'm the chef, we're doing really well, please come work for us,' and they leave a card."
Like combat survivors in a foxhole, some restaurant owners try not to get too close to their peers because poaching is now so much a part of the game. "At gatherings, I've done my best to avoid meeting owners of large restaurant operations socially," said Mr. O'Keefe, the owner of the River Cafe and the Water Club. "Because if I knew them it wouldn't be polite for me to approach any of their employees."
Mr. Meyer took recruitment to a new level last year in his newsletter mailed to loyal customers, inviting them to recruit waiters at other restaurants. It not only raised high dudgeon among his competitors but also engendered an item in The New Yorker.
In the early 1990's, some seasoned waiters decided to exit the trade after the dawn of taxation, when the ubiquity of credit-card gratuities prompted the Internal Revenue Service to force restaurants to keep stricter financial records. Now Manhattan's leading restaurants contend that most waiters' tips are fully declared.
The taxable transition hit the profession like a mango bombe. "It was like starting all over again and going into a new business," said Mr. Cozzolino at Le Cirque.
These days, the holy grail of the Manhattan waiter is to make $200 a day, or $1,000 a week, many of them say. But at Manhattan's four-star establishments waiters can earn as much as $75,000 or $80,000 a year before taxes if they're willing to work five "doubles": lunch and dinner shifts five days a week.
Other waiters have found even more lucrative niches. "I know room-service waiters at the Carlyle who make $90,000 or $100,000 a year for pushing a cart," Mr. Wong said. "I could never do that."
Furthermore, many waiters agree, the elite banquet waiters at the city's luxury hotels earn $150,000 a year and more because hefty gratuities are prepaid components of the banquet contracts.
Mr. Knapp, the restaurant analyst, said that the help-wanted crisis in New York restaurants will endure until the next downturn in the economy. Meanwhile, the current shortage makes it plain that "the city's restaurants should create a place to train waiters," said Harry Poulakakos, owner of Harry's at Hanover Square. "It should be more of a respected profession, as it is in Europe."
Furthermore, "I think perhaps customers should be taught how to deal with waiters," said Sirio Maccioni, owner of Le Cirque 2000. "Waiters do a difficult job, and they should be treated with more respect."
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photos: Sergio Rossi, a waiter at Le Cirque 2000, lifts the cover of a serving dish with a flourish as Joan R. Cosgrove watches in hungry anticipation. (Chester Higgins Jr./The New York Times)(pg. B9); Some of the wait staff at Pop, a new restaurant on Fourth Avenue in Manhattan, attend a training session on wines. (James Estrin/The New York Times)(pg. B1)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (94%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%); 

COMPANY: NEW YORK RESTAURANTS (56%); LE CIRQUE (56%); 

ORGANIZATION: LE CIRQUE (56%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK CITY; UNITED STATES (94%); NEW YORK, USA (94%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%); 

SUBJECT: RESTAURANTS; WAITERS AND WAITRESSES; HIRING AND PROMOTION RESTAURANTS (92%); EMPLOYMENT (87%); CLOSINGS (78%); FULL SERVICE RESTAURANTS (78%); BUSINESS CLOSINGS (75%); CULINARY SCHOOLS (75%); UNEMPLOYED PERSONS (74%); DRINKING PLACES (72%); PENSION & RETIREMENT PLANS (71%); UNEMPLOYMENT INSURANCE (69%); TEMPORARY EMPLOYMENT (69%); US 401K PLANS (66%); HOLIDAY & VACATION PAY (64%); PERSONAL FINANCE (64%); 

PERSON: COLLINS, GLENN DANNY MEYER (69%); JUDSON GRILL (68%); 

LOAD-DATE: July 30, 1999



720 of 738 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 30, 1999

SECTION: Section B; Page 8; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk 

LENGTH: 917 words

HEADLINE: Residential Real Estate;
Factory-Built Units Are Planned for Rental Development in Central Harlem

BYLINE: By RACHELLE GARBARINE 

 BODY:
The new owner of two vacant lots on separate blocks in central Harlem plans to put up rental buildings totaling 28 one- and two-bedroom market-rate apartments. But instead of being built with traditional techniques, they will be manufactured in a factory and assembled on the sites.
The owner, DW Development of Middle Village, Queens, plans to develop a five-story building on each of the sites, which have been vacant for more than 10 years. One, with 10 two-bedroom units, will be built at 111 West 113th Street between Lenox Avenue and Adam Clayton Powell Jr. Boulevard; the other, with 18 one-bedroom apartments, will be at 2101 Eighth Avenue, between 113th and 114th Streets. Site work is to start in October and on-site assembly is to begin two months later. 
 Monthly rents will be $750 to $950 for the smaller units, with 600 square feet, and $950 to $1,200 for the larger ones, with 850 square feet, said Andrew Heiberger, president of Citi Habitats, a Manhattan rental brokerage that is the project's leasing agent.
The $1.5 million two-building project, to be completed by January, is the latest investment in a neighborhood that is experiencing a wave of residential development. While most of the housing is being developed with public financing, the two rental buildings will be built using private money.
"This reflects a growing trend," said Richard T. Roberts, the city's Commissioner of of Housing Preservation and Development. "Because of a significant amount of public investment and the strength of the market, there is increasing interest on the part of private investors to look for opportunities in northern Manhattan."
Along with other city and state agencies, the department is a sponsor of a number of programs that have helped spur the development of 11,000 new and renovated housing units since 1994 in central and East Harlem. They comprise mostly rental apartments as well as condominium and cooperative units and two- and three-family homes, mainly for families with low and moderate incomes. An additional 3,700 residences are planned, according to the department.
"There is intense potential in Harlem and we're building for the future," said Anthony DiRusso, president of DW Development. This project, the company's first in the neighborhood, "is an effort to create market-rate housing in an area where in the next few years such housing will be at a premium," said Mr. DiRusso, who owns rental and commercial properties in Brooklyn, Queens and Manhattan and has been involved as a contractor in the development of rental projects in Queens.
The company bought the lots for $150,000 at a bankruptcy auction in May and is in the process of securing bank financing, but, if necessary, will use its own money to start the project, Mr. DiRusso said.
Both lots, he noted, are just a few blocks from Renaissance Plaza, an 11-story, $60 million mixed-use building under way at the northeast corner of West 116th Street and Lenox Avenue. Financed mostly with public funds, it will contain 241 one- to three-bedroom limited-equity cooperative apartments, 60,000 square feet of ground-floor retail space and more than 200 parking spaces.
DW is developing its two sites with factory-built houses "because it's a way for us to produce a higher-quality apartment at a more economic rate," Mr. DiRusso said. Since the factory-built homes are produced under closer supervision than is the case with "stick built" housing, "the quality is there," he said, adding that because of greater operating efficiencies, the project's timetable will be reduced to three months from a year and its overall cost has been lowered by about 15 percent.
Mr. DiRusso said he would sign a contract next month with one of three manufacturers to produce the buildings, which will require no special permits because they will be built to meet state and city building codes for multistory housing.
Last year, 2,600 factory-built homes, also known as modulars, were assembled in New York State, about 10 percent of which were put up in New York City, said Fred Hallahan, a Baltimore-based consultant who works with the modular industry. That represents about 6.5 percent of the state's overall housing production, he said.
Though the early cracker-box design of assembly-line houses proved unappealing, Mr. Hallahan said, "modular manufacturers have taken great strides" in providing designs that are both functional and esthetic.
The central Harlem buildings will be faced with red brick and will have front stoops to blend with other neighborhood buildings. They will also have small rear yards and video-intercom security systems. Inside, all the apartments will have features like nearly 10-foot ceilings, hardwood floors and dishwashers as well as Internet and cable access.
Mr. Heiberger, the broker, said that although the rents were about 5 percent higher than those for existing apartments in the area, he expected the buildings to attract young middle-income singles and couples who would be willing to pay a little more for the amenities and a brand new unit. In addition, he said, the rents are still much lower than those for similar size units in comparable new buildings elsewhere in Manhattan, where monthly rents average $2,400 for one-bedroom apartments and $3,200 for two-bedroom units.
"The bottom line," he said, "is that the neighborhood is changing, and where else can you find new rentals in this price range?" Leasing is expected to begin in October. 
http://www.nytimes.com

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: C (NYSE) (58%); C (BMV) (58%); 8710 (TSE) (58%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (58%); NAICS522210 CREDIT CARD ISSUING (58%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (58%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (96%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (96%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (96%); 

COMPANY: DW DEVELOPMENT CITIGROUP INC (58%); 

ORGANIZATION: DW DEVELOPMENT

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK CITY; HARLEM (NYC); UNITED STATES (96%); NEW YORK, USA (96%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (96%); 

SUBJECT: HOUSING REAL ESTATE (90%); RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (90%); PROPERTY VACANCIES (90%); CONSTRUCTION (90%); RENTAL PROPERTY (90%); REAL ESTATE DEVELOPMENT (90%); RESIDENTIAL RENTAL PROPERTY (90%); RESIDENTIAL CONDOMINIUMS (89%); COMMERCIAL RENTAL PROPERTY (78%); MULTIFAMILY REAL ESTATE (78%); RESIDENTIAL CO-OWNERSHIP (78%); TRENDS (78%); CONDOMINIUMS (78%); PROPERTY MANAGEMENT (78%); BANKING & FINANCE (77%); RESIDENTIAL CONSTRUCTION (77%); RESIDENTIAL COOPERATIVES (72%); FAMILY (71%); COMMERCIAL PROPERTY (60%); AUCTIONS (60%); 

PERSON: GARBARINE, RACHELLE ANTHONY DIRUSSO (84%); 

LOAD-DATE: July 30, 1999



721 of 738 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 30, 1999

SECTION: Section B; Page 3; Column 5; Metropolitan Desk 

LENGTH: 626 words

HEADLINE: Police Recruiting Drive Lags Despite $10 Million Budget

BYLINE: By MICHAEL COOPER 

 BODY:
With the New York City Police Department in the midst of its largest recruitment drive ever and one month left to apply, the number of people who have signed up so far is not on a pace to set any records.
As the Aug. 27 deadline looms, 5,657 people have applied since April to take the written exam on Oct. 2, which is the first step toward becoming a police officer, city officials said. Although the number of applicants to join the force has slipped in recent years, past tests have routinely drawn more than 20,000 people. 
 But police officials said yesterday that they were not concerned about the numbers and that most people do not file to take the test until they are right up against the deadline.
"Historically, the last two weeks of our recruiting efforts is when we get half or more of our candidates applying," Police Commissioner Howard Safir said yesterday, before unfurling a 12-story-high recruiting banner over the side of Police Headquarters. "We're doing O.K."
The department announced the $10 million recruiting drive to attract more city residents to the force after the killing of Amadou Diallo, an unarmed African immigrant, by four white police officers. The shooting in February has prompted criticism that the police force is not representative of the city's population.
It is not the first time the department has had trouble attracting applicants. A test administered last fall drew only 14,202 applicants, down from 21,567 the previous winter, said Robert Giacopetti, a spokesman for the Department of Citywide Administrative Services. The test before that, in 1996, drew 31,986 applicants, he said.
Experts gave a variety of reasons for the recent low turnouts.
Chuck Wexler, the executive director of the Police Executive Research Forum, a nonprofit group in Washington, said that urban police departments around the nation have had trouble recruiting because of the strong economy, which has led people to other careers. He also said that Federal financing has already led to the hiring of 100,000 police officers nationwide in the last six years, depleting the number of potential candidates for police work.
"New York is not alone in this respect," he said.
Others note that the New York Police Department, despite its success in driving the crime rate to historic lows, has had to deal with a number of highly charged cases that have frayed relations between the force and the public it serves, from the choking death of Anthony Baez to the torture of Abner Louima to the Diallo case.
Michael Meyers, the executive director of the New York Civil Rights Coalition, said he believed that the department was simply a hard sell right now. "You could not have a worse time for marketing and recruitment," he said. "Morale could not be lower, race relations are the worst level one can think of -- it's going to be a heck of a time recruiting minorities -- and the job does not pay well."
The entry-level salary is $34,970 a year.
Thomas Scotto, the president of the Detectives' Endowment Association, said that the campaign may be suffering because police officers, who are often the best recruiters, are feeling underappreciated.
"It is my belief that the primary source of recruiting are the police officers themselves," he said. "They encourage neighbors, their children, family members and friends to join, who convince them that the Police Department is a great place to work. But with the morale of the Police Department so low, the police themselves that would normally tell people to sign up for the exam are now telling them just the opposite."
In the next month, the department plans to hold five recruiting parties in city parks in conjunction with the radio station Hot 97 (WQHT FM).
 
http://www.nytimes.com

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (95%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (95%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (93%); 

COMPANY: NEW YORK CITY POLICE DEPARTMENT (69%); POLICE DEPARTMENT (69%); 

ORGANIZATION: NEW YORK CITY POLICE DEPARTMENT (69%); POLICE DEPARTMENT (69%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK CITY; UNITED STATES (95%); NEW YORK, USA (95%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (93%); 

SUBJECT: POLICE; HIRING AND PROMOTION POLICE FORCES (94%); CITIES (90%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (90%); CITY GOVERNMENT (90%); CITY LIFE (89%); EXECUTIVES (89%); BUDGETS (87%); CRIME RATES (78%); POPULATION SIZE (78%); RACE & RACISM (66%); NONPROFIT ORGANIZATIONS (64%); CIVIL RIGHTS (60%); 

PERSON: COOPER, MICHAEL AMADOU DIALLO (64%); 

LOAD-DATE: July 30, 1999



722 of 738 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 30, 1999

SECTION: Section A; Page 1; Column 5; National Desk 

LENGTH: 1114 words

HEADLINE: Snacking Today: Any Time and Anywhere

BYLINE: By DIRK JOHNSON 

DATELINE: CHICAGO, July 29

 BODY:
On a Sunday morning at a Roman Catholic church here, Mary Hallan Fiorito glanced at a nearby pew to see a woman drinking a can of Coke at Mass.
At a musical in a Broadway theater, Alex Wang turned to the row behind him to discover people eating corn on the cob. 
In schools that once forbade chewing gum, students now bring doughnuts and candy to class -- along with chewing gum.
Americans seem to be eating all the time, and wherever they please.
"Consumers now see eating as something to be done while you do something else," said Bobby Calder, a marketing professor at Northwestern University. "Everybody wants to save time by multi-tasking. So you don't just sit down and eat. You eat while you work, while you're watching TV, while you drive."
The automobile, among the favorite places for people to snack, is well on its way to becoming a rolling dining room. A car is scarcely considered worth driving now without cup holders in the front and back. Some cars now have refrigerated glove-boxes. And within the next six months, the Samsung Corporation plans to market the first microwave for cars and mini-vans. The microwave will plug into the cigarette lighter.
Only 24 percent of Americans eat breakfast, lunch and dinner and nothing else, according to a 1996 survey by Roper Starch Worldwide, a marketing research concern in Manhattan, down from 33 percent in 1985.
Polls indicate that a majority of families still eat dinner together, or at least say they do. But a walk through any convenience store or grocery store shows that "portable foods" have been taking up a lot more room on the shelves.
"I get nervous if I don't have something to munch on," said Paul Johnson, a 34-year-old computer programmer in Chicago, as he left a convenience store with a bag of fat-free chips and a very large cup of a frosty drink. "I guess some people are like that with smoking."
Health experts say the increased snacking is partly to blame for the rising rates of obese and overweight people. Fifty-two percent of Americans are now overweight, the highest rate ever, according to the National Institute for Health.
"Eating has become a recreational activity," said Linda Van Horn, a nutritionist in Chicago. "And it's one of the biggest reasons for the epidemic of obsesity in this country."
Ms. Van Horn said people were clearly snacking for reasons that went beyond hunger.
"It's a comfort thing," she said, "like having your baby blanket with you."
To be sure, Americans did not just recently pick up the habit of eating outside the home. As far back as a generation ago, the New Yorker cartoonist Saul Steinberg was skewering the growing tendency of people to dine on the dash.
In the last few years, people in the food business say, snacks have become a main course. And stores like 7-Eleven are increasing the number of products that can be eaten with one hand, like sealed tacos and stuffed breadsticks.
Todd Hultquist, a spokesman for the Food Marketing Institute, a trade group in Washington, said the two-income family and busy lives of children had changed eating habits for good.
"We're simply not going back to the days of spending two hours in the kitchen every night preparing a meal," Mr. Hultquist said.
Fast-food restaurants, which report that 50 percent of their sales are now at the drive-by window. McDonalds is testing in some markets the McSalad Shaker, which comes in a plastic container that fits in a car cup-holder. It is designed so that the customer can pour in the dressing, fasten the top and shake it up, then eat it with a long fork.
In the view of Michael Batterberry, the editor of Food Arts magazine, the flowering of the eat-where-we-may style, was nourished by mineral water.
"This whole thing reached a kind of virus with the carrying of water bottles by the yuppies in the 80's," Mr. Batterberry said.
When people started walking around offices with their water bottles, he said, a line had been crossed. And there seems to be no turning back.
In some offices, desks and cubicles look almost like food pantries -- chips, nuts, rice cakes, fruit -- all placed within easy reach of the telephone and the computer keyboard. Food has become requisite at almost any staff meeting. This practice of all-day grazing, meanwhile, has largely replaced the old-fashioned business lunch, for which workers actually leave the office.
Libraries, which once stood at the vanguard of etiquette, shooshing talkers and scowling at nibblers, have in many places given up the fight. They have taken a page from the big booksellers and started selling coffee near the stacks.
Some movie theaters now sell turkey breast sandwiches, even smoked salmon, along with popcorn.
The success of the big chain bookstores, Borders and Barnes & Noble, where designer coffee and snacks was seen as a big boost to their businesses, has not gone unnoticed in other types of business. The furniture store Ikea has a cafeteria, and Crate and Barrel sells coffee.
It has become rare for a group of people to gather, even for a short time, without some snacking. At almost every youth soccer or baseball game, one player's parents are assigned to bring treats for the team, generally candy, chips and soda. Some teams wait until after the game for the treats, but others have half-time treats, too. As if that is not enough, some parents send their children to the games equipped with soda and chips.
To Ms. Hallen Fiorito, who spotted the Coke-drinking woman at church, the constant eating is a sign that people cannot deny themselves, even for a short time. "You'd think you could get through 45 minutes, wouldn't you?" she said.
Ms. Fiorito, the vice chancellor for the Archdiocese of Chicago, said it had also become common for people to take little bags of cereal to church for their youngsters. And then they leave the bags in the pews.
"When you're trying to reach a state of spiritual contemplation," she said, "there is nothing like sitting on a bag of Cheerios to throw you off."
Ms. Van Horn, the nutritionist who is also the mother of a soccer player, was alarmed by what she considered an excess of treats for young ball players. She said that children who are obese in the second and third grade have a difficult time ever slimming down.
"The only thing playing children need is fluid replacement," Ms. Van Horn said. "That's water."
At her suggestion, the treats for her child's soccer games were changed to fruits from candy and chips.
Not all of the players were happy.
"I'm sure at first they're thinking, 'Oh, no, here comes the nutritionist,' " Ms. Van Horn said. "They thought I was raining on their parade."
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photos: Two friends doubled their pleasure on Venice Beach in Los Angeles. (Monica Almeida/The New York Times)(pg. A1); NEW YORK -- People are dining in the cafe below Marina Fikh, who snacks in her apartment in the East Village. (Chang W. Lee/The New York Times); CHICAGO -- Fewer Americans, like Peter Zayed, are having formal meals. (Todd Buchanan for The New York Times); LOS ANGELES -- Americans are eating where they please, as this woman is on a boardwalk. (Monica Almeida/The New York Times); ATLANTA -- Snack makers have a sealed taco on the way, which should help Wade R. Lander, who likes to eat as he navigates. (Alan S. Weiner for The New York Times); MIAMI BEACH -- Breakfast from a box for Marina Paermo, an airline attendant on break. (Laura Kleinhenz for The New York Times)(pg. A15)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: SAMS (LSE) (68%); 000830 (KSE) (68%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS424710 PETROLEUM BULK STATIONS & TERMINALS (68%); NAICS334413 SEMICONDUCTOR & RELATED DEVICE MANUFACTURING (68%); NAICS236210 INDUSTRIAL BUILDING CONSTRUCTION (68%); NAICS541910 MARKETING RESEARCH & PUBLIC OPINION POLLING (57%); SIC8732 COMMERCIAL ECONOMIC, SOCIOLOGICAL, & EDUCATIONAL RESEARCH (57%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (92%); CALIFORNIA, USA (92%); ILLINOIS, USA (90%); FLORIDA, USA (79%); 

CITY: LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (92%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (91%); CHICAGO, IL, USA (90%); MIAMI, FL, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: SAMSUNG C&T CORP (68%); GFK AG (57%); NORTHWESTERN UNIVERSITY (57%); NORTHWESTERN UNIVERSITY (57%); 

ORGANIZATION: NORTHWESTERN UNIVERSITY (57%); NORTHWESTERN UNIVERSITY (57%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%); NEW YORK, USA (92%); CALIFORNIA, USA (92%); ILLINOIS, USA (90%); FLORIDA, USA (79%); LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (92%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (91%); CHICAGO, IL, USA (90%); MIAMI, FL, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: FOOD; WEIGHT; SOCIAL CONDITIONS AND TRENDS; SNACK FOODS CONVENIENCE STORES (88%); CATHOLICS & CATHOLICISM (78%); RELIGION (78%); THEATER (77%); SNACK FOODS (77%); OBESITY (77%); BUSINESS EDUCATION (76%); MARKET RESEARCH (75%); MARKET RESEARCH & ANALYSIS (75%); TRENDS (74%); CHRISTIANS & CHRISTIANITY (73%); POLLS & SURVEYS (73%); DIETITIANS & NUTRITIONISTS (72%); MINIVANS (72%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (71%); SMOKING (70%); TOBACCO PRODUCTS (70%); MOTOR VEHICLES (68%); NUTRITION (66%); GROCERY STORES & SUPERMARKETS (66%); 

PERSON: JOHNSON, DIRK VAN HORN (65%); MICHAEL BATTERBERRY (56%); TODD HULTQUIST (56%); 

LOAD-DATE: July 30, 1999



723 of 738 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 31, 1999

SECTION: Section B; Page 9; Column 2; Arts & Ideas/Cultural Desk 

LENGTH: 1589 words

HEADLINE: Evolving Answers to the Why of Suicide;
Is It a Medical Problem? A Moral or Social Failure? An Assertion of Freedom?

BYLINE: By DINITIA SMITH 

 BODY:
"There is but one truly serious philosophical problem," Albert Camus said, "and that is suicide. Judging whether life is or is not worth living amounts to answering the fundamental question of philosophy."
Suicide has become more than a philosophical question, however. This week, Dr. David Satcher, the United States Surgeon General, declared it a serious public health threat, with the number of reported suicides among children doubling over the last 20 years. In Japan, meanwhile, statistics show a record increase in suicide as that country copes with economic recession. 
 But some social scientists believe that the apparent rise, at least in the United States, is a result of increased reporting as the stigma of suicide diminishes. "We now have an increase because we see depression and suicide as the result of a chemical imbalance," said Howard I. Kushner, a professor at San Diego State University, the author of "Self Destruction in the Promised Land," (Rutgers University Press, 1989), a history of suicide in America. "It's legitimized because it's biological."
Social attitudes determine how suicide is reported, Mr. Kushner said, adding, "One reason we hear about it in Japan is that it is sanctioned." He was referring to the tradition of hara kiri, for instance, or honorable suicide when a person is shamed or has failed in his responsibility to others. Social attitudes can also decide what is considered suicide, he said: "Risking your life jumping into a pond can be seen as suicide or as an act of courage."
Whether there is an actual increase in suicide or better reporting of it, views of suicide are a reflection of moral belief, medical theory and cultural forces, and they are constantly evolving.
Suicide remains to some extent taboo, Mr. Kushner said, as a violation of natural law and a mark of shame for the families of those who take their own lives. "When people die of suicide, our reaction is to feel anger, grief, responsibility," said Mr. Kushner. "Suicides are seen as judgments on the people left behind."
Such attitudes stand in the way of treating serious depression, said Kay Redfield Jamison, a professor of psychiatry at Johns Hopkins University School of Medicine and author of the forthcoming "Night Falls Fast: Understanding Suicide." "In the United States, we regard it as a highly individual act. We tend not to see it as a cause of mortality, as we do cancer or heart disease. We see it less as an illness than as a consequence of social and relationship issues."
In his "History of Suicide," the French scholar Georges Minois traces the way attitudes toward suicide have evolved from the classical period into the modern era. Suicide seems deeply threatening at least partly because it is an assertion of individual freedom against the power of the state, Mr. Minois writes: "It is an affront to all political and religious systems."
"Anyone who chooses death and its unknowns displays a total lack of confidence in the theories, ideologies, beliefs, plans and promises of all leaders," he continues. As a consequence, "Whatever its nature, power seeks to prevent and conceal suicide."
There has always been a double standard in perceptions of suicide, Mr. Minois says. In ancient Rome, there was the cult of "the noble suicide," embodied in the deaths of Brutus, Cato, Antony and Cleopatra. But suicide was outlawed for slaves and foot soldiers, "because a slave belongs to the owner and he doesn't own his life," Mr. Minois, 53, explained in a telephone interview from his home in Brittany. Slaves in ancient Greece were also prohibited from killing themselves because they were essential for agriculture and for the maintenance of the society, Mr. Minois said.
The early Christians strengthened strictures against suicide. There was the notion that "God gave us life," Mr. Minois said, and "man hasn't got any right to take his own life." But the Old Testament never specifically prohibits suicide, Mr. Minois noted, only murder. In fact, the Old Testament is littered with the dead bodies of heroes who took their own lives -- Samson, for one, who brought the palace of the Philistines down on his head as well as theirs.
It was St. Augustine who once and for all solidified the Church's prohibition against suicide. The estates of those who killed themselves were confiscated, and a stake was driven through their bodies to keep them from rising up and haunting others with their unquiet spirits. Their bodies were buried at crossroads under rocks.
Mr. Minois said religion was not the only reason for the prohibition. The Roman Empire was expanding into a totalitarian system, and outlying regions were being colonized. The Christian church's own land holdings had also increased. "An acute shortage of manpower dictated the requisitioning of all human lives for the service of the economy and the defense of the empire," he writes.
Although disapproval of suicide was generally harsh during the medieval period, suicide for "noble" purposes was sometimes glorified, for example, in the case of knights who died in battle rather than surrender, or of the Christian martyrs.
With the Renaissance came a shift in attitudes. "It was a time of great changes in values with the wars of religion," Mr. Minois explained, "the discovery of the New World, changes in economics, capitalism." At the same time, he said, "the medieval types of family solidarity were becoming looser and looser, leaving the individual more and more alone."
The question of suicide was widely discussed in the public realm. At the turn of the 17th century, Hamlet asked what was essentially the first modern question: "To be or not to be?" Self-destruction occurs no less than 52 times in Shakespeare, Mr. Minois says.
It is significant, he observes, that the word "suicide" does not appear in English until the 1650's. The creation of a new word marked the final separation of suicide from homicide, he says.
The Reformation and the Enlightenment brought another shift. Religion itself was being re-examined. For the Deists, God was not a vengeful figure, and Deism reduced the fear of hell, making death seem less fearsome.
The British historian and philosopher David Hume even wrote a pamphlet defending the right to suicide, but at the last moment decided not to publish it. Still, for the Puritans, suicide was the work of Satan.
In the 1700's, suicide came to be known as "The English Malady," after a popular 1733 treatise by George Cheyne. England was thought to have a particularly large number of cases because of the bad climate and rich food. But Mr. Minois argues that the perception of an increase was probably a result of the expansion of the popular press and the frequent mention of the topic.
The death of the poet Thomas Chatterton in 1770 made suicide fashionable. And with the success of Goethe's "Sorrows of Young Werther," in 1774, the story of a young man who kills himself because of his unrequited love for a married woman, the notion of Romantic suicide was born. "The figure of Werther arrived on the scene just as the question of the legitimacy of voluntary death reached an emotional high point,' Mr. Minois writes.
Increasingly, in Europe, suicide was attributed to insanity, resulting in fewer draconian punishments for those who attempt it or for the families of those who succeed. The leaders of the French Revolution condemned suicide because they saw the individual's body as the property of the state. Nonetheless, sanctions against suicide disappeared from the penal code after the Revolution in 1791. In other European countries, however, criminalization of suicide continued into the mid-1950's.
In 1897, Emile Durkheim tried to find sociological causes for suicide. People are more inclined to commit suicide when they are not part of a strong social fabric, Durkheim wrote. At the same time, Freud put forward a psychoanalytic explanation of aggression turned inward.
In his book on suicide in America, Howard Kushner describes the way it was transformed from a moral problem into a medical one. This coincided with the rise of medicine as a profession, he writes, and the substitution of the notion of mental illness for immoral behavior. Mr. Kushner argued that doctors, in an effort to increase their power and influence, claimed suicide as a medical problem and had an investment in saying it was treatable.
But Dr. Arthur Kleinman, a professor of psychiatry and medical anthropology at the Harvard Medical School, believes that seeing depression -- and suicide -- as a medical problem alone strips suffering of its moral and emotional importance. He cites as an example the depression suffered by terminally ill people. In the past, that depression was accorded a moral and religious purpose, as the terminally ill looked back on their lives, sometimes with regret and apology to their loved ones for their shortcomings and failures. It is an end-of-life "conversation," Dr. Kleinman said, that has a healing effect and brings closure. But today, said Dr. Kleinman, "somehow they are ill with clinical depression."
"I think we should be careful before we label them depressed," he continued. With the medicalization of suffering, said Dr. Kleinman, it is all too often simply "easier to give anti-depressants and walk away." " Often the most important thing," he said, "is not the anti-depressants, but that people can participate in the moral and religious conversations of suffering at the end of life."
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photos: Among the most celebrated suicides are Antony and Cleopatra, depicted in an engraving by S. Rodriguez from a painting by Pompeo Battoni. (Culver Pictures)(pg. B9); "The Death of Socrates," a 19th-century German engraving. The philosopher's suicide was immortalized in the writings of his disciple Plato. (Culver Pictures)(pg. B11)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); JAPAN (90%); 

STATE: CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); 

CITY: SAN DIEGO, CA, USA (56%); 

COMPANY: SURGEON GENERAL (84%); SURGEON GENERAL (84%); RUTGERS UNIVERSITY (56%); SAN DIEGO STATE UNIVERSITY (56%); SAN DIEGO STATE UNIVERSITY (56%); RUTGERS UNIVERSITY (56%); 

ORGANIZATION: SURGEON GENERAL (84%); SURGEON GENERAL (84%); RUTGERS UNIVERSITY (56%); SAN DIEGO STATE UNIVERSITY (56%); SAN DIEGO STATE UNIVERSITY (56%); RUTGERS UNIVERSITY (56%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%); JAPAN (90%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); SAN DIEGO, CA, USA (56%); 

SUBJECT: SUICIDES AND SUICIDE ATTEMPTS; CHILDREN AND YOUTH; PUBLIC OPINION SUICIDE (90%); DISEASES & DISORDERS (90%); CHILDREN (89%); DEPRESSION (89%); HUMANITIES & SOCIAL SCIENCE (78%); DEATHS (78%); TEEN SUICIDE (78%); FAMILY (78%); PSYCHIATRY (77%); PHYSICIANS & SURGEONS (77%); COLLEGES & UNIVERSITIES (73%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (73%); WRITERS (73%); HEART DISEASE (71%); RECESSION (71%); ECONOMIC NEWS (71%); CANCER (71%); STATISTICS (71%); SCIENCE NEWS (70%); SCIENCE & TECHNOLOGY (70%); SOCIETAL ISSUES (70%); 

PERSON: SMITH, DINITIA; SATCHER, DAVID (SURGEON GENERAL) GEORGES MINOIS (91%); HOWARD I KUSHNER (66%); 

LOAD-DATE: July 31, 1999



724 of 738 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 31, 1999

SECTION: Section C; Page 2; Column 5; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 567 words

HEADLINE: June's Rise in Personal Income Beat Rise in Personal Outgo

BYLINE: AP 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, July 30

 BODY:
Personal income galloped ahead in June, outpacing the rise in spending for the first time since January, the Government said today. In a separate report, it said that new home sales, meanwhile, rose 3.1 percent as buyers rushed to beat slowly rising mortgage rates.
Both reports, economists said, were outgrowths of a healthy economy, a low unemployment rate, a strong stock market and benign inflation. 
 Neither report was expected to raise eyebrows at the Federal Reserve Board, which nudged up interest rates on June 30 in a pre-emptive strike against inflation.
The Commerce Department said personal income, which includes wages, interest and government benefits, rose seven-tenths of a percent, faster than expected. It was the biggest income gain since a nine-tenths of a percent rise in November.
The income growth in June reflected gains in wages and salary as well as from interest and dividends. A surge in farm income, stemming from Federal subsidy payments to farmers, increased overall income growth. Still, excluding these payments, income would have gone up half a percent, economists said.
At the same time, Americans tempered their spending somewhat. Spending went up just three-tenths of a percent in June, a little less than many analysts had expected. That too was the smallest increase since November, when spending rose one-tenth of a percent.
By contrast, in May, income rose three-tenths of a percent, while spending went up six-tenths of a percent.
"Consumers are still in a buying mood but not as aggressive," said Gary Thayer, chief economist with A. G. Edwards & Sons Inc.
Economists attributed the moderation in spending to a number of factors, including a recent rise in interest rates and a decline in mortgage refinancing. People who refinance homes end up with extra money, which leads to higher spending, they said.
Because consumer spending has outpaced incomes repeatedly, the savings rate -- saving as a percentage of after-tax income -- has set a string of record lows this year.
In June, the savings rate was minus 1 percent, better than the record low of negative 1.4 percent set in May.
In its housing report, the Commerce Department said sales of new single-family homes rose in June to a seasonally adjusted annual rate of 929,000 units, better than forecast. In May, new-home sales fell 4.1 percent, to 901,000 units, not so bad as previously estimated.
"Despite rising interest rates, home sales have remained strong because home buyers are rushing to lock in current interest rates in the fear that rates might climb higher," said Karen Dexter, a Merrill Lynch economist.
The average interest rate on a 30-year fixed-rate mortgage this week was 7.70 percent, up from 7.52 percent last week.
The increase in sales pushed prices up, too. The median price for a new home in June -- meaning that half of all homes sold for less and half for more -- rose 4.7 percent, to $157,000, up from a median price of $149,900 in May but still below the record median of $159,900 set in February.
Spending on nondurable products, like food and fuel, increased four-tenths of a percent in June, less than the increase of half a percent in May.
But spending on durable goods, which are big-ticket manufactured items expected to last at least three years, like washing machines and cars, was flat in June, after a sharp gain of 2.2 percent in May.
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Graph tracks total personal income, in billions, seasonally adjusted, since January 1998. (Source: Commerce Department)
 
Graph tracks new home sales, in thousands, since January 1998. (Source: Commerce Department)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: MLY (LSE) (58%); MER (NYSE) (58%); 8675 (TSE) (58%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (66%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (66%); NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (58%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (58%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (58%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (58%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%); 

COMPANY: COMMERCE DEPARTMENT WELLS FARGO ADVISORS LLC (66%); MERRILL LYNCH & CO INC (58%); US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (93%); US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (93%); 

ORGANIZATION: COMMERCE DEPARTMENT US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (93%); US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (93%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%); 

SUBJECT: UNITED STATES ECONOMY; HOUSING; MORTGAGES; INTEREST RATES; INCOME ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); REAL ESTATE (90%); WAGES & SALARIES (90%); INTEREST RATES (90%); HOUSING MARKET (90%); NEW HOME SALES (90%); MORTGAGE RATES (89%); COMMERCE DEPARTMENTS (89%); MORTGAGE REFINANCING (89%); MORTGAGE LOANS (89%); MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (89%); PRICE INCREASES (78%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (78%); SALES FIGURES (78%); PERSONAL FINANCE (78%); AGRICULTURAL INCOME (78%); SINGLE FAMILY MORTGAGES (77%); MEDIAN HOME PRICE (77%); HOME PRICES (77%); RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (77%); AGRICULTURAL SUBSIDIES (73%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (72%); CENTRAL BANKS (71%); GOVERNMENT GRANTS & SUBSIDIES (56%); FARMERS & RANCHERS (54%); 

LOAD-DATE: July 31, 1999



725 of 738 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 31, 1999

SECTION: Section A; Page 4; Column 1; Foreign Desk 

LENGTH: 1003 words

HEADLINE: WORLD BRIEFING

BYLINE: Compiled By Jeanne Moore 

 BODY:

MIDDLE EAST
 
IRAN: U.S. ROLE CHARGED IN UNREST -- Iran's supreme leader, Ayatollah Ali Khamenei, blamed the "hidden hands" of the United States for pro-democracy protests this month, saying Washington had tried to repeat the 1953 coup that restored the monarchy. Speaking before worshipers at Friday Prayers, he also dismissed talk of serious differences in the leadership, which is widely seen as divided into conservatives who surround him and reformers grouped around President Mohammad Khatami. (Reuters)
 
IRAQ: MORE BOMBING DEATHS REPORTED -- Nine Iraqis were killed and 23 injured in air raids by American and British warplanes in northern and southern Iraq, an Iraqi military spokesman said. United States military officials said American planes patrolling the northern no-flight zone bombed antiaircraft installations after coming under fire. (Reuters) 

THE AMERICAS
 
ARGENTINA: FAILED BID FOR NATO -- Argentina has formally requested to become the first Latin American nation to become a member of the NATO military alliance. But Secretary General Javier Solana rejected the request in a letter to President Carlos Saul Menem, saying the current expansion was intended only to integrate former members of the Warsaw Pact in the Western alliance. Clifford Krauss (NYT)
 
PANAMA: U.S. ARMY OFFICE MOVES OUT -- The United States Army withdrew its regional headquarters from Panama, leaving only a few hundred American soldiers until the Panama Canal is handed over at year's end. The United States Southern Command, the administrative head for all branches of the American military in the region, left Panama in 1997. The Army headquarters moves now to Puerto Rico. (AP)
 
CHILE: RISK SEEN TO PINOCHET -- Two doctors reported that Gen. Augusto Pinochet, the former dictator, who is under house arrest in London, is suffering from stress that is so severe it is worsening his diabetes and slowing his recovery from back surgery. The examination by the Chilean and British doctors was commissioned by the Chilean Government, which hopes to stop a extradition request by a Spanish judge to try the retired General on charges of crimes against humanity. Clifford Krauss (NYT)
 
EUROPE
 
IRELAND: GUN-RUNNING PLOT SUSPECTED -- The police said a Roman Catholic guerrilla group, possibly the Irish Republican Army, was involved in an effort to smuggle 32 handguns into Northern Ireland from the United States. Two of three people detained by the Irish police this week remain in custody, including an American. Meanwhile, three people have been charged in Florida with attempting to bring firearms to Ireland. James F. Clarity (NYT)
 
SWITZERLAND: GUIDES INVESTIGATED -- Prosecutors have begun an inquiry into whether four guides who survived this week's "canyoning" disaster, in which at least 19 people died in a river near Interlaken, were guilty of criminal negligence. Two of the dead were guides. Another two people are still missing and feared dead. (Reuters)
 
AFRICA
 
IVORY COAST: PRESIDENTIAL CONTENDER -- Alassane Ouattara, a deputy managing director at the International Monetary Fund, arrived on Thursday from Washington to pursue a bid for the presidency in next year's elections. Since he had announced his plans to resign from the I.M.F., the return of Mr. Ouattara, a former prime minister here, had long been anticipated by the Government, which is contesting his eligibility to run as a presidential candidate. Norimitsu Onishi (NYT)
 
ALGERIA: FRANCE TO REOPEN CONSULATES -- In a sign of renewed dialogue, the Presidents of France and Algeria, a former colony, exchanged invitations for talks, and France said it would reopen cultural centers and two consulates that were closed in 1994 for security reasons. A meeting of the two leaders would mean a fresh start for relations between the two countries, which have languished since the start of an Islamic insurgency here in 1992. (AP)
 
SOUTH AFRICA: STRIKE ENDS, FOR NOW -- Public sector workers ended a huge two-day walkout, vowing to mount a bigger and broader strike against President Thabo Mbeki's new Government if their demand for a 10 percent pay increase is not met. Reacting to the first major public sector strike since apartheid, the Government warned that essential service staff who strike will face disciplinary action. (Reuters)
 
ASIA
 
INDONESIA: MASSACRE CHARGE -- Human rights groups said the bodies of 51 villagers in the province of Aceh had been found in two mass graves and they blamed the military for what they said was a massacre of civilians. A military spokesman denied the accusation and said the only deaths were 31 rebels killed in a raid one week ago. Seth Mydans (NYT)
 
MONGOLIA: A NEW PRIME MINISTER -- Parliament overwhelmingly approved the appointment of Renchinnyamiin Amarjargal, 38, a Moscow-educated economist, as the new Prime Minister. The vote followed last week's resignation of Janlaviin Narantsatsaralt and his Government, which lost a parliamentary vote of confidence, the third Government to collapse in 15 months. (AP)
 
CAMBODIA: REQUEST FOR U.S. AID -- Prince Noro dom Ranariddh, president of the National Assembly, asked the United States to resume direct aid to the Government because "the democratic process has positively developed in the country." International aid was slashed two years ago when Prince Ranariddh, left, was ousted in a coup by his co-Prime Minister, Hun Sen. The Prince then disputed the results of an election last year in which he was defeated as a candidate for Prime Minister by Mr. Hun Sen. Seth Mydans (NYT)
 
INDONESIA: THE SKIES DARKEN -- Forest fires are burning again on Sumatra and Kalimantan and the smoke is again drifting across Singapore and Malaysia. The pungent haze dims the sun but has not reached the choking levels that caused disruptions and deaths in 1997. Seth Mydans (NYT)
 Compiled By Jeanne Moore
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photos

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: APAGF (NASDAQ) (56%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (99%); IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (94%); PANAMA (94%); IRAQ (94%); IRELAND (93%); CHILE (93%); ARGENTINA (92%); EUROPE (92%); MIDDLE EAST (92%); LATIN AMERICA (79%); SWITZERLAND (79%); NORTHERN IRELAND (79%); 

STATE: FLORIDA, USA (79%); 

CITY: LONDON, ENGLAND (79%); 

COMPANY: APCO ARGENTINA INC (56%); NORTH ATLANTIC TREATY ORGANIZATION (83%); US DEPARTMENT OF ARMY (54%); US DEPARTMENT OF ARMY (54%); 

ORGANIZATION: NORTH ATLANTIC TREATY ORGANIZATION (83%); US DEPARTMENT OF ARMY (54%); US DEPARTMENT OF ARMY (54%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: IRAN; UNITED STATES (99%); IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (94%); PANAMA (94%); IRAQ (94%); IRELAND (93%); CHILE (93%); ARGENTINA (92%); EUROPE (92%); MIDDLE EAST (92%); LATIN AMERICA (79%); SWITZERLAND (79%); NORTHERN IRELAND (79%); FLORIDA, USA (79%); LONDON, ENGLAND (79%); 

SUBJECT: UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; POLITICS AND GOVERNMENT; DEMONSTRATIONS AND RIOTS BOMBINGS (90%); PROTESTS & DEMONSTRATIONS (90%); POLITICAL PROTESTS (90%); MIDDLE EAST PROTESTS & UPRISINGS (90%); ARMIES (90%); DEATHS & OBITUARIES (90%); SMUGGLING (89%); EXTRADITION (89%); INVESTIGATIONS (89%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (78%); ARRESTS (78%); HOUSE ARREST (78%); REBELLIONS & INSURGENCIES (77%); COUPS (77%); CONSERVATISM (76%); CRIMINAL INVESTIGATIONS (75%); MILITARY AIRCRAFT (74%); RIOTS (73%); CANALS & WATERWAYS (72%); CATHOLICS & CATHOLICISM (71%); RELIGION (71%); TERRORIST ORGANIZATIONS (70%); POLITICS (70%); ARMED FORCES (69%); DEFENSE & MILITARY POLICY (69%); CRIMES AGAINST HUMANITY (68%); ILLEGAL WEAPONS (67%); SURGERY & TRANSPLANTATION (64%); JUDGES (61%); POLICE FORCES (54%); NEGLIGENCE (50%); DIABETES (50%); 

PERSON: KHAMENEI, ALI (AYATOLLAH) ALI KHAMENEI (88%); JAVIER SOLANA (52%); 

LOAD-DATE: July 31, 1999



726 of 738 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 31, 1999

SECTION: Section C; Page 3; Column 5; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 450 words

HEADLINE: THE MARKETS: STOCKS;
Blue Chips and Leading Indexes Hurt by Economic Data

BYLINE: By Reuters 

 BODY:
Stocks and bonds slid yesterday and the dollar remained depressed, as more evidence of inflation pressures convinced investors the Federal Reserve might raise interest rates soon.
Falling stock and bond prices helped push the dollar down against both the Japanese yen and Europe's single currency, the euro. The dollar recovered from session lows to finish slightly higher against the euro after Thursday's selloff, but ended the week about 2 percent lower against both currencies. 
 The Dow Jones industrial average ended down 136.14 points, or 1.26 percent, at 10,655.15, after losing 180.78 points Thursday. For the week, the blue-chip index was down 255.81 points after sliding nearly 300 points in the previous week.
In the broader market, advancing issues led declines 1,533 to 1,356 on moderate volume of 736.8 million shares on the New York Stock Exchange.
The technology-heavy Nasdaq composite index fell 1.52 points, to 2,638.49.
The Standard & Poor's composite index of 500 stocks fell 12.31 points, or nine-tenths of a percent, to 1,328.72.
Evidence of potential inflation showed up when the Chicago Purchasing Management Index, also known as the Chicagoland Business Barometer, showed manufacturing activity and prices paid by manufacturers rose at a higher-than-expected rate in July.
The regional report followed Thursday's news that United States wage costs had jumped at the fastest pace since 1991 in the second quarter, which increased worries that the Fed might be ready to raise interest rates again to fight inflation.
The Chicago Purchasing Management Index rose to 60.5 in July from 60.0 in June, beating expectations for an overall reading of 58.8. The closely watched Prices Paid Index rose to 59.8 in July from 57.2 in June.
"It's troubling -- more troubling inflation news we didn't need," said Hugh Johnson, chief investment officer at the First Albany Corporation.
"That report will not quiet any fears about inflation that were started with the remarks from Greenspan and the Employment Cost Index report," he said, referring to Alan Greenspan, the Federal Reserve chairman.
The focus on Monday will be on the National Association of Purchasing Management's survey for July, which will show whether the rise in manufacturing prices in the Chicago data was a nationwide problem.
Bank and brokerage stocks were particularly hurt by the news. Among Dow components, American Express fell 6 13/16, to 131 3/4; J. P. Morgan lost 2 3/4, to 127 7/8, and Citigroup was down 1 3/16, to 44 9/16.
However, Procter & Gamble continued a rally from Thursday's session, climbing 2 7/16, to 90 9/16, after its earnings beat Wall Street's expectations.
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Graph tracks the Dow Jones industrial average over the past year. (Sources: Associated Press; Bloomberg Financial Markets)
 
Tables: "Hot & Cold" provides a look at stocks with large percentage gains and losses; "The Favorite Stocks" lists stocks held by largest number of accounts at Merrill Lynch. (Compiled from staff reports, The Associated Press, Bloomberg News, Bridge News, Dow Jones, Reuters)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: GLCH (NASDAQ) (64%); C (NYSE) (58%); C (BMV) (58%); 8710 (TSE) (58%); AXP (NYSE) (58%); PGP (PAR) (50%); PG (NYSE) (50%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (64%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (64%); NAICS522210 CREDIT CARD ISSUING (58%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (58%); SIC6141 PERSONAL CREDIT INSTITUTIONS (58%); NAICS325620 TOILET PREPARATION MANUFACTURING (50%); NAICS325611 SOAP & OTHER DETERGENT MANUFACTURING (50%); NAICS322291 SANITARY PAPER PRODUCT MANUFACTURING (50%); SIC2844 PERFUMES, COSMETICS, & OTHER TOILET PREPARATIONS (50%); SIC2841 SOAPS & OTHER DETERGENTS, EXCEPT SPECIALTY CLEANERS (50%); SIC2676 SANITARY PAPER PRODUCTS (50%); 

COUNTRY: EUROPE (92%); UNITED STATES (92%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (93%); 

CITY: CHICAGO, IL, USA (86%); 

COMPANY: NASDAQ COMPOSITE INDEX GLEACHER & CO INC (64%); INSTITUTE FOR SUPPLY MANAGEMENT (63%); CITIGROUP INC (58%); AMERICAN EXPRESS CO (58%); NEW YORK STOCK EXCHANGE LLC (56%); PROCTER & GAMBLE CO (50%); 

ORGANIZATION: NASDAQ COMPOSITE INDEX

GEOGRAPHIC: EUROPE (92%); UNITED STATES (92%); NEW YORK, USA (93%); CHICAGO, IL, USA (86%); 

SUBJECT: STOCKS AND BONDS; DOW JONES STOCK AVERAGE; STANDARD & POOR'S 500-STOCK INDEX STOCK INDEXES (96%); ECONOMIC NEWS (91%); INFLATION (91%); EURO (90%); STOCK EXCHANGES (90%); CURRENCIES (90%); MARKET OPEN CLOSE (90%); US DOLLAR (90%); BOND MARKETS (90%); ECONOMIC INDICATORS (90%); BONDS (90%); ECONOMIC POLICY (89%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (89%); INTEREST RATES (89%); BANKING & FINANCE (89%); PRICE INCREASES (78%); BUSINESS CLIMATE & CONDITIONS (78%); MONETARY UNIONS (78%); MANUFACTURING SECTOR PERFORMANCE (78%); MANUFACTURING OUTPUT (76%); EMPLOYMENT COSTS (69%); EXECUTIVES (66%); 

PERSON: ALAN GREENSPAN (58%); 

LOAD-DATE: July 31, 1999



727 of 738 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 31, 1999

SECTION: Section C; Page 3; Column 5; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 335 words

HEADLINE: THE MARKETS: BONDS;
Treasury Prices Fall Again, Pressed by Economic Reports

BYLINE: By Bloomberg News 

 BODY:
Treasury bond prices fell yesterday, rounding out the sixth consecutive losing month for Treasuries.
The decline was spurred by reports on housing, manufacturing and personal income that added to concern the Federal Reserve might raise interest rates soon. 
 "It's more fuel to the fire," said Graham Allen, who handles $50 billion as chief fixed-income officer at Wells Capital Management in Los Angeles. Mr. Allen, who's been buying corporate bonds for their bigger yields, sees 30-year yields as high as 6.40 percent in the weeks ahead.
The price of the 30-year Treasury bond fell 13/32, to 88 14/32. The bond's yield, which moves in the opposite direction from the price, rose to 6.10 percent from 6.07 percent on Thursday.
Bonds fell after a report by the National Association of Purchasing Management's Chicago branch showed manufacturing activity in the Chicago area accelerated at a faster-than-expected pace in July. Separate reports for June showed new home sales rose more than expected while personal income, one of the economy's driving forces, rose at the fastest pace in seven months.
Taken together, they point to resilience in the economy, now in its ninth year of expansion, that might prompt the Fed to take action. That could also result in further losses in the already battered bond market, investors said.
"Bond yields have more room to rise," said Don Fine, chief market analyst at Chase Asset Management, who predicts 30-year yields will reach 6.25 percent in the months ahead. "The economy is showing scant signs of slowing. Inflation is clearly moving up. The Fed's going to have to react to that."
Bonds slumped Thursday after a bigger-than-expected increase in second-quarter employment costs fanned speculation that the Fed may increase interest rates as soon as Aug. 24, when policy makers next meet, to keep growth from spurring inflation. The central bank already raised its target for overnight lending between banks by a quarter point to 5 percent on June 30. 
http://www.nytimes.com

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); 

STATE: CALIFORNIA, USA (92%); 

CITY: LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (56%); 

COMPANY: FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM; TREASURY DEPARTMENT NATIONAL ASSOCIATION FOR FEMALE EXECUTIVES (56%); FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM (59%); FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM (59%); NATIONAL ASSOCIATION OF PURCHASING MANAGEMENT (56%); 

ORGANIZATION: FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM; TREASURY DEPARTMENT FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM (59%); FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM (59%); NATIONAL ASSOCIATION OF PURCHASING MANAGEMENT (56%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES; UNITED STATES (92%); CALIFORNIA, USA (92%); LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (56%); 

SUBJECT: FINANCES; GOVERNMENT BONDS; CREDIT; INTEREST RATES BONDS (96%); BOND MARKETS (94%); TREASURY SECURITIES (92%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); ECONOMIC POLICY (90%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (90%); GOVERNMENT BONDS (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (89%); INTEREST RATES (89%); BANKING & FINANCE (89%); CENTRAL BANKS (89%); PUBLIC FINANCE (79%); PRICE INCREASES (78%); REAL ESTATE (78%); MANUFACTURING OUTPUT (78%); HOUSING MARKET (78%); SALES FIGURES (78%); CORPORATE BONDS (78%); NEW HOME SALES (78%); MANUFACTURING SECTOR PERFORMANCE (78%); PUBLIC POLICY (77%); PUBLIC DEBT (77%); EMPLOYMENT COSTS (62%); 

PERSON: GRAHAM ALLEN (75%); 

LOAD-DATE: July 31, 1999



728 of 738 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 31, 1999

SECTION: Section A; Page 7; Column 1; National Desk 

LENGTH: 792 words

HEADLINE: Gore Proposes Tax Breaks For Aiding the Middle Class

BYLINE: By DAVID E. ROSENBAUM 

DATELINE: MINNEAPOLIS, July 30

 BODY:
Vice President Al Gore today proposed a long list of tax breaks to address specific goals like making health care and education more affordable.
The proposals, which Mr. Gore said would be a central part of his campaign for the Presidency, are much more modest than the large tax reductions favored by most Republicans and philosophically at odds with the tax policies of Bill Bradley, his rival for the Democratic Presidential nomination. 
 "You'd better believe America's middle class deserves a tax break," Mr. Gore said in a speech at the Minnesota Community Technical College.
Mr. Gore said Republican tax plans like the one approved by the Senate today and the one passed by the House last week offered "too much for too few at the expense of too many."
Mr. Gore's list -- "carefully targeted," he said, "to the hard-working middle class" -- would allow new tax deductions or credits for education and retirement savings, medical expenses, nursing-home costs, corporate research and development, child care, low-income housing, energy conservation, school construction and investments in poor neighborhoods.
Mr. Bradley, the former Senator from New Jersey, did not respond to the Gore speech. His staff said he was not running a campaign geared to reacting to the Vice President. And Mr. Bradley has not delivered a campaign address detailing his own tax policies.
But Mr. Bradley's philosophy is well known. He was a central figure in putting together the Tax Reform Act of 1986, the most comprehensive tax law in the last half of the 20th century. He is adamantly opposed to narrow tax breaks like those offered by Mr. Gore, arguing instead that most, if not all, tax credits and deductions should be abolished and that the money saved should be used to make tax rates as low as possible.
Then, Mr. Bradley holds, if the Government wants to promote a particular social goal like education, it should spend the money directly. Doing it through the tax code, he believes, is wasteful.
Many tax breaks on Mr. Gore's list, like those for school construction and child care, have been part of the Clinton Administration's budget and have generated little interest in the Republican-controlled Congress.
But Mr. Gore offered two new proposals today that are not part of the Clinton package. One would be tax-free savings accounts to allow workers to put aside money for education. The other would be an increase in the standard deduction for married couples who do not itemize deductions, so the couple's deduction would be the same as if the two were single and filed separate tax returns, eliminating the so-called marriage penalty in the current law.
Students, parents and grandparents could have up to $2,500 withheld from their pay and placed in the accounts. Employers would be allowed to match the contributions. And taxpayers with incomes below $40,000 would get an additional tax credit offsetting half the money they placed in their accounts. The money could be withdrawn tax-free to meet education expenses.
Mr. Gore's speech today was the latest of several in which he has set forth detailed positions on issues, including education, crime, cancer research and aid to religious institutions to help combat social problems.
On taxes, Mr. Gore has a fundamental philosophical difference with Republicans that echoes through the running budget conflict between the Clinton Administration and Congress.
The Republicans want to keep taxes low with the explicit goal of reducing the size of the Government. The Administration favors using much of the budget surplus to maintain and even expand programs. Mr. Gore described the difference this way:
"Proponents of the Republican tax scheme will tell us: 'It's your money, and you should have it back. It is our money. But it is also our Social Security. It is our Medicare. It is our good jobs and our stable economy."
Mr. Gore's philosophical difference with Mr. Bradley is more sophisticated.
The Vice President, his staff says, believes that the Government will never provide the money directly to reach important social policy goals and that the way to accomplish them is through targeted tax breaks.
Mr. Bradley views that as an inefficient approach. People and companies would adjust their finances to achieve tax savings, and much of the cost to the Government would go to taxpayers who are not necessarily the ones the Government is trying to help.
Almost all politicians, whatever their party or ideology, agree with the Gore approach, though they disagree over what the specific tax breaks should be. Almost all academic experts on tax policy agree with the Bradley approach of the fewest possible deductions and exemptions and the lowest possible tax rates. 
http://www.nytimes.com

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (79%); 

STATE: MINNESOTA, USA (79%); NEW JERSEY, USA (79%); 

CITY: MINNEAPOLIS, MN, USA (79%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%); MINNESOTA, USA (79%); NEW JERSEY, USA (79%); MINNEAPOLIS, MN, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: TAXATION; ELECTION ISSUES; PRESIDENTIAL ELECTION OF 2000; TAX CREDITS; TAX DEDUCTIONS; MEDICINE AND HEALTH; COLLEGES AND UNIVERSITIES TAXES & TAXATION (97%); TAX LAW (92%); TAX RELIEF (90%); MIDDLE INCOME PERSONS (90%); PUBLIC POLICY (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); PERSONAL FINANCE (90%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); TAX DEDUCTIONS (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); PUBLIC FINANCE (89%); HEALTH CARE (89%); CONSTRUCTION (87%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (78%); ELECTIONS (78%); LEGISLATION (78%); LOW INCOME PERSONS (78%); NURSING & RESIDENTIAL CARE FACILITIES (78%); COMMUNITY COLLEGES (78%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (78%); APPROVALS (78%); BUDGETS (78%); LOW COST HOUSING SCHEMES (78%); TAX WITHHOLDING (78%); RESEARCH & DEVELOPMENT (78%); TAX REFORM (78%); EDUCATION FUNDING (78%); VOCATIONAL & TECHNICAL TRAINING (78%); POLITICAL PARTIES (77%); PLATFORMS & ISSUES (77%); LONG TERM HEALTH CARE (73%); NURSING HOMES (73%); PUBLIC HOUSING (73%); GRANDPARENTS (67%); MARRIAGE (62%); 

PERSON: GORE, AL (VICE PRES); BRADLEY, BILL; ROSENBAUM, DAVID E AL GORE (93%); 

LOAD-DATE: July 31, 1999



729 of 738 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 31, 1999

SECTION: Section A; Page 3; Column 1; Foreign Desk 

LENGTH: 1316 words

HEADLINE: World Leaders Join in Pledging Effort to Rebuild Balkans

BYLINE: By KATHARINE Q. SEELYE 

DATELINE: SARAJEVO, Bosnia and Herzegovina, July 30

 BODY:
Next to a graveyard of Bosnia's war dead, 39 world leaders, including President Clinton, met here today to inaugurate an effort to rebuild southeastern Europe and its economy from the ravages of a decade of war.
The sole leader to pledge specific aid today, Mr. Clinton announced a package of $700 million in aid, trade programs and business incentives to generate investment in the Balkans. 
 That package is in addition to $500 million in relief assistance earmarked specifically for Kosovo that the United States pledged on Wednesday in Brussels.
The aid to the region is intended to address long- and short-term problems. In the short term, the $500 million pledged by the United States, as well as funds from other countries, will go to rebuild Kosovo and repair the bombing damage, and compensate neighboring countries that housed refugees or suffered economic harm.
More broadly, the leaders gathered here are seeking to avert future conflicts in the Balkans through longer-term economic reconstruction.
The eventual scope of the international effort, which began with the American contribution of $700 million, is not clear.
"It is not enough to end a war," Mr. Clinton told students at a school in Sarajevo. "We must build the peace."
Having chosen this re-emerging but still shell-pocked city as a hopeful symbol, Mr. Clinton and other leaders agreed to a "stability pact" to rebuild and develop the region at a one-day summit meeting of heads of state from the Balkans and industrialized countries.
The horrors visited upon this city and the region have to be "consigned to history," Martti Ahtisaari, the President of Finland, said as he opened the conference. Finland also holds the rotating presidency of the European Union.
"It is high time for the region to make up for lost time," said Mr. Ahtisaari, who helped negotiate the peace in Kosovo. "The stability pact envisions a Europe at long last undivided, prosperous and free, a Europe where war becomes unthinkable."
The main goal of the meeting was for the nations to promote peace and economic help for the region.
But they also pointedly wanted to try to isolate President Slobodan Milosevic of Yugoslavia, who was not invited, as they met in the shiny copper-roofed Olympic stadium, which was rebuilt after Serbs had shelled it in the Bosnia war. The leaders said that as long as Mr. Milosevic remained in power, they would not contribute to rebuild Serbia.
"I do not believe," Mr. Clinton said, "that we should give reconstruction aid to Serbia as long as it rejects democracy and as long as Mr. Milosevic is in power. We have had enough of 'ethnic cleansing.' "
Prime Minister Sergei V. Stepashin of Russia repeated objections that he had raised this week over the decision by Mr. Clinton and European leaders to deny aid to the Serbian people because of Mr. Milosevic. Mr. Stepashin reminded the conference that a failure to provide aid could lead to "very complicated and unpredictable" consequences for the 10 million people in Yugoslavia as winter approaches. He predicted a human catastrophe if the Serbs did not receive aid.
Despite his criticisms, he signed the pact because he did not want to ruin the conference, Russian officials said.
"We do not have any serious apprehensions about this pact," Mr. Stepashin said.
The $500 million in Kosovo aid pledged by the United States was in part offered to head off such criticism.
"We do not want to see the Serb people freeze or suffer during the coming winter," said Barry Toiv, a spokesman for President Clinton. But Mr. Toiv said the United States and its allies would "work through" the distinction between relief aid and reconstruction assistance, saying they would provide the relief aid but not the reconstruction help.
Still, the United States pledged $10 million to "promote democracy" in Serbia. The money will go to the democratic opposition to Mr. Milosevic and to encircle Serbia with a ring of transmitters for the Voice of America and Radio Free Europe to counter Mr. Milosevic's state-run propaganda machine.
There was no price tag on the total amount that the 39 countries and several international institutions like the World Bank would spend on rebuilding southeastern Europe. The United States has estimated that its cost for the bombing ran from $3 billion to $6 billion.
The costs to the surrounding countries have been considerable, as trade was disrupted and as they absorbed thousands of refugees. The International Monetary Fund estimated this summer that helping Montenegro and Kosovo, both part of Yugoslavia, and Albania, Macedonia, Romania and Bulgaria could reach $1.25 billion to $2.25 billion a year for several years.
In a meeting on Wednesday in Brussels, the European Commission and the World Bank said that pledges of up to $2 billion had been made toward rebuilding Kosovo. Some commission members questioned the figure, saying some of the money had already been collected and disbursed.
Estimates of the rebuilding cost have varied widely, but have been somewhat reduced by the lessening of assessments of damage there.
Among the aid items in Brussels were $200 million for immediate needs identified by the United Nations, $45 million to cover Kosovo's budget deficit and $318 million for reconstruction, based on initial estimates by the European Union.
Among Mr. Clinton's pledges announced today are business and trade initiatives, including a plan to have the Overseas Private Investment Corporation, a United States agency, establish a $150 million investment fund for the Balkans and provide an additional $200 million in credit for American companies that seek to establish operations in the region.
To promote trade, Mr. Clinton announced a program that would grant duty-free status to some exports to the United States. The United States also plans to contribute up to $50 million to the European Bank for Reconstruction and Development to encourage business ventures, provided that the bank focuses an additional $80 million on the region.
He also said he would ask Congress to reduce the tariffs for exports like shoes to American markets. The cost of the lower revenue over five years is estimated from $50 million to $80 million.
Congress has already approved the $500 million in relief aid to Kosovo, and its approval is needed only for the duty-free part of the package.
Samuel R. Berger, Mr. Clinton's national security adviser, told reporters that America had a direct interest in the reconstruction.
"Helping the region is strongly in our national interest," he said, "by reducing the risk that our troops will have to fight another, far costlier European conflict down the road and helping to make the whole of Europe a stronger partner for advancing our security, our prosperity and our values."
Mr. Clinton and other leaders, like Prime Minister Tony Blair of Britain and Chancellor Gerhard Schroder of Germany, did not address the main meeting, leaving the limelight to the nations of the region to underscore the idea that reconstruction is something the Balkan leaders seek, not something imposed by richer countries.
But in remarks afterward, Mr. Clinton acknowledged problems with the reconstruction in Sarajevo. "The Dayton agreement in 1995 did not rid Bosnia of all anger and fear or frustrating problems like high unemployment, corruption and crime," he said. "But Dayton did offer all the people of Bosnia peaceful means to resolve their differences and move forward."
Now, he said, Sarajevo can boast "fair elections, a free press, reformed courts, a new single currency, the beginning of economic growth, better ties with your neighbors, war criminals out of power."
He said that refugees were still returning and that he found at the meeting today that the three leaders of Bosnia were speaking "with one single, united voice."
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photo: President Clinton at the talks at the Olympic center in Sarajevo. One goal was to further isolate President Slobodan Milosevic of Yugoslavia. (Agence France-Presse)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: SERBIA (97%); EUROPE (95%); BOSNIA & HERZEGOVINA (95%); KOSOVO (94%); UNITED STATES (94%); SOUTHEASTERN EUROPE (93%); SERBIA & MONTENEGRO (92%); SOUTHERN EUROPE (92%); FINLAND (92%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (79%); BELGIUM (79%); EASTERN EUROPE (73%); 

CITY: SARAJEVO, BOSNIA & HERZEGOVINA (93%); BRUSSELS, BELGIUM (79%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: SERBIA; KOSOVO (SERBIA); EUROPE; BALKAN STATES; SERBIA (97%); EUROPE (95%); BOSNIA & HERZEGOVINA (95%); KOSOVO (94%); UNITED STATES (94%); SOUTHEASTERN EUROPE (93%); SERBIA & MONTENEGRO (92%); SOUTHERN EUROPE (92%); FINLAND (92%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (79%); BELGIUM (79%); EASTERN EUROPE (73%); SARAJEVO, BOSNIA & HERZEGOVINA (93%); BRUSSELS, BELGIUM (79%); 

SUBJECT: UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; FOREIGN AID INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (91%); US PRESIDENTS (89%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (89%); TALKS & MEETINGS (78%); ETHNIC CONFLICTS (78%); EUROPEAN UNION (78%); INTERNATIONAL ASSISTANCE (77%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (76%); BOMBINGS (73%); REFUGEES (73%); PRIME MINISTERS (73%); WAR & CONFLICT (73%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (70%); STADIUMS & ARENAS (66%); 

PERSON: SEELYE, KATHARINE Q; CLINTON, BILL (PRES) BILL CLINTON (93%); 

LOAD-DATE: July 31, 1999



730 of 738 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 31, 1999

SECTION: Section C; Page 1; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk

LENGTH: 625 words

HEADLINE: BUSINESS DIGEST

 BODY:

Senate Votes to Cut Taxes By $792 Billion in 10 Years
The Senate voted to cut taxes by $792 billion over the next 10 years, moving the Republican-controlled Congress toward a showdown with President Clinton over how the nation can best use trillions of dollars in projected Federal budget surpluses. The vote was 57 to 43. Four Democrats joined 53 Republicans in support of the bill, while 2 Republicans and 41 Democrats voted against it.
The bill would cut personal income taxes by reducing the lowest tax rate starting in 2001. It would give a tax break to many married couples, expand the Individual Retirement Account program, create a deduction for some health insurance costs and reduce the inheritance tax on large estates. Page A1. 

Dow Jones Average Falls 136 Points
Stocks declined as more evidence of inflation pressures convinced investors the Federal Reserve might raise interest rates soon. The Dow Jones industrial average ended down 136.14 points, or 1.26 percent, to 10,655.15, after sliding 180.78 points Thursday. For the week, the blue-chip index was down 255.81 points. The technology-heavy Nasdaq composite index fell 1.52 points, to 2,638.49, and the Standard & Poor's composite index of 500 stocks declined 12.31 points, to 1,328.72. C3.
 
Treasury bond prices dropped, rounding out the sixth consecutive losing month for Treasuries. The decline was spurred by reports on housing, manufacturing and personal income that added to concern the Federal Reserve might raise interest rates soon. The yield on the 30-year Treasury bond rose to 6.10 percent from 6.07 percent on Thursday. C3.
 
 
Personal Income Increased in June
Personal income, which includes wages, interest and government benefits, rose seven-tenths of a percent, faster than expected, in June. It marked the first time since January that personal income outpaced the rise in spending. In a separate report, the Government said that new home sales jumped 3.1 percent as buyers rushed to beat rising mortgage rates. Sales of new single-family homes rose to a seasonally adjusted annual rate of 929,000 units, better than forecast. C2.
 
Philadelphia Exchange Reappoints
The Philadelphia Stock Exchange reappointed Meyer Frucher, its chairman, for two years, despite some opposition from the exchange's largest seatholder. C3.
 
Argentina and Brazil End Dispute
Argentina has retreated from a threat to impose punitive tariffs on Brazilian exports, easing a dispute between the two countries that had threatened the cohesion of the $1.1 trillion Mercosur trade bloc. C2.
 
A Merger of British Newspapers
Trinity, Britain's largest regional newspaper company, plans to buy the Mirror Group for 1.24 billion, or about $2 billion. The deal would create the largest newspaper publisher in Britain, combining local newspapers like The Liverpool Echo with The Mirror. Trinity's chief executive, Philip Graf, will head the new group. C2.
 
Head of China Everbright Resigns
The chairman of China Everbright Group, one of that nation's largest financial conglomerates, resigned and was replaced by a deputy governor of the People's Bank of China. C2.
 
Brazil Truckers Halt Strike
The Brazilian Government reached a deal to end a strike that had paralyzed road transport. Federal authorities agreed to suspend an increase in diesel prices, freeze tolls on some highways and send Congress a proposal that would penalize truckers less than other motorists for traffic violations. C2.
 
Chicago Title Is in Merger Talks
Chicago Title is in talks to be acquired by Fidelity National Financial. Both companies provide title insurance, credit reporting, property valuation and technology services. C3.
 
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photo
 
Chart: "YESTERDAY"
Dow industrials -- 10,655.15 down 136.14
30-yr. Treasury yield -- 6.10% up 0.03
The euro -- $1.071 down 0.003
The dollar -- 114.48 yen down 0.92
 
Graph tracks the Dow Jones Industrial Average since January 1999.
(Source: Bloomberg Financial Markets)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Summary

TICKER: DJ (NYSE) (56%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS519130 INTERNET PUBLISHING & BROADCASTING & WEB SEARCH PORTALS (56%); NAICS519110 NEWS SYNDICATES (56%); NAICS511110 NEWSPAPER PUBLISHERS (56%); SIC2711 NEWSPAPERS: PUBLISHING, OR PUBLISHING & PRINTING (56%); NAICS523210 SECURITIES & COMMODITY EXCHANGES (52%); SIC6231 SECURITIES & COMMODITY EXCHANGES (52%); 

COUNTRY: ARGENTINA (92%); BRAZIL (92%); UNITED KINGDOM (91%); UNITED STATES (85%); 

STATE: PENNSYLVANIA, USA (85%); 

CITY: PHILADELPHIA, PA, USA (85%); 

COMPANY: DOW JONES & CO INC (56%); NASDAQ OMX PHLX INC (52%); THE MIRROR GROUP (65%); 

ORGANIZATION: THE MIRROR GROUP (65%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ARGENTINA (92%); BRAZIL (92%); UNITED KINGDOM (91%); UNITED STATES (85%); PENNSYLVANIA, USA (85%); PHILADELPHIA, PA, USA (85%); 

SUBJECT: NO INDEX TERMS FROM NYTIMES STOCK INDEXES (94%); TAX LAW (92%); TAXES & TAXATION (92%); TAX RELIEF (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); NEWS BRIEFS (90%); TREASURY SECURITIES (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); INTEREST RATES (89%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); APPOINTMENTS (89%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (89%); INCOME TAX (89%); NEW HOME SALES (89%); PERSONAL FINANCE (89%); BONDS (89%); STOCK EXCHANGES (88%); BOND MARKETS (86%); GOVERNMENT BONDS (86%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (79%); BUDGETS (78%); ESTATE TAX (78%); TAX DEDUCTIONS (78%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (77%); EXECUTIVE MOVES (77%); REAL ESTATE (76%); MERGERS (76%); WAGES & SALARIES (75%); HOUSING MARKET (75%); PERSONAL & FAMILY INCOME (75%); INFLATION (74%); SINGLE FAMILY MORTGAGES (73%); EXECUTIVES (72%); HEALTH CARE COSTS (72%); TARIFFS & DUTIES (72%); MARRIAGE (70%); MORTGAGE RATES (70%); INDIVIDUAL RETIREMENT ACCOUNTS (70%); RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (69%); TRADE TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (68%); PUBLISHING SECTOR PERFORMANCE (66%); TRADE DISPUTES (64%); MORTGAGE LOANS (64%); EXPORT TRADE (63%); NEWSPAPER PUBLISHING (62%); HEALTH INSURANCE (54%); 

PERSON: BILL CLINTON (73%); 

LOAD-DATE: July 31, 1999



731 of 738 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 31, 1999

SECTION: Section A; Page 1; Column 5; National Desk 

LENGTH: 1211 words

HEADLINE: SENATE APPROVES BIG CUT IN TAXES, COURTING A VETO

BYLINE: By RICHARD W. STEVENSON 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, July 30

 BODY:
The Senate voted today to cut taxes by $792 billion over the next 10 years, moving the Republican-controlled Congress toward a politically charged showdown with President Clinton over how the nation can best use trillions of dollars in projected Federal budget surpluses.
The vote was 57 to 43. Four Democrats joined 53 Republicans in support of the bill, while 2 Republicans and 41 Democrats voted against it. 
 The bill would cut personal income taxes by reducing the lowest tax rate to 14 percent from 15 percent starting in 2001. It would give a tax break to many married couples, expand the Individual Retirement Account program, create a deduction for some health insurance costs and reduce the inheritance tax on large estates.
Most of the bill's provisions, which also include breaks for business and special-interest groups, would be phased in gradually as the expected surpluses grow, and some would not be fully effective until 2009. Of the total of $792 billion in tax reductions over 10 years, only $4.1 billion would take effect next year.
Senator William V. Roth Jr., the Delaware Republican who was the main author of the measure, said the Senate had taken "a giant step forward to give the American people a tax break."
The House passed a tax cut last week that is the same size as the Senate's but has different provisions. Leaders of the Republican majority from both houses met today even before the Senate bill had been passed to begin reconciling the two versions, and hope to complete their work next week before Congress leaves for its summer vacation.
The Senate majority leader, Trent Lott of Mississippi, said the momentum within the party was toward adopting the centerpiece of the House bill, a 10 percent reduction in all income tax rates. Such a move would further harden objections to the tax bill among Democrats, who say the House approach favors the wealthy even more disproportionately than the Senate version.
Mr. Clinton has promised to veto the Republican tax bill in whichever form it emerges from Congress. Along with most Democrats in Congress and Vice President Al Gore, who laid out his own tax proposal today, Mr. Clinton is pushing for a 10-year tax cut no bigger than $300 billion.
Mr. Clinton said the Republican approach would risk a return of big budget deficits, squander an opportunity for further reductions in the national debt and leave too little of the projected surplus to deal with Medicare, education, health, the military and other programs.
"By pushing through a tax plan that is too big and too bloated, the majority party has pushed aside our vital national priorities," Mr. Clinton said in a statement issued by the White House as he returned to Washington from Bosnia. "I will not sign a tax plan that shortchanges our seniors and our young people. I will not sign a plan that signs away our future."
Taken together, the House and Senate bills amount to the opening move by Republicans in what is likely to be a high-stakes negotiation between the White House and the Congressional leadership this fall over taxes, spending, Social Security and Medicare.
To a considerable degree, any negotiations will be driven by complex calculations within both parties about how a deal will affect the elections next year. With both the Presidency and control of the House up for grabs, some members of both parties would prefer drawing lines in the sand and fighting out their differences on the campaign trail. Others see a compromise as the best way of showing that their party can be trusted to govern.
But the fight will also reflect fundamentally different ideological approaches to government and taxation.
Even with a large tax cut, Republicans said again today, there is enough money to deal with pressing problems like the cash shortage that threatens to confront Medicare. And they said returning as much of the Government's excess revenue to the taxpayers as possible was the best way of insuring the economy's long-term health, and the best defense against further growth in the size and influence of the Federal Government.
"When you put a surplus on the table in this town, it gets spent," Speaker J. Dennis Hastert said.
Democrats said it would be imprudent to lock in a big tax cut now when there is no assurance the anticipated surpluses will materialize. They noted that the last big tax cut, in 1981, had helped send the nation into a spiral of rising deficits and debt from which it had only just emerged.
"This is another riverboat gamble with the American economy," said Senator Byron L. Dorgan, Democrat of North Dakota.
If the surpluses do materialize, Democrats said, they should be divided among a variety of purposes, including modest tax cuts for low- and middle-income families, additional spending on vital programs, reducing the national debt and shoring up the Medicare system.
There is one point on which the two parties generally agree: that the portion of the projected surplus generated by Social Security payroll taxes -- about $1.9 trillion over the next 10 years, of a total surplus of $2.9 trillion in that period -- should go only to shoring up Social Security's financial condition or revamping the program.
As a result, the two sides are fighting only over the remaining $1 trillion or so. Once technical calculations about the tax cut's effect on interest payments on the national debt are taken into account, the $792 billion Republican plan would use up nearly all of this surplus.
In the final hours of debate today, the Senate either rejected or did not take up scores of amendments intended to score political points or secure a change that would benefit an interest group. But it adopted a number of amendments.
Among them was an expansion of the provisions intended to eliminate the so-called marriage penalty, which leaves many two-income couples paying more in taxes than they would if single. The amendment, sponsored by Senator Kay Bailey Hutchison, Republican of Texas, would add to the tax package an increase in the standard deduction for couples filing jointly.
The Senate also accepted an amendment offered by Senators Robert G. Torricelli, Democrat of New Jersey, and Paul D. Coverdell, Republican of Georgia, to reduce capital gains taxes. The measure would allow taxpayers to exempt their first $1,000 in capital gains each year, starting in 2006.
Mr. Roth, the chairman of the Senate Finance Committee, and his counterpart in the House, Representative Bill Archer, the Texas Republican who is chairman of the Ways and Means Committee, are to meet on Sunday to begin negotiating in earnest over how to mesh their bills.
In addition to reconciling different approaches to income tax rates, the marriage-penalty solution, reductions in the inheritance tax and other elements affecting individual taxpayers, they will have to pick and choose among a variety of much smaller provisions that are important to politically influential constituencies.
The Democrats who voted for the Senate tax cut today were Mr. Torricelli, Bob Kerrey of Nebraska, and John B. Breaux and Mary L. Landrieu, both of Louisiana.
The Republicans who voted against it were Arlen Specter of Pennsylvania and George V. Voinovich of Ohio.
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photo: Senator Paul D. Coverdell, Republican of Georgia, offered praise for his party's tax-cut bill at a news conference yesterday while a host of Democrats waited to denounce it: from left, Senators Harry Reid, Byron L. Dorgan, Frank R. Lautenberg and Max Baucus. (Stephen Crowley/The New York Times)(pg. A7)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: DELAWARE, USA (79%); 

CITY: ATLANTA, GA, USA (50%); 

COMPANY: DELAWARE REPUBLICAN (76%); MEDICARE (59%); 

ORGANIZATION: MEDICARE (59%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES; UNITED STATES (94%); DELAWARE, USA (79%); ATLANTA, GA, USA (50%); 

SUBJECT: TAXATION; LAW AND LEGISLATION; FINANCES; BUDGETS AND BUDGETING; INDIVIDUAL RETIREMENT ACCOUNTS; MEDICINE AND HEALTH; HEALTH INSURANCE; INHERITANCE AND ESTATE TAXES TAX LAW (93%); TAXES & TAXATION (93%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (91%); TAX RELIEF (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (90%); APPROVALS (90%); BUDGETS (90%); ESTATE TAX (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); PERSONAL FINANCE (90%); TAX DEDUCTIONS (90%); VETO (90%); LEGISLATION (89%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (89%); INCOME TAX (89%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (89%); PENSION & RETIREMENT PLANS (89%); ESTATE PLANNING (88%); NATIONAL DEBT (78%); MEDICARE (77%); BUDGET DEFICITS (77%); BUDGET FORECASTS (77%); PUBLIC DEBT (77%); HEALTH CARE COSTS (77%); INSURANCE PREMIUMS (75%); INDIVIDUAL RETIREMENT ACCOUNTS (75%); HEALTH INSURANCE (74%); MARRIAGE (55%); 

PERSON: STEVENSON, RICHARD W; ROTH, WILLIAM V JR (SEN); CLINTON, BILL (PRES) BILL CLINTON (91%); TRENT LOTT (58%); MAX BAUCUS (58%); AL GORE (58%); BYRON DORGAN (58%); FRANK LAUTENBERG (58%); HARRY REID (58%); 

LOAD-DATE: July 31, 1999



732 of 738 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 31, 1999

SECTION: Section B; Page 3; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk 

LENGTH: 946 words

HEADLINE: Vendor of News From Afar Yields to Technology

BYLINE: By LESLIE EATON 

 BODY:
It has survived almost everything New York could throw at it: wars, blackouts, the Depression, the decline of Times Square and even its revival. But now Hotalings News Agency, the purveyor of newspapers and magazines from around the globe that has become a New York City institution, is disappearing from the street.
Yesterday, the Hotaling family closed the store it has run in Times Square since 1926, and retrenched to a kiosk inside the tourist information center on Broadway just north of 46th Street. 
 The main culprit, according to the family, is the Internet. Newspapers across the country have put their news -- and worse, their help-wanted and real-estate ads -- on the World Wide Web. Foreign papers and magazines are also available on line. So many homesick immigrants from Damascus and heartsick New Yorkers dreaming of a job in Des Moines no longer need to go to Hotalings to buy a newspaper.
"We never had any competition; now the Internet is our competition," said Susan A. Carey, 53, who owns the business with her brother, Arthur G. Hotaling, 49. Their grandfather founded the business in 1905.
The city's booming economy has only made things worse for the store, Mr. Hotaling said. A lot of his customers used to be "people who were looking to leave the city," he explained. "With the economy as strong as it is and New York City being the place to live, they aren't leaving the city in droves the way they were."
The problem began four or five years ago, said Marvin Cohn, who has worked at the store since 1985 (and first visited Hotalings as a customer in 1950). The San Jose Mercury News had always been popular with certain customers who Mr. Cohn speculates were looking for jobs in Silicon Valley. When the newspaper put up its Web site, these customers disappeared. That, he said, "was the beginning of the end."
Today, the trade publication Editor & Publisher tracks 3,744 newspapers with Web sites, including almost 1,500 overseas papers. In the United States and Canada, the number of daily and weekly newspapers available on line has more than doubled in the last two years, to 2,224, according to the company's 1999 yearbook.
Hotalings tried to find ways to compete. It spruced up the store, which is on the south side of 42d street between Sixth Avenue and Broadway (it is now so attractive that CNN sometimes uses it as a set), and it expanded its selection of American magazines. But business did not pick up.
Earlier this year, the store stopped staying open until 9 P.M. and started closing at 6. And it cut its staff from 22 employees to a dozen or so.
Finally, Mr. Hotaling said, he decided to cut back the store's retail operation to the kiosk, which he had opened a year ago. The company's business of delivering out-of-town newspapers will move from the back of the store to a warehouse far west on 52d Street.
"Everyone sounds like this is such a sad thing," he said. "I'm pretty -- depressed is not the word, but I was so stressed about what to do, and now that I've made the decision I'm very encouraged."
To prepare, he began cutting back on the number of publications he carries -- though he still has daily and weekly papers from 225 cities around the United States, and about 1,000 overseas publications, from the staid Frankfurter Allgemeine Zeitung to the racy Russian tabloid Speed, whose name is the only English word in its pages.
The new newsstand will contain most of the overseas papers, Mr. Hotaling hopes. But the display space is limited, and browsing will be more difficult for impulse buyers drawn by headlines like "Gangsters drink human blood with champagne" (from the July 25 Sunday Herald of Jamaica).
The customers are likely to be different, too. At the kiosk, the customers tend to be foreign tourists who buy European titles, said Gabriel Toussaint, who tends the counter. While American tourists come into the information center, they do not buy newspapers or magazines, he said. At the store, three-quarters of the customers were repeat visitors, Mr. Hotaling said.
Which is not to say they were not a diverse group; Anderson Celius, who has worked at the store for a decade, has learned phrases in a half-dozen languages, most recently Russian.
He worries about leaving 42d Street, "the heart of the world," as he called it, and said he finds the situation unfair. "When 42d Street was unclean, dirty, we were trying to keep it alive," Mr. Celius said. "Now that it's better, we're moving."
There were some foreign tourists at the store yesterday, including one man from Monte Carlo complaining that he was stuck in the land of baseball when the European soccer season was about to begin. A little boy was looking for foreign publications for a school project, and a young woman was buying a stack of out-of-town newspapers for her boss.
But most were immigrants in search of a taste of home, like Ismail Deakete, from the Ivory Coast, who imports African art and speaks little English. He said Hotalings was the only place he had been able to find the magazine Jeune Afrique, so "toujours I come in here."
Then there are the real old-timers, like Joey Sasso, who has been coming to Hotalings since the store was located on 43d Street in the old New York Times building. (That store closed in 1983.)
Mr. Sasso, who will be 78 next month, buys Editor & Publisher every Friday to keep up with the media business, and out-of-town newspapers to find fodder for his freelance gossip column, which he pounds out on a typewriter. But even he is thinking of abandoning paper for computer bits and bytes, he said, adding, "I've got to get on the Internet, honey, that's the thing."
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photo: Arthur G. Hotaling has watched Hotalings News Agency struggle in competition against the Internet. (Chang W. Lee/The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (95%); CANADA (79%); NORTH AMERICA (79%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (95%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%); SAN FRANCISCO BAY AREA, CA, USA (79%); SILICON VALLEY, CA, USA (73%); 

COMPANY: HOTALINGS NEWS AGENCY SAN JOSE MERCURY NEWS INC (53%); 

ORGANIZATION: HOTALINGS NEWS AGENCY

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK CITY; TIMES SQUARE AND 42D STREET (NYC); UNITED STATES (95%); CANADA (79%); NORTH AMERICA (79%); NEW YORK, USA (95%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%); SAN FRANCISCO BAY AREA, CA, USA (79%); SILICON VALLEY, CA, USA (73%); 

SUBJECT: NEWSDEALERS AND NEWSSTANDS; NEWSPAPERS; MAGAZINES ECONOMIC DEPRESSION (90%); INTERNET & WWW (89%); NEWSSTANDS (77%); DAILY NEWSPAPER PUBLISHING (77%); EMPLOYMENT LISTINGS & SITES (74%); PUBLISHING (72%); REAL ESTATE (70%); IMMIGRATION (69%); EMPLOYMENT SEARCH (68%); 

PERSON: EATON, LESLIE ARTHUR G HOTALING (90%); 

LOAD-DATE: July 31, 1999



733 of 738 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 31, 1999

SECTION: Section B; Page 1; Column 3; Metropolitan Desk 

LENGTH: 1300 words

HEADLINE: Under Arid Skies, Crops and Livelihoods Wilt

BYLINE: By DAVID W. CHEN 

DATELINE: SPRING VALLEY, N.Y., July 30

 BODY:
Every morning, Magdaleno Fuentes waits by the shoulder of Route 59, hoping to find a job mowing lawns, trimming bushes or planting bushes. Eager to impress, he wears his best button-down shirt and clutches a plastic bag hiding a sleeveless gray T-shirt, specked with the toil and soil from previous jobs. Usually, he waits for a few minutes, a couple of hours at most, before the right job comes along.
But these days, Mr. Fuentes, 39, a native of Puebla, Mexico, is waiting a lot more. It has been two weeks, in fact, since he last found work, and it may be another week or more, he worries, before he and other day laborers in Rockland County are able to find steady work. The reason, he says, is simple: 
 "No rain, no work."
For all the complaints and misery swirling around the effects of the dry weather and subsequent water restrictions on verdant lawns, the quieter reality is that the restrictions are also having a ripple effect on anyone who depends on rain to eke out a living.
For farmers, no rain means that the life has been sucked out of cornfields and fruit trees. For landscapers, no rain means mandatory water limits that have almost forced them to cease operating -- and stop hiring day laborers like Mr. Fuentes. Unless there is a change in the weather soon, no rain also means that life promises to become more dire for more people.
"It's a trickle-down effect, because if these people don't make money, they affect our local economy," said Mayor Allan Thompson of Spring Valley. "It's hurting everybody."
Already, many farmers are calling this summer the hottest and driest in recent memory. In the entire eastern United States, rainfall in June and July has been the lowest in more than a decade, according to the National Weather Service. And the impact is being felt across the region.
"We're seeing the effects on everything from fields to orchards to nurseries," said Sharon M. Douglas, a plant pathologist at the Connecticut Agricultural Station, a state agency in New Haven. "People are trying to get as much water on their crops as possible, but some growers have pumped their ponds dry."
Nancy Wood, a spokeswoman for the New Jersey Agriculture Department, said the arid weather was having a devastating impact on corn, alfalfa and soybean crops and that Gov. Christine Todd Whitman was preparing to ask the Federal Government to declare the state's farmland a disaster area, making farmers eligible for low-interest loans. In addition, the state is expected to impose voluntary limits on water use next week.
Already mandatory restrictions are in place in all of Rockland County and in many municipalities in Orange County. On July 13, Rockland County, which draws all its water from within its geographic boundaries, imposed Stage 1 water emergency restrictions, curbing the watering of lawns to every other day. But when officials discovered that people simply watered nonstop on the designated day, causing use to actually inch up, the county imposed a Stage 2 emergency on July 21, forbidding the use of lawn sprinklers.
Violators are first warned, and informed of the maximum penalty of $1,000 a day, said Tom Micelli, the county's Acting Health Commissioner. And so far, at least, the message has filtered through: daily water use has dropped to an average of 32 million gallons from 42 million gallons, said Terri Guess, a spokeswoman for United Water, which provides water to most of Rockland County.
But still, there has been hardly any rain in the region, and little prospect for relief in the coming days, according to the Weather Service. Even when there has been rain, it has usually been of the cloudburst variety. On Thursday night, a brief shower dumped up to three inches in some parts of Orange County. But that was of little use, because the soil did not have time to soak it up.
What is more desirable, said Maire Ullrich, vegetable crops agent for the Cornell Cooperative Extension of Orange and Ulster Counties, is Seattlelike weather for a week: a good, but not overwhelming, soaking of a couple of inches a day, for four to seven straight days.
Like any other meteorological calamity, there's not much to blame here but fate. But in Rockland County, officials and the public have found a target for at least some of their anger: New Jersey. United Water, the utility that serves Rockland and parts of New Jersey, is entitled to channel more water from a Rockland reservoir to New Jersey if water levels there fall too low. Even though that hasn't happened, some people in Rockland, where water use is restricted, are unhappy that United is pumping any water to New Jersey, where there are no restrictions.
"It's like you're standing on this side of Rockland County, and the grass looks like weed, and in New Jersey," said C. Scott Vanderhoef, the Rockland County Executive, with a hint of outrage in his voice, "the grass looks plush."
It is still too early to quantify the impact the dry weather has had on local landscaping -- a $250 million-a-year business -- or on local farmers, officials say. But there have been plenty of anecdotes about the ruinous and near-ruinous repercussions.
In Orange County, onion farmers have been staring at dusty, desertlike soil and poor yields. "The farmers are in trouble," said Matthias Schliefer, the Assistant Commissioner for Environmental Health of Orange County. "Our onion-growing country is just about a total disaster."
Corn fields have been devastated, too, with some farmers reporting damage to 50, 60 or even 80 percent of their crops. At the Fort Hill Farm in the Orange County community of Goshen, Claudia and Phil Johnson have watched helplessly as about 400 acres of corn have withered in the oppressive heat. That corn was supposed to be used as feed for their 300-head dairy farm; now, instead, the Johnsons, sixth-generation farmers, will have to buy feed.
In New City, in Rockland County, Jim Cropsey, whose family has owned Cropsey Farms since 1893, has watched his 40 acres of corn wilt, turning what should have been a lush, green plain of 10-foot-high stalks into a yellow, even singed-looking field of half-sized corn. On Thursday, for instance, his workers picked 23 bags of corn; during a normal summer with rain, that figure is up to 125 bags a day.
The pumpkin fields are so dry and dusty, Mr. Cropsey said, that his workers may have to wear masks when they work the fields. His snap peas do not snap; they look limp. And some of his peaches have been useless, puny things that resemble golf balls. "I can't remember as dry a summer as this," said Mr. Cropsey, a robust 70-year-old.
So far, Mr. Cropsey and other farmers have been forced to lay off, or at least not hire, day laborers to work their fields. There are easily hundreds of day laborers in Rockland County, mainly from Latin America, who look for work, have families to support and generally live in substandard conditions anyway, said Patricia Feeley, executive director of Catholic Community Services of Rockland.
And it will be particularly trying in the next few days, she said, as the rent comes due on the first of the month and food becomes scarce. "We're going to see tremendous suffering," she said.
At Lucrezia's Nursery in Spring Valley, home to lush weeping Norway spruces, thundercloud purple leaf plums, and Japanese weeping cherries, hardly anyone stops by anymore because no one wants to buy something they will not be able to water, said Rosa Lucrezia, who with her husband owns the nursery.
Thursday morning, for instance, one person visited the nursery. It turned out to be an advertising salesman for a local newspaper. And usually, Mrs. Lucrezia takes out a monthly ad. But this time, she said, it would be of no use -- not until it rains again, anyway.
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photos: Magdaleno Fuentes, foreground, and other laborers waited recently in Spring Valley, N.Y., for landscaping jobs made scarce by dry days. (Suzanne DeChillo/The New York Times)(pg. B4); At the family farm of Jim Cropsey in New City, Rockland County, the blistering heat has left his crop of peaches withered and useless. (Suzanne DeChillo/The New York Times)(pg. B1)
 
Chart: "A Region in Want of Water"
Scattered thunderstorms over the last 48 hours brought limited relief to the tri-state area, which has been experiencing a dearth of rainfall. A county by county measure:
 
Chart shows the counties throughout New York, New Jersey and Connecticut in which recieved rain within the last 8 hours.
 
(Source: National Weather Service)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); MEXICO (79%); 

STATE: NEW JERSEY, USA (92%); NEW YORK, USA (92%); CONNECTICUT, USA (92%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); NEW HAVEN, CT, USA (52%); 

COMPANY: ORANGE COUNTY REGISTER (50%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ROCKLAND COUNTY (NY); NEW YORK CITY METROPOLITAN AREA; UNITED STATES (92%); MEXICO (79%); NEW JERSEY, USA (92%); NEW YORK, USA (92%); CONNECTICUT, USA (92%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); NEW HAVEN, CT, USA (52%); 

SUBJECT: WEATHER; AGRICULTURE; RAIN; DROUGHT; LABOR DROUGHT (90%); FARMERS & RANCHERS (88%); SOYBEAN FARMING (73%); WATER CRISES & SHORTAGES (73%); WEATHER (73%); AGRICULTURAL COMMODITY REGULATION (73%); RECRUITMENT & HIRING (73%); AGRICULTURE DEPARTMENTS (71%); AGRICULTURE (71%); CITIES (69%); CITY GOVERNMENT (69%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (65%); 

PERSON: CHEN, DAVID W

LOAD-DATE: July 31, 1999



734 of 738 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 31, 1999

SECTION: Section A; Page 2; Column 3; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 1204 words

HEADLINE: NEWS SUMMARY

 BODY:

INTERNATIONAL A2-5
 
$700 Million More Pledged To Rebuild in the Balkans
President Clinton and 38 other world leaders met in Sarajevo to inaugurate a huge effort to rebuild southeastern Europe and its economy from the ravages of a decade of war. Mr. Clinton announced a package of about $700 million in aid, trade initiatives and business incentives to promote investment in the Balkans. The aid is in addition to $500 million for Kosovo that the United States pledged on Wednesday. A3
 
The NATO police are holding three Albanians as suspects in the murders on July 23 of 14 Serb farmers from the village of Gracko, officials said. A3 

Deal on Embassy Bombing
The United States and China agreed that Washington would pay $4.5 million in compensation for NATO's bombing of the Chinese Embassy in Yugoslavia on May 7. The agreement ends more than two months of acrimony. A5
 
Chinese authorities said that a retired senior army officer has renounced his allegiance to a spiritual movement that was banned last week and has confessed his "mistakes." The admission is a milestone in China's crackdown on the movement, Falun Gong, since he is the highest-ranking Government leader to belong to the group. A5
 
Taiwan's special envoy to China delivered a long-awaited statement on Taiwan-China relations, saying that President Lee Teng-hui's call for "special state to state" ties with Beijing did not rule out eventual reunification. A5
 
Fighting in Kashmir
Artillery shells bombarded Indian territory in Kashmir, scattering farmers who had returned to tend orchards that were abandoned during weeks of fighting. No one was injured when shells fell in Hardas, in a northern region where India's military recently battled to dislodge Islamic fighters it said were backed by Pakistan. The shelling came less than a week after India said it had cleared all remaining fighters from its part of Kashmir. (AP)
 
World Briefing A4
 
NATIONAL A6-9, 12
 
Senate Passes Tax Cut; Battle With Clinton Ahead
The Senate voted, 57 to 43, to cut taxes by $792 billion over the next 10 years. The vote moves Congress toward a showdown with President Clinton over how to best use the projected Federal budget surpluses. A1
 
Congress is primed to break its own rules and spend the $14 billion budget surplus forecast for next year, according to senior members of the House of Representatives. Congress seems so likely to exceed the spending caps again this year that Republicans and Democrats say they must rewrite the law and lift the caps to pass the 13 spending bills needed to run the Government. A1
 
Gunman Left a Letter
Mark O. Barton, the man who slaughtered nine people in the brokerage houses where he traded, wrote a confession on his computer and warned that he planned to live just long enough to kill "the people that greedily sought my destruction." A1
 
Tripp Indicted in Maryland
Linda R. Tripp was indicted by a Maryland grand jury on two felony charges related to her tape recording of telephone conversations with Monica S. Lewinsky. A1
 
Gore Unveils Campaign Theme
Vice President Al Gore proposed a list of tax breaks to address goals like making health care and education more affordable. The proposals, which he said would be a central part of his Presidential campaign, are much more modest than the tax cuts favored by most Republicans and philosophically at odds with the tax policies of Bill Bradley, his rival for the Democratic nomination. A7
 
Leader for Terror Commission
Juliette N. Kayyem, an Arab American Justice Department civil rights lawyer, has been named to serve on a national commission on terrorism as a replacement for a Muslim American whose nomination was withdrawn under pressure from Jewish organizations. A6
 
Plan to Cut NASA Budget
The House Appropriations Committee voted to reduce NASA's budget by about $1 billion, about an 8 percent reduction from this year's spending. A7
 
NEW YORK/REGION B1-6
 
Return to Plain Clothes Possible for Police Unit
Gun seizures by the Police Department's embattled Street Crime Unit have fallen so sharply since the shooting of Amadou Diallo in February that officials are leaning toward putting some of the elite force back into plain clothes, the police said. The unit's gun seizures have plummeted by 40 percent this year, compared with the same period last year. A1
 
Detainee Is Freed
A Federal immigration judge ruled that an Egyptian man jailed in solitary confinement for the last three years on the basis of secret evidence allegedly linking him to a terrorist organization should be freed. The ruling was the third case in the last year in which immigration judges have questioned I.N.S. procedures in using secret evidence against suspected terrorists. B1
 
Dry Weather Hurts Business
Dry weather and water restrictions in the New York region are having a ripple effect on anyone who depends on rain to eke out a living. In the entire eastern United States, rainfall in June and July has been the lowest in more than a decade, according to the National Weather Service. B1
 
Pennies Needed in New York
New York is enduring the great penny shortage of 1999. Some city merchants are losing money by rounding off customers' purchases, and others are rewarding customers who bring in pennies. B1
 
TB Spread at I.N.S. Center
Ninety foreign asylum seekers held at the I.N.S. detention center in Queens were infected with the tuberculosis microbe this month through contact with a West African detainee who reportedly entered the country already in the infectious stage of the disease, Federal health officials said. None of the detainees have developed active TB. B4
Beliefs B6
 
ARTS & IDEAS B9-20
 
SPORTS D1-8
 
OBITUARIES B7
 
BUSINESS DAY C1-14
 
Computer Security Flaws
Microsoft, Compaq and Hewlett Packard confirmed the existence of significant software security flaws that could let intruders gain access to the computers of millions of customers and to damage their data via E-mail or on a malicious Web site. C1
 
Meyer to Head Warner Bros.
Barry M. Meyer, the chief operating officer at the Warner Brothers studio, is expected to be promoted to the top position, executives said. C1
 
New Twist for London Exchange
The London Stock Exchange announced plans to end almost two centuries of clubby mutual ownership by issuing tradeable shares to its members. The move comes as the world's stock exchanges are increasingly challenged by upstart electronic trading networks. C1
 
Major Stock Gauges Drop
Stocks and bonds slid. The Dow ended down 136.14 points, to 10,655.15, the Nasdaq fell 1.52 points, to 2,638.49, and the S.& P. 500 fell 12.31 points, to 1,328.72. C3
 
Business Digest C1
 
EDITORIAL A10-11
 
Editorials: An irresponsible tax cut; America's role in Colombia; encore for a dubious lottery game; the good night witch.
Columns: Frank Rich.
 
Bridge B19
 
TV Listings B20
 
Crossword B18
 
Weather B18
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photo

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Summary

COUNTRY: CHINA (94%); ASIA (93%); UNITED STATES (93%); KOSOVO (92%); SERBIA (92%); INDIA (92%); BOSNIA & HERZEGOVINA (92%); EUROPE (92%); TAIWAN (92%); SOUTHERN EUROPE (90%); SERBIA & MONTENEGRO (79%); ALBANIA (79%); PAKISTAN (79%); SOUTHEASTERN EUROPE (73%); 

STATE: KASHMIR (93%); JAMMU & KASHMIR, INDIA (78%); NORTH CENTRAL CHINA (76%); 

CITY: SARAJEVO, BOSNIA & HERZEGOVINA (92%); BEIJING, CHINA (79%); 

COMPANY: NORTH ATLANTIC TREATY ORGANIZATION (90%); 

ORGANIZATION: NORTH ATLANTIC TREATY ORGANIZATION (90%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: CHINA (94%); ASIA (93%); UNITED STATES (93%); KOSOVO (92%); SERBIA (92%); INDIA (92%); BOSNIA & HERZEGOVINA (92%); EUROPE (92%); TAIWAN (92%); SOUTHERN EUROPE (90%); SERBIA & MONTENEGRO (79%); ALBANIA (79%); PAKISTAN (79%); SOUTHEASTERN EUROPE (73%); KASHMIR (93%); JAMMU & KASHMIR, INDIA (78%); NORTH CENTRAL CHINA (76%); SARAJEVO, BOSNIA & HERZEGOVINA (92%); BEIJING, CHINA (79%); 

SUBJECT: NO INDEX TERMS FROM NYTIMES US PRESIDENTS (90%); NEWS BRIEFS (90%); EMBASSIES & CONSULATES (90%); ADMISSIONS & CONFESSIONS (89%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (89%); BUDGETS (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (78%); BOMBINGS (77%); WAR & CONFLICT (77%); ARMIES (77%); TAX INCENTIVES (76%); APPROPRIATIONS (76%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (76%); FARMERS & RANCHERS (76%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (76%); CULTS & SECTS (75%); RELIGION (72%); LEGISLATION (66%); TAX LAW (66%); TAXES & TAXATION (64%); WOUNDS & INJURIES (63%); MUSLIMS & ISLAM (62%); BUDGET FORECASTS (60%); 

PERSON: BILL CLINTON (91%); 

LOAD-DATE: July 31, 1999



735 of 738 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 31, 1999

SECTION: Section A; Page 1; Column 4; National Desk 

LENGTH: 1703 words

HEADLINE: A Law Opening Research Data Sets Off Debate

BYLINE: By PHILIP J. HILTS 

 BODY:
The proposition is simple enough: Public dollars pay for a lot of scientific research, so data from that research should be available to the public.
At the request of Senator Richard C. Shelby, Republican of Alabama, a measure saying just that passed quietly one evening last October, without hearings or debate, as a one-sentence amendment to the 4,000-plus-page appropriations bill. Under the amendment, anyone can write a request to the Government under the Freedom of Information Act and get "all data produced" by a published study paid for with any public dollars, and potentially receive everything from a summary of findings to a scientist's notebooks or E-mail or, in some cases, information about patients. 
 "Experience has shown that transparency in government is a principle that has improved decision-making and increased the public's trust in government," Mr. Shelby stated in explaining the law's premise.
For too long, he said, Americans "have been unable to access federally funded research data despite the significant impact of this data in the policy-making process."
The law has the United States Chamber of Commerce delighted. "In the regulatory reform arena there may never be a more important issue," its Web site reads. It says that companies would be better able to scrutinize the data that policy makers use when they issue regulations, and it adds, "This would be the first time the business community has ever been provided with the basis for the bureaucracy imposing $700 billion in annual regulatory costs on us."
The conclusion: "If implemented properly, this rule will do more for regulatory reform than all the legislation passed in the last 10 years!"
But scientists and university administrators, who took some time to notice the law, are alarmed. They fear that corporate or political interests will use the law to hamper research on controversial subjects, tie up scientists in red tape, circumvent confidentiality agreements and thwart Government regulations. While they agree with the general notion of giving the public access to research data, they assert that data from any study, no matter how rigorous, can be made to appear questionable if examined by hostile experts and publicists.
"We have now concluded that the legislation constitutes a broad political attack on both science and on the Federal regulatory apparatus," Nils Hasselmo, president of the Association of American Universities, said in a letter to Vice President Al Gore on Wednesday. He added that "we are very concerned that such an effort could involve actions designed to discredit scientists and discourage researchers from addressing controversial topics."
At a hearing about the law before a House subcommittee on government management and technology earlier this month, scientists recalled previous clashes between science and industry and said they feared that the law would increase such cases.
In one example, Dr. Paul Fisher at the Medical College of Georgia published a study in 1991 of what small children know about tobacco brands. He found that Joe Camel was a figure known just as well as Mickey Mouse by 6-year-olds, and that they knew the brands of cigarettes in some detail.
The cigarette maker R.J. Reynolds decided it wanted to see Dr. Fisher's data and do its own analysis. The company wanted not only all the raw data, but also the names and addresses of the children who were interviewed so the company could go back to "re-interview" them. Dr. Fisher fought the case in court, but ultimately the college's own president agreed that the company should have access to the data. Dr. Fisher resigned from the college, and Reynolds got most of the data it wanted, although it did not contact the children. The litigation dragged on for years and made Dr. Fisher decide not to do research on tobacco issues ever again.
Supporters of the law dismiss the possibility of harassment. But critics point out that Senator Shelby started work on the amendment after Harvard researchers, citing confidential patient information, declined to give Congress their raw data in a two-decade-long pollution study. The study, sponsored by the Environmental Protection Agency, was instrumental in creating a 1997 Federal regulation that required stronger controls on sources of small particle emissions, including cars and power plants. Among the companies that opposed the regulation was the Alabama Power and Light Company.
Ultimately, Harvard compromised by giving the data to a bipartisan group, funded by both the E.P.A. and the auto industry, which is auditing the data and conclusions.
After that episode, Senator Shelby recommended that businesses be able to get the raw data themselves for analysis and re-interpretation.
"I strongly believe that federally funded research data that is used to drive public policy should be available to the taxpayers who paid for it," he said in a statement today.
But Kevin Casey, who as senior director of Federal and state relations at Harvard University was involved in the dispute over the pollution study, called the Shelby amendment a backdoor attack on regulations like the emissions rule.
"This is not about getting the public information," he said. "It is about attacking regulations on pollution and other areas."
Through the new rule, Mr. Casey asserts, Republicans are able to attack environmental laws under the guise of sunshine laws and not lose public support, as they have for their more open challenges in recent years.
"The Shelby amendment is a backdoor way to achieve the same goal," Mr. Casey said. "It allows company lawyers to harass scientists collecting data on the most sensitive and controversial issues -- such as environmental health and pollution -- to slow down the research used to make policy."
The real impact of the amendment will not be known until it goes into effect later this year; it is now being formulated into regulations by the Office of Management and Budget. Among the questions facing the office is how to define "data" -- does it mean blood samples and archeological finds as well as written work?
Under a draft of the regulations, those who want data must ask for it under the Freedom of Information Act, by submitting a request to the agency that gave the grant to the scientist. The scientist then would turn over all data -- including names and addresses of patients and other private and commercially secret information -- to the agency. Then, the F.O.I.A. office of that funding agency would determine what must be given to the requester and what must be withheld. The information act carries protections against giving out some kinds of information, including commercial trade secrets or financial data, and private information such as medical records.
Administrators at the National Institutes of Health, the agency that finances the largest percentage of biomedical research, said they were concerned about the cost of collecting and storing all the raw data. As it is, in the fiscal year 1998, the institutes' F.O.I.A. office had 20 full-time employees answering 1,200 requests at a cost of $500,000. And despite the legal protections, administrators say they worry, too, about the confidentiality of patient records.
"Even if they redact the name and address, there are other ways to identify the patients -- if it was a female patient at a certain hospital with a particular diagnosis, that might be enough to identify them," said Wendy Baldwin, the institutes' deputy director for extramural affairs.
Members of Mr. Shelby's staff said that while they understood the scientists' worries, they believed that the F.O.I.A. rules would prevent disclosure of private or trade secret information. And, if problems do occur, "we can address those. We will be alert to those."
In most areas of science, the way to test the mettle of a study is not to examine data, but to do another study, said Carol Scheman, vice president for governmental affairs at the University of Pennsylvania, but for some kinds of studies, she said, "Senator Shelby is right. There are real issues of how to share data."
For example, in the pollution studies by Harvard's School of Public health, thousands of subjects were followed for more than two decades. That kind of work is unlikely to be copied. So some other method must be used to review the data behind the scientists' final conclusions, she said.
Industry is not uniformly in favor of the new rule. Pharmaceutical and biotechnology companies, for example, fear that the rule will jeopardize university-industry agreements. If a scientist's data can be fetched through F.O.I.A., so can information they have shared with the scientist. This means, potentially, that competitors could learn much about the progress of their commercial work through the new rule.
The Washington watchdog group OMB Watch also points out that the rule is aimed at nonprofit groups while leaving the corporations who work with government funds untouched. The amendment applies to hospitals and other nonprofit groups that get grants from the government, but excludes other groups that get contracts from the Government. "Thus, it applies to a Y.M.C.A. that receives a Federal grant, but not to Boeing that is doing a range of research through contracts," Gary D. Bass, a spokesman for the group, said in a July 15 statement.
But other business and advocacy groups are enthusiastic. Those on the record in favor of the Shelby amendment include Gun Owners of America, which has complained about research that shows guns in the home are several times more likely to kill family members by accident than intruders on purpose. In Washington, several dedicated anti-regulatory groups have lined up in favor of the Shelby rule, including the Competitive Enterprise Institute and Citizens for a Sound Economy.
In its Web site, the Chamber of Commerce, notes that huge masses of data can be fetched from scientists -- data to challenge E.P.A. regulations on clean air and water, data supporting the global warming agreement called the Kyoto Protocol. "This list is virtually limitless and can be extended into areas other than health and safety," it says.
 
http://www.nytimes.com

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: ALABAMA, USA (92%); 

COMPANY: UNITED STATES CHAMBER OF COMMERCE (55%); UNITED STATES CHAMBER OF COMMERCE (55%); 

ORGANIZATION: UNITED STATES CHAMBER OF COMMERCE (55%); UNITED STATES CHAMBER OF COMMERCE (55%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES; UNITED STATES (94%); ALABAMA, USA (92%); 

SUBJECT: SCIENCE AND TECHNOLOGY; LAW AND LEGISLATION; GOVERNMENT INFORMATION POLICIES; MEDICINE AND HEALTH; RESEARCH SCIENCE NEWS (90%); SCIENCE & TECHNOLOGY (90%); LEGISLATION (90%); EXPERIMENTATION & RESEARCH (90%); PUBLIC POLICY (90%); SCIENCE FUNDING (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); FREEDOM OF INFORMATION (78%); APPROPRIATIONS (76%); AGENCY RULEMAKING (76%); MEDICAL RECORDS (75%); BUSINESS & PROFESSIONAL ASSOCIATIONS (71%); UNIVERSITY ADMINISTRATION (67%); EDUCATIONAL INSTITUTION EMPLOYEES (62%); COLLEGES & UNIVERSITIES (62%); CONFIDENTIALITY AGREEMENTS (50%); 

PERSON: HILTS, PHILIP J; SHELBY, RICHARD C (SEN) RICHARD SHELBY (91%); AL GORE (57%); 

LOAD-DATE: July 31, 1999



736 of 738 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 31, 1999

SECTION: Section A; Page 11; Column 1; Editorial Desk 

LENGTH: 773 words

HEADLINE: Which Do We Need More, Bigger Cars or Better Schools?

BYLINE: By Robert H. Frank; Robert H. Frank, a Cornell University economist, is the author of "Luxury Fever" and co-author of "The Winner-Take-All Society."

DATELINE: ITHACA, N.Y.

 BODY:
Tax-cutters claim the moral high ground. "It's a matter of principle," says Bill Archer, chairman of the House Ways and Means Committee, "to return excess tax money in Washington to the families and workers who sent it here."
In pushing the current tax-cut measures through Congress, Mr. Archer and other proponents have built their case on the proposition that money spent in the private sector is almost always used more responsibly than money spent by bureaucrats. 
 At first glance, this appears unassailable. The Pentagon's $7,600 coffee maker may have been an aberration, but private fire companies routinely deliver comparable protection at half the cost of their municipal counterparts.
Adding to the appeal of tax cuts is that, despite our robust economy, millions of taxpayers feel strapped for cash. As a nation, we're currently spending 1.2 percent more than we earn, and more than 1 family in 70 filed for bankruptcy last year.
Yet the gains promised by tax-cutters are illusory. A cut would worsen an already serious imbalance in the overall mix of things we buy.
A disproportionate share of the tax relief now being considered -- 45 percent under the House plan and 30 percent under the plan the Senate passed yesterday -- would go to the wealthiest 1 percent of households, which earn more than $300,000 a year. These households have captured most of the growth in earned income during the last 25 years, and their spending on luxury goods is already growing at record rates.
With more cash in their pockets, top earners would demand still bigger houses and cars. A sport-utility vehicle just one inch wider than Ford's new Excursion -- which weighs three times as much as a Honda Civic -- would require special "wide load" running lights. And increased spending at the top always spawns additional spending by others.
Ardent tax-cut proponents will respond: "So what? If top earners want to spend the wealth they have generated on bigger houses and cars, why should Congress second-guess them? And if middle-class families can't afford to keep up, why can't they just summon the will to live within their means?"
But the problem confronting a family is like the one confronting a participant in a military arms race. It can choose how much of its own money to spend, but it cannot choose how much others spend. A middle-income family that buys a smaller-than-average house typically must send its children to below-average schools. Buying a smaller-than-average vehicle means greater risk of dying in an accident. Spending less -- on bombs or on personal consumption -- frees up money for other pressing uses, but only if everyone does it.
The persistent budget deficits of the past three decades have gutted many public services once considered essential. At a time when we are wealthier than ever, does it really make sense to be closing our public libraries on Sundays or cutting Federal inspections of meat-processing plants? Does it make sense not to have replaced antiquated water supply systems that deliver potentially dangerous levels of toxic metals, pesticides, and parasites to some 45 million of us?
Paradoxically, a tax cut could actually leave Americans with less to spend on themselves. Money spent on a tax cut instead of repairing a road means not only having to spend two to five times as much to fix that same road in the near future, but also having to pay an average of $120 per car to repair the damage that bad roads inflict each year.
Proponents of smaller government argue that if we let the government spend more money, more will be wasted.
This is true, of course, but only in the trivial sense that there would be more of everything the government does -- good and bad -- if public spending were higher. The solution favored by many opponents of government waste, epitomized in the Proposition 13 movement in California, is to starve the government.
But, as Californians have belatedly recognized, this remedy is like trying to starve a tapeworm by not eating. Residents of the Golden State, who once proudly sent their children to the nation's best schools, are now sending them to some of its worst.
The question, then, isn't whether bureaucrats know best how to spend our money. Rather, it's, "How much of our money do we want to spend on public services?"
The current budget surplus could be used to help restore public services that deliver good value for our money. Or it could be used to pay for tax cuts that would help fuel an already intense consumption spiral. Tired slogans about government waste won't help us make this decision more intelligently.
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Drawing. (David Suter)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Op-Ed

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (92%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%); NEW YORK, USA (92%); 

SUBJECT: TAXATION; BUDGETS AND BUDGETING TAXES & TAXATION (92%); TAX RELIEF (90%); TAX LAW (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); FAMILY (89%); MIDDLE INCOME PERSONS (88%); BUDGETS (79%); SPORT UTILITY VEHICLES (79%); HOUSEHOLD NUMBERS (77%); CHILDREN (77%); INCOME DISTRIBUTION (77%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (76%); MILITARY WEAPONS (75%); ARMS RACE (71%); CONSUMPTION (71%); LUXURY GOODS (71%); PERSONAL & FAMILY INCOME (70%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (68%); MOTOR VEHICLES (68%); 

PERSON: FRANK, ROBERT H (PROF) BILL ARCHER (74%); 

LOAD-DATE: July 31, 1999



737 of 738 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 31, 1999

SECTION: Section B; Page 1; Column 3; Metropolitan Desk 

LENGTH: 1088 words

HEADLINE: Thoughts for Your Penny, Suddenly Scarce

BYLINE: By GLENN COLLINS 

 BODY:
The long-maligned penny, kicked about the sidewalks of New York, disparaged by the "take a penny" cups at cash registers and mocked by the "no pennies" signs on bridge and tunnel tollgates, is finally enjoying its revenge.
New York is enduring the great penny shortage of 1999. 
 Some city merchants are literally penniless, losing money by rounding off customers' purchases. A Manhattan McDonald's is awarding free Big Macs to customers who bring in $10 worth of pennies. And the Chase Manhattan Bank is offering a 5-cent premium for every 50-cent roll that customers deliver to the teller's window.
"I've asked all my employees to break their piggy banks and bring in their pennies," said John Pourakis, manager of the Food Emporium at 10th Avenue and 43d Street. "We're going after pennies any way we can."
Around town these days, New Yorkers can aspire only to pennies from heaven instead of from the United States Mint. According to Peter Bakstansky, a spokesman for the Federal Reserve Bank of New York, which distributes pennies manufactured by the Mint, "We are not able to fill all commercial banks' orders for pennies, and the Mint doesn't have any more to send us at this time."
The shortage, which is being felt in the five boroughs, is a month old, but has worsened in the last two weeks, said Duane Fingall, manager of the penny-hungry McDonald's at 51st Street and Broadway, where those free Big Macs are being offered. "Every day at least one person comes in to take the offer," he said. "I even brought in a jar full of $40 worth of pennies myself."
The penny's sudden sheen is, at least in part, a direct result of its slide into ill repute.
The penny shortage "is actually a penny imbalance," contended Mr. Bakstansky of the Fed. "There are plenty of pennies out there, but people are putting them into bottles. They're just not in circulation."
"People hoard them," said Loretta Hoehler, a manager at Sunshine Cards at 536 Metropolitan Avenue in Williamsburg, Brooklyn. "I have to beg for pennies."
Indeed, according to a recent study by Coinstar, the nation's largest manufacturer of self-service coin-counting machines, two-thirds of Americans do not regularly circulate their pennies, instead letting coins accumulate on bedroom dressers and in jars or piggy banks. Some $7.7 billion worth of change is out of circulation for this reason, Coinstar contends, with the typical American consumer stashing about $30 worth of change.
Sultan Stower, a 23-year-old senior at the School of Visual Arts who was shopping yesterday at the Associated Supermarkets branch at 278 Park Avenue South, said he dumps his pennies in an office-sized plastic water-cooler bottle in his dorm room. "Now it's just a habit to dump change in there," he said, adding that the bottle is now half full.
Penny-ante, short-lived penny shortages have recently been reported in Albany, Philadelphia, Pittsburgh, Chicago, St. Louis and Cleveland, coin experts say. Now it's New York's turn.
But why now? "We're not at all sure why," said Mr. Bakstansky of the Fed. "There could be some seasonality to it, leading up to the vacation period."
One coin expert, Ray Canales of the Brigandi Coin Company on West 44th Street, said that "the Mint has been working at making quarters and other coins, and haven't made as many pennies."
Philip N. Diehl, director of the Mint, denied that. "We are working six days a week to make more pennies," he said.
He added: "This is a temporary shortage, and one that we are working very closely with the Federal Reserve to address. Production is beginning to eat into the deficit and we are getting closer to having our heads above water."
Mr. Diehl said that the Mint would produce 13 billion pennies this year, and that projected coin demand was running 21 percent above the all-time high of 19 billion coins in 1994.
More than 426 pennies for each man, woman and child in the nation are currently in circulation, according to the Mint, which has produced more than 312 billion pennies during the last 30 years, 114 billion of which are now in circulation.
Several factors have contributed to the national pattern of temporary shortages, experts say. The booming economy has raised the number of cash transactions, "and that's creating a demand for more change," said Dave Herrick, a spokesman for Coinstar, of Bellevue, Wash.
Furthermore, "Banks have determined that it's much too costly when customers come into the bank and deal with the teller," said Mr. Diehl of the Mint. Banks have been encouraging ATM's, telephone and Internet banking, he said, "and many banks won't accept coinage at all, especially pennies."
Mr. Herrick of Coinstar made some additional points. "Americans are increasingly time-starved," he said. "Many don't want to sit at the dining-room table anymore to count and wrap their coins and put them in paper tubes, then stand in line at the bank to cash them in."
As a result, coin-processing machines have proliferated around the country, exhorting consumers to be penny-wise by dumping the contents of their piggy banks into counting engines that sort coins at the rate of 600 a minute. Studies have shown that 75 percent of Americans accumulate all forms of coins at home, while only 21 percent of the population puts coins in wrappers and takes them to the bank. It takes 167 pennies to make a pound of coins.
Coinstar has established its machines in 5,900 supermarkets in 38 states. The self-service machines count coins and reimburse consumers for dumping coins in the hopper, after subtracting an 8.9 percent fee for the service. For the first time last May, Americans put more coins back in circulation using coin-processing machines than the United States Mint produced, according to Coinstar.
Mr. Pourakis, the Food Emporium manager, pointed to his store's large green-and-purple Coinstar change-counting machine. "We're practically tackling customers before they can use the machine, and asking them if we can buy their pennies," he said with a laugh. "Every penny counts."
Downtown, at the Associated store, a sign has been posted asking for pennies. Quite a few customers have obliged, said Thomas Santos, the assistant manager, including one woman who arrived with 10 pounds of coins in a plastic kitchen bag.
Because of the shortage, "I try to keep change with me at all times," said Jonathan Shulman, a 36-year old theater-building manager who was shopping at Food Emporium. "But I guess this is a shortage that we'll survive."
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photo: Ray Canales of the Brigandi Coin Company on West 44th Street in Manhattan empties a bag of pennies from 1957 and earlier. The coins at right are special-edition steel pennies issued during World War II. (Nicole Bengiveno/The New York Times)(pg. B5)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: BK (NYSE) (57%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS521110 MONETARY AUTHORITIES - CENTRAL BANK (84%); SIC6011 FEDERAL RESERVE BANKS (84%); NAICS445110 SUPERMARKETS & OTHER GROCERY (EXCEPT CONVENIENCE) STORES (56%); SIC5411 GROCERY STORES (56%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (94%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%); 

COMPANY: UNITED STATES MINT FEDERAL RESERVE BANK OF NEW YORK (84%); FOOD EMPORIUM (56%); US MINT (82%); 

ORGANIZATION: UNITED STATES MINT US MINT (82%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK CITY; UNITED STATES (94%); NEW YORK, USA (94%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%); 

SUBJECT: CURRENCY COINS & COINAGE (90%); COMMERCIAL BANKING (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); OFFICE EQUIPMENT MFG (89%); FAST FOOD (89%); RETAILERS (89%); CENTRAL BANKS (75%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (72%); BRIDGES & TUNNELS (72%); WORLD WAR II (59%); VISUAL ARTS (50%); GROCERY STORES & SUPERMARKETS (50%); 

PERSON: COLLINS, GLENN PHILIP N DIEHL (59%); PETER BAKSTANSKY (59%); 

LOAD-DATE: July 31, 1999



738 of 738 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 31, 1999

SECTION: Section A; Page 10; Column 6; Editorial Desk 

LENGTH: 162 words

HEADLINE: The Right Way To Engage China

 BODY:

To the Editor:
Wang Dan's and Wang Juntao's conclusion (Op-Ed, July 27) that the United States strategy of engagement with China has failed is unwarranted. In fact, the Chinese Government crackdown on the seemingly harmless Falun Gong spiritual sect is, if anything, a sign that our policies are working. 
 Clearly, the despots in Beijing are nervous that they are losing control. No wonder, since China's growing market economy is slowly but steadily eroding the power of the state. So to cut commercial ties with China now would be to snatch defeat from the jaws of victory.
Moreover, we should never sacrifice our liberty to achieve a foreign-policy objective. Thus, the question of whether to trade with or invest in Chinese businesses should continue to be answered by individual Americans, not dictated from Washington.
 
AARON LUKAS
Washington, July 28, 1999
 
The writer is an analyst at the Cato Institute's Center for Trade Policy Studies
 
http://www.nytimes.com

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Letter

COUNTRY: CHINA (99%); UNITED STATES (95%); 

STATE: NORTH CENTRAL CHINA (90%); 

CITY: BEIJING, CHINA (72%); 

COMPANY: CATO INSTITUTE CATO INSTITUTE (83%); CATO INSTITUTE (83%); 

ORGANIZATION: CATO INSTITUTE CATO INSTITUTE (83%); CATO INSTITUTE (83%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: CHINA; CHINA (99%); UNITED STATES (95%); NORTH CENTRAL CHINA (90%); BEIJING, CHINA (72%); 

SUBJECT: UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; CHINA-INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS-US LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); RESEARCH INSTITUTES (90%); PUBLIC POLICY (90%); CULTS & SECTS (87%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (74%); WRITERS (73%); FOREIGN POLICY (70%); 

PERSON: LUKAS, AARON; WANG DAN; WANG JUNTAO WANG JUNTAO (56%); WANG DAN (56%); 

LOAD-DATE: July 31, 1999

 
